Report from the Chairman of the Audit Committee The composition and Terms of Reference of the Audit The committee recommended to the board that a resolution be Committee are set out on pages 29 and 30. put to shareholders for the re-appointment of the auditors, and their remuneration and terms of engagement, at the annual The principal activities of the audit committee through the year general meeting of the company.
were as follows: From time to time during the year the non-executives met with Financial statements the external auditors without the executive directors being The audit committee reviewed the 2008 Annual Report, Interim present.
Results, Preliminary Results and reports from the external auditors, KPMG Audit plc, on the outcome of their reviews and Internal controls audits in 2008.
The committee reviewed and evaluated the system of internal controls and risk management operated within the company.
External auditors A detailed report on internal control can be found on pages 31 The committee met with the external auditors during the year and 32. to review the scope of their audit and findings thereon for the The committee considered the need for an internal audit interim and year end financial statements.
function and concluded that the Company does not presently The committee received a comprehensive presentation from require such a function.
Further details relating to the the auditors demonstrating to its satisfaction how their background and rationale for this conclusion are set out on independence and objectivity is maintained when providing pages 31 and 32. non-audit services.
Audit committee effectiveness The committee has agreed the types of permitted and nonThe members of the committee conducted a review of its permitted service and those which require explicit prior effectiveness and concluded that it was working effectively.
Permitted non-audit services include the provision of tax compliance services and acting as reporting accountant in appropriate circumstances, provided there is no element of valuation work involved.
The provision of tax advisory services, due diligence transaction services and litigation services may be permitted with the committees prior approval.
The provision Nick Land of internal audit services, valuation work and any other activity Chairman of the Audit Committee that may give rise to any possibility of self-review are not permitted under any circumstance.
16 September 2008 34 ASHMORE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008
