Chairmans statement Having stepped down as Chief Executive in December Over the last year, we have 2007, I am pleased to have the opportunity to continue continued to position our business to serve the Company in a new role as Non-Executive Chairman.
I am delighted to have been succeeded as to take advantage of fundamental Chief Executive by Jeremy Darroch, who is the first person from within Sky to have been appointed to changes in the way in which that role.
customers consume media Jeremy has been a key part of the Companys leadership and communications.
These team since joining Sky as Chief Financial Officer in changes are creating significant August 2004 and has been instrumental in our progress over that period.
The Board considered Jeremy to be the opportunities for companies outstanding candidate for the role of Chief Executive and that have the capability and the I am certain that under his leadership the Company will continue to grow and prosper.
appetite to adapt their businesses.
Andrew Griffith joined the Board in April 2008 on The steps that we have taken are delivering results.
his appointment to succeed Jeremy as Chief Financial We have gained exposure to an enlarged growth Officer.
Andrew was previously Skys Director of opportunity in the broad marketplace for entertainment Group Finance, M&A and Investor Relations and his and communications.
The expansion of our product set appointment is further evidence of the strength in depth has provided more tools than ever to meet the needs of our management team.
I would also like to welcome of our existing and future customers, and our focus Daniel Rimer to the Board following his appointment on quality, choice and value is being met by increased as a Non-Executive Director, also in April 2008. demand.
As a consequence, more customers are James Murdoch choosing Sky for a broader range of products and Finally, I would like to thank all my colleagues at Sky, Chairman services than ever before.
including those at Amstrad who have recently joined the Group, for their hard work and commitment over the Sky is a business that makes a positive contribution to past 12 months.
The opportunity for Sky has never been life in the UK and Ireland: through the products chosen greater and we are well positioned to achieve continued by millions of customers: through our investment in growth on behalf of shareholders.
That confidence is much-loved content: and through our commitment to reflected in the proposed 8% increase in the full year innovation.
A further dimension of that contribution is dividend to 16.75 pence per share.
the sense of responsibility that we bring to the way we do business.
We continue to make progress in our work to contribute to a healthy environment and to develop our activities in sport and the arts.
After serving for 18 years on the Board of the Company, Rupert Murdoch decided to step down as Chairman 37% and as a Director in December 2007.
On behalf of the Board and shareholders, I would like to express our Increase in the dividend gratitude for his unparalleled contribution and tireless over the past two years dedication to Sky.
His spirit and vision have been instrumental in growing the business from a standing start to reach more than one in three households across the UK and Ireland.
1 in 3 More than one in three households in the UK and Ireland have already chosen Sky British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 2 Annual Review 2008 4 0,000 Hours of sport shown this year across five core Sky Sports channels 17, 000 Sky Sports Living for Sport has reached over 17,000 young people in more than 600 schools 4.4m Our field engineers make more than four million home visits a year 1m 3 Our customer advisers High definition Sky handle around one Movies channels million calls a week British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 3 Annual Review 2008
