OUR BUSINESS CHAIRMANS REPORT Chairmans Report This is my first Annual Report as your Chairman and it is one which reflects a level of achievement by the Group, in very challenging market conditions, of which I believe our management team and employees can be justifiably proud.
In the past year we have witnessed market conditions The successful initial public offering in the US market of an which have presented significant challenges to many 81.6% interest in the formerly wholly-owned MF Global leading financial institutions around the world.
The credit took place in July 2007.
In line with our stated strategy, we crisis and subsequent liquidity and funding issues have subsequently distributed the net proceeds of $2.7 billion made headlines since the summer of 2007.
Economic from this offering to our shareholders.
MF Global remains slowdown and the prospect of recession on both sides an active trading counterparty for our funds offering us of the Atlantic have weighed heavily on market sentiment.
access to global markets and providing important clearing Intervention by central banks to address these issues has services.
This strategic disposal has allowed us to focus led on occasion to rapid changes in market direction.
on our unique position in the investment management industry.
As a result of this transaction, Kevin Davis, Chief Against this backdrop, we have completed a very Executive of MF Global, resigned from the Board of the significant process of planned change and have done so Man Group.
Kevin has done a remarkable job of building without interruption to our fundamental mission to deliver the brokerage business and we wish him every success attractive returns to the investors in our products and to going forward.
investors in the Man Group.
Managing change is a key requirement in todays fast Highlights of the year include: moving markets and we recognise that succession Assets under management at year-end of $74.6 billion planning and building a suitably deep and broad talent pool an increase of $12.9 billion: are key to our continued success.
Ensuring that the Man Record performance fees of over $1.1billion: Group is viewed as a responsible and attractive employer Profit after tax from our continuing operations was up is at the heart of this strategy, and we believe that our over $600 million on last year an increase of 55%: commitment to a framework of corporate responsibility Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations is an essential underpinning to this.
were up 63% year-on-year: Our new dividend policy sees us recommending a final Consistent with our revised dividend policy, discussed in dividend of 24.8 cents per share producing a total of our interim statement, and based on our outstanding results 44 cents per share for 2008, an increase of 120% over and strong capital position, the Board proposes a final 2007: dividend of 24.8 cents per share resulting in a total In addition, we returned $2.7 billion of capital to our ordinary dividend of 44 cents per share for the year shareholders following the disposal of a majority stake in ended 31 March 2008.
MF Global: and Assets under management are currently estimated to be The total return for our shareholders in the year to around $78.5 billion, up around $4 billion since the year 31 March 2008 comprising share price performance, end reflecting positive investment performance and return of capital and dividends for the period is 16%.
Markets remain nervous This performance was delivered in Peter Clarkes first year and the economic outlook for the balance of the year is as Chief Executive and in a year in which we successfully uncertain.
However, your Board believes that Man is well completed the strategically important and logistically positioned to capture further growth through organic complex separation of our brokerage business, MF Global.
expansion, new product initiatives and selective acquisitions.
Jon Aisbitt Chairman 2 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Our Business OUR BUSINESS CHAIRMANS REPORT Key Management Changes Man Group Chairman Jon Aisbitt left At the end of May 2008, Stanley Fink He created tremendous value for and Chief Executive Peter Clarke right announced his intention not to seek reshareholders and the Board wishes describe the senior management election to the Board at the next Annual to express its sincere gratitude for his changes this year.
Stanley assumed the unique contribution to the success of role of Deputy Chairman in April 2007 on the Group.
The Board has seen other important standing down as Chief Executive.
He changes in this period.
Harvey McGrath The past year has also seen a significant was Chief Executive of Man Group for stood down as Chairman at the beginning restructuring of the management of seven years and prior to that had been of September 2007 and retired from the the Groups investment management Chief Executive of Man Investments and Board in November of that year.
Harvey business following the MF Global disposal.
Group Finance Director in the course of had been with the Man Group for 27 As part of this process, John Morrison 21 years with the Group.
Stanleys vision, years and played a key role in the growth announced his intention to retire as Chief business development skills and and development of both the investment Executive of Man Investments in June pioneering passion for the opportunities and the brokerage businesses.
2008 and Peter Clarke has assumed full in the alternative asset segment of the responsibility for this business.
John was In September 2007, Phillip Colebatch investment management industry have Chief Executive of Man Investments from and Patrick OSullivan joined the Board been at the heart of Mans growth and 2005-2008 and did an outstanding job of as independent non-executive directors, success.
He was also a key supporter of strengthening Mans franchise through his bringing with them a wealth of experience the growth of the brokerage business.
commitment to delivering performance to in the international financial services Under his leadership, the Group was built investors, improving client service and industry and further strengthening through a dynamic combination of teambuilding.
organic growth and selective acquisition.
3 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008
