International Executive Chairmans review Were changing how we think about our business The last year has been one of real contrasts the performances of Panama Our customers and Macau were little short of spectacular.
Jamaica was a disappointment, although in the second half, with new management, we saw a noticeable demand world class improvement in its performance.
service well make Our revenue grew by 7% compared with 2006 07 and EBITDA grew by 3%.
Excluding Jamaica, wed have seen EBITDA growth of 12% a good result sure they get what by any standard.
Our strategy of investing in the growth areas of mobile and broadband has served us well mobile customers are up by 27% they want and broadband by 16% and along with enterprise, our growth segments now represent 67% of our revenue.
Our approach for the future is to ensure that every one of our businesses performs as well as our best do today.
This will mean taking many of our businesses on a journey from solid performers to market-leading competitive enterprises, focused on the customer interface, on customer satisfaction and on the value and quality of our propositions.
We have a kernel of businesses that are already there Panama, Macau, Guernsey, Jersey and the Isle of Man but the rest we need to sharpen up.
In the past weve managed our portfolio of businesses from afar.
In future, well focus on agreeing the right targets and incentives for each of our businesses and ensuring they have the right resources.
This will allow us to drive decision making down to the local business much closer to the customer and shrink our head office costs.
In Panama five years ago our revenue was flat and we only had a 34% share of the mobile market.
Today weve revenue growth of 14% and a mobile share of around 51% through market leading network coverage and customer satisfaction.
So, our results for this year only hint at what we can achieve.
We have a firm foundation on which to build better businesses and deliver better performance and after six months in this business I know we have the people, the desire and the ability to do it.
For 2008 09 I expect much improved EBITDA both in absolute terms and in the achievement of 35% EBITDA margins.
Our customers no longer accept good enough for this market, they demand world class service we will make sure they get what they want.
John Pluthero Executive Chairman, International 09 Business review
