Europe, Asia & US Executive Chairmans review OUR SERVICE LEVELS HAVE HIT NEW HIGHS In 2007 08, we concluded the second stage of our three phase turnaround programme, the stage called Recovery.
The successful conclusion of this phase has seen the restoration of revenue growth, our network and operating costs reduced by 120 million and our service metrics at an all 11 5 time high.
EBITDA has increased 161% to 219 million and in the second half of the year we became trading cash flow positive for the first time EXTRA CUSTOMER in many years.
SERVICE COLLEAGUES In particular, during the last year weve made large strides towards giving consistently great service to our customers.
Weve made a significant investment in customer service, with an extra 115 colleagues in customer-facing roles.
Were delivering on time 90% of the time and dealing with 90% of customer calls in under 20 seconds.
Our customers 90% realise our service is where it needs to be, and its still improving.
OF CUSTOMER CALLS Our next generation network is out there and being used by customers ANSWERED IN LESS right now.
Not only does it allow us to support market-leading services, THAN 20 SECONDS like fixed mobile convergence, but also new applications such as digital marketing and next generation video conferencing.
Were now in the position where the improvements in our revenue mix, in particular, a higher proportion of IP, data and hosting, are showing in our margins.
Were winning more, bigger and longer contracts, which is also helping us gain market share.
For 2008 09, our agenda focuses on the third stage of our turnaround, Transformation.
This stage uses the solid foundation of good service and better economics that we have already created to drive more service and product innovation delivered off a much lower cost base.
These plans are already being executed with vigour and ambition.
All of which, I believe, positions us well to withstand any economic slow down.
So you can well imagine I am looking forward to 2008 09 with real excitement, commitment and enthusiasm.
My final words belong to our colleagues.
In our industry it is easy to talk a good game.
In practice, every percentage point improvement in our service and every pound of extra profit comes from the talents, passion and hard work of our colleagues.
In 2007 08, once again, they have risen to the most challenging of agendas and delivered handsomely.
John Pluthero Executive Chairman, Europe, Asia & US 23 Business review
