CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION Highlights In 2008 we: Completed our first open submission for the Carbon Disclosure Project Held over 100 investor meetings Won 2 customer service awards Invested 7.7 million in local community programmes Christopher Collins Chairman, Board sponsor of Corporate Responsibility A dif cult year Commitment In 2008, the global economic crisis created extremely To demonstrate our real commitment to manage dif cult market conditions for Old Mutual.
With a new CR issues we intend during 2009 to establish a forum senior management team in place, we have begun to provide Group focus on social and environmental refocusing our strategic direction and approach to our impact areas that are material to our business.
We have begun a project to Engaging with others strengthen our operating model.
This involves revisiting Much of our progress so far has been informed by our processes for product approval, our risk appetite the stakeholder engagement work that we completed and our governance structures.
This included customer roadshows, employee Establishing new Group benchmarks feedback surveys, supplier workshops and thought As part of this, we are looking afresh at the processes leadership conferences.
we have in place to embed responsible business Our progress in 2008 has been recognised by external practices across our business units.
Old Mutual retains its membership of the are composed of many companies at different stages FTSE4Good Index, while Nedbank and Old Mutual of development in their corporate responsibility activities.
are both included in the JSEs Socially Responsible For example, in most of our businesses in southern Investment Index.
Nedbank has also been listed on the Africa and the Nordic regions, our management of social Dow Jones World Sustainability Index for the fourth year.
and environmental issues is well developed.
But in regions where we are relatively new to the market, 2009 and beyond there is still scope to improve these structures.
There is still much for us to do in 2009 and beyond to build up our reputation as a trusted business and Through their daily decisions and actions, our people corporate citizen.
However, the tools we have now have a crucial role to play in making us a truly responsible put in place should enable us to manage our risks business.
Ensuring that these decisions and actions and impacts more effectively into 2009. meet the same high standards in all markets is a considerable challenge as we employ 57,000 people Christopher Collins and operate in 40 different countries.
Chairman We have a clear set of values that provide us with a good starting point.
But what really matters is how we live those values.
In 2008 we developed an overall Group Responsible Business Policy, incorporating all of our CR areas.
The principles which underpin this policy provide a benchmark for our individual business units, who are responsible for delivering against them at a local level.
This section of our Annual Report shows some examples of how the principles are being applied across the Group.
Page 86 Page 86 Old Mutual plc Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 2008
