Letter from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee In recognition of the crisis in global financial services and the No bonuses have been paid to executive directors in relation to 2008 unprecedented losses incurred by the Group in 2008, the Remuneration performance, and no deferred awards have been made.
Over the past Committee has been working with the executive to bring about four years, the long term incentive awards granted under the Medium fundamental change to the way remuneration works throughout the Term Performance Plan have lapsed due to the performance criteria not Group.
There is an obvious need for very significant change to being met.
compensation policy and practice across the industry and we intend that the Group will lead that process in consultation with our major In respect of 2009, the Remuneration Committee has made key shareholders.
decisions in relation to the remuneration of executive directors: As we embark on a process of change, our approach has sought to There will be no base salary increase in 2009. balance the reality of our current situation with the need to offer a competitive remuneration package for teams and individuals that are Any bonus earned in 2009 will be deferred and subject to performing well and in a manner that is sustainable in the long-term.
Achieving this balance is essential to our task of rebuilding the Group's standalone strength as well as repaying the support of the UK No further payments will be made under the companys Profit Sharing taxpayers.
In previous years the Directors Remuneration Report has described Annual incentives for 2009 will be based on performance against a how remuneration policies are being implemented for executive framework of measures, with all payments deferred for up to three directors, but given the exceptional circumstances, I would like to take years with potential clawback.
this opportunity to describe in greater detail how the Group is approaching remuneration for all employees.
The exceptional maximum annual incentive opportunity will not be available.
Immediate key decisions taken by the Group were as follows: The individual performance management processes will be There have been no discretionary cash bonuses for any employees strengthened at executive levels.
This includes a revised performance for performance in 2008.
No bonuses have been paid to anyone scorecard.
The five performance areas are strategic direction, finance directly associated with the Groups major losses.
There are some and operations, stakeholder management including employee and limited contractual commitments to pay bonuses, typically as part of customer satisfaction, efficiency and control, and capability and an agreement on recruitment, and these have been honoured.
Where there has been exceptional performance by key individuals Long term incentive awards will continue to be made under the and teams, employees have been given deferred bonus awards.
Medium-term Performance Plan and the Executive Share Option Plan These awards will be released in three instalments in 2010, 2011 and but the level of awards will be lowered compared to 2008.
All awards 2012, in the form of RBS Group subordinated debt, by which time we will only vest if stretching performance conditions are met in three hope the Group will be well on its way to standalone financial years time.
The provision for an undiscounted pension on early retirement at If the performance on which these deferred bonus awards was employer request will not apply to any executive director appointed in based later turns out to have been materially different or if there is the future.
subsequent material loss or reputational damage as a result of activity in the deferral period, or otherwise at the discretion of the The Remuneration Committee recognises that the Groups performance Remuneration Committee, then part of these awards may be reduced has not only impacted its shareholders and customers, but also its or cancelled without payment clawback.
employees who have worked so very hard over many years to build an organisation of which they were proud and which provided a secure No profit share payment has been made for financial year 2008 and livelihood for them and their families.
The Board deeply regrets that our the scheme has been withdrawn going forward.
We have made employees trust has been eroded and their welfare affected during the changes to benefits for some employees below manager level as part last year.
While it is both necessary and appropriate that we adopt of the transitional arrangements to end the annual entitlement to profit stringent measures for employee compensation, we are more mindful share bonuses.
than ever of the need for the Group to continue to develop the best employment practices in our industry to enable us to retain and recruit Annual base salary increases in 2009 will be made to a limited outstanding talent.
This is critical to the delivery of our strategic plan number of employees and salary increases will be below inflation for and to build a sustainable and successful Group for the future.
all businesses across the Group.
Colin Buchan Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 25 February 2009 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 159
