Chairmans statement CEOs statement Operational review Financial review CR review Directors reports Financial statements 04-11 12-23 24-31 32-37 38-54 55-99 02-03 03 Chairmans statement Welcome to the JKX Annual Report.
This has been a good year for the Company and its shareholders, and we can look forward to a strong 2009.
Rt Hon Lord Fraser of Carmyllie QC Chairman Both revenues and operating profits increased in Our HSEC commitment 2008, despite total production being down 12%, and We are committed to building on our current a significant drop in international oil prices in the performance in health, safety, environmental fourth quarter.
Oil and gas revenues rose by 13% to protection and community liaison HSEC.
Average realisations for gas in the period end, the Company has set targets in the period to rose by 38% to $5.47 per Mcf, and average achieve OHSAS accreditation for its HSEC realisations for oil rose by 40% to $84.34 per barrel.
management system and ISO accreditation for its Significant movements in foreign exchange rates Environmental Management System.
had an impact on profits with a $7.0m foreign exchange loss recorded.
Despite this, profit before Your Board tax rose by 13% to $127.6m.
In June 2008, we further strengthened the Board with the appointment of Dipesh Shah OBE and Performance overview Michel-Marc Delcommune as Non-Executive Whilst trading conditions are undoubtedly more Directors.
Their wide experience in our industry is difficult, we are committed to an active exploration, providing tangible benefits to the performance of development and acquisition programme delivering the Company.
Dividend Our operations in Ukraine remain a core focus for The Board is pleased to recommend a 9% the Company.
We drilled and or completed eleven increase in the dividend over 2008.
The Company new wells in our Poltava licences in the period and paid an interim dividend of 2.2 pence per share on successfully connected to the Soyuz trunkline.
We 17th October 2008, and the Board is now continue with our strategy of seeking to expand our recommending a final dividend of 2.6 pence which operations in Ukraine through selective acquisition.
will bring the total dividend for 2008 to 4.8 pence We see excellent long-term potential in the Russian per share 2007: 4.4 pence per share.
The dividend domestic gas market, despite the current will be paid on 5th June 2009 to shareholders who contraction of the domestic economy.
Our first gas are on the Companys Register of Members at the development project in southern Russia is close of business on 17th April 2009. progressing steadily, with first gas now expected in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Outlook Our priorities for 2009 are the continued In both Ukraine and Russia we believe the operating development of our production licences in Ukraine: and working environments for our business are the completion of the initial programme of well likely to be relatively stable.
workovers and testing in our production licence in The Company continues actively to explore Russia: and the initiation of production from our opportunities in eastern Europe.
We have made a Hungarian gas discovery.
The broadening of our commercial discovery in Hungary and completed exploration portfolio in eastern Europe is focused seismic acquisition programmes in our Bulgarian on replacement of reserves with the potential for and Slovakian licences.
creation of a third production hub for the Company.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank our Reserves staff, whose enthusiasm and dedication is The Company increased its booked proved plus crucial to the continued success of the Company.
probable 2P oil and gas reserves during the I pay tribute to them and also extend my thanks to period by 17% to 89 million barrels of oil equivalent.
you as shareholders for your support now and in This represents a reserve replacement of in excess the future.
04 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 In 2008 we delivered a rise in pre-tax profit of 13%, increased proved and probable oil and gas reserves by 17 million boe, initiated the well workover programme on the Koshekhablskoye field in Russia, made a commercial gas find in Hungary and broadened our exploration portfolio in eastern and central Europe.
