AT A GLANCE | BUSINESS REVIEW | GOVERNANCE | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 10 Market review Meggitts broad range of smart engineering capabilities and products for extreme environments was expanded further in 2011 with the acquisition of Pacific Scientific Aerospace.
Our three core international markets civil aerospace 46%, military 40% and energy and other markets 14% give our business the broad base and diversity required to mitigate negative conditions in individual sectors and geographic regions.
This business model held good through the recent economic downturn and, as the 2011 results demonstrate, Meggitt performed well as markets recovered.
Summary Based on current market indicators and at constant exchange rates, the group expects to deliver strong organic revenue growth averaging 6 to 7% over the medium-term.
Military 40% Meggitt delivered its first contract for flexible blast-resistant fuel bladders in a ground vehicle BAE Systems Bradley Fighting Vehicle.
The technology is effective against metal fragments resulting from the detonation of improvised explosive devices.
Holes are sealed with a proprietary sealant, which suppresses the ignition source and stops fuel leakage.
14% Energy and other markets Heatric, our innovative diffusion-bonded heat exchanger specialist, received its largest order ever last year from Shell for high duty, high pressure systems for Preludethe worlds largest floating liquefied natural gas facility designed to provide access to gas fields that would otherwise be too costly or difficult to develop.
11 Civil aerospace 46% Meggitt Control Systems won multiple components for seven Hamilton Sundstrand thermal management packages on Pratt & Whitney PurePower geared turbofan GTF engines in 2011.
The contract is estimated to be worth around $1 billion over the lifetime of the engine and aircraft programmes.
Meggitt Sensing Systems is already a primary sensor supplier for this innovative platform.
Total revenue by market Revenue by destination North America 56% Civil aerospace 46% UK 9% Military 40% Mainland Europe 22% Energy and other 14% Rest of World 13% MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
