AT A GLANCE | BUSINESS REVIEW | GOVERNANCE | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 4 Group strategy Delivering superior shareholder returns through smart We strive for excellence across all functions, engineering for extreme environments remains at the heart at all levels.
We maintain a high-performance of everything we do.
By continuing to focus on innovative, high performance and highly reliable products that meet the culture based on meeting customer needs, demands of critical applications in aerospace, defence and financial rigour and ethical practice.
energy, we delivered another strong set of results in 2011.
The robustness of our business model has been validated further as we took advantage of the recovery in our aerospace and energy markets.
Strategy We create intellectual property in applications where our products must perform in extreme environments and where certification requirements are demanding.
Our ability to deliver according to these criteria enables us to continue to win orders for original equipment on new platforms, preferably on a sole-source basis, across our core market segments.
This generates follow-on aftermarket revenues for the life of these platforms, which can be up to 40 years in many cases.
With revenues coming from original equipment and the aftermarket across our core civil, military and energy markets, we continue to deliver financial strength and stability through the cycle.
We align our investment decisions with the requirements of our customers by investing in research and development, additional manufacturing capacity and new regions to better serve original equipment manufacturers and operators across our markets.
Where appropriate, we seek to acquire companies that enhance our capabilities and fast-track product and market development.
Focus on components and Our strategy sub-systems operating in harsh environments Invest in products with high technology content and aftermarket value Deliver growth through organic investment and acquisition MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 5 We strive for excellence across all functions, at all levels.
Pacific Scientific Aerospace We maintain a high-performance culture based on meeting The acquisition of Pacific Scientific Aerospace PacSci has customer needs, financial rigour and ethical practice.
left us even better placed to serve the trend for more electric capability on aircraft.
Hydraulic systems are inherently heavy Driving further growth and as operators demand greater fuel efficiency from their equipment, manufacturers are looking to replace hydraulic We seek to grow organically as well as through acquisition.
systems with lighter, high-integrity electrical alternatives.
Meggitt saw very strong organic growth in 2011 and recent The addition of PacSci to Meggitts established capabilities success winning content on new programmes gives us now leaves us very well placed to address opportunities in confidence this trend will continue.
The Transformation initiative, many areas including electrical anti-ice, power conversion launched in 2009, has delivered substantial improvements and power storage.
across the group including a leaner, more flexible manufacturing footprint.
During 2012 we will drive further improvements in PacSci also makes us one of only two companies worldwide operational excellence, developing a common Meggitt approach offering an integrated fire protection system for aircraft and to lean tools and quality management.
Our centralised has enhanced our low-cost manufacturing base with facilities customer relationship teams and strengthened technology in Mexico and Vietnam.
and engineering organisation are enabling us to engage with customers earlier in the technology development process, Well positioned for the future at a higher level, making us more responsive to changing customer demands.
As reported last year, Transformation has left us stronger, leaner and fitter than ever.
This, with our focused investments Our ability to transfer technologies into adjacent markets in technologies and capacity, the additional capabilities acquired remains a key area of focus.
Our interests in the energy sector, with PacSci, and our ongoing focus on customers, leaves us in for example, have been boosted by applying an enhanced an excellent position to continue to drive growth and deliver condition monitoring capability to industrial gas turbines and value for shareholders.
developing our compact, diffusion-bonded heat exchanger technology beyond its established oil and gas markets to floating liquefied natural gas technology platforms and waste heat recovery.
We are also concentrating on the military retrofit market.
An excellent example of this is our blastproof fuel tank technology for military ground vehicles.
Terry Twigger Chief Executive How we achieve our strategy 1 Deliver smart engineering 3 Achieve operational excellence 5 Maintain a culture of strong for extreme environments by continually improving our ethical and financial rigour cost, quality and delivery 2 Continue to strengthen our technology roadmaps and our 4 Expand our global reach to To see how Meggitts strategy partnerships with customers meet the requirements of our fundamentals are reflected at global customer base divisional level, see over.
The results of strategy implementation are outlined in our performance review on pages 17 to 26.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
