AT A GLANCE | BUSINESS REVIEW | GOVERNANCE | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 38 Board of directors Sir Colin Terry KBE CB FREng DL Brenda Reichelderfer Non-Executive Chairman Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Nominations and Ethics and Trade Compliance Member of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees Committees Brenda was appointed to the Board in June 2011.
Brenda, an engineer, Sir Colin, a Chartered Engineer, was appointed to the Board in February was Senior Vice President, Director of Engineering and Chief Technology 2003, becoming non-executive Chairman on 1 July 2004.
He spent 37 Officer of ITT Industries Corporation, until her retirement in 2008.
She years in the Royal Air Force, where he reached the rank of Air Marshal.
is currently Senior Vice President and Managing Director of TriVista, Since retiring, he has held the positions of Group Managing Director of a boutique consulting firm working in the private equity sector, a member Inflite Engineering Services, Chairman of the Engineering Council UK, of the Technology Transfer Group of the Missile Defense Agency President of the Royal Aeronautical Society and the Council of European and a non-executive director of Federal Signal Corporation and Aerospace Societies.
Sir Colin is now Chairman of the UK Military Aviation Wencor Aerospace.
Authority Safety Advisory Committee, member of the Advisory Board of Horton International and non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Fox Marble Holdings PLC.
He is President of the Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen and Families Association in Buckinghamshire David Robins where he is also a Deputy Lieutenant.
Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Remuneration Committee David was appointed to the Board in January 2002.
He was, until Terry Twigger December 2000, Chairman and Chief Executive of ING Barings, before Chief Executive which he spent 18 years at Phillips & Drew and UBS, becoming Executive Vice President and Regional Head of UBS Europe.
He is Chairman of Member of the Nominations and Ethics and Trade Compliance Henderson TR Pacific Investment Trust PLC and Oriel Securities Ltd, a Committees director of Fidelity Japanese Values Investment Trust, a venture capitalTerry, a Chartered Accountant, joined Meggitt in 1993 and was appointed backed company and chairman of two charities.
On 21 December 2011, to the Board as Group Finance Director in 1995, becoming Chief Executive David stepped down from the Audit and Nominations Committees after in January 2001.
Before joining Meggitt, he spent 15 years at Lucas nine years of service, in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Since June 2009, Terry has been non-executive director David will step down as Chairman and member of the Remuneration and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Filtrona plc, an international Committee with effect from the end of the Companys Annual General speciality plastic and fibre products supplier.
Philip Green David Williams Group Corporate Affairs Director Non-Executive Director Member of the Ethics and Trade Compliance Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee and member of the Nominations and Remuneration Committees Philip joined Meggitt in 1994 as Group Company Secretary and was appointed to the Board in January 2001 with responsibility for legal and David, a Chartered Accountant, was appointed to the Board in December compliance matters.
He relinquished the role of Company Secretary 2006, becoming Senior Independent Director in February 2011.
Previously, Philip spent 14 years at British Aerospace.
He is held a number of senior financial positions and in 1991 joined distribution a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
and outsourcing group Bunzl plc as Finance Director where he worked until his retirement in January 2006.
He is the Joint Chairman of Mondi plc and Mondi Limited and non-executive director and Audit Committee Chairman of both Tullow Oil plc and DP World Limited.
Paul Heiden Non-Executive Director Member of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees Stephen Young Group Finance Director Paul, a Chartered Accountant, was appointed to the Board in June 2010 and will become Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Ethics and Trade Compliance Committee in April 2012.
He was Chief Executive of FKI Plc from 2003 to 2008, having held a number of senior positions, including Director, Industrial Stephen, a Chartered Management Accountant, was appointed to the Business and Finance Director of Rolls-Royce plc and senior financial Board in January 2004.
He has held a number of senior financial positions positions with Peat Marwick, Mitchell and Co, Hanson Plc and Mercury including Group Finance Director of Thistle Hotels plc, Group Finance Communications.
Paul is Chairman of Talaris Topco Limited and Director of the Automobile Association and Group Financial Controller non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committees of Thorn EMI plc.
Stephen was appointed a non-executive director of of both UU Plc and the London Stock Exchange Group plc.
Derwent London plc in August 2010 and is also Chairman of its Audit and Risk Committees and a member of its Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
