39 Directors report The directors hereby submit their annual report and the audited Acquisitions and disposals financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011.
On 21 April 2011, the Company announced the completion of the The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared acquisition of Pacific Scientific Aerospace PacSci from Danaher in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as Corporation.
The total cash consideration payable, after adjustment for adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU and the the level of working capital in the business, was 414.7 million.
PacSci Companies Act 2006. is a leading supplier of components to the global civil aerospace and military markets.
Organised in six businesses, PacSci offers fire The Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance suppression, sensing, electric power, electric actuation and security with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP and the products, with a balanced presence between civil aerospace and Companies Act 2006. military markets.
The acquisition was funded in part by an equity Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006 requires that certain placing of 69.8 million new ordinary shares representing less than information be included in the Directors Report.
The information 10% of issued share capital as at the date of the placing the Equity contained in the Business Review pages 3 to 36 which fulfils this Placing with the balance funded from the Groups existing debt requirement is therefore incorporated by reference into this facilities.
The Equity Placing was completed on 21 January 2011 and Directors Report.
Principal activities Share capital and control Meggitt PLC is a public limited company listed on the London Stock The issued share capital of the Company at 31 December 2011 and Exchange, domiciled in the United Kingdom and incorporated in details of shares issued during the financial year are shown in note 35 England and Wales with the registered number 432989.
On 31 December 2011 there were 778,759,082 ordinary office is at Atlantic House, Aviation Park West, Bournemouth shares in issue.
A further 41,298 ordinary shares were issued between International Airport, Christchurch, Dorset, BH23 6EW.
1 January 2012 and 23 February 2012, all of which were issued as a result of the exercise of share options.
The ordinary shares are listed Meggitt PLC is the parent company of a Group whose principal on the London Stock Exchange.
activities during the year were the design and manufacture of high technology products and systems for the aerospace, defence and The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares other specialist markets, including energy, medical, industrial, test are set out in the Articles of Association the Articles.
A copy of the and transportation.
Articles is available for inspection at the registered office.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys report and Dividends accounts, to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies to exercise full voting rights and to participate in any The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 7.30p net distribution of income or capital.
per ordinary 5p share 2010: 6.35p, to be paid on 11 May 2012 to those members on the register at close of business on 16 March 2012.
There are no restrictions on transfer, or limitations on holding ordinary shares and no requirements for prior approval of any transfers.
There An interim dividend of 3.20p 2010: 2.85p was paid on 30 September are no known arrangements under which financial rights are held by 2011.
If the final dividend as recommended is approved the total persons other than holders of the shares and no known agreements ordinary dividend for the year will amount to 10.50p net per ordinary on restrictions on share transfers or on voting rights.
through Company share plans rank pari passu on an equal footing Dividends are paid to shareholders net of a non-refundable tax with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
Shareholders liable to higher rates of income tax will The Company has disclosed significant direct or indirect holdings, have additional tax to pay.
which are published on a regulatory information service and on the Shareholders will be offered a scrip dividend alternative under Companys website.
the share dividend plan in respect of the proposed final dividend.
Rules about the appointment and replacement of Company directors During 2011, the Company made the Meggitt PLC share dividend plan are contained in the Articles.
Changes to the Articles must be available for the dividends paid in May 2011 the final dividend for 2010 submitted to the shareholders for approval by way of special and in September 2011 the interim dividend for 2011.
The powers of directors are set out in the Articles and are dividend necessary to give an entitlement to one new ordinary share governed by applicable legislation.
At each Annual General Meeting was fixed at 336.76p and 339.66p respectively.
AGM of the Company, the shareholders are requested to renew the directors powers to allot securities in the Company up to the value specified in the notice of meeting and to renew the directors powers to allot securities without the application of pre-emption rights up to the value specified in the notice of meeting in accordance with Article 4 of the Articles.
The Company can seek authority from the shareholders at the AGM to purchase its own shares.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 AT A GLANCE | BUSINESS REVIEW | GOVERNANCE | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 40 Directors report continued Share capital and control continued Share Incentive Plan The Group has significant financing agreements which include change The Trustee of the Share Incentive Plan has been allocated 0.7 million of control provisions which, should there be a change of ownership from 2011 profits to acquire ordinary shares in Meggitt PLC for eligible of the Company, could result in renegotiation, withdrawal or early employees 2010: 0.7 million.
repayment of these financing agreements.
These are a USD 700 million revolving credit agreement dated April 2011, a USD 600 million note Directors and their interests purchase agreement dated June 2010, a USD 500 million revolving The directors who served during the year were: Sir Colin Terry, credit agreement dated July 2008 and a USD 250 million note purchase Mr T Twigger, Sir Alan Cox resigned 24 February 2011, Mr P E Green, agreement dated June 2003.
There are a number of other long-term Mr P Heiden, Ms B L Reichelderfer appointed 7 June 2011, commercial agreements that may alter or terminate upon a change of Mr D A Robins, Mr D M Williams and Mr S G Young.
control of the Company following a successful takeover bid.
None is considered to be significant in terms of potential impact on the Groups Under the Articles, one-third of the directors are subject to re-election business as a whole.
However, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, at the AGM in 2012 all directors will stand for re-election.
The service contracts for the executive directors state that if there is a change of control in the Company, executive directors may Details of directors contracts and their interests in the ordinary terminate their employment within six months and would be entitled to shares of the Company are shown in the Remuneration Report on compensation from the Company for loss of office.
None of the directors has, or has had, at any time would be annual remuneration plus the value of benefits for the during the financial year a beneficial interest in any material contract unexpired notice period less 5%.
relating to the business of the Group other than service contracts.
The Company does not have any agreements with the non-executive The directors have the benefit of qualifying third-party indemnity directors or any other employees that would provide compensation provisions for the purposes of Section 236 of the Companies Act 2006 for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover except that pursuant to the Articles which were in effect throughout the financial provisions in the Companys share plans may cause options and or year and up to the date of this Directors Report.
awards granted to employees under such plans to vest on a takeover.
Directors share interests Conflicts of interest The beneficial interests of the directors and their connected persons The Company has a procedure for the disclosure, review, authorisation in the ordinary shares of the Company at 31 December 2011 were as and management of directors conflicts of interest and potential follows: Shareholding conflicts of interest, in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Ordinary shares of 5p each Act 2006.
The procedure, which was summarised in the explanatory 2011 2010 notes to the Notice of AGM in 2008, is included in the Articles and has Sir Colin Terry 11,603 11,389 been adhered to by the Board since its introduction in 2008.
In deciding T Twigger 1,103,626 970,743 whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict the directors must 1 Sir Alan Cox 22,113 have regard to their general duties under the Companies Act 2006.
The P E Green 552,130 498,676 authorisation of any conflict matter, and the terms of authorisation are 2 P Heiden 5,551 reviewed by the Board as appropriate and, as a minimum, on an annual 3 B L Reichelderfer 6,000 basis.
D A Robins 68,918 67,464 D M Williams 5,000 5,000 Substantial shareholdings S G Young 394,649 310,325 At 23 February 2012 the Company had been notified under the 1 Resigned on 24 February 2011.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority 2 Appointed on 3 June 2010.
FSA of the following substantial interests in the issued ordinary 3 Appointed on 7 June 2011. shares of the Company requiring disclosure: The share interests shown in the table above include the balance of Percentage of total voting awards made to each of the executive directors under the Deferred Share rights attaching Bonus Plan on 11 March 2010 at an award price of 290.70p as detailed to the issued below: ordinary share Direct voting Indirect voting capital of the T Twigger: 18,266 shares due to be released in March 2012. rights rights Company P E Green: 8,372 shares due to be released in March 2012.
Prudential plc 64,753,939 8.31 Capital Research and S G Young: 10,960 shares due to be released in March 2012.
Management Company - 42,160,262 5.41 Between 1 January 2012 and 23 February 2012 the latest date for Baillie Gifford & Co - 34,138,890 4.38 which it was practical to obtain the information, the only changes to Legal & General Group plc 25,966,967 - 3.33 the beneficial interests of the directors in the ordinary shares of the Standard Life Investments Ltd 22,153,694 3,769,560 3.33 Company are that Mr T Twigger, Mr P E Green and Mr S G Young each One voting right per ordinary share.
acquired 69 shares through the Meggitt PLC Share Incentive Plan.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 41 Corporate responsibility Gender diversity The Board takes regular account of social, environmental and ethical On 30 September 2011, the Board issued a statement to confirm their matters.
Our Corporate Responsibility Report gives a full update on strong support for the spirit of Lord Davies report Women on Boards activities and achievements during 2011 and can be found on pages 27 and that it aspires to 25% of board positions being filled by women by to 32.
The following matters fall under the broad definition of 2015.
The Board encourages diversity in senior management positions corporate responsibility: and throughout the workforce and the Group actively seeks to attract and retain women at every level of the Group.
There are specific Health and safety at work challenges in the aerospace and defence industry, which has not traditionally attracted sufficient women into the talent pool.
The The Group continues to carry out its responsibilities for securing the following gender diversity data is provided to comply with health, safety and welfare at work of employees and for protecting recommendation 2 of Lord Davies report: others against risks to health and safety relating to the activities at work of those employees.
Every reasonable effort is made to provide % of females safe working conditions.
Protective equipment is provided and safety training takes place regularly.
There is a Group Health and Safety Board of Directors 13% Policy, which was reviewed and updated by the Board of Directors in Management Board 9% December 2011.
Further details of our approach to health and safety Senior Executives 6% can be found in the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 27 to 32.
All employees 29% People Ethics and business conduct The Group regards employee communication as a vital business The Group has an Ethics and Business Conduct Policy and a Code of function.
Communication and consultation is carried out at facilities by Conduct which are overseen by the Vice-President of Ethics and operations directors and other line managers using a variety of forums Business Conduct.
All employees have received a copy of the Code, from daily standing meetings on shop floors to monthly all employee supplemented by follow-up training, which is refreshed regularly.
Town Hall meetings, team briefings and works councils.
We ensure Ethics and business conduct is reviewed regularly by a Board that all employee relations regulations are respected.
Further details of our approach to ethics and business conduct can be found in the Corporate Responsibility Report on Corporate communications take a variety of forms, including pages 27 to 32. presentations from the Chief Executive via audio-visual media, global web-enabled conferences, publications such as the Meggitt Review and Community relations and charitable donations a variety of electronically distributed newsletters.
Results presentations are disseminated across the Group, which enhance our employees During the year, the Group made charitable donations of 0.1 million understanding of the financial and economic factors affecting the 2010: 0.1 million, principally to local charities serving the performance of the Group.
communities in which the group operates.
The Company made charitable donations of 15,000 2010: 8,000.
Further details of our The directors encourage employees to become shareholders to approach to community relations and charitable donations can be improve active participation in, and commitment to, the Groups found in the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 27 to 32. success.
This policy has been pursued for all UK employees through the Share Incentive Plan and the Sharesave Scheme.
As at the year Political contributions end, approximately 70% of UK employees held shares under our Share Incentive Plan and 28% of UK employees were contributing monthly to In accordance with the Groups policy, no contributions were made to one or more Sharesave accounts.
EU political parties or EU political organisations 2010: Nil and no EU political expenditure exceeding 2,000 was incurred in the year by the Details of share schemes available to directors and senior executives Company or any of its subsidiaries 2010: none above 2,000. across the Group can be found in the Remuneration Report on pages 47 to 54.
No contributions to non-EU organisations with political objectives were made during the year 2010: Nil.
Equal opportunities Payment policy The Group has a policy supporting the principle of equal opportunities The Companys policy is to seek to comply with the terms of payment in employment and opposing all forms of unlawful or unfair agreed with a supplier.
Where terms are not negotiated, the Company discrimination.
endeavours to adhere to the suppliers standard terms.
The Companys creditor days at 31 December 2011 were 39 2010: 49.
Disabled employees It is Group policy to give full and fair consideration to applications from disabled people, to continue wherever possible to employ staff who become disabled and to provide opportunities for the training, career development and promotion of disabled employees.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 AT A GLANCE | BUSINESS REVIEW | GOVERNANCE | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 42 Directors report continued Research and development Statement of directors responsibilities The Group recognises the importance of investing in research and The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the development programmes which enhance the Groups products and Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with the way they are made.
Including amounts funded by customers, applicable law and regulations.
expenditure on research and development amounted to 110.5 million Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements 2010: 84.2 million.
Excluding amounts funded by customers, it for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have elected to was 83.2 million 2010: 67.5 million, of which 41.5 million 2010: prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as 33.5 million was capitalised in accordance with the Groups adopted by the EU and the Company financial statements in accordance accounting policies see note 2 of the Groups financial statements.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and Financial risk management fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the Policies on financial risk management are set out in note 3 of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial Groups financial statements.
statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: 2012 Annual General Meeting make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable Details of the AGM to be held on 26 April 2012 and explanations of and prudent: the proposed resolutions appear in the separate Notice of AGM state whether IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable UK which is provided to shareholders in their elected format at least Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material 20 working days before the date of the AGM, and can be viewed on the departures disclosed and explained in the Group and Company e-communications page of our website www.
In addition financial statements respectively.
to routine business, shareholders consent will be sought to: The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records i approve the Remuneration Report: that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups and the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the ii renew the authority of the directors to issue shares under Article 4 financial position of the Group and the Company and enable them to of the Articles: ensure that the financial statements and the Remuneration Report iii approve payments to organisations of no more than 60,000 in total, comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group which might inadvertently be interpreted as donations to EU financial statements, Article 4 of the International Accounting political organisations under the Political Parties, Elections and Standards Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the Referendums Act 2000 as amended by the Electoral Administration assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable Act 2006.
It is not the policy of the Company to make donations to steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
political parties and the directors have no intention of changing The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of that policy: the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing iv approve the convening of general meetings on 14 clear days notice the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ in accordance with the Articles.
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in the Auditors Board of Directors on page 38, confirm that to the best of their  LLP has expressed its willingness to knowledge: continue as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in proposed at the 2012 AGM.
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Disclosure of information to auditors Group: and At the date of this report, as far as the directors are aware, there is this Directors Report and the Business Review on pages 3 to 36 no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are includes a fair review of the development and performance of the unaware.
Each of the directors has taken all the necessary steps business and the position of the Group, together with a description of in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware By order of the Board of that information.
M L Young Company Secretary 5 March 2012 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
