AT A GLANCE | BUSINESS REVIEW | GOVERNANCE | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 14 Market review Military aerospace and defence Meggitts military revenues account for 40% of our business, Defence budgets around the world are under pressure as comprising fixed wing aircraft at 41%, rotary wing at 25%, land governments rebalance spending to compensate for increased vehicles at 6% and other sectors including training at 28%.
However, as active operational commitments in our installed base incorporates some 18,000 aircraft, it is spread Iraq and Afghanistan wind down, there is likely to be a significant across a wide variety of platforms including ground vehicles and appetite for re-set and retrofit of existing equipment to ensure training facilities.
Our mix of OE 61% and aftermarket 39% is continued force readiness.
Meggitt estimates this market will expected to give a resilient revenue source in a challenging continue to yield organic revenue growth of around 2% over the defence budget environment.
medium-term due to our positions on key platforms in service e. g. Black Hawk, Apache, Rafale, incoming platforms e. g. F-35JSF and potential retrofits.
This growth rate assumes that proposed sequestration additional budget cuts from 2013 does not have a material impact on programmes with high Meggitt content.
41% 25% 6% 28% Fixed wing Rotary wing Land vehicles Training and other Military revenue by sector Military revenue by OE and aftermarket Fixed wing 41% Rotary wing 25% Land vehicles 6% Aftermarket 39% Training and other 28% OE 61% MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 15 Military revenue by destination North America 67% UK 7% Rest of Europe 14% Rest of World 12% Military fixed wing Military rotary wing, land and sea Military training Meggitt has a significant installed base of Military helicopters have proven an Meggitts live-fire and virtual simulation fixed wing aircraft and we are the number invaluable operational asset in Iraq and training products are market leaders, with one provider of wheels and brakes in this Afghanistan, demonstrated by the DoDs over 10,000 Meggitt-supplied live-fire market.
With good positions on current ongoing commitment to multi-year ranges and 5,200 virtual systems providing platforms, such as the F-15 Eagle, F-16 Black Hawk, Chinook, Osprey and Apache training to the armed forces, law Falcon, F-18 E F Hornet, Rafale, Hawk procurements.
As key contributors to enforcement and security organisations.
and Eurofighter Typhoon and good content operational effectiveness, their systems This installed base provides regular on new programmes such as the F-35 continue to require significant replacement revenues.
JSF, our fleet and revenues are set to maintenance, retrofit and upgrade to Meggitt Training Systems was selected continue to grow.
in October 2011 as one of five suppliers Similarly, the UK MoD will continue to As new programme development and to provide equipment for live-fire training increase its Chinook fleet and move acquisition funds are cut back and ranges at US Army installations worldwide ahead with the purchase of Lynx Wildcat.
delivery schedules pushed out, funding in a fixed price contract worth up to Meggitt has large shipsets on these has been diverted to production of current $475million over the next five years.
helicopters, providing us with a robust platforms until alternative solutions are Meggitt will manufacture and install revenue outlook.
The smaller part of our available.
Programmes that were to be stationary and moving infantry and rotary wing revenues come from the replaced by the F-35 JSF are now in armour target mechanisms and control aftermarket, where a reduction in favour as deliveries of this new platform systems and provide product support.
operational hours may soften demand.
This includes productionWe also secured a 13 million order for run extensions and upgrades to platforms Meggitt produces next-generation modification of UK MoD small arms such as the F-15, F-16 and F-18 E F, which environmental control systems for simulators.
The Dismounted Close are regarded as cost-effective solutions electronic equipment and personnel Combat Trainer DCCT upgrade adds to governments force and capability cabins.
Ground-based systems are features that will support Future maintenance and expansion plans.
retrofitted to front line fighting vehicles Integrated Soldier Technology FIST including the Bradley Fighting Vehicle and enhancements.
Similar systems are in M1A2 Abrams.
These mission-critical service with forces in the US, Canada, capabilities and our position as the Australia, New Zealand and many leading supplier of 30mm linkless countries in the Far and Middle East.
ammunition-handling systems, mean we will continue to prosper in the land We continue to develop our training vehicle market, which also offers businesses internationally and are significant potential for Meggitts positioned well for post-conflict revival blast-resistant fuel tanks.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
