Executive Directors Auditors Stockbrokers P. M. Boycott Chairman Grant Thornton UK LLP Liberum Capital Limited A. C. Orchard Chief Investment Officer Grant Thornton House, Ropemaker Place J. Theobald Chief Executive Officer Melton Street, London NW1 2EP 12th Floor B. M. Wides Director of International 25 Ropemaker Street Bankers Business Development London EC2Y 9LY Barclays Bank PLC Non-Executive Directors Listings Business Banking Larger Business M. H. Atkinson Senior Independent 27th Floor London Stock Exchange Director Churchill Place Full Listing J. G. Whellock London E14 5HP Symbol APF A. H. Yadgaroff Toronto Stock Exchange Registrars Secondary Listing Secretary Equiniti Registrars Limited Symbol APY P. T. J. Mason Aspect House Spencer Road Website Head office Lancing www.
com 17 Hill Street, London W1J 5LJ West Sussex BN99 6DA Registered office Transfer Agent 17 Hill Street, London W1J 5LJ Equity Transfer & Trust Company Registered in England No.
897608 Suite 400 200 University Avenue Toronto Ontario M5H 4H1 Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements and related information The descriptions of the royalties in this Annual Report have been simplified for presentation purposes.
This Annual Report contains forward-looking information, which is subject to change and risk and should not be relied upon.
This Annual Report should be considered along with the additional supporting detail, assumptions and risks regarding the use of forward-looking information outlined on page 18 of this Annual Report and in the Anglo Pacific Group PLC the Group Annual Information Form, which is available on www.
com and on the website at www.
As a royalty holder, the Group often has limited, if any, access to technical information or is subject to confidentiality provisions.
For this Annual Report and the Annual Information Form, the Group has generally relied on the public disclosure of the owners and operators of the royalty properties.
More current information may be available in subsequent disclosure and on the Group website.
The Groups royalties often cover less than 100% and sometimes only a portion of the publicly reported reserves, resources and production of the property.
This Annual Report also contains references to past prices of and or yields on the Groups shares.
Readers are reminded that past performance cannot be relied on as a guide to future performance.
Anglo Pacific Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Report of the Directors Governance Accounts Notice of Annual General Meeting 3 Whats inside?
Report of the directors A quick read 2 Who we are 3 Where do we operate 4 How we performed 5 Key performance indicators 6 Chairmans review 10 Principle activities 11 Directors report Governance 20 Corporate governance 23 Directors remuneration report 26 Directors responsibilities in the preparation of financial statements Accounts 28 Report of the independent auditor 30 Consolidated income statement 31 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 32 Consolidated and company balance sheets 33 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 35 Company statement of changes in equity 36 Consolidated and company cash flow statements 37 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 67 Shareholder statistics Notice of Annual General Meeting 68 Notice of Annual General Meeting Anglo Pacific Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011
