2 Report of the Directors A quick read Who we are Anglo Pacific is a royalty company specialising in royalties derived Market capitalisation I am pleased to announce from the mining of natural resources.
Within this sector we have a record year for our royalty a diverse portfolio that spans different commodities including income, as Anglo Pacific 361m coking coal, iron ore and precious metals.
continues to make progress with its strategy of We also invest internationally from the Americas to Europe and developing a leading FTSE 250 Listed Australasia and our portfolio includes both producing mines and portfolio of royalties.
LSE: APF Peter Boycott Our objective is simple to continually build a diverse portfolio TSX: APY Chairman of royalties that will generate growing, long-term returns for our shareholders.
How we performed page 4 Chairmans review page 6 Our strategy for growth Royalties explained A royalty is an entitlement to an agreed percentage of a projects sales We are developing our portfolio through three primary routes: revenue, without any liability for production costs or capital expenditure.
There are different reasons for the origination of a royalty ranging from land ownership to exploration rights: however, as a royalty company, 1 Acquiring existing royalty agreements our entitlement comes through purchasing existing royalty agreements or as a result of direct financial investment.
2 Creating new royalties by In the mining industry, most royalties endure for the life of the resource financing development and are paid on a regular basis.
Historically there have been different 3 Vending mineral licences to third party terms for royalties including Gross Revenue or Net Smelter Return Royalties, which are based on the gross sale price of the actual minerals developers in exchange for new royalties mined.
Our model is based around Gross Revenue or Net Smelter Return Royalties as they provide the best and clearest return.
Creating new royalties Our new royalty agreements tend to come from providing financing to mining operations, usually to help them progress a mine into production.
We also develop royalty opportunities through our equity investments.
Acquiring existing royalties Acquisitions New Royalties We buy existing royalty agreements, such as those owned by exploration companies who may have retained an interest in a mine they helped discover.
Once acquired, royalty companies rarely sell their agreements.
Growth Mineral Licences Value of Royalties m 300 268 We also develop royalty opportunities through 250 247 our equity investments.
