Report of the Directors Report of the Directors 15 Directors report The tables below show the extent to which the Group has residual thermal processing systems to major mining groups.
He has been a financial assets and liabilities in currencies other than sterling.
Foreign director of several public companies quoted in Australia and Canada.
exchange differences on retranslation of these assets and liabilities are A. Chris Orchard joined the Group as Chief Investment Officer in taken to the income statement of the Group.
December 2007 and was appointed to the Board in June 2009.
He has a BSc Honours in Mining from the University of Leeds and is a Member Net Foreign currency monetary asset of the Chartered Institute for Securities and Investment.
After graduating he worked in the South African mining industry and on AUD CAD USD NOK EUR Total returning to the UK spent twenty years as an investment banker in the Functional 000 000 000 000 000 000 City specialising in the resources sector.
He was Managing Director of currency of Hambros Equity UK, a Director of RBC Dominion Securities and prior operation to joining the Group managed the investment operations of a private 2011 wealth management firm.
He has been a director of several public Sterling 37,928 30,514 3,117 3,191 6 74,756 companies quoted in Canada and Australia.
2010 John Theobald joined the Group as Chief Operating Officer in April 2008, joined the Board in June 2009 and was appointed Chief Sterling 61,321 37,273 350 12 98,956 Executive Officer on October 6, 2010.
He is a Chartered Engineer with a BSc Honours in Geology from the University of Nottingham.
Interest rate risk He is a Fellow of the Geological Society and Member of the Institute The Group has no borrowings or debt and the Groups financial of Materials, Minerals and Mining, Australasian Institute of Mining instruments have limited exposure to fluctuations as a result of and Metallurgy and Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and changes in interest rates.
This is regularly reviewed by management.
Prior to joining the Group he held senior operational and Other price risk new business positions with the major industrial minerals group SCRThe Groups mining and exploration interests are held for the purposes Sibelco: he has also worked in the junior resource sector and for major of generating additional royalties and are considered long-term, companies such as Anglo American, Phelps Dodge and Iscor covering strategic investments.
This strategy is unaffected by fluctuations in a wide range of metals, coal and industrial minerals.
He has been a prices for mining and exploration equities: however, changes in market director of several public companies quoted in Canada.
conditions may affect the value and recoverability of the amounts Brian M. Wides joined the Board in June 1997 and was appointed invested.
The Group has detailed investment review processes in place Finance Director in September 1997.
In July 2006 he was appointed to manage this risk to the greatest extent possible.
Chief Executive Officer and on October 6, 2010 was appointed Director The royalty portfolio exposes the Group to other price risk through of International Business Development after standing down as Chief fluctuations in commodity prices, particularly the price of hard coking Executive Officer.
He has a Bachelor of Commerce from the University coal and iron ore, which may affect the future cash flows received from of Witswatersrand and is a Chartered Accountant South Africa.
His specialist experience includes corporate finance, management consultancy and creating shareholder value for a large spectrum of Management private and public companies in the UK, Australia and Canada.
Directors The Groups directors have extensive experience in the mining industry, Mike H. Atkinson was appointed director in February 2006 and is with backgrounds in corporate finance, equity markets and mining currently the Groups Senior Independent Director.
He also chairs the operations.
This combination of skills continues to deliver new royalties Nomination Committee.
He has an MA in History from the University from low-cost, long-life mining assets to grow returns for shareholders.
of Cambridge and is a qualified management accountant.
He worked for the National Coal Board as a capital investment analyst before The following individuals have held office as directors of the Company joining the UK Department of Energy later the Department of since January 1, 2011: Trade and Industry.
He was a senior civil servant for nearly twenty Executive: years until his retirement in 2004, and held a range of financial, P. M. Boycott Chairman management and policy posts including Director of Coal and Chairman of British Coal.
A. C. Orchard Chief Investment Officer Dr. John G. Whellock was appointed director in March 2003 and M. J.
Tack Finance Director - resigned September 23, 2011 currently chairs the Audit Committee.
He has a BSc and PhD in J. Theobald Chief Executive Officer Chemical Engineering from the University of Birmingham and is B. M. Wides Director of International Business Development a member of the Minerals, Metals and Materials Society of the American Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum.
He has over Non Executive: thirty years of experience in the development and implementation M. H. Atkinson Senior Independent Director and Nomination of extractive metallurgy, mineral and chemical plants.
He is the Committee Chairman founder of JW Technologies providing innovative technology and J. G. Whellock Audit Committee Chairman thermal processing equipment for the metals, minerals and chemical A. H. Yadgaroff Remuneration Committee Chairman industries.
Prior to this he worked for Minproc Technology Inc and was founder and Vice-President of Tolltreck International Ltd. Peter M. Boycott was appointed to the Board in May 1997 and as Chairman in June 1997.
He has an MA in Mechanical Sciences from Anthony H. Yadgaroff was appointed director in March 2003 and the University of Cambridge and is a Chartered Accountant.
During currently chairs the Groups Remuneration Committee.
He is a his career he has been involved as Finance Director and substantial Member of the Chartered Institute for Securities and Investment, and shareholder in a number of private investment and property groups has specialised in investment research and management consultancy including engineering and manufacturing companies supplying during a forty year City career.
Allenbridge Group, which he founded in Anglo Pacific Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011
