10 Report of the Directors Principal activities The activities of the Group are summarised below:- Coking coal royalties Status Operator The Group holds half of the private royalty entitlement on the Kestrel and Crinum underground Rio Tinto Limited mines in Qu eensland, Australia, operated by Rio Tinto Limited and BHP Billiton Limited respectively.
BHP Billiton Limited The royalty is calculated on a two tier royalty rate of 7% of the invoiced value of coal sold below A$100 per tonne and 10% of the invoiced value of coal above A$100 per tonne.
Classified as Coal 64% royalties - independent valuation.
of Group Royalties Iron ore royalties Status Operator 1% Gross Revenue Royalty GRR on the Amap iron ore system in Brazil, operated by Anglo Anglo American PLC American PLC.
Classified as Intangibles - amortised costs.
Beadell Resources A 1% GRR on iron ore and non-precious metals, other than copper, on the Tucano project in the Amap Limited region of Brazil, operated by Beadell Resources Limited.
Classified as Intangibles - amortised cost.
Indo Mines Limited 23% 2% Net Smelter Return Royalty NSR on the Jogjakarta iron sands project in Indonesia, operated BHP Billiton Limited of Group Royalties by Indo Mines Limited.
Classified as Royalty instruments - fair value.
London Mining PLC 1.5% GRR on various exploration licences, including the Railway iron ore deposit, in the Pilbara region of Western Australia, owned by BHP Billiton Limited.
1% GRR over the Isua iron ore project in Greenland, owned by London Mining PLC.
Gold royalties Status Operator 2.5% NSR, escalating to 3% for gold prices in excess of US$1,100 per ounce, on the El Valle-Boinas Orvana Minerals Corp Carles mines in Spain, operated by Orvana Minerals Corp.
Mundo Minerals Limited 2.5% NSR on the Engenho gold project in Brazil, operated by Mundo Minerals Limited.
Classified as Northern Star Mining Royalty instruments - fair value.
Corporation 5% 2.5% NSR, escalating to 2.75% for gold prices in excess of US$1,250 per ounce, on the Malartic-Midway Creso Exploration Inc of Group Royalties and McKenzie Break projects in Quebec, Canada.
An option to acquire a 2% NSR on Creso Exploration Incs Duggan gold project in Ontario, Canada.
Classified as Mining and exploration interest - royalty options - fair value.
Chromite royalties Status Operator 3% GRR on the Bulqiza chromite project in Albania, operated by Empire Mining Corp.
Classified Empire Mining Corp as Intangibles - amortised costs.
Cliffs Natural 1% NSR on the Black Thor, Black Label and Big Daddy chromite projects in the Ring of Fire Resources Inc region of Northern Ontario, Canada owned and operated by Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. 5% Classified as Intangibles - amortised costs.
of Group Royalties Uranium royalties Status Operator 1% NSR over the Four Mile uranium project in South Australia.
Classified as Intangibles - Quasar Resources amortised costs.
Alliance Resources JV 1% NSR over the Salamanca uranium project in Spain, operated by Berkeley Resources Limited.
Berkeley Resources Classified as Intangibles - amortised costs.
Limited 2% The royalty rights to several mineral exploration tenures in the Athabasca Basin region of Canada.
of Group Royalties Classified as Intangibles - amortised costs.
Other royalties Status Operator An option to acquire a 1.5% NSR on the Araguaia nickel project in Brazil, owned by Horizonte Horizonte Minerals PLC Minerals PLC.
Northern Shield An option to acquire a 1% NSR on the Highbank Lake and Eastbank PGE exploration properties in Resources Inc Ontario, Canada, owned by Northern Shield Resources Inc.
Classified as Mining and exploration 1% interest - royalty options - fair value.
of Group Royalties Private coal interests Status Operator Mineral licences in the Groundhog Panorama and Discovery, collectively referred to Anglo Pacific Group PLC as Panorama and Peace River Trefi coal deposits in British Columbia, Canada.
2.1m at cost Gold 35% Mining and Status Iron Ore 15% exploration interests At December 31, 2011 the Group owned a number of strategic mining and exploration interests Copper 15% held for the purpose of generating additional royalty opportunities including a number of quoted Uranium 12% and unquoted coal, uranium, gold, base metals and platinum mining projects.
Other 11% Zinc 8% Platinum Group Metals 4% Anglo Pacific Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011
