Melrose PLC 34 Annual Report 2011 Key performance indicators Financial KPIs In order to support the Groups strategy and to monitor performance the Board use a number of financial and non financial key performance indicators KPIs.
Details of a selection of the KPIs are shown below.
Additional business level KPIs are also used, which are relevant to their particular circumstances.
1 Diluted headline earnings Dividend per share pence per share pence 13.0p 10 10 28.8p in addition to the return of capital of 373.2 million in August 2011, which followed the sale of Dynacast, representing 75 pence per Ordinary Share.
09 10 11 09 10 11 Method of calculation Method of calculation 1 Amount declared as payable by way of dividends in terms of Group headline profit after tax excluding the profit on disposal of pence per share.
businesses from continuing and discontinued operations as reported in this 2011 Annual Report, divided by the diluted weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue.
Strategic objective To operate a progressive dividend policy whenever the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies the Strategic objective payment.
To create consistent and long term value for shareholders.
1 1 Headline operating margin % Headline operating profit m 15.7% 180.8m 10 10 09 10 11 09 10 11 Method of calculation Method of calculation 1 1 Headline operating profit for the continuing Group, as reported in Headline operating profit as a percentage of revenue, for the this 2011 Annual Report.
continuing Group, as reported in this 2011 Annual Report.
Strategic objective Strategic objective To improve profitability of Group operations.
To improve profitability of Group operations.
1 2 Net Debt to headline EBITDA Interest cover 1.4x 11.7x 10 10 09 10 11 09 10 11 Method of calculation Method of calculation 1 3 1 2 Calculated as headline EBITA as a multiple of interest payable Net debt divided by headline EBITDA for existing businesses at on bank loans and overdrafts for the full Group during each year.
Strategic objective Strategic objective To ensure the Group has suitable amounts of debt and remains To ensure the Group has suitable amounts of debt and remains within its banking covenants.
net Stock code: MRO 35 Financial KPIs continued Non-financial KPIs continued Environmental and energy usage Cash conversion % Method of calculation Environmental KPIs used within the Group and their method of 89% calculation vary by business unit, which depends on the specific 10 nature of the operation.
A range of environmental measures are used, including energy consumption, CO emissions, water 2 consumption, water contamination and waste disposal.
Strategic objective 09 10 11 Each of the Groups businesses are committed to ensuring that their operations have a minimum adverse effect on the Method of calculation environment and that ongoing reductions are achieved, where 1 2 Percentage of headline EBITDA conversion to cash for practicable.
Particular relevance has been placed on the reduction continuing businesses, pre capital expenditure.
of energy consumption and CO emissions.
2 Strategic objective Performance To ensure businesses are suitably cash generative in order to have Investment was provided by the Group for several environmental adequate cash reserves for the effective running of the Company improvement initiatives during 2011.
Details of these, together with and for significant capital investment where required.
some of the environmental initiatives for 2012 can be seen in the Directors report on pages 46 and 47.
Further information in relation to the key financial performance indicators can be found within the Finance Directors review on Other non-financial pages 23 to 30.
Due to the diverse nature of the Group each business uses a range of its own specific non-financial KPIs, which are used to drive business performance and assist in managing risk.
This helps Non-financial KPIs to ensure that the KPIs used are relevant to each business and take into account specific operational and reporting requirements.
Such KPIs cover operational, quality, commercial and human resource measures.
Further information regarding some of the Health and safety Groups recent initiatives can be found within the Directors report on pages 43 and 44.
Method of calculation A variety of different health and safety KPIs are used by each of the businesses within the Group, which are specific to the exact nature of the business and its associated risks.
Three overall Group KPIs are also used by the Board, which are Major Accident Frequency Rate accidents that result in an employee having more than three days off work due to a work related injury, per 200,000 working hours, Accident Frequency Rate accidents that result in an employee having less than three days off work due to a work related injury, per 200,000 working hours and Accident Severity Rate average number of lost days per work related accident.
Strategic objective The Company has an objective to stop all preventable accidents.
Performance The Company introduced the three Group KPIs during 2011 and as part of this process statistics were also calculated historically back to 2009.
These KPIs improved during the period from 2009 to 2011.
Further information in relation to the various health and safety initiatives undertaken by the Groups businesses during 2011 and planned for 2012 can be found within the Directors report on pages 45 and 46.
1 Before exceptional costs, exceptional income and intangible asset amortisation.
2 Operating profit before depreciation and amortisation of computer software.
3 Operating profit before amortisation of computer software.
4 Restated to include the results of Dynacast, Brush Traction, Logistex UK, Madico and Weber Knapp within discontinued operations.
