Melrose PLC 38 Annual Report 2011 Directors report The Directors of Melrose PLC present their annual report and Dynacast audited financial statements of the Group for the year ended Melrose acquired Dynacast in May 2005 and sold this business 31 December 2011. in July 2011.
During the six years of ownership, and as a result of a variety of improvement initiatives and investments made by STRATEGY Melrose, the equity value increased fourfold.
Melrose successfully steered Dynacast through the global slowdown and cost savings made during the downturn were retained as sales recovered.
McKechnie Aerospace Melrose acquired the McKechnie group in 2005.
Part of this Melrose PLC has a buy, improve, sell strategy to acquire purchase included the McKechnie Aerospace and aftermarkets manufacturing businesses, improve performance and realise business, which was ultimately sold in May 2007 for 428 their value in the medium term.
Further details of each part of the million.
During the two year period of ownership within the Group strategy are shown below.
Additional information is also shown on revenues grew by 35 per cent, EBITDA grew by approximately 75 pages 6 and 7. per cent, with margins increasing by 6 percentage points.
The sale generated a profit including cash generation during ownership of approximately 250 million and in total it is estimated that the disposal crystallised a value increase of nearly 2.5 times.
Melrose aims to acquire good manufacturing businesses that, in the opinion of the Directors, are currently underperforming their potential.
Businesses are targeted that have strong headline fundamentals, such as high quality products, or a leading market At the appropriate time, each business will be disposed of, in order share, to generate sustainable cash flows, achieve profit growth to return value that has been created to shareholders.
and create value for shareholders.
The Directors are experienced in being able to recognise the The executive Directors have extensive experience of identifying appropriate time in the business cycle for disposal, in order to and evaluating such acquisition opportunities, in both quoted and provide funding for future acquisitions and return funds to investors.
unquoted companies, within the UK and overseas.
During the year, the Companys strategy of returning value to To date, the largest acquisition by the Company has been that of shareholders was successfully demonstrated again following the sale FKI plc, in July 2008, for a total consideration of 970.4 million, of the Dynacast division on 19 July 2011, for a cash consideration which at the time increased the size of the Melrose Group by of 366.5 million.
This was followed by a return of capital of 373.2 approximately six times.
million in cash to shareholders, of which 1.1 million has been deferred until April 2012.
In 2011, non-core businesses of Brush The Directors of the Company are currently in the process of Traction, Logistex UK, Madico and Weber Knapp were also sold for looking for the next acquisition opportunity.
Indeed, during 2011 gross proceeds of 24.0 million, in aggregate.
a proposal was made to the Board of Charter International plc Charter regarding a possible offer by the Company for Charter, Prior to these disposals the Company had already delivered for approximately 1.4 billion: the Directors remained price significant value to shareholders via the acquisition and subsequent disciplined and ultimately decided not to pursue this opportunity re-structuring of the McKechnie Group as mentioned above.
The but remain confident that other suitable targets exist.
sale of Dynacast in 2011 means that nearly 1 billion in cash has been generated from the original purchase of the McKechnie and Dynacast businesses for 429 million in 2005.
The Company is not a passive investor in the businesses that PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES it acquires.
The Directors and senior management team have a The Company operates via three distinct trading divisions, being hands-on relationship with each acquired company, by working Energy, Lifting and Other Industrial, with over half of the Groups closely with their divisional senior management teams in developing end market revenues coming from the energy, oil & gas and mining the long term strategic plans of the business, as well as having sectors.
A summary of the key strengths, products and major regular input on re-structuring decisions, capital expenditure and customers of each Group business is shown within the Group at a working capital management.
The Company is fully committed to glance section of this report on pages 8 and 9. investing within the businesses it acquires in order to fully exploit their operational and strategic strengths.
A natural part of this The Companys businesses operate on a global scale, having process involves the disposal of non-core businesses.
manufacturing locations throughout the world, as shown on the map on pages 4 and 5.
Further details regarding the principal activities of The Company has a proven track record in being able to make the Company can be found within the Chief Executives review on substantial improvements within the businesses it purchases.
Two pages 12 and 13 and Divisional reviews on pages 14 to 22. examples of this are as follows: 21012-04 26 03 2012 Proof 6 Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information www.
net Stock code: MRO 39 DIVISIONAL REVIEwS Finance Directors review and in this Directors report.
Details of the The Company remains committed to investing within its various main key performance and risk indicators used by the Group can businesses and this can be seen through the development of new be seen on pages 31 to 35. or upgraded facilities at various Group locations around the world.
Bridons new 20 million state of the art manufacturing facility at The subsidiary undertakings principally affecting the profits or net Neptune Energy Park, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK, is on track to assets of the Group in the year are listed in note 3 to the Melrose be operational by the end of 2012, whilst Marellis new factory in PLC UK Company accounts, on page 113.
Malaysia became fully operational towards the end of 2011.
Other recent investments in site infrastructure include the development of FINANCIAL RESULTS an industry-leading patenting and galvanizing process at Bridons The Groups profit for the financial year attributable to Ordinary Doncaster factory in the UK and improvements that will allow for shareholders was 286.4 million 2010: 141.1 million.
In addition, capacity increases within each of Crosbys key US manufacturing there were gains attributable to non-controlling interests of 0.1 locations.
A further 15 million has been approved to increase million 2010: 0.2 million.
capacity and productivity at the Brush facilities in the UK and Czech Republic, in relation to the manufacture of 2-pole generators.
SHAREHOLDER DIVIDEND These investments will assist in developing growth opportunities The Directors are pleased to recommend the payment of a within new markets, especially China, other parts of Asia and South final dividend of 8.4p 2010: 7.0p on 14 May 2012 to Ordinary America.
shareholders on the register at the close of business on 13 April 2012.
This dividend recommendation will be put to shareholders at Investment continued in the development of new and innovative the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company, product lines during 2011, with further product launches planned to be held on 9 May 2012. for 2012.
This strategy helps to ensure that each business can remain at the forefront of technological advances within defined It is the intention of the Board to maintain a progressive dividend market sectors and are also able to meet specific customer policy, where appropriate.
The Company offers a Dividend demands.
Reinvestment Plan which gives shareholders the opportunity to use their dividend payments to purchase further Melrose PLC shares.
In accordance with the Groups strategy of improving commercial Further details about the Dividend Reinvestment Plan and its terms performance within its businesses, a variety of structural changes and conditions can be found on the Companys website at were implemented during 2011.
A good example of this can be www.
seen through the absorption of the Hawker Siddeley Switchgear HSS business into Turbogenerators during 2011, thus allowing In August 2011, following the sale of the Dynacast business and as them to benefit from similar sales and end market opportunities.
part of the return of capital to shareholders, a special dividend of HSS will also be able to benefit from the Turbogenerator 75 pence per Ordinary Share was approved.
Following the return of manufacturing strategy as a result of this re-organisation, which has capital, a consolidation and sub-division of the Companys ordinary been developed over a period of time to create industry-leading share capital was undertaken.
Further details can be found about and efficient production methods.
The cost base of all businesses this and the special dividend on pages 40 and 41. was also kept under constant review, as each business continued to build on the various cost reduction initiatives that have been DIRECTORS APPOINTMENT AND POwERS introduced in recent years, and to ensure they are able to react to The Directors of the Company as at the date of this report, together changing markets and demand.
with their biographical details, are given on pages 36 and 37.
On 1 September 2011, Justin Dowley joined the Company as an The Group also continues to regularly review its pension benefit independent non-executive Director in order to provide further and legacy liabilities and reduce volatility where possible.
A number experience and complement the existing skill set of the Board.
of actions were taken during the year, as detailed on page 28.
In Justin Dowley is also a member of the Audit, Remuneration and addition, the Group sold legacy FKI insurance obligations to a third Nomination Committees of the Board.
party insurer to remove financial uncertainty in future years.
The Companys Articles of Association Articles give the Directors The results of the Group are set out in detail in the financial power to appoint and replace Directors.
Under the terms of statements on pages 63 to 67 and in the accompanying notes.
reference of the Nomination Committee, any appointment must be recommended by the Nomination Committee for approval by the The Company is required by the Companies Act 2006 to set out Board.
The Articles also require Directors to retire and resubmit in this report a fair review of the development and performance of themselves for election at the first AGM following their appointment.
the Group during the year, the position of the Group at the end of In previous years, one third of the Companys Directors have the year and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties been subject to retirement by rotation with a requirement then facing the Group.
The information that fulfils these requirements to offer themselves for re-election.
However, going forward and can be found within the Chief Executives review, Divisional reviews, notwithstanding the Articles, the Board has determined that 21012-04 26 03 2012 Proof 6 Melrose PLC 40 Annual Report 2011 Directors report continued all Directors of the Company will stand for re-election at the capital subject to normal market movements.
This resulted in a forthcoming AGM and annually thereafter, in compliance with the consolidation and sub-division of the Companys issued ordinary new provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
share capital: for every 14 Ordinary Shares of 0.2 pence nominal value in the capital of the Company Old Ordinary Shares held The Directors are responsible for managing the business of the shareholders received 11 new Ordinary Shares of 14 55 pence Company and exercise their powers in accordance with the nominal value in the capital of the Company New Ordinary Articles, directions given by special resolution and any relevant Shares the Share Capital Consolidation.
Specific powers relating to the issuing of shares and the ability of the Company to purchase its own shares are also included In order to facilitate the return of capital, shareholders were given within the Articles and such authorities are submitted for approval one new C non-cumulative redeemable preference share of 75 by the shareholders at the AGM each year.
pence each in the capital of the Company C Share for every one Old Ordinary Share held.
Three alternatives, with a mix and match Pursuant to sections 693 and 701 of the Companies Act 2006 and facility, were offered to the holders of C Shares, allowing them to a special resolution passed at the AGM in 2011, the Company was decide how and when to receive their return of capital, as detailed authorised to purchase its own shares, limited to an aggregate below: maximum number equal to 10 per cent of the issued share capital Capital return of the Company.
Following the Share Capital Consolidation defined alternatives Details of the capital return below, this authority ceased to be valid.
The Company did not Initial redemption Redemption of C Shares by the Company purchase any Ordinary Shares pursuant to this authority.
The on 16 August 2011 at 75 pence per C resolutions being proposed at this years AGM include a resolution Share.
Single C Share Receive a single C Share dividend of 75 dividend pence per C Share on 16 August 2011, DIRECTORS INTERESTS AND REMUNERATION following which all C Shares in respect Information on Directors beneficial interests, including those of of which an election for the Single C connected persons within the meaning of section 252 of the Share Dividend was made automatically converted into unlisted deferred shares of Companies Act 2006, in the shares of the Company is shown in 75 pence in the capital of the Company C the Remuneration report on pages 56 to 59.
Deferred Shares to be redeemed by the Company on 30 April 2012.
No Director had a material interest at any time during the year Final redemption Redemption of C Shares by the Company in any contract with the Company or any of its subsidiary on 30 April 2012 at 75 pence per C Share.
undertakings, other than a service contract.
Details of the structure of the Companys share capital both before DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES and after the Share Capital Consolidation, together with the rights The Directors have the benefit of an indemnity from the Company in attached to each of the share classes in issue are set out below respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
This indemnity and on pages 41 and 42 in compliance with the requirements of is provided under the Articles and satisfies the indemnity provisions section 992 of the Companies Act 2006. of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company has taken out an insurance policy in respect of those 31 December 31 December liabilities for which the Directors may not be indemnified.
Neither Share class 2010 2011 the indemnity nor the insurance provides cover in the event that a Old Ordinary Shares of 0.2 pence 497,586,779 Nil Director is proved to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
2009 Incentive Shares of 1.00 50,000 50,000 New Ordinary Shares of 14 55 DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES pence Nil 390,961,043 The Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the 1 C Shares of 75 pence Nil 1,392,194 consolidated financial statements is set out on page 60.
C Deferred Shares of 75 pence Nil 34,331,656 1 SHARE CAPITAL Recognised in the Balance Sheet as a current liability of 1.1 million.
Following the sale of the Groups Dynacast business on 19 July 2011 for a cash consideration of 366.5 million, a return of capital was made to shareholders in August 2011.
An amount of 373.2 million was agreed to be returned, representing 75 pence per existing Ordinary Share.
A share capital consolidation and sub-division was authorised by the Directors and subsequently approved by the shareholders to help ensure that a constant share price be maintained both before and after the return of 21012-04 26 03 2012 Proof 6 Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information www.
net Stock code: MRO 41 The holders of the remaining C Shares and C Deferred Shares shall VOTING not be entitled to: Only New Ordinary Shares have voting rights attached.
In a general meeting of the Company, subject to the provisions of the any further right of participating in the profits of the Company: or current Articles and to any special rights or restrictions as to voting attached to any other class of shares in the Company of which the right to vote at general meetings of the Company, except there are currently none : holders of C Shares can vote on the winding up of the Company.
on a show of hands, every member present shall have one vote: and On a winding up, the holders of the C Shares shall be entitled in on a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy priority to all other classes of shares up to 75 pence per C Share.
shall have one vote for every share of which he is the holder.
The holders of the C Deferred Shares shall not be entitled to any right or participation in the assets of the Company on a winding up.
The Companys Articles were amended pursuant to a special The C Deferred Shares and C Shares will be redeemed by the resolution approved at a general meeting of the Company held on Company on 30 April 2012.
8 August 2011, to reflect the rights and restrictions attaching to the C Shares and the C Deferred Shares and certain other changes Only the New Ordinary Shares are traded on the London Stock required in connection with the Share Capital Consolidation.
The rights Exchange, having been admitted to the Official List as maintained attaching to the New Ordinary Shares following the Share Capital by the UK Listing Authority, on 9 August 2011.
Consolidation remained exactly the same as those attaching to the Old Ordinary Shares immediately prior to the Share Capital Consolidation.
2009 INCENTIVE SHARES The 2009 Incentive Shares of 1.00 each have been awarded If any call or other sum payable by a holder of New Ordinary Shares to Directors and senior managers within the Company, together remains unpaid, they shall not be entitled to vote at any general with Ogier Employee Benefit Trustee Limited as Trustee of the meeting or class meeting in respect of any shares held by him.
Melrose PLC Employee Benefit Trust and replaced the incentive Currently, all issued New Ordinary Shares are fully paid.
The rights attaching to the 2009 Incentive Shares are identical to those originally attached to the As at 7 March 2012, the Melrose PLC Employee Benefit Trust held 2007 Incentive Scheme, with the exception that the Company may 19,862 New Ordinary Shares 2010: 25,279 Old Ordinary Shares pay a dividend on the 2009 Incentive Shares as an alternative to at a nominal value of 14 55 pence per share 2010: 0.2 pence per converting them into Ordinary Shares and the award holders were share, resulting from the crystallisation of the original incentive not able to request early conversion in 2010 and or 2011.
The FKI Employee Benefit Trust held a rights attaching to the 2009 Incentive Shares remained the same further 124,232 New Ordinary Shares 2010: 158,114 Old Ordinary both before and after the Share Capital Consolidation.
Shares at a nominal value of 14 55 pence per share 2010: 0.2 pence per share, arising from the Melrose acquisition of FKI plc.
Holders of the 2009 Incentive Shares will be entitled to either a cash The Remuneration Committee may direct how the voting rights of dividend, or a number of Ordinary Shares in the Company aligned to those shares are exercised.
the increase in shareholder value between July 2007 and May 2012.
DEADLINES FOR VOTING RIGHTS The 2009 Incentive Shares do not confer a right to be paid an Full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect of interim or final dividend or to vote at a general meeting.
On winding the resolutions to be considered at the AGM to be held on 9 May up, the holders are entitled to participate in the Companys assets 2012 are set out in the Notice of AGM, on pages 118 to 120. equal to an amount to which they would have been entitled if their 2009 Incentive Shares had crystallised as at the date of winding DIVIDENDS AND DISTRIBUTIONS up.
Further details of the 2009 Incentive Shares can be found in the Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Remuneration report on pages 56 to 59.
Company may, by ordinary resolution, declare a dividend to be paid to the Ordinary shareholders, but no dividend shall exceed the FURTHER RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS ATTACHING amount recommended by the Board.
The Board may pay interim TO SHARES dividends and also any fixed rate dividend, whenever the financial The following summary is based on the Companys Articles, as position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies its adopted at a general meeting of the Company on 8 August 2011. payment.
All dividends shall be apportioned and paid pro-rata according to the amounts paid up on the shares.
The Board may deduct from a dividend, or other amounts payable to a person in respect of their shares, amounts due from him to the Company on account of a call or otherwise in relation to such shares.
21012-04 26 03 2012 Proof 6 Melrose PLC 42 Annual Report 2011 Directors report continued LIqUIDATION RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Under the current Articles, if the Company is in liquidation, the The Group operates a variety of risk management processes liquidator may, on obtaining any sanction required by law: designed to take into account the identification, management and mitigation of business risk, where both short term and long term divide amongst the shareholders in kind the whole or any part of considerations are monitored.
A review of the effectiveness of the the assets of the Company: or Companys risk management and internal control systems is carried out on a regular basis and at least annually, in accordance with vest the whole or any part of the assets in trust for the benefit of the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
A summary shareholders as the liquidator shall determine.
of the material strategic, operational, compliance, ethical and financial risks and uncertainties that could impact on the Groups TRANSFER OF SHARES performance is shown on pages 31 to 33.
Internal control and risk Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer all or any of management is also discussed further within the Finance Directors his shares in any form which the Board may approve, and the review on pages 23 to 30 and the Corporate Governance report on transfer shall be executed by or on behalf of the transferor.
Additionally, key commercial and economic risks to the Articles and the requirements of any relevant investment are covered in the Chief Executives Review on pages 12 to 22. exchange, the Board may, in its absolute discretion, refuse to register a transfer of a share which is not a fully paid share or on SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS AND CHANGE OF CONTROL which the Company has a lien.
The Board may also decline to With the exception of the Groups banking facilities, the Melrose register a transfer unless the transfer is: i in respect of only one 2009 Incentive Share Scheme and the divisional management long class of shares: ii in favour of not more than four joint transferees term incentive schemes, there are no other agreements that take or renouncees: iii duly stamped if required : and iv delivered effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company for registration to the registered office, or such other place as the following a takeover bid, that are considered to be significant in Board may decide, accompanied by the certificate for the shares terms of their potential impact on the business of the Group as a to which it relates and such other evidence as the Board may whole on 7 March 2012. reasonably require to prove the title of the transferor.
On 22 December 2011, the Group agreed a new syndicated SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS 600 million five-year multi-currency, committed, revolving credit As at 7 March 2012, the Company has been advised of the facility, which has the same change of control provisions as the following substantial interests in the Ordinary Share capital of the previous 750 million facility.
In the event of a change of control of Company: the Company following a takeover bid, the Company and lenders under this facility are obliged to enter into negotiations to determine Shareholder Holding % whether and, if so, how to continue with the facility.
There is no obligation for the lenders to continue to make the facility available Blackrock Inc 47,823,838 12.23 for more than 30 days beyond any change of control.
Failure to Threadneedle Asset reach agreement with parties on revised terms could require an Management Ltd 31,065,172 7.95 acquirer to put in place replacement facilities.
Standard Life Investments Ltd 28,659,567 7.33 Artemis Investment Management 25,701,112 6.57 In the event of a takeover of the Company, the 2009 Incentive Scottish Widows Investment Shares convert into New Ordinary Shares or an entitlement to a Partnership 23,364,440 5.98 dividend paid in cash, the conversion being based upon the offer Ignis Asset Management 20,242,952 5.18 price of the Companys New Ordinary Shares as calculated on Aviva Investors 17,616,351 4.50 the date of the change of control of the Company.
If part or the Legal & General Investment entire offer price is not in cash, the Remuneration Committee will Management Ltd 16,576,989 4.24 determine the value of the non-cash element, having been advised F & C Asset Management Plc 14,728,830 3.77 by an investment bank of repute that such valuation is fair and reasonable.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Corporate Governance report is included as a separate report on pages 50 to 55.
21012-04 26 03 2012 Proof 6 Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information www.
net Stock code: MRO 43 PRODUCT AND EMPLOYERS LIABILITY CLAIMS As part of this fide-centralised approach, each business is responsible The Group seeks to assess its ongoing risks in relation to potential for setting and measuring its own KPIs and, as such, these vary future liabilities arising from insurance claims via the use of external throughout the Group.
However, such measurements will generally actuarial projections to measure material exposures.
Historic claims include absenteeism, punctuality, headcount and employee relations experience data is used to analyse risks in relation to less significant issues.
Any concerns or adverse trends are responded to in a timely exposures.
Actuarial projections and claims history experience are manner.
Further, as a Group-wide policy and so far as particular regularly analysed by management and key issues, trends and disabilities permit, the Company and each of its businesses will give statistics are also discussed at Board level.
employees disabled during their period of employment continued employment in the same job or, if this is not practicable, a suitable Risks within the Group relate to potential future liabilities arising alternative job.
Equal opportunities for appropriate training, career from product, industrial disease including asbestos, employers development and promotion are also available to all employees within liability and workers compensation claims.
Provisions in relation the Group regardless of any physical disability, gender, religion, race, to such risks are recognised in the Groups Balance Sheet, where nationality, sexual orientation or age.
Note 30 to the consolidated financial statements provides further information with regard to contingent product Applications for employment by disabled persons are always liabilities.
fully considered by the Group, taking into account job-specific requirements and applicant aptitude.
It is the policy of the Group A number of businesses have ISO 9001 and ISO 16949 that in recruitment, training, career development and promotion, certifications for their quality management systems, which also help the treatment of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be to ensure their products and processes are of a recognised quality, identical to that of other employees.
reducing the risk of product claims.
Some businesses within the Group are also certified to international health and safety standards The Group regards employee training and advancement as an via ISO 18001, which helps to further ensure that risks in relation to essential element of industrial relations.
Disputes and days lost employers liability claims are kept to a minimum.
through strike action are negligible.
PAYMENTS TO SUPPLIERS EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT, CONSULTATION AND The Company has decided not to utilise standard protocols in DEVELOPMENT respect of payments to suppliers, given the international nature The Group attaches great importance to good labour relations, of the Groups operations.
It is the responsibility of each business employee involvement and employee development.
The nature of the to agree the exact terms and conditions of transactions with their Groups activities places the responsibility for employment practices suppliers and these arrangements are adhered to, provided that with local management, in a manner appropriate to each business.
suppliers meet their contractual commitments.
The Company, as a holding company, did not have any material amounts owing to A culture of clear communication and employee consultation is trade creditors at 31 December 2011. inherent in the Groups businesses.
Employee briefing sessions are held on a regular basis to communicate strategy, key changes, INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY financial results, achievements and other important issues.
Regular The Company and each of its businesses recognise the value and appraisals, employee surveys, noticeboards, intranet sites, team importance of its intellectual property IP and, where appropriate, meetings, suggestion boxes and newsletters are also used to will seek to protect and enforce its rights over IP.
Due to the varying communicate with employees.
types of IP rights held or licensed within the Group, each business is responsible for the management and enforcement of these on a Extensive training is available to all staff and is actively encouraged fide-centralised basis through the use of external advisers and the to ensure a high standard of skill is maintained across the Group.
As part of this process and to try and Cross-training programmes are also in place at a number of the reduce risks in this area, internal IP audits are conducted by all Groups businesses.
The importance of training extends beyond businesses within the Group.
on-the-job training and also focuses on enhancing personal development.
Apprenticeship programmes are in place at the EMPLOYMENT POLICIES majority of sites, which help to assist with succession planning The Group recognises its responsibilities for the fair treatment of in locations where there is an ageing workforce.
Employees are all its employees in accordance with legislation applicable to the encouraged to think in an innovative manner across the Group.
territories within which it operates.
Due to the diverse nature of the Group, businesses are required to manage their employment matters on a fide-centralised basis and, therefore, responsibility for the adoption of employment policies and practices sits at a local business unit level.
This position ensures that policies and procedures meet both site and local regulatory requirements, taking into account the size and nature of the businesses.
21012-04 26 03 2012 Proof 6 Melrose PLC 44 Annual Report 2011 Directors report continued HUMAN RESOURCE INITIATIVES PENSIONS During 2011, many of the Groups businesses implemented a range Companies within the Group operate various pension schemes of employee-related initiatives, which include the following: around the world.
The table at the bottom of this page shows defined benefit schemes that are material to the Group.
Within the Turbogenerators business at Loughborough, a substantial investment has been made in a new Learning The FKI UK Pension Plan FKI UK Plan is a UK defined benefit Academy, which was officially opened in July 2011.
Classroom pension plan with FKI Limited as its principal employer.
The primary style facilities have been provided to enhance the skills of liability for funding rests with the participating employers, which existing employees and to ensure that future apprentices can currently pay 18.5 million annually into the FKI UK Plan.
This is benefit from a structured learning environment.
These new expected to remove the funding deficit by 31 December 2022, training facilities are also being used to carry out customer when the contribution levels were last formally assessed as at training courses in relation to the growing Aftermarket business.
A formal actuarial valuation of the FKI UK Plan During 2011, Brush invested in a series of next generation is currently being carried out, which will record the funding position management development programmes, aimed at managers as at 31 December 2011: the Company and the trustees of the who have responsibility for apprentices.
The programme is being plan will be discussing valuation results and funding requirements developed further during 2012.
Turbogenerators were awarded a during the course of 2012.
The FKI UK Plan closed to the accrual Gold Standard from the National Apprenticeship Service during of future benefits for existing members on 28 February 2011 and 2011, in relation to their highly regarded apprenticeship scheme.
this is expected to lead to the funding deficit being removed earlier than would otherwise have been the case.
At Bridons Doncaster UK facility, efforts have been made to The McKechnie UK Pension Plan McKechnie UK Plan is a UK encourage employee engagement in health and safety matters, defined benefit pension plan with McKechnie Limited as its principal in order to improve further the safety record of the site.
The primary liability for funding rests with the participating resulted in the business being awarded a steel industry Live employers.
The Company and Trustees reviewed the funding of the Wire award in 2011 for its efforts in involving employees in a McKechnie UK Plan as part of the actuarial valuation as at variety of health and safety initiatives.
31 December 2008 and it was agreed that the participating employers would contribute 4.6 million annually into the Within each of the US-based businesses, a focus has been McKechnie UK Plan.
The Company has guaranteed the funding placed on various employee health and wellness initiatives.
of the McKechnie UK Plan on an ongoing basis.
A formal actuarial These include the introduction of tobacco-free sites, provision valuation of the McKechnie UK Plan is currently being carried out, of flu jabs, weight loss initiatives, wellness fairs and free medical which will record the funding position as at 31 December 2011: testing services.
the Company and Trustees of the plan will be discussing valuation results and funding requirements during the course of 2012.
A significant number of employees are members of unions and some businesses operate works councils, both of which are used The FKI US Pension Plan is a defined benefit pension plan covering for consultation and dissemination of information, as appropriate.
several of FKIs US businesses.
The primary liability for funding the FKI US Pension Plan rests with the participating employers.
The Directors have monthly meetings with divisional senior The Company and Trustees of the plan reviewed the funding management and visit the sites on an ad hoc basis to communicate requirements of the FKI US Pension Plan, based on its 1 January with the wider Group.
Financial results of the Company for the 2011 actuarial valuation and no contributions will need to be made half year and full year are discussed with the Groups senior during 2012.
Unlike the UK pension plans, deferred member management team: Group developments are communicated liabilities do not increase by inflation each year.
to the businesses as appropriate.
Employee involvement in and commitment to the Groups profitability is encouraged through appropriate bonus schemes.
Defined benefits pension schemes material to the Group: As at 31 December 2011 Number Assets Liabilities of Name of Plan Status m m members FKI UK Closed to new members in October 2001.
McKechnie Closed to new members in 2003.
157.5 154.5 3,217 UK Pension Plan Closed for future accrual in 2005.
195.2 228.7 8,194 1 Pension Plan Closed for future accrual in 2009.
2010: 193.3 2010: 213.1 2010: 8,401 1 A review of the FKI US Pension Plan was carried out in 2011 by the plan administrators, who have subsequently confirmed that the number of members within the FKI US Plan should be restated for the year ended 31 December 2010.
net Stock code: MRO 45 HEALTH AND SAFETY Divisional managers within each business unit have responsibilities The Directors of the Company are committed to minimising the to ensure that health and safety remains a key focus and to ensure health and safety risks that each of the Groups employees are that active procedures and monitoring systems are in place to exposed to by promoting the effective use and management of provide substance to written policies.
Detailed health and safety business specific policies and procedures.
plans are set by businesses each year to determine annual targets and improvement initiatives.
The Group has a policy to ensure that the Directors are made aware of any serious health and safety incidents, wherever they occur in All businesses have an established Health and Safety Committee the world, without delay to ensure that suitable investigations and H&S Committee structure in place: such committees meet on corrective action can be organised.
Health and safety is also covered a regular basis and are made up of representatives from both at every quarterly Board meeting of the Company.
management and shop floor level personnel.
Each of the H&S Committees has wide-ranging responsibilities which vary from Each of the Groups businesses has specific health and safety KPIs business to business and include the review of reported incidents in use, which are specific to the exact nature of their business and and the monitoring of incident trends.
These H&S Committees allow for focus, analysis and improvement at local business levels, are also responsible for ensuring that corrective measures are often on a location by location basis.
implemented when accidents occur and that all incidents, whether or not they are deemed reportable under local legislation, are given To supplement the business specific KPIs, Group-wide health due attention.
and safety KPIs were developed during 2011.
Going forward, this will allow the Directors to review Group statistics on a regular and One of the key responsibilities for these H&S Committees is to consistent basis: it will also ensure they have a greater visibility of carry out regular tours of the premises in which they work, in order the key Group health and safety trends in order to help them to to ensure compliance with local policies and procedures.
These make decisions on where future focus should be placed.
tours also identify potential hazards, for which counter measures can be identified to prevent accidents from happening.
Each H&S The Group health and safety KPIs that are actively being used Committee recommendation is followed up at the next committee are: Major Accident Frequency Rate defined as an accident meeting to ensure that issues are resolved.
Additionally, operations that resulted in an employee having more than three days off are audited by the H&S Committees at least annually and reports of work due to a work-related injury, per 200,000 working hours, performance and recommended improvements are prepared and Accident Frequency Rate defined as an accident that resulted in circulated to the divisional senior management teams.
Divisional an employee having between one and three days off work due to managers are provided with detailed health and safety reports on a a work-related injury, per 200,000 working hours and Accident frequent basis to ensure that such matters are given high visibility Severity Rate which calculates the average number of lost working and that improvements are authorised and implemented quickly.
Such statistics are collected quarterly on a siteby-site basis.
From an overall Group perspective, each of the three HEALTH AND SAFETY INITIATIVES KPI statistics had improved in the period from 2009 to 2011.
During 2011, many of the Groups businesses implemented a range of initiatives aimed at improving health and safety performance, as Each business is responsible for setting its own detailed part of the Groups goal of achieving zero preventable accidents arrangements concerning health and safety policies and and these include: procedures, in accordance with local health and safety legislation.
As a general rule, businesses strive to achieve best practice, in Ongoing development within Bridon of a new team meeting terms of what is suitable and practical for the size and nature structure throughout its worldwide locations: at such meetings, of their operations.
Several of the Groups businesses already Bridons policy dictates that health and safety should be top of hold ISO 18001 certification, the internationally recognised the agenda, thus providing suitable forums to discuss relevant assessment standard for occupational health and safety issues and escalate these to management quickly.
As part of management systems.
This certification includes some of the this approach, a variety of different meetings take place on a major manufacturing locations within the Group, such as the daily, weekly and monthly basis to discuss a whole range of Brush sites at Loughborough, UK and in the Czech Republic.
The business issues, with the aim of improving visibility, ownership certification process is also currently underway at the two MPC and leadership on a site-by-site basis.
This structure is already sites in Yorkshire.
The Bridon business has a medium term strategy in place within Bridons European sites and is now being rolled to achieve ISO 18001 international health and safety standards for out to its sites in the US, Asia and New Zealand.
Bridon is also in all of its sites.
the process of further developing their existing health and safety auditing systems.
During 2011, investment of approximately 0.5 million was provided to various Bridon facilities to further improve barriers designed to segregate walkways from forklift truck usage and to improve machine guarding.
21012-04 26 03 2012 Proof 6 Melrose PLC 46 Annual Report 2011 Directors report continued Marelli are currently rolling out an in-house risk perception training course for four hundred of its employees at their main manufacturing location in Arzignano, Italy.
This is designed to communicate further the importance of risk reduction and the health and safety policies that need to be adhered to whilst on site.
Within several of the US businesses, efforts are being made to reduce specific accident causes, such as slips, falls and repetitive strain type injuries.
Investments include the use of non-slip coatings on factory floors and the installation of cranes to allow for the safer loading and unloading of heavy materials.
Additional safety training and awareness programmes have also been introduced to assist further in working towards the goal of achieving a zero-tolerance approach to preventable accidents.
THE ENVIRONMENT The Companys main impact on the environment is through its energy use and associated carbon dioxide CO emissions and 2 waste.
The Directors fully understand the importance of the Groups environmental responsibilities.
Each of the Companys businesses are committed to ensuring that their operations have a minimum adverse effect on the environment and that ongoing reductions in both energy usage and CO emissions are achieved, wherever 2 The photograph above shows a level one shop floor meeting practicable.
taking place at Bridons factory in Willington Quay, near Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.
With heavy industrial processes Many of the Groups businesses are developing environmental taking place in Bridons worldwide locations health and safety policies and procedures in line with best practice guidelines, via takes a top priority at daily meetings such as this.
ongoing improvements to local processes to reduce the impact of their activities.
A number of the businesses have achieved, or are currently in the process of achieving, the high standards required to More information about Bridon is available online at obtain ISO 14001 Environmental Management Systems certification.
com In addition, UK subsidiaries comply with the UK Packaging Waste Regulations and REACH Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and At Turbogenerators, focus continues to be placed on Restriction of Chemicals, as appropriate.
driving down the number of accidents within each of its key manufacturing locations through the process of cultural change.
Although there are no standardised environmental KPIs currently Improved safety committee structures and site safety tours are used within the Group, each business fully understands the all helping the business to reduce its accident rate.
During 2011, importance of monitoring the impact of its operations on the a full equipment audit took place within Turbogenerators to environment.
A range of KPIs are used as environmental measures, develop a register of machinery that has the potential to cause including energy consumption, CO emissions, water consumption, 2 hand arm vibration or noise induced injuries, which will allow water contamination, waste disposal, solid and liquid waste usage levels to be monitored going forward.
Equipment has also generation, recycling and volatile organic compound emissions.
been identified that either needs to be repaired, recalibrated or Environmental performance is measured via the use of KPIs in order replaced.
that each of the businesses can plan for ongoing reductions.
HSS implemented production line process changes during 2011 in order to reduce the number of manual handling injuries and ENVIRONMENTAL INITIATIVES this will continue to be monitored throughout the course of 2012.
In terms of environmental initiatives that have either been The use of safety eye wear has also been made compulsory completed in 2011, or are ongoing for 2012, there are a variety of in certain parts of the Blackwood site in South Wales, together examples from the Groups businesses and these include: with a communication programme to ensure all employees are aware of the policy.
They have also just implemented an initiative Continuing development of a new triple rinse system at Bridons in conjunction with some of their sheet metal suppliers to ensure Doncaster, UK site, which is designed to conserve water used that materials arrive in a fide-burred state, which ensures all to rinse products and recover acid.
This project was ongoing sharp edges are removed to further reduce the number of cutthrough 2011 and it is hoped the system will be fully operational related injuries.
net Stock code: MRO 47 Planned reduction in the use of hydrochloric acid as a pickling During the year, the Company filed its first Annual Report to the agent at Bridons Doncaster site.
This will be achieved by the Environment Agency to ensure compliance with the Carbon greater use of mechanical fide-scaling and ultra-sonic technology Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme CRC.
This is using phosphoric acid as the cleaning agent.
Phosphoric acid is a mandatory climate change and energy saving scheme introduced preferred to hydrochloric acid as it does not spontaneously fume in the UK during April 2010, designed to record the Groups CO 2 and therefore no emissions are released into the atmosphere.
The Company will ensure that it continues to anticipated that this project will be completed by the end of 2012. comply with the ongoing annual reporting requirements of the CRC and to further reduce energy consumption wherever possible.
The installation of variable speed drives on pumps within bore hole abstraction wells and the effluent plant at Bridons ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITIES Doncaster site was completed during the year.
Prior to this, The Directors seek to ensure that all environmental risks are closely such processes had operated on a constant full power setting.
managed by external environmental specialists in conjunction The benefits of this investment include the reduction of energy with internal management.
The environmental laws of certain consumption of up to 65 per cent on the specific processes to jurisdictions impose obligations to remediate contaminated sites in which the variable speed drives were applied, together with a 30 relation to sites both currently and previously owned by the Group.
per cent reduction in the use of bore hole water, thus conserving local water supplies.
The Company Secretary is made aware of all major environmental A reduction in waste product is planned at Turbogenerators liabilities that may occur within any of the Groups businesses: Loughborough, UK site during 2012 by a further commitment to the Board are also regularly updated on such matters.
All costs recycle not only general waste but also shop floor waste such incurred by the Group with regard to environmental liabilities are as copper, other metals and plastic.
Further workforce training monitored, with provisions being made as appropriate.
will help to ensure recycling figures increase and waste product declines going forward.
Various other initiatives are also currently RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT taking place within Brush to reduce energy consumption, such The Company actively encourages ongoing research and as investment in automatic roller shutter doors to aid heat development within each of its businesses.
Investment funds are retention, trials of LED energy efficient lighting and an increase in made available for this purpose to ensure that new designs can be the number of lights around the site that are on timers.
introduced to market and that existing processes can be further Truth have recently made a considerable investment in a new air enhanced.
This helps to ensure that each business unit remains compressor system at their Owatonna, Minnesota, US facility, at the forefront of technological advances and is able to meet the designed to substantially reduce energy consumption: a similar ever-changing demands of its customers.
Details of some of the investment will be made in Truths Canadian facility at Brampton, new products currently being introduced to the market are included Ontario, during 2012. within the Chief Executives review on pages 12 to 22.
Due to the At Crosbys Tulsa, Oklahoma, site in the US, during December nature of the research and development that occurred in 2011, the 2011, a sulphuric acid recovery system was installed within the associated costs were expensed during the year rather than being galvanizing department.
This allows for the acid to be recovered capitalised, in line with the Groups accounting policy on page 71. and recycled as part of the cleaning process on the galvanizing line, thus reducing the amount of hazardous waste generated CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY from this operation, as well as providing a significant return on Due to the heavy industrial nature of some of the Group activities, the investment.
the Directors recognise that its operations will potentially impact A programme to reduce the amount of energy used for lighting on a wide variety of stakeholders in terms of social, environmental within Crosbys site in Tulsa has been very successful, resulting and ethical matters, including employees, customers, suppliers and in a 50 per cent reduction in energy consumed by such usage.
Further energy efficient improvements were made, including insulation of exterior walls and new energy efficient windows.
Many of the Groups businesses have social and ethical policies, The replacement of old and inefficient pre-heating stations used with responsibility for communication and implementation resting for welding operations was also carried out during the year, with with relevant senior divisional managers.
Such policies apply and the new equipment being 50 per cent more efficient due to the extend to local law and standards and as a minimum include equal reduction in pre-heating times.
Emergency spill kits have been introduced to Crosbys Jacksonville, US site during the year, which will substantially The majority of the businesses provided community support during improve the containment response time in the event of a large the year with efforts ranging from charitable donations to voluntary spill of hazardous material from the drums used to hold such assistance and fund raising.
Training courses were also provided for employees working in these areas in relation to the new equipment.
The Company is committed to continuing to invest in its businesses during its ownership, thus enhancing their reputation within the markets and communities in which they operate.
21012-04 26 03 2012 Proof 6 Melrose PLC 48 Annual Report 2011 Directors report continued CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL DONATIONS AGM The Group paid 50,000 2010: 21,550 to charities during The AGM of the Company will be held at Barber-Surgeons Hall, the year.
There were no political donations made during the year Monkwell Square, Wood Street, London, EC2Y 5BL at 11.00 am 2010: nil.
AUDITOR In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code published So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit in June 2010, which applies to all accounting periods beginning information of which the auditor is unaware and the Directors have on or after 29 June 2010, all Directors will offer themselves for taken all the steps which they ought to have taken as Directors to election or re-election at this years AGM, as per resolutions 4 make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to to 10 of the Notice of Meeting shown on pages 118 to 120. establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Following his appointment to the Board on 1 September 2011 and in accordance with the Companys articles of association, Justin This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance Dowley will retire and offer himself for election at the AGM as per with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. resolution 11 of the Notice of Meeting.
Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office Resolutions dealing with the following special business will be as auditor.
Accordingly, a resolution will be proposed at the AGM of proposed at the AGM: the Company to reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
Resolution 13 will seek shareholder approval to renew the Directors authority to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe GOING CONCERN for or convert any securities into shares pursuant to section 551 The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to of the Companies Act 2006 the Section 551 authority.
The affect its future development, performance and position are set out authority contained in paragraph A of the resolution will be limited in the Divisional reviews on pages 14 to 22.
The financial position of to an aggregate nominal value representing 331,724, being the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities approximately one third of the Companys issued Ordinary Share are described in the Finance Directors review on pages 23 to 30.
In capital, as at 7 March 2012. addition, notes 19 and 24 to the consolidated financial statements include the Groups policies and processes for managing its capital, In line with guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers, exposures to liquidity risk and financial risk management objectives, paragraph B of this resolution would give the Directors authority to as well as details of its financial instruments and hedging strategies.
allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert any securities Credit risk exposure is discussed in notes 16 and 24 to the into shares in connection with a rights issue up to an aggregate consolidated financial statements.
nominal value of 663,448, representing approximately two-thirds of the Companys issued Ordinary Share capital as at 7 March The Group prepares regular business forecasts and monitors 2012, as reduced by the nominal amount of any shares issued projected facility headroom and compliance with its banking under paragraph A of this resolution.
covenants, which are reviewed by the Board.
Forecasts are then adjusted for sensitivities which address the principal The Company does not hold any treasury shares.
risks to which the Group is exposed, such as fluctuations in exchange rates and best estimates of the possible impact of the Resolution 14 will seek to renew the authority conferred on the macroeconomic environment on the Groups underlying trading Board to allot equity securities of the Company or sell any shares results.
Consideration is then given to the potential actions available which the Company may elect to hold in treasury for cash pursuant to management to mitigate the impact of one or more of the to section 570 of the Companies Act 2006 the Section 570 sensitivities.
authority without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
Taking all this into consideration, the Group should be able to operate within the level of its current banking facilities and remain The authority is limited to allotments or sales in connection covenant compliant for the foreseeable future, being a period of with pre-emptive offers, subject to any arrangements that the at least twelve months from the date of approval of these financial Directors consider appropriate to deal with fractions and overseas statements.
requirements, and otherwise up to a maximum nominal value of 49,758, representing approximately 5 per cent of the Companys After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable issued Ordinary Share capital as at 7 March 2012, which is in expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate accordance with the relevant guidelines for the Company.
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and financial statements.
net Stock code: MRO 49 If approved, the Section 551 authority and the Section 570 RECOMMENDATIONS authority will expire at the conclusion of next years AGM or, if The Board believes that each of the resolutions to be proposed earlier, at the close of business on 30 June 2013.
The Directors at the AGM is in the best interests of the Company and its have no present intention of exercising the Section 551 authority or shareholders as a whole.
Accordingly, the Directors unanimously the Section 570 authority.
recommend that ordinary shareholders vote in favour of all of the resolutions proposed, as they intend to do in respect of their own Resolution 15 will seek to renew the authority conferred on the beneficial holdings.
Company to purchase its own shares pursuant to sections 693 and 701 of the Companies Act 2006.
This authority is limited to DISCLOSURES IN THE DIRECTORS REPORT an aggregate maximum number of 39,096,104 Ordinary Shares, The Corporate Governance report, Divisional reviews and Finance representing 10 per cent of the Companys issued Ordinary Share Directors review form part of the Directors report.
This power will expire at the conclusion of next years AGM or, if earlier, at the close of business on 30 June Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: 2013.
The maximum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share will be an amount which is not more than 5 per cent above the average of the middle market quotation for an Ordinary Share as derived from the London Stock Exchange plcs Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Ordinary Share is purchased.
The Directors have no present intention of exercising all or any of the powers conferred by this resolution and will only exercise their authority if it is in the interests of shareholders Garry Barnes generally.
Secretary 7 March 2012 Resolution 16 will seek shareholder approval to allow the Company to continue to call general meetings other than AGMs on 14 clear days notice.
In accordance with the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 the notice period required for general meetings of the Company is 21 days unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period subject to a minimum period of 14 clear days.
AGMs will continue to be held on at least 21 clear days notice.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Company must make a means of electronic voting available to all shareholders for that meeting in order to be able to call a general meeting on less than 21 clear days notice.
