Melrose PLC 6 Annual Report 2011 The Melrose strategy The Melrose strategy is to acquire good manufacturing businesses underperforming their potential, improve them by a mixture of investment, operational improvements and changed management focus, then commercially choose the right time to sell, often within a 3 to 5 year time frame but this is flexible.
The value from significant disposals is then returned to shareholders.
Whilst we are ready for the next acquisition, we will be patient to ensure it is the right one.
Commercially choose the right time to sell, often between 3-5 years but flexible Revenue Growth Operating Margin Improvement Cash Generation Set strategy SELL and targets Drive operational improvements Melrose management are substantial equity Good Return value to investors manufacturing IMPROVE shareholders businesses from significant underperforming disposals their potential Invest in the businesses capex in excess of depreciation BUY Focus on Change operating management cash generation focus incentivise well Use public market leverage 1 2 3 4 5 Years 21012-04 26 03 2012 Proof 6 Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information www.
net Stock code: MRO 7 Strategy in action global slowdown, and cost savings made during the downturn ACqUISITION OF FKI were retained as sales recovered.
Melrose invested fully in Dynacast Substantial potential being realised to expand capacity, particulary in the Far East, and to improve On 1 July 2008 Melrose completed the acquisition of FKI plc for a efficiency.
total consideration, including debt, of just under 1 billion.
FKI was a major international diversified engineering group with four divisions, Dynacast also succesfully completed some bolt on acquisitions.
including some businesses with very good market positions.
Under Melrose ownership, sales in all three of Dynacasts main geographic regions grew.
However, FKI had a weak Balance Sheet and borrowings due to be refinanced in the near term.
The financing terms of Melroses MCKECHNIE AEROSPACE acquisition enabled the Balance Sheet issues to be resolved and a Creating significant value more appropriate Group borrowing structure with lower overall debt Melrose acquired McKechnie, along with the Dynacast businesses, leverage and a maturity date of 2013. in May 2005.
At acquisition it could see the benefit of the strong upturn in the aerospace cycle.
Moreover, Melrose saw significant In addition to addressing the pressing financial constraints facing scope to improve the operational and financial performance of the FKI, Melrose identified a number of opportunities to improve the business and subsequently: performance of FKIs businesses, principally through an increased invested in the business to improve its performance and focus on cash generation and profitability.
Melrose will continue to manufacturing efficiency: and seek to invest in existing facilities and new capacity, as well as consider acquisitions and organic growth into new markets, where appropriate.
supported the business to improve the depth and quality of management.
DYNACAST Buy, Improve, Sell In our two years of ownership revenues grew by 35%, EBITDA Dynacast was acquired in May 2005 alongside McKechnie.
During grew by approximately 75% with margins increasing by 6 the six years of ownership, as a result of the improvement in its percentage points.
On 14 May 2007 McKechnies aerospace performance Melrose quadrupled the shareholders investment and aftermarket businesses were sold for 428 million in cash, in Dynacast, selling the business for an enterprise value of 377 generating an IRR of 65% and a profit including cash generation million in July 2011.
Consistent with Melroses strategy, following the during ownership of approximately 250 million.
In total it is disposal approximately 373 million was returned to shareholders.
estimated that the disposal crystallised an equity value of nearly 2.5 times.
The sale of Dynacast means that nearly 1 billion in cash was generated from the original 429 million McKechnie and Dynacast acquisition.
Melrose successfully steered Dynacast through the 2 Revenue growth compound Operating margin improvement Acquisition equity increase 24% 3.2x 16% 2.5x so far 16% 18% 15% 6% 11% 10% Entry Exit current 1 Dynacast McKechnie 1 McKechnie FKI to date McKechnie 6pps Dynacast Dynacast 5pps FKI 5pps 1 McKechnie Aerospace was owned from May 2005 until May 2007.
Calculated using full year 2005 results and forecast full year 2007 results.
2 Headline operating margin before exceptional costs, exceptional income and intangible asset amortisation.
