Summary and current trading Having maintained our business platform during the economic downturn and retained our experienced and talented people, the Group was well positioned to benefit from the economic recovery during the first half of 2011.
However, the uncertainty caused by the concerns surrounding the Eurozone and the lowering of worldwide GDP forecasts during the fourth quarter impacted significantly on our clients recruitment plans, with many hiring decisions being deferred or cancelled.
As a consequence, year-on-year growth in the fourth quarter gross profit slowed.
As in previous economic slowdowns, we will react according to the prevailing economic climate in each market in which we operate and manage each business appropriately, adjusting headcount to reflect market conditions, while continuing to invest where we have opportunities for long-term growth.
Group headcount increased by over 850 people in the first three quarters of 2011, as we invested in growth opportunities through geographic and discipline expansion.
Reflecting the more uncertain outlook, in the fourth quarter, our headcount reduced by 64 people, as a result of not replacing those who left through natural attrition.
We have maintained a strong balance sheet and, while increasing cash returns to shareholders, we have also continued to take a long-term approach to delivering shareholder value by making significant investments in the future of the business, both during 2011 and at the start of 2012.
While mindful and cautious of the current macro economic outlook, we are in a position to continue our geographic expansion, as there remain many long-term growth opportunities in our newer territories, particularly Latin America and Asia.
We will next update the market on our first quarter trading in an As the fourth quarter of 2011 progressed, trading became increasingly more challenging as business confidence fell, announcement on 11 April 2012. with all regions in which we operate recording a reduction in their year-on-year growth rates.
In the first two months of 2012, with the exception of financial services, we have seen no significant further slowing and in a number of geographies activity levels have remained strong, increasing Group gross profit by approximately 10%.
We continue to invest and we have already completed new country openings in Colombia and Morocco, opened an office in Suzhou, China and at the end of this quarter we will open an office in Taipei, Taiwan.
In EMEA, while Southern Europe remains the weakest area, we continue to achieve good year-on-year growth Steve Ingham Stephen Puckett elsewhere, including in France and particularly strong growth in Germany.
In the UK, with the exception of banking, Chief Executive Group Finance Director activity levels have stabilised and year-on-year gross profits are broadly flat.
In Asia Pacific, Australia has performed 6 March 2012 6 March 2012 well in the first two months, while in Asia we continue to see good levels of activity, again with the exception of banking.
In the Americas, North America remains challenging and Latin America is progressing well, where we are pleased with the progress of our newer countries Argentina, Chile and now Colombia.
