Board of Directors 32 Robin Buchanan Steve Ingham Chairman 59 from 31 December 2011 Chief Executive 49 Robin is a Senior Adviser to Bain & Company, having been Managing Partner and Steve joined Michael Page in 1987 as a consultant with Michael Page Marketing and then the Senior Partner of Bain & Company Inc in the UK between 1990 and 2007.
He was responsible for setting up the London marketing and sales businesses and He served as Dean and then President of London Business School.
He is a Non-Executive was promoted to Operating Director in 1990.
He was appointed Managing Director of Director of Schroders plc since March 2010 and Non-Executive Director Michael Page Marketing and Sales in 1994.
Subsequently he took additional responsibility of LyondellBasell NV since May 2011.
He is a member of the Trilateral Commission, for Michael Pages Retail, Technology, Human Resources and Engineering businesses.
of the Advisory Board of the UK India Business Council, and of the International He was promoted to the Board as Executive Director of UK Operations in January 2001, Advisory Council of Recipco.
He is also a member of the remuneration committee of Coller and subsequently to Managing Director of UK Operations in May 2005.
He was appointed Capital Ltd.
He served as Non-Executive Director of Liberty International plc Chief Executive on 6 April 2006.
Steve is also a member of the Great Ormond Street from 1997 to 2008 and also with Shire plc from 2003 to 2008.
Robin was appointed Hospitals Corporate Partnership Board.
to the Board of Michael Page International plc as a non-executive director on 10 August 2011 and to the role of Chairman on 31 December 2011.
Robin is also Chairman of the Andrew Bracey Nomination Committee.
Chief Financial Officer 44 from 23 April 2012 Andrew will join Michael Page from Ocado Group plc where he is currently Chief Financial Sir Adrian Montague CBE Officer and Executive Director.
He joined Ocado while it was a private company and was Chairman 63 pre 31 December 2011 part of the team that managed the transition to being a FTSE 250 company with leading institutional investors from across the globe.
Prior to Ocado, Andrew had an 18 year Sir Adrian is Chairman of Anglian Water Group Limited and of CellMark AB, the career in private equity and investment banking.
He ran Jefferies Internationals European international forest products marketing group based in Gothenburg and in July 2010, he consumer group until 2009.
From 2003 to 2008, he was at Barclays Capital, as Head was appointed Chairman of the private equity firm 3i.
From 1997 to 2001, he held senior of the Principal Investments Area and also sat on the Board and Audit Committee of posts concerned with the implementation of the Governments policies for the involvement Somerfield.
From 2000 to 2003, he was a Managing Director at Credit Suisse.
He started of the private sector in the delivery of public services, first as Chief Executive of the Treasury his career at UBS in 1991 in Corporate Finance after studying at Cambridge and the Taskforce and then as Deputy Chairman of Partnerships UK plc.
He was Deputy Chairman University of East Anglia.
In his private equity and investment banking career, Andrew of Network Rail from 2001 to 2004, Chairman of Cross London Rail Links Limited from built relationships and offered strategic advice across multiple industry sectors, including 2004 to 2005, Chairman of British Energy from 2002 to 2009 and Chairman of Friends numerous services and consumer companies across the globe.
He spent his early career as a solicitor with Linklaters & Paines before joining Kleinwort Benson in 1994.
Sir Adrian is also Chairman of London First, a Director of Skanska AB, the Swedish international construction group, and a Trustee of The Historic Royal Palaces.
He is also a member of the Housing Finance Group of the Housing and Communities Agency and Chairman of the Advisory Board of Reform.
He was awarded a CBE in 2001 and a knighthood in 2006.
Sir Adrian retired from the Board on 31 December 2011.
33 BOARD OF DiReCTORS Charles-Henri Dumon Stephen Puckett Managing Director Continental Europe and The Americas 53 to 28 February 2012 Group Finance Director 50 to 23 April 2012 Charles-Henri joined Michael Page in 1985 and was appointed a Director in 1987.
Since then Stephen qualified as a Chartered Accountant with BDO Binder Hamlyn.
He joined Wace he has had responsibility for the Groups operations in France and has managed the Groups Group plc in 1988 as Director of Corporate Finance, subsequently being promoted to Group entry into Southern Europe and South America.
He was appointed Managing Director for all Finance Director in 1991.
He was Group Finance Director of Stat Plus Group plc in 2000, and Michael Pages European and South American businesses in January 2001.
His responsibilities appointed Group Finance Director of Michael Page International plc in January 2001.
He was a were increased to include North America in January 2006.
Charles-Henri left the Board on 28 Non-Executive Director of SHL Group Plc from 2004 to 2006.
Stephen announced on 11 July that he would be leaving the Group for personal reasons, but would continue full time in office until his successor had been appointed and a handover had Ruby McGregor-Smith been completed.
Andrew Bracey has been appointed and is expected to take up his new role on 23 April 2012.
Independent Non-Executive Director 49 Ruby was appointed as Chief Executive of MITIE Group PLC in March 2007.
Ruby is a Hubert Reid Chartered Accountant.
After completing a Bachelor of Economics at Kingston, she undertook her professional training with BDO Stoy Hayward and went on to hold various roles for Serco Independent Non-Executive Director Group PLC.
She moved to MITIE in 2002, joining the Board as Group Finance Director.
In Senior Independent Director 71 2005, she was promoted to Group Chief Operating Officer and in 2007, to Chief Executive.
Hubert is Chairman of Enterprise Inns plc and of the Midas Income and Growth Trust PLC and Rubys achievements have attracted numerous awards, including Businesswoman of the Year Deputy Chairman of Majedie Investments PLC.
He was previously Managing Director and then at the Asian Women of Achievement Awards 2008, Leader of the Year at the Orange National Chairman of the Boddington Group plc, and a Non-Executive Director and then Chairman Business Awards 2011, and in 2012 she was honoured with a Commander of the Order of of Ibstock Plc, Bryant Group plc and the Royal London Group.
He was appointed a Nonthe British Empire for her services to business and diversity in business.
Ruby is also a trustee Executive Director of Michael Page International plc on 25 February 2003.
He is a member of for Business In The Community, a business-led charity focused on promoting responsible the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Ruby was appointed to the Board in May 2007 and is also Chairman of the Audit Committee, a member of the Nomination Committee and a member of the Remuneration Reg Sindall Committee.
Independent Non-Executive Director 57 Dr Tim Miller Reg is Executive Vice President of Corporate Resources for the Burberry Group PLC, which is headquartered in London.
Reg has held this position for over four years.
Prior to this he Independent Non-Executive Director 54 was an Executive of GUS Plc, a FTSE 30 company which owned Burberry.
He was part of Tim was appointed a Director of Standard Chartered Bank in December 2004.
At Standard the team that led the IPO of Burberry in 2002.
Before joining GUS in 2000, Reg held a variety Chartered, Tim is responsible for the Corporate Real Estate, Corporate Secretariat, Legal, of positions within the Bass Group, including Group HR Director, SVP of Customer Service, Compliance & Assurance, Internal Audit and Global Research functions.
Tim is also Chairman Reservations and HR.
A psychologist by academic training, he is a Fellow of the Chartered of Standard Chartered Korea and Chairman of the Banks Environment Committee.
Outside Institute of Personnel Development and a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts.
He is Chairman of the Bank, Tim is Chairman of the Governing Body, School of Oriental & African Studies the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
SOAS and a Member of the School Advisory Board, and a Special Professor of Strategy, at Nottingham University Business School, where, in 2007, he completed a Doctorate in Business Administration.
Tim was appointed to the Board of Michael Page International plc on 15 August 2005 and was Chairman of the Remuneration Committee until 21 January 2011.
He is now a member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
34 Executive Board In addition to the Executive Directors, the Executive Gary James olivier Lemaitre Board comprises: Regional Managing Director Asia Pacific 50 Regional Managing Director Continental Europe 39 Alexis fide Bretteville Gary joined Michael Page Finance in London in 1984.
He was Olivier joined Michael Page Finance in Paris in 1997, having appointed Director of Michael Page Sales & Marketing in 1994, worked previously as a Controller for Renault in Poland.
In Regional Managing Director The Americas 49 Managing Director of Michael Page Marketing in 1997 and 1999, he moved to So Paulo to launch Michael Page Brazil, Alexis joined Michael Page in 1993 as a Consultant in Paris, transferred to America in 2002 as Managing Director of North before returning to Europe in November 2002 to lead our France.
In 1997 he was appointed Managing Director of America.
He moved to Australia and was appointed Managing Michael Page Frankfurt office.
Appointed Managing Director of Michael Page Spain, launching Spain, Portugal and later, Director of the Asia Pacific region in August 2006, and is now in Michael Page Germany in 2004, he also took responsibility for Brazil.
In 2002, he moved to Germany, taking responsibility charge of Australia, New Zealand, Japan, China, Hong Kong, Michael Page Switzerland in 2006 and the launch of Michael for Germany, Belgium and Sweden.
In 2004, he moved to Singapore, Malaysia and India.
In 2007, he was appointed Regional Belgium where his responsibilities also included Holland and Managing Director and is now in charge of Austria, Belgium, the launch of Poland in 2005.
In 2006, he became Regional Germany, Holland, Luxembourg and Switzerland.
fabrice Lacombe Managing Director for the Americas, based in New York, having Regional Managing Director France, Africa & Southern responsibility for Michael Page in USA, Canada, Brazil, Mexico oliver watson Europe 43 and most recently Argentina.
Regional Managing Director UK 42 Fabrice joined Michael Page Finance in 1994 as a consultant Patrick Hollard in Paris.
In 1996, he launched Michael Page Engineering Oliver joined Michael Page in 1995 as a consultant in London.
In 1999, he was appointed He was appointed Director of Michael Page UK Sales in Regional Managing Director Latin America 44 Executive Director and then in 2001 Managing Director of 1997 and then Managing Director in 2002.
In 2006, he was Patrick Hollard joined Michael Page in France in 1996, having Michael Page France.
He launched Michael Page Africa in appointed Regional Managing Director for Michael Page UK worked previously for KPMG Peat Marwick.
Prior to that, he 2005 and also took in charge of Page Personnel France in Sales, Marketing and Retail.
In 2007, he launched Michael was Vice-President of AIESEC International from 1991 to 1992.
He became Regional Managing Director for France and Page Middle East and has since developed our office network Appointed Director in 1999, he moved to Sao Paulo to launch Africa in 2010 and his responsibilities were extended to include across the region.
In 2009, he became Regional Managing Michael Page Brazil, then Mexico in 2006, Argentina in 2008, Southern Europe in 2011.
Director for Michael Page UK Finance, Marketing and Sales, Chile in 2010 and Colombia in 2011.
Appointed Regional and Michael Page Middle East, Scotland and Ireland.
Managing Director in 2007, he is now responsible for the Latin American region.
35 Directors report The Directors present their annual report on the affairs of the Business review Group, together with the Financial Statements and Auditors The Company is required by the Companies Act to include a Report for the year ended 31 December 2011. business review in their report.
The information that fulfils the Principal activity requirements of the business review can be found on pages 12 to 31 which are incorporated in this report by reference.
The Group is one of the worlds leading specialist recruitment consultancies.
The Groups trading results are set out in the financial statements on pages 67 to 105.
36 As a result of this process, on 10 August 2011 the Nomination Committee made a unanimous Corporate governance recommendation that Robin Buchanan be appointed to the Board as an Independent NonThe Company and the Group are committed to high standards of corporate governance, Executive Director.
Robin is a Senior Adviser to Bain & Company Inc, having been Managing Partner and then the Senior Partner of Bain in the UK between 1990 and 2007.
Between 2007 details of which are provided in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 46 to 53 and the Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 63. and 2009, he also served as Dean and then President of London Business School.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Schroders plc and LyondellBasell NV.
He is a member of the Trilateral Commission, of the Advisory Board of the UK India Business Council and of the International Advisory Council of Recipco.
He is also a member of the remuneration committee of Coller Capital Significant agreements Ltd. Robin served as non-executive director of Liberty International plc and also with Shire plc.
There are certain agreements to which the Company is party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
On 31 December 2011, Sir Adrian Montague retired as Chairman.
The Board thank him for his many contributions over the last 10 years and wish him well.
As part of a planned succession Details of the significant agreements of this kind are as follows: process, Robin Buchanan succeeded Sir Adrian Montague as Chairman of the Board on 31 a 50m revolving credit facility that terminates on a change of control, with outstanding December 2011. amounts becoming payable with interest: and On 11 July 2011 Stephen Puckett announced that he would be leaving the Group, but would provisions of the Companys share schemes and plans may cause options and awards granted continue in office until a successor was found.
In January 2012, Andrew Bracey agreed to join the to employees under such schemes and plans to vest on a takeover.
Board as Chief Financial Officer and he starts in April.
Stephen continues his responsibilities and will ensure a smooth transition to Andrew is completed.
Further details of this succession can be found in the Corporate Governance section on page 48.
Directors and interests Hubert Reid will also be retiring from the Board at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, with The following were Directors during the year and held office throughout the year other than as Ruby McGregor-Smith taking over the role of Senior Independent Director.
On 28 February 2012, Charles-Henri Dumon, Managing Director Continental Europe and The Robin Buchanan Chairman Appointed 10 August 2011 Americas, left the Board.
Charles-Henri had a long and successful tenure on the Board and the Sir Adrian Montague CBE Chairman Retired 31 December 2011 Board would like to thank him for the role he played in the organic diversification of the Group Steve Ingham Chief Executive into new geographies and professional disciplines.
One of his most notable achievements is the Charles-Henri Dumon left the board on 28 February 2012 creation of an excellent management team of Regional Managing Directors in both Europe and Ruby McGregor-Smith CBE The Americas, who will now take up his executive responsibilities, reporting directly to Steve Dr Tim Miller Ingham, the Chief Executive.
Stephen Puckett Hubert Reid In accordance with the new UK Corporate Governance Code, all the Directors, with the exception of Hubert Reid, Stephen Puckett and Charles-Henri Dumon, will retire by rotation at the Annual Reg Sindall General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
As Robin Buchanan and Non-Executive Directors Andrew Bracey were appointed during the year, they will offer themselves for election.
Senior Independent Director Biographical details for all the Directors are shown on pages 33 and 34.
During the year, the Nomination Committee, led by the Senior Independent Director SID Hubert Reid, oversaw the search for a new non-executive director assisted by The Inzito Partnership.
This particular non-executive recruitment process was led by the SID, as it was intended that the successful candidate would succeed Sir Adrian Montague as Chairman in the future.
37 DiReCTORS RePORT The beneficial interests of Directors in office at 31 December 2011 in the shares of the Substantial shareholdings Company at 31 December 2011 and at 6 March 2012 are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 63.
All of the Executive Directors are deemed to have an interest As at 31 December 2011, the Company had been notified in accordance with Chapter 5 of in the ordinary shares held in the Employee Benefit Trust.
The Company has maintained the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR5 of the following voting rights by shareholders throughout the year directors and officers liability insurance in respect of itself and its of the Company as shown below.
The directors also have the benefit of the indemnity provision contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
Holder Number of ordinary shares % of issued share capital Fidelity 38,121,312 12.04% These provisions, which are qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by Section Capital International Limited 30,342,502 9.58% 234 of the Companies Act 2006, were in force throughout the year and are currently in force.
Standard Life Investments 18,070,666 5.71% Sleep, Zakaria and Co 17,021,321 5.37% Results and dividends Artisan 15,483,502 4.89% The profit for the year after taxation amounted to 56.9m 2010: 67.5m.
Lone Pine Capital 15,425,920 4.87% BlackRock Advisors 15,279,215 4.82% A final dividend for 2010 of 6.12 pence per ordinary share was paid on 6 June 2011.
Lloyds Banking Group 14,783,012 4.67% An interim dividend for 2011 of 3.25 pence per ordinary share was paid on 7 October 2011.
The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend for the year ended 31 December Legal & General Inv Mngmt 12,367,334 3.91% 2011 of 6.75 pence per ordinary share on 6 June 2012 to shareholders on the register on 4 Financire fide l'chiquier 9,105,800 2.88% May 2012 which, if approved at the Annual General Meeting, will result in a total dividend for the year of 10.0 pence per ordinary share 2010: 9.0 pence.
The following DTR5 notifications were received after 31 December 2011.
Holder Number of ordinary shares % of issued share capital Creditor days Capital International Limited 30,342,502 9.58% The Company acts as a holding Company for the Group.
Creditor days for the Company were Sleep, Zakaria and Co 18,267,513 5.77% nil 2010: nil as the Company does not undertake any transactions with suppliers.
The Groups creditor days at the year end were 30 2010: 39 days.
Share capital The authorised and issued share capital of the Company are shown in Note 18 to the financial statements.
At the Annual General Meeting held on 20 May 2011, the Company renewed its authority to make market purchases of its own ordinary shares up to an increased maximum of 10% of the issued share capital.
During the year, the Company purchased 5.7m shares which were cancelled.
The total nominal value of the shares repurchased was 0.1m and represented 1.8% of the issued share capital.
The shares were purchased for a consideration of 30.3m including expenses.
0.8m shares were also issued to satisfy share options exercised during the year.
38 our community Corporate Responsibility CR Throughout the world, we seek to work closely with local communities, looking to give something Ethical, responsible practices and total commitment to minimise our impact on the environment, back to the societies in which we operate.
To achieve this, we encourage our staff to be pro-active are key motivators behind our CR strategy.
in seeking projects within their own community and to make a telling contribution.
Around the world, projects include consultants going into schools and giving CV and interview advice, as well as volunteers helping out on community or environmental projects in places such as hospitals, our staff care homes, social centres and wildlife sanctuaries.
We never forget that the people who work at Michael Page International will always be our most valued assets.
It is these individuals who drive the company forward and take it in the right direction.
We therefore value their ideas and contribution, encourage them to maximise their Diversity potential, and invest heavily in learning and development.
It means every member of staff has a fair Diversity is at the heart of everything we do.
As a global recruitment business, were about opportunity to excel and develop a full and rewarding career to become our future directors and managing directors.
people, so our ability to understand, embrace and operate in a multicultural world not only makes financial sense but it is critical to our sustainability.
At Michael Page, were committed to building an inclusive workplace environment which seeks to leverage our global footprint rich in diverse our clients people, talent and ideas.
We are an equal opportunities employer and a strong advocate in the industry to encourage other businesses to give every individual the same opportunities for Weve always treated our clients as our partners and therefore have a responsibility to represent employment and promotion based on their ability, qualifications and suitability for a position.
them in the best possible way.
We ensure diversity in our candidate shortlists by conducting searches which reach minority groups, so that we can present the widest possible pool of talent.
The Group takes its responsibilities very seriously and is determined to establish Michael Page as a leading voice on diversity issues within the recruitment industry.
We also work closely with our clients, advising on how to implement their own diversity policies.
our candidates For ourselves: Were ever conscious of our diversity responsibility when registering candidates and sourcing We offer a level playing field them for our clients.
Candidates can be assured that they will be always be assessed purely on We check to make sure it stays that way their skill-set and presented to clients without bias, to ensure competition for jobs is on a level For our clients playing field.
We use the widest pipelines to seek their future talent Building unique approaches to give them the diverse shortlist they need our investors We network with the right people Were aware that investors insist on good CR credentials, so we communicate regularly, keeping For our candidates them well informed of our activities.
Feedback from investors has helped shape our clear business Show us their skills and they can trust us to do all we can to create job opportunities for them strategy and encouraged further CR activities.
Listening carefully to investors helps determine our CR approach for the benefit of the business.
Our strategy, to grow organically by promoting from within, presents enormous Corporate memberships opportunities to employees who range from graduates to people changing careers often We are members of the following organisations with the pure intention to work with and advise from the disciplines we recruit for.
Its also extremely important to us to recognise that when we recruit, we are hiring our managers, directors and indeed managing directors of the future.
our clients and candidates on diversity.
Our senior staff are actively involved with these bodies through work-streams and joint initiatives, ensuring we are constantly learning from their We aspire to help people to be the best they can, whether they are looking for a career in experience and indeed using our own resources to share best practice and ideas.
recruitment, or need a hand finding the right role to suit their needs.
Race for Opportunity an organisation committed to improving employment opportunities Learning and Development our future for ethnic minorities across the UK: Opportunity Now a membership organisation for employers who are committed to Its visible both inside and out, that Michael Page International is passionate about its peoples creating an inclusive workplace for women: development.
Through a diverse range of education, experience and exposure opportunities, Employers Forum for Disability the worlds leading employers organisation focused on we support our employees to develop in their roles and build a solid foundation for their future disability as it affects business: and career with us.
From the day they start, through to becoming leaders, our people continuously Employers Network for Equality & Inclusion Incorporating the Employers Forum on Age undertake development and succession planning programmes through quarterly appraisals, and the Employers Forum on Belief, the Employers Network for Equality & Inclusion is coaching, and people management training using 360 degree feedback.
the UKs leading employer network covering all aspects of equality and inclusion issues At Michael Page International were about specialisation.
So, in order for our people to be the in the workplace.
best at what they do, we have established dedicated Learning & Development L&D teams across the Group that customise our programmes to offer the right training to suit different cultures and working environments.
our people Our L&D activities include: Employee engagement Induction training: diversity, customer service, behaviour, culture, legal & policy: With our business strategy of increased diversification through organic international growth, Business technology skills: preliminary and advanced: our vision of Maximising Potential exists for employees to articulate opportunity, development Maximising Sales: core skills in three day module sessions: and the ambition of each individual.
At the heart of our company is the camaraderie of team Workshops: Self management, advanced interviewing, presentation skills: work, so much so that it is also one of our company values.
We are a very sociable company, Virtual office: Advanced skills training: with regular team activities in and out of the office including quarterly events and high Management development for both fee earning and support staff: Operational profile exclusive trips for our High Flyers, the latter a reward for those who have performed management, financial business management, succession planning, coaching and exceptionally well.
development, motivation: One to one coaching and mentoring: We run several initiatives worldwide to monitor employee engagement.
In the UK, we Leadership programme for directors incorporating external 360 degree feedback participate in the Sunday Times Best Companies to work for in which we have been Global director academy: Sharing global knowledge: and recognised for seven years.
With over 1,000 companies entering, we were delighted to Talent management workshops for global managing director population.
see us ranked as the 39th best company to work for in the UK.
This is a leap of 19 places from last year and equals our highest ever ranking.
Michael Page received top scores for Retaining the most talented people management, leadership and personal growth.
With a solid strategy of organic growth, and using this expertise as a platform for growing Hiring the best into new markets, we have a strong commitment to internal promotion and employee empowerment which has continually helped us retain our very best people.
At the highest Sourcing and retaining the highest calibre employees from a wide range of backgrounds is key level, we want people who are immersed thoroughly in our company culture and understand to our success.
the intricacies of our business.
Retaining our best people is fundamental to our long-term The service we provide to all our customers is only as good as the people who represent success and continuity.
40 Keeping in touch Giving something back Regular state of the nation broadcasts to our staff from our CEO: We continue to offer all our employees the opportunity to be involved in activities with a charity, More our internal intranet site offers discounts on a wide range of brands: community or environmental cause.
In some of our regions we call this a More Giving Day.
Monthly newsletters and global updates: With the permission from their director, employees are free to take a working day out of the Quarterly team building events: and office in order to give something back.
We have helped at hospices, decorated schools, cleaned High Flyers events premium international trips for high performing consultants conservation areas, helped the elderly with their gardening, assisted at large charity functions and and managers.
even used our people skills to run workshops on behalf of others.
Its another opportunity for us to Whistleblowing show our values and also to help the community.
The Company is committed to maintaining the highest ethical standards and the personal and Helping young people prepare for employment professional integrity of its employees, suppliers, contractors and consultants.
The City of London shares its borders with some of the UKs most deprived boroughs where Michael Page International plc at all times conducts its business with the highest standards of unemployment is high, despite the considerable employment opportunities in the City.
It expects all employees to maintain the same standards in everything they Michael Page International joined forces with The Brokerage Citylink to support the City of London do.
Employees are therefore encouraged to report any wrongdoing by Michael Page International Business Traineeship Programme to help combat this issue.
The initiative works through London plc or its employees that falls short of these business principles.
The aim of this policy is to ensure borough schools to raise awareness of the career opportunities in the City and brings together that as far as possible, our employees are able to tell us about any wrongdoing at work which able school and colleague leavers with City firms for placements between 6 and 13 weeks.
they believe has occurred, or is likely to occur.
In 2011, we brought another five high-achieving, aspiring students on-board who were keen to Bribery and Anti-Corruption gain an insight into the recruitment industry.
Individuals that do their traineeship at Michael Page International can nominate to work in the operational business as a consultant or in one of the Bribery and corruption is, unfortunately, a feature of corporate and public life in many countries support functions including marketing, human resources or information technology.
Governments, businesses and non-governmental organisations such as training and development programmes ensure that all trainees get a real introduction into the Transparency International are working together to tackle the issue, but despite our collective world of recruitment.
Each person is mentored and nurtured during their time with us, so that efforts, eradicating all forms of bribery and corruption will take time.
The Group therefore has a they go away with a better understanding of working life.
clear policy and we support our employees to make decisions in line with our stated position.
Over the past seven years, we have worked hard to mentor and provide key career foundations Following the release of the UK Bribery Act on 1 July 2011, a significant amount of time has been for 50 young people, many from ethnic minority backgrounds, so they can understand what a spent training staff across the Group in every country in which we operate.
career in the City can offer and what they need to achieve in order to get the right job.
This training program went on for a number of weeks, to ensure all relevant personnel were We place great importance on sourcing talent for our business through many different channels, fully aware of its impact.
Changes were made to our policies and procedures where deemed so not only is The Brokerage Programme a way for us to develop young talent but it is also an necessary and we have updated our Group Code of Conduct which can be found on our website.
integral part of our recruitment strategy to achieve success in the future.
Our corporate conduct is based on our commitment to acting professionally, fairly and with Giving back is part of our culture.
We are actively involved with charities, communities and integrity.
The Group has adequate anti-corruption procedures in place and maintains a zeroenvironmental causes across the globe and take pride in our achievements.
Our approach and tolerance approach against corruption.
Facilitation payments are also not permitted within the commitment to giving back, enhances our working lives by keeping us engaged with the world Groups operations.
around us and providing opportunities to contribute towards it.
We believe that together we make a difference.
Charity and community Around the world we have a number of programs and schemes in place to ensure that our people share the responsibility of giving back to local communities and not-for-profit organisations.
The Group made charitable donations of 299k during the year 2010: 181k.
41 DiReCTORS RePORT our core values Diversity at Michael Page Our five values are key to our success.
They are the roots of Michael Page and the foundation of our methods, Our approach to diversity varies from country to country.
approach to business and motivating our staff.
More than mere words, we believe our values are the essence of In the UK, we have a dedicated UK Diversity Board.
our brand and instrumental to the way we work and operate, day in, day out.
Consisting of senior directors, the board regularly reviews, initiates and drives our policies forward.
The group takes its responsibilities very seriously and is totally committed to the cause.
It is our policy to promote an environment free from Be passionate discrimination and harassment, where everyone receives Take pride Without passion, how could we be so successful?
equal treatment regardless of gender, colour, ethnic This means taking pride in everything we do, who Its a key value that we see every day in our offices: or national origin, disability, age, marital status, sexual we are and what we stand for.
We want every from senior managers to new recruits.
Its the orientation or religion.
All decisions relating to employment person who works for us to be proud, not just of ingredient that ensures the very best service for our practices are objective, free from bias and based solely their personal achievements, but of those of the clients and candidates.
Ultimately, its raw passion upon work criteria and individual merit.
that has made us the strong, dynamic company we establish Michael Page as the leading authority on diversity are today.
within the recruitment industry, they also work closely with our clients advising on how to implement their own diversity policies.
Make it fun work as a team KNOW IT Of course were serious about business, but we Teamwork is essential in any company and ours in Our diversity proposition forms part of our long-term recognise that having fun is an important factor no exception.
We embrace it wholeheartedly and global plans for growth.
It is an integral part of within any office environment.
We encourage it and every employee is committed to working as part our desire to consistently offer quality services to have learnt that the happier our people are, the of a team.
Teamwork makes us stronger, more our stakeholders.
efficient and the success that follows is so much more rewarding.
EMBRACE IT Our activities involve every single person working within the Michael Page world.
It is part of our everyday life, in every office, every country and in everything we do.
never give up employers A value few possess, but is essential in business, forum on particularly ours.
It means never allowing yourself disability to be knocked back by disappointment, refusing ENCOURAGE IT to give up and showing real resilience.
When the We not only practice what we preach, but continually going gets tough, the tough get going, is an apt encourage our staff to offer ideas on how we could phrase for Michael Page.
operate more responsibly or implement our current policies more effectively.
42 Working with local communities provide the vital support they need to continue raising awareness and funding research for important causes.
This year, Michael Page has supported a number of charities and local projects In Italy, Michael Page supports the not-for-profit foundation, Aiutare i bambini.
In particular, around the world.
our staff get involved in its Diventare grandi campaign a local study centre in Milan which encourages the personal development of students who come from difficult backgrounds.
Michael Page in Portugal has partnered with dou.
pt, a charity website, where by donating items to the site for people less fortunate, we not only help those in need, we also reduce our ecological Michael Page has established a direct debit system so employees can give regular donations footprint through recycling unwanted items.
We encouraged our colleagues and clients to donate through their pay.
The staff also volunteer their time three times a year to run sessions with the their unwanted items to the website, once posted on the website, those less fortunate are able to students to assist with their studies and to celebrate the end of their exams.
The students also choose items and make contact with the donor to arrange collection of the item.
spend part of a day in our Milan office to learn more about working life and the job market.
Teams in Singapore were joined by a few employees from Japan, to participate in the annual In Brazil, the offices support Fundao Gol fide Letra, a charity founded by local soccer players Great Wall Marathon in Beijing to help raise funds for Operation Smile, a charity that assists with which aims to provide quality education to surrounding communities.
In 2011, staff actively got funding surgeries for children born with facial deformities in developing countries.
behind one of their fundraising dinners to raise much needed funds.
Brazil also work with Casa do Zezinho, an institution that engages with some of the poorest communities in So Paulo, helping In the US, Michael Page employees took part in the second annual Run for Amelia held in New children with alimentation, education and to develop the skills needed to get a job.
We organise Jersey raising US$35,000 in support of Amelia Zarro who has Chromosome 22 Ring disease.
two visits per year and give several donations to fund educational materials.
In Hong Kong we supported the St. Baldricks Foundation, by participating in the St Baldricks Michael Page in France helps fund the Second Chance Foundation, helping adults with troubled head-shaving event raising money for research into childhood cancer.
pasts get back on their feet.
Frances Page Personnel business also support Unis-Cit which Our offices in Australia are very active fundraisers, working with a number of different charities.
pioneered civil service in France with a vision that one day all youngsters would dedicate time to The teams have helped raised funds for Breast Cancer Foundation Australia, by participating in community service for self-growth and selflessness.
All funds raised are put towards educational program about early detection, Sharing our skills research into causes and treatments, and support services to help women through their diagnosis, treatment and recovery.
They also participated in Daffodil Day, selling Cancer Council Michael Page in Madrid organised a training day with The Red Cross where consultants, merchandise to raise funds for cancer research.
managers and directors gave advice to The Red Cross recruiters and taught them some techniques on how to recruit, the dos and donts, problems they may face and how to solve Other teams raised funds for the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation in an effort to raise public them.
All of the training sessions were created specifically to suit the needs of The Red Cross awareness about child diabetes.
In Sydney, we sold merchandise in office foyers for the Annual recruiters so they could gain as much from the sessions as possible.
We also collaborate with Starlight Day, raising nearly AUD$3,500 for the charity, supporting seriously ill and hospitalised Mujer, Familia y Trabajo a foundation which helps women who have dedicated their lives to take children to help lift their spirits.
care of their families and now want to return to work.
Michael Page gets involved with workshops In Japan, our teams contributed to the Tohoku Disaster relief effort through both financial and where we provide advice on writing a good CV and interview skills.
Staff also work on a one-tovolunteering support.
Funds were donated to Peace Boat, which works to promote peace, one basis with the group to give individual CV advice.
human rights, equal and sustainable development and respect for the environment, while several We not only work with external associations that help young people, we also launched our staff members volunteered in the clean-up effort around the tsunami affected areas.
The team also very own Work and Learn scheme in 2010.
Unique not only for our industry, but also for many raised awareness of the need for volunteers by inviting Peace Boats co-founder to present at the other FTSE listed businesses, Work and Learn offers university students paid work within a Michael Page Japans ten year anniversary event, which was attended by more than one hundred Michael Page office local to wherever they are studying.
In four hour blocks adapted around clients from multinational companies within Japan.
their timetable, working for Michael Page will empower them with real commercial exposure and In addition to this, the Japan office also participated in the FIT Financial Industry in Tokyo for experience in a professional services business.
Charity Run, with donations divided among ten local charities in the Kanto and Tohoku region.
Partnering with charities More than 60% of employees in Japan supported the Run for the Cure Foundation, funding breast cancer education and awareness programs throughout Japan.
By working together with charities and associations, we can contribute towards initiatives which 43 DiReCTORS RePORT Spotlight on the UK Reducing our carbon footprint As well as running a Give As You Earn scheme, matching any charitable donation made by Michael Page International does not cause much pollution, however we recognise fully our an employee, our UK operations also has an official charity partner.
The Board is committed to improving the way in which our activities affect the environment by: The UK works closely with one main charity partner, Macmillan Cancer Support and have Minimising the extent of the environmental impacts of operations within the Companys pledged to fund four Macmillan cancer nurse specialists who operate within major UK cities.
sphere of influence: Since our partnership began in May 2011, we have organised a number of activities to help Striving to minimise any emissions of effluents in our properties that may cause fundraise towards our target, testing ourselves physically by running marathons, racing in environmental damage: triathlons, cycling across country to name just a few.
Our office activity raises funds on a Conserving energy through minimising consumption and maximising efficiency: daily basis through tuck shops, sweepstakes and bake sales.
One of our newest fundraising Promoting efficient purchasing, which will both minimise waste and allow materials to be activities is The Apprentice Challenge, where teams take to the streets to fundraise as much recycled where appropriate: as they can from the general public.
So far weve organised two of these days for about Employing sound waste management practices: 50 employees each time, raising close to 8,000 across the two days, something we will Putting in place procedures and supporting information that enables compliance with the definitely build on and get more teams involved with in 2012. law, regulation and code of practice relating to environmental issues: and Our largest annual event is hiking up the Yorkshire Three Peaks which saw 90 employees Monitoring environmental performance and making improvements where possible.
take up the 25 mile hike across the three tallest peaks in the Yorkshire Dales, completing it within 12 hours.
Some completed it in five hours by running the distance in less than ideal conditions.
This event alone raised over 30,000 for Macmillan Cancer Support.
Health & safety Weve also volunteered our time to help Macmillan cancer patients with a number of garden We recognise that Health and Safety is an integral part of our workforce.
Beneficiaries of these projects are often patients who have always been keen services we provide do not pose great risk to either our employees or our clients.
However, gardeners but are now unable to maintain it themselves due to illness.
Our people have we endeavour to maintain a safe and active environment.
Each office is responsible for its own worked hard to transform patients gardens by cutting back overgrowth and weeds ready for fire risk assessment and emergency procedures and has an allocated Facilities and Health new plants to grow, so that the patients can once more enjoy spending time in their gardens.
The above is only a summary of the many CR activities in which we are involved and the impact the Group has on its environment.
Environment Further details of our CR activities and impacts are shown in our main CR report, a copy of Taking responsibility for our environment which can be downloaded from our website at: Michael Page is a typical office-based business.
As such, our main environmental impacts http: investors.
come from the running of our businesses around the world, generating carbon emissions though the consumption of gas and electricity, transport activities and commuting, as well as office-based waste such as paper and toners.
Supplier payment policy As a company, we are acutely aware of our responsibility and work hard to minimise our It is the policy of the Group to agree appropriate terms and conditions for transactions with impact on the environment.
In a number of areas, we strive to make a difference and act suppliers by means ranging from standard written terms to individually negotiated contracts responsibly in terms of recycling, conservation and usage.
and that payment should be made in accordance with those terms and conditions, provided Along with policies on how to use our resources responsibly around the offices, we also have that the supplier has also complied with them.
our own in-house MoreGreen scheme, which offers staff the opportunity to purchase green products at reduced prices.
44 Share capital, restrictions on transfer of shares and other additional information To the extent not discussed in this Directors Report, information relating to the Companys share capital structure, restrictions on the holding or transfer of its shares or on the exercise of voting rights attached to such securities required by Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006 is set out in the following sections of the Annual Report: Corporate Governance Statement Leadership : Remuneration Report Annual Bonus Plan : Remuneration Report Directors interests and share ownership requirements : Notes to the Accounts Note 18: Called-up share capital : and Shareholder Information and Advisers Articles of Association.
Each of the above sections is incorporated by reference into, and forms part of, this Directors Report.
Information to Auditors Each of the Directors at the date of approval of this report confirms that: 1. so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Annual General Meeting companys auditor is unaware: and The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 18 May 2. the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director to 2012, together with explanatory notes, appear in the Notice of Meeting set out on pages make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the 114 to 121 and is available on our website at http: investors.
Companys auditor is aware of that information.
There are no resolutions that have been classed as special business.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
By order of the Board Auditors Kelvin Stagg Ernst & Young LLP are willing to continue in office and accordingly resolutions to Company Secretary re-appoint them as auditor and authorising the Directors to set their remuneration 6 March 2012 will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
