59m of cash paid in dividends and share repurchases.
Key Performance Indicators KPIs Financial and non-financial key performance indicators KPIs used by the Board to monitor progress are listed in the table below.
The source of data and calculation methods year-on-year are on a consistent basis.
KPi 2011 2010 Definition, method of calculation and analysis Gross profit as a percentage of revenue.
Gross margin increased from last year largely as a result of the higher gross margin permanent placements growing at a faster rate Gross margin 54.3% 53.1% than temporary placements and the development of the Groups business in Asia and Latin America which are permanent only businesses.
Source: Consolidated income statement in the financial statements Operating profit as a percentage of gross profit showing the Groups effectiveness at controlling the costs and expenses associated with its normal business operations and the Conversion before NRI 15.5% 16.2% level of investment for the future.
Conversion decreased compared to last year, reflecting lower productivity see below, the slowing towards the end of the year of economic conditions impacting demand for the Groups services, and the lag in headcount reductions.
Source: Consolidated income statement in the financial statements.
Represents how productive fee earners are in the business and is calculated by dividing the gross profit for the year by the average number of fee earners and directors.
The higher the number, the higher their productivity.
Productivity is a function of the rate of investment in new fee earners, the impact of pricing and the general conditions of the Productivity gross profit per 149.5k 155.3k recruitment market.
The decrease in productivity this year is as a result of the increase in headcount during first three quarters of the year to support growth and the rapid fee earner general deterioration in market conditions during the fourth quarter.
It is also due to the increased level of investments and start up losses of new businesses.
Source: Internal data Represents the balance between operational and non-operational staff.
The ratio of fee earners to support staff at the end of 2011 has decreased slightly from the level at the Fee earner : support staff end of 2010.
This ratio generally improves when the Group grows and headcount increases, but tends to decline when Group headcount reduces as the infrastructure staff to 72:28 73:27 ratio support a higher number of teams, offices and countries cannot be flexed as quickly as fee generating staff.
With the investment in new countries and businesses, the support staff have increased to provide the appropriate infrastructure.
Represents the length of time taken for the Group to receive payments from its debtors.
Calculated by comparing how many days billings it takes to cover the debtor balance.
Debtor days 50 47 The increase compared to last year relates to the shift towards permanent recruitment activity from temporary in a recovery.
Permanent recruitment activity tends to have higher debtor days.
The movements in KPIs are consistent with the business performance as discussed in the Business Review.
