BuSiNeSS Review Going concern The Board has undertaken a recent and thorough review of the Groups budget, forecasts and associated risks and sensitivities and has concluded, given the level of cash in the business, the level of borrowing facilities available, the geographical and discipline diversification, limited concentration risk, as well as the ability to manage the cost base, that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, being a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of these accounts.
As a result, the going concern basis continues to be appropriate in preparing the financial statements.
foreign exchange At the end of 2011, the Group was operating in 32 countries around the world and carried out transactions recorded in twenty-five local currencies.
The Group reports its Income Statement and Cash Flow Statement results in Pounds Sterling, using the average exchange rate for each month to translate the local currency amounts into Sterling.
The Balance Sheet is translated using the exchange rates at the Balance Sheet date.
As a service company, most of the Groups transactions are within the respective territory in which the local business operates and consequently there are few cross-border transactions between Group companies.
However, royalties are charged for the use of the Groups trademarks and management fees are charged for Group and regional functions that provide services to other Group subsidiary companies.
Foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in accordance with IFRS on the settlement of these transactions where the cash received, when converted into Sterling, differs from the amounts previously recorded in the Income Statement.
These exchange gains and losses are included within operating profit.
The table below shows the relative movements of the Groups main trading currencies against Pounds Sterling during 2011, when compared to those prevalent during 2010.
Negative percentages indicate that Sterling has weakened against the foreign currency during the period.
Movement in the average exchange rate used for Movement in the year end exchange rate used for Currency income Statement translation between 2010 and 2011 Balance Sheet translation between 2010 and 2011 Euro -1% 3% Swiss Franc -11% 0% Brazilian Real -1% 12% US Dollar 4% -1% Australian Dollar -9% -1% Hong Kong Dollar 4% -1% Singapore Dollar -4% 0% Japanese Yen -6% -6% 28
