C s o e u c n i t f r f i O e s Our team-based structure and profit share business model is scalable.
The small size of our Group strategy specialist teams also means that we can increase our headcount rapidly to achieve growth.
The Groups strategy is to expand and diversify the business by industry sectors, by professional When market conditions tighten, these teams then reduce in size largely through natural attrition.
Consequently, our cost base will be reduced in a slowdown.
Having invested years in training disciplines, by geography and by level of focus, be it Page Personnel, Michael Page or in Executive Search, with the objective of being the leading specialist recruitment consultancy in and developing our highly capable management teams, our objective is to ensure we retain this expertise within the Group.
By following this course of action, we typically gain market each of our chosen markets.
share during downturns and position our businesses for market leading rates of growth when As recruitment activity is dependent upon economic cycles, by being more diverse, the economic conditions improve.
dependency on individual businesses or markets is reduced, making the overall Group more Pursuing this approach does mean that in an economic downturn our profitability declines as, resilient.
This strategy is pursued entirely through the organic growth of existing and new teams, offices, disciplines and countries with a consistent team and meritocratic culture.
in addition to the lower productivity levels that come with a slowdown, we also carry spare capacity.
However, when market conditions improve, the Groups profitability recovers quickly as Our organic growth is achieved by drawing upon the skills and experiences of proven spare capacity is utilised.
Adopting this strategy in times of economic slowdown also drives our Michael Page management, ensuring we have the best and most experienced, home-grown financing strategy and the management of our balance sheet position.
In periods of economic talent in each key role.
When we invest in a new business, we do so only with a long-term slowdowns, the business has continued to produce strong cash flows, as working capital objective and in the knowledge that at some point there will be periods when economic activity requirements reduce.
However, with uncertainty around the length and depth of any economic slows.
Whilst it is difficult to predict accurately when these slowdowns will occur and how slowdown, a strong balance sheet is essential in order to support the businesses through severe they will be, it has been our practice in the past and remains our intention in the future tougher periods and as economic conditions improve and the businesses start growing, to maintain our presence in our chosen markets, while keeping close control over our cost base.
to fund increased working capital requirements.
Executive Search 32 Countries 20 Countries 125 Offices 71 Offices 2,682 Fee Earners 1,115 Fee Earners Qualified Professional Culture Clerical Professional To increase the diversification of Michael Page international by Generalist Staffing organically growing existing and new teams, offices, disciplines and countries with a consistent team and meritocratic culture and consistent client and candidate delivery.
