2011 overview Consolidated fi financial statements and notes Key performance indicators Business review Company fi financial statements and notes Management and governance Additional information The Company uses several key performance indicators internally to monitor the performance of the business against the achievement of objectives.
A summary of some of the more important KPIs that are used with a brief description on how they are calculated and the results for the year are as follows: Description Metrics Performance Revenue growth 2011 Revenue comprises total revenues including the contribution of acquisitions and is compared with the 0.8% prior year.
2010 57.5% Adjusted EBITDA 2011 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation of intangible xed assets, exceptional items margin 36.4% and share based compensation charges.
The Adjusted EBITDA margin represents Adjusted EBITDA divided by revenue for the year.
2010 40.1% Cash conversion 2011 This ratio is calculated using the cash ows generated from operating activities after exceptional costs 126.4% divided by Adjusted EBITDA less exceptional costs the result indicates that the Group is generating cash from its ongoing business which can be used to reinvest in the development of the business 2010 including nancing acquisitions, fund liabilities and pay dividends to shareholders.
80.1% Adjusted EPS 2011 Adjusted EPS is calculated by taking pro t after tax, prior to exceptional items, amortisation of 54.85c purchased intangibles and share based compensation charges, and tax attributable to these charges divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
This measure 2010 indicates the ability of the Company to continue to adopt a progressive dividend policy.
57.26c Renewal rates on 2011 Customer retention is an important measure as it supports the maintenance revenue streams going maintenance forward.
Renewal rates are calculated as the value of maintenance contracts which were renewed in contracts the period divided by the value of contracts which were potentially renewable in the period.
CDMM 89.5% AMQ 78.6% 2010 CDMM 87.0% AMQ H2 only 73.0% Micro Focus International plc 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the annual report, the directors remuneration report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the directors remuneration report and the financial statements in Companys website www.
Legislation in the accordance with applicable law and regulations.
United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Directors Report con rm that, to the best of each persons knowledge Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and and belief: the parent Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and pro t of the satis ed that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group: and Group and the Company and of the pro t or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and required to: performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: that it faces.
Make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable By order of the board and prudent: State whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent company financial statements respectively: Jane Smithard Company Secretary Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it 22 June 2011 is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are suf cient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Micro Focus International plc 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
