Audit committee Board of directors Remuneration committee Nomination committee Kevin Loosemore, 52 Executive Chairman Kevin is a director of Farnham Castle and was previously non-executive Chairman of Morse plc and a non-executive director of Nationwide Building Society.
His most recent executive roles were as Chief Operating Of cer of Cable & Wireless plc, President of Motorola Europe, Middle East and Africa and before that, he was Chief Executive of IBM UK Limited.
Kevin was appointed non-executive Chairman of the Company in 2005 and Executive Chairman in April 2011.
He has a degree in politics and economics from Oxford University.
Mike Phillips, 48 Chief Financial Of cer Most recently, Mike was Chief Executive Of cer at Morse plc, following his initial role as Group Finance Director.
Mike left Morse plc in July 2010 following the turnaround and successful corporate sale to 2e2 in June 2010.
From 1998 to 2007, Mike was Group Finance Director at Microgen plc and played a lead role in the transformation of the company to an international software and services business with sustainable and pro table growth.
Earlier roles include seven years corporate finance work at Smith & Williamson, as well as two years at  where he led the UK technology team, reporting to the global Head of Corporate Finance for the Technology Sector.
Mike began his career at Peat Marwick Mitchell & Co now KPMG.
David Maloney, 55 Non-executive senior independent director and Deputy Chairman David is a non-executive director of Ludorum plc, Cineworld Group plc, Carillion plc and Enterprise Inns plc.
He is also Chairman of the board of Trustees of Make-a-Wish Foundation UK Limited and has recently been appointed Chairman of Brandon Hire Limited and Reed & Mackay Travel Limited.
David was previously Chairman of Hoseasons Holdings Ltd and his most recent executive role was as Chief Financial Of cer of the global hotel group Le Meridien Hotels and Resorts.
Prior to that he was Chief Financial Of cer of Thomson Travel Group and Preussag Airlines and Group Finance Director of Avis Europe plc.
David was appointed non-executive senior independent director in 2005 and Deputy Chairman in April 2011.
David is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants and has a degree in economics from Heriot-Watt University, Edinburgh.
Micro Focus International plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 2011 overview Consolidated fi financial statements and notes Business review Company fi financial statements and notes Management and governance Additional information Paul Pester, 47 Non-executive director Paul is Managing Director of Consumer Banking and Payments at Lloyds Banking Group plc with responsibility for the core retail banking products and marketing for the Lloyds TSB, HBOS and other group brands.
He was previously Managing Director at Santander UK plc responsible for Bradford & Bingley, and its integration into Santander, and for Premium Banking.
Before that Paul was Chief Executive Of cer of Moneyfacts Group plc, Managing Director of Consumer Banking at Lloyds TSB Group plc, Chairman of the British Bankers Association Retail Committee, a director at VISA International, Chairman of the Travellers Cheque Association and Chief Executive Of cer at Virgin Money Group.
Paul holds a first class honours degree in physics from Manchester University and a doctorate in mathematical physics from Oxford University.
Tom Skelton, 50 Non-executive director Tom is Chief Executive Of cer of Foundation Radiology Group and a founding member of Con uence Medical Systems, a healthcare and technology consulting partnership.
Previously, he served as Chief Executive Of cer for Misys Healthcare Systems from January 2002 until March 2007 and as a director of Misys plc.
Prior to that, he was Chief Executive Of cer of Medic Computer Systems, a US-based software company focused on the healthcare information technology market.
He earned his BSBA from Robert Morris University, Pittsburgh, PA. Karen Slatford, 54 Non-executive director Karen is Chair of Neverfail Group Limited, the continuous availability rm, Chair of The Foundry, a leading special effects software company and a non-executive director at Volex Group plc, the global supplier of components and cables.
Karen has also recently been appointed Chair of Featurespace Ltd, a data analytics software company.
Prior to her current board responsibilities, she has held various roles at board level since 2001 at a range of technology companies, including Portwise AB, Via Networks, Inc, Compel Group plc, HAL Knowledge Systems and Stepstone ASA.
Karen began her career at ICL before spending 20 years at Hewlett Packard, where in 2000 she became Vice President and General Manager Worldwide Sales & Marketing for the Business Customer Organisation, responsible for sales of all Hewlett Packards products, services and software to business customers globally.
Karen holds a BA Honours degree in European Studies from Bath University and a Diploma in Marketing.
Micro Focus International plc 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
