Directors report The directors of Micro Focus International plc the Company present During the year to 30 April 2011, $61.3 million was charged to the their report and the audited financial statements of the Company for income statement 2010: $56.8 million in respect of research and the year ended 30 April 2011. development expenditure.
This charge is after net capitalisation of development expenditure of $9.2 million 2010: $7.6 million Principal activities consisting of $21.7 million 2010: $15.5 million of capitalised The principal activity of the Group during the year was the making development expenditure offset by $12.5 million 2010: $7.9 million and selling of software products.
of amortisation of previously capitalised development expenditure.
The Company is limited by shares and is domiciled and incorporated Donations in the United Kingdom.
The registered of ce of the Company is: The Groups policy is to make no donations or contributions to political The Lawn, 22-30 Old Bath Road, Newbury, Berkshire RG14 1QN.
During the year reported on, the Group made charitable donations of $56,000 to a number of local and national Business review charities and other local organisations 2010: $74,000.
The Group The Group is required to produce a business review complying with has a gift programme that matches employee donations.
It also has a the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
The information that policy in place to encourage employees to volunteer a certain number ful ls these requirements can be found in this directors report and of hours to assist local organisations.
in the following sections: Post balance sheet events The Executive Chairmans statement on pages 2 to 4, the operational On 16 June 2011, the Group exchanged contracts for the purchase of and financial review on pages 5 to 10 which include details of the the freehold of its Newbury headquarters from CIP Property for a total Groups activity and the future focus of the Group, the statement consideration of $14.7 million payable in cash from existing banking on corporate and social responsibility set out on pages 11 to 13, the facilities.
principal risks and uncertainties set out on pages 14 and 15 and the key performance indicators KPIs on page 35 which are incorporated Directors and their interests into this directors report by reference.
The directors of the Company who served during the year reported on are as follows: Corporate governance The Group is required to produce a corporate governance statement Executive pursuant to the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The Kevin Loosemore Executive Chairman, appointed 14 April 2011 information that ful ls this requirement can be found in this directors Nigel Clifford Chief Executive Of cer, left the Company report and in the corporate governance section on pages 22 to 27 14 April 2011 which are incorporated into this directors report by reference.
Mike Phillips Chief Financial Of cer, appointed 7 September 2010 Dividends Nick Bray Chief Financial Of cer, resigned 23 June 2010 The board continues to adopt a progressive dividend policy re ecting the long term earnings and cash ow potential of Micro Focus whilst Non-executive targeting a level of dividend cover for the financial year ended 30 April Kevin Loosemore Chairman, appointed Executive Chairman 2011 of approximately 2.5 times on a pre-exceptional earnings basis.
14 April 2011 The directors recommend payment of a final dividend in respect of David Maloney appointed Deputy Chairman 14 April 2011 and the financial year ended 30 April 2011 of 16.2 cents per share, which, Senior Independent Director taken together with the interim dividend of 7.2 cents per share paid Paul Pester in January 2011, gives a total dividend in respect of 2011 of 23.4 cents Tom Skelton per share which is 2.3 times covered by pre-exceptional earnings.
Karen Slatford appointed 5 July 2010 Subject to shareholder approval, the final dividend will be paid on 28 September 2011 to shareholders on the register on 2 September Nigel Clifford, Chief Executive Of cer, left the Company with 2011.
Dividends will be paid in sterling based on an exchange rate immediate effect on 14 April 2011 and Kevin Loosemore was of 1 $1.62, equivalent to approximately 10p per share, being the appointed Executive Chairman on that date.
Details of the interests of rate applicable on 22 June 2011, the date of recommendation of the the directors and their families in the ordinary shares of the Company, dividend by the board.
as disclosed in the register of directors interests, are given in the remuneration report on pages 28 to 34.
Research and development All expenditure on research is expensed as incurred.
The Group None of the directors had a material interest in any contract of capitalises development expenditure from the point that all the signi cance to which the Company or a subsidiary was a party during relevant criteria are met.
The capitalised cost is then amortised over the financial year, as disclosed in note 31, related party transactions.
Micro Focus International plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 2011 overview Consolidated fi financial statements and notes Business review Company fi financial statements and notes Management and governance Additional information The Company maintains insurance cover for all directors and of cers The board has undertaken a formal and rigorous process for the of Group companies against liabilities which may be incurred by them evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and while acting as directors and of cers of Group companies.
Following an independent review of the board and committee performance in 2009, this years evaluation was again During the financial year reported on and as at the date of this report conducted in the form of online surveys and included an evaluation of indemnities are in force under which the Company has agreed to the training and development of directors.
The results of these surveys indemnify the directors to the extent permitted by law and by the have been reviewed by the board and each committee and the Articles of Association of the Company against liabilities they may resulting recommendations are being implemented.
incur in the execution of their duties as directors of the Company.
Copies of these indemnities are available for review at the registered Share option schemes of ce of the Company.
The directors remain committed to the principle that selected employees should be able to participate in the Groups progress Employment policy through share based compensation schemes.
Details of the Groups Equal opportunities share based compensation schemes are given in note 26.
The Group operates an equal opportunities policy.
Full consideration is given to all job applicants, irrespective of gender, age, marital status, Payment of creditors disability, sexuality, race, colour, religion, ethnic or national origin or Micro Focus International plc, which holds the investments in the any other conditions not relevant to the performance of the job, who Groups companies, does not trade itself.
The directors believe, can demonstrate that they have the necessary skills and abilities.
however, it would be helpful to give the disclosures on a consolidated basis.
All employees accept the commitment within this policy that the Group will not allow discrimination or harassment by employees or The Group seeks the best possible terms from suppliers appropriate others acting on the Groups behalf, in respect of sex, age, marital to its business and in placing orders gives consideration to quality, status, race, nationality, disability or religious or political beliefs.
delivery, price and terms of payment.
The Group does not follow a speci c payment code but has a policy to pay its suppliers in Disabled employees accordance with the speci c terms agreed with each supplier.
The With regard to existing employees and those who may become average number of days purchases outstanding at 30 April 2011 for disabled, the Groups policy is to examine ways and means to provide the Group was 38 days 2010: 37 days, based on the Groups trade continuing employment under its existing terms and conditions and to creditors at the end of the year and the amounts invoiced during the provide training and career development, including promotion, year by the Groups trade creditors.
Financial instruments Employee involvement The exposure of the Group to financial risks, including the use The Group believes it is important that employees are aware of the of financial instruments and policies for hedging and the exposure Groups business strategy and the objectives which are in place to to price, credit, cash ow and liquidity risk, can be found in note 20 assist them to focus on working towards these goals.
Communications to the financial statements.
at the time of key announcements, including presentations by directors to all employees, together with brie ngs throughout the Substantial shareholding year, are part of the communication and consultation programme.
In In accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the addition, regular meetings are held with staff and managers, both to Financial Services Authority, at 21 June 2011, the Company had been raise issues and to assist with the two-way ow of information.
The advised of the following noti able interests in its voting rights: Group has also introduced an online method which enables Ordinary shares Percentage of employees to express views and improvements.
Name of holder of 10p each issued capital Further education and training Majedie Asset Management Limited 20,073,537 9.91% Continuing education, training and development are important to GAM International Management Limited 11,717,270 5.84% ensure the future success of the Group.
The Group supports Fidelity International Limited 10,426,337 5.08% individuals who wish to obtain appropriate further education Prudential plc 10,435,462 5.08% quali cations and reimburses tuition fees up to a speci ed level.
BlackRock, Inc 9,469,235 4.76% Training needs of all employees are also analysed during the annual Standard Life Investments Limited 9,344,298 4.54% and half yearly appraisal process, at which time a training plan is Legal and General Group Plc 7,835,219 3.88% agreed as part of each individuals ongoing development.
Norges Bank 6,191,922 3.13% At appropriate times throughout the course of a year, the directors are The information provided in the above table differs from the briefed on recent changes to legislation, regulations and codes of information announced by shareholders under Rule 8 of the Takeover practice which are relevant to their duties and the operations of the Code, whilst the Company has been in an offer period.
Where appropriate the directors are provided with copies of the underlying documentation or written summaries of the principal changes.
Micro Focus International plc 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors report continued Future developments fully paid share provided that, where any such shares are admitted to Further information regarding the Groups future developments can be the Of cial List maintained by the UK Listing Authority, such discretion found in the Executive Chairmans statement on pages 2 to 4 and the may not be exercised in such a way as to prevent dealings in the operational and financial review on pages 5 to 10. shares of that class from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The board may decline to recognise any instrument of transfer relating Additional information for shareholders to shares in certi cated form unless it is in respect of only one class of Following the implementation of the EU Takeover Directive into English share and is lodged duly stamped if required at the Transfer Of ce law, the following description provides the required information accompanied by the relevant share certi cate s and such other for shareholders where not already provided elsewhere in this report.
evidence as the board may reasonably require to show the right of the This summary is based on the Companys Articles of Association transfer or to make the transfer and, if the instrument of transfer is the Articles which came into effect on 23 September 2010. executed by some other person on his behalf, the authority of that person so to do.
In the case of a transfer of shares in certi cated form Share capital by a recognised clearing house or a nominee of a recognised clearing The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into house or of a recognised investment exchange the lodgement of share ordinary shares of 10p each.
During the year a repurchase of shares certi cates will only be necessary if and to the extent that certi cates was undertaken as set out in note 23. have been issued in respect of the shares in question.
The directors may also refuse to register an allotment or transfer of shares whether Rights and obligations attaching to shares fully-paid or not in favour of more than four persons jointly.
Subject to Voting in a general meeting of the Company: the Articles and the CREST Rules as fide ned in the Uncerti cated Securities Regulations, as amended, and apart from any class of On a show of hands, every member present in person and every wholly dematerialised security, the board may permit any class of proxy duly appointed by a member shall have one vote: and shares in the Company to be held in uncerti cated form and, subject to the Articles, title to uncerti cated shares to be transferred by means On a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy shall of a relevant system.
have one vote for every share of which he or she is the holder.
Repurchase of shares No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or class The Company obtained shareholder authority at the last AGM held meeting in respect of shares held by him or her if any call or other sum on 23 September 2010 to buy back up to 20,521,883 ordinary then payable by him or her in respect of that share remains unpaid.
shares, which remains outstanding until the conclusion of the next Currently, all issued shares are fully paid.
The minimum price which must be paid for such shares is 10p and the maximum price payable is 5% above Deadlines for voting rights the average of the mid-market price of the ordinary shares of the Full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect Company as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Of cial of the resolutions to be considered at the AGM to be held on List for the five business days immediately before the purchase 22 September 2011 are set out in the Notice of Meeting which is made.
The share buy-back programme was a re ection of the boards Dividends and distributions con dence in the robust financial position of the Group and the Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Company relative valuation of the Companys shares.
may, by ordinary resolution, declare a dividend to be paid to members, but no dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by the board.
Amendment to the Articles The board may pay interim dividends, and also any xed rate dividend, Any amendments to the Articles may be made in accordance with the whenever the pro ts of the Company, in the opinion of the board, provisions of the Companies Act 2006 by way of special resolution.
All dividends shall be apportioned and paid pro rata according to the amounts paid up on the shares.
Appointment and replacement of directors Directors shall be no less than three and no more than eleven in Transfer of shares number.
Directors may be appointed to the Company by ordinary Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer all or any of his or resolution or by the board.
A director appointed by the board holds her certi ed shares in writing by an instrument of transfer in any usual of ce only until the next AGM and is then eligible for election by the form or in any other form which the board may approve.
The board shareholders annually thereafter.
may, in its absolute discretion and without giving any reasons, decline to register any instrument of transfer of a certi ed share which is not a Micro Focus International plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 2011 overview Consolidated fi financial statements and notes Business review Company fi financial statements and notes Management and governance Additional information The board may from time to time appoint one or more directors to The business review does not contain any information about persons hold employment or executive of ce for such period subject to the with whom the Company has contractual or other arrangements Companies Act 2006 and on such terms as they may determine and which are essential to the business of the Company as, in the view may revoke or terminate any such employment.
of the directors, there are no such arrangements.
The Company may by ordinary resolution of which special notice Branches has been given remove and the board by unanimous decision may The Group continues to operate overseas branches in Denmark, remove any director before the expiration of his term of of ce and Finland, Hong Kong, Mexico, Portugal, Sweden, Peoples Republic the Company may elect or the board may appoint another person of China and Russia.
in place of a director so removed from of ce.
Annual General Meeting AGM The of ce of director shall be vacated if: i he or she in writing resigns The notice convening the AGM of the Company together with or offers to resign and the directors accept such offer: ii an order is the explanatory notes on the resolutions proposed at the AGM made by any court claiming that he or she is or may be suffering from accompanies this report.
The meeting will be held at The Lawn, a mental disorder: iii he or she is absent without permission of the 22-30 Old Bath Road, Newbury, Berkshire RG14 1QN on board from meetings for six months and the board resolves that his or 22 September 2011 at 3pm UK time.
her of ce is vacated: iv he or she becomes bankrupt or compounds with his or her creditors generally: v he or she is prohibited by law Auditors and disclosure of information to auditors from being a director: or vi he or she is removed from of ce pursuant So far as they are aware, the directors at the date of this report to the Articles.
con rm that there is no relevant audit information that is, information needed by the Companys auditors in connection with preparing their Powers of the directors report of which the Companys auditors are unaware and that the The business of the Company will be managed by the board who may directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the provisions of directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit the Companys Memorandum of Association, the Articles, the information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware Companies Act 2006 and any ordinary resolution of the Company.
Shares held in the Employee Bene t Trust  LLP have indicated their willingness to Where the trustee of the Micro Focus Employee Bene t Trust the continue in of ce and a resolution that they be reappointed will Trust holds shares in the Company and the bene cial interest in be proposed at the AGM.
those shares has not been transferred to a bene ciary of the Trust, the trustee may not vote in relation to those shares at any meeting Going concern of shareholders of the Company.
The directors, having made enquiries, consider that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational Signi cant agreements existence for the foreseeable future, and therefore it is appropriate to The following signi cant agreements contain provisions entitling the maintain the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a change of control of the Company: By order of the board On 6 May 2009, the Company entered into a $175 million credit facility provided through a syndicated loan consortium comprising Barclays Bank PLC, HSBC Bank plc, Lloyds TSB Bank plc and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc to assist with the funding of acquisitions and for general corporate purposes.
On 12 June 2009, the Company entered Jane Smithard into a supplemental agreement for an additional $40 million to assist Company Secretary with the acquisition of Borland Software Corporation at an increased 22 June 2011 offer price.
On a change of control, all such credit facilities become immediately due and payable.
Micro Focus International plc 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
