Directors Kwek Leng Beng Wong Hong Ren Kwek Leng Peck Title Chairman and Chairman of Title Group Chief Executive Officer Title Non-Executive Director the Nominations Committee Appointment March 1996 Appointment October 1995 Appointment February 1995 Age 60 Age 55 Age 71 Wong Hong Ren joined Millennium & Copthorne Committees N Committees N Hotels plc as a non-executive Director at the flotation Kwek Leng Peck joined Millennium & Copthorne of the Group in 1996 and has been an Executive Kwek Leng Beng has been the Chairman of Hotels plc prior to the flotation of the Group.
He was appointed Chief Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc since its holds directorships on most of the listed companies Executive Officer of the Company on 27 June 2011. incorporation.
within the Hong Leong Group, including City Mr Wong is Chairman of Millennium & Copthorne Developments Limited, Hong Leong Finance Limited He is the Executive Chairman of the Hong Leong New Zealand Limited and CDL Investments and China Yuchai International Limited.
He also Group of Companies in Singapore, and City New Zealand Limited, both of which are listed on serves as an Executive Director for Hong Leong Developments Limited.
He is also Chairman and the New Zealand stock exchange.
He is also the Asia Limited and is the non-executive Chairman Managing Director of Hong Leong Finance Limited non-executive Chairman of M&C REIT Management of Tasek Corporation Berhad.
and City e-Solutions Limited and the Chairman Limited which manages the Singapore listed of Hong Leong Asia Ltd. CDL Hospitality Trusts.
Mr Kweks achievements have also captured the attention of the academic institutions.
He was conferred: Honorary Doctorate of Business Administration in Hospitality from Johnson & Wales University Rhode Island, US, where students have an opportunity to pursue career education in business, hospitality, culinary arts or technology: Honorary Doctorate from Oxford Brookes University UK whose citation traced how Mr Kwek, who joined the family business in the early 1960s, had gone on to establish an international reputation for his leadership of the Hong Leong Group, as well as being an active supporter of higher education in Singapore.
Mr Kwek also serves as a Member of the INSEAD East Asia Council.
France-based INSEAD is one of the worlds leading and largest graduate business schools which brings together people, cultures and ideas from around the world.
Mr Kwek has distinguished himself in property investment and development, hotel ownership and management, financial services and industrial enterprises.
Today, he sits on the flagship of a multi-billion empire worth over US$20 billion in diversified premium assets worldwide and stocks traded on six of the worlds stock markets.
He currently heads a worldwide staff strength of over 40,000 across a range of businesses in Asia-Pacific, the Middle East, Europe and North America.
Mr Kwek also played a pivotal role in Las Vegas Sands Corporations successful bid for Singapores high profile Integrated Resorts project at Marina Bay.
42 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Overview Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors continued Richard Hartman His Excellency Shaukat Aziz Christopher Keljik OBE Title Non-Executive Director Title Independent Title Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointment May 2008 Appointment June 2009 Appointment May 2006 Age 66 Age 62 Age 63 Richard Hartman joined the Board of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc on 7 May 2008.
He retired as Committees R N Committees A R N Group Chief Executive on 27 June 2011.
Shaukat Aziz was appointed to the Board in June Christopher Keljik was appointed to the Board He has over 40 years experience in the hotel and 2009.
His Excellency was the first Prime Minister in May 2006.
He is a Chartered Accountant restaurant industry.
From 1999 he held senior of Pakistan to complete a full term in office and and is Senior Independent non-executive Director positions at InterContinental Hotels Group formerly served from 2004 2007, following five years of Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust plc and known as Six Continents Hotels Group and Bass as Finance Minister from 1999. a non-Executive Director of Henderson TR Pacific Hotels & Resorts where he was a main Board Investment Trust plc.
He was an Executive Director Pre-politics, an internship at Citibank marked the Director from 2003 until 2007, most recently as of Standard Chartered plc with responsibilities for beginning of a 30-year career in global finance, Managing Director of InterContinental Hotels Group, Africa, the Middle East, South Asia, the UK and the encompassing roles in Pakistan, Greece, United Europe, Middle East and Africa with responsibility Americas.
During his 29 year career at Standard States, United Kingdom, Malaysia, the Philippines, for over 600 hotels.
Previously he was Managing Chartered he held a number of senior positions Jordan, Saudi Arabia, and Singapore.
He headed Director of InterContinental Hotels Group, Asia working in London, Singapore, New York and Citigroups global Private Banking Division and has Pacific between 1998 and 2003, where he increased Hong Kong in corporate finance, treasury, risk held a number of senior positions such as Corporate the company portfolio, and led the US$346m and general management.
Planning Officer for Citicorp, Head of Corporate acquisition of the IC Hong Kong former Regent of and Investment Banking for Asia, Chief Country Hong Kong making it the second largest hotel Officer in Malaysia and in Jordan.
He has also served chain in Asia Pacific.
as a board member of various Citibank subsidiaries, Prior to joining InterContinental Hotels Group in including Citicorp Islamic Bank and the Saudi 1999 he was President of ITT Sheraton North America American Bank.
between 1993 and 1998, where he led a turnaround He is a member of several boards and advisory in performance, repositioning the Sheraton North boards for profit and non-profit organizations America as a premier brand of choice, and President and a frequent speaker on economic, political of ITT Sheraton Asia Pacific between 1985 and 1992. and diplomatic matters.
During his tenure as President of Sheratons Asia Pacific Division, he successfully executed an aggressive development strategy, growing the Division, substantially increasing earnings and firmly establishing Sheraton as one of the three leading hotel chains in Asia and the market leader in Australia, New Zealand and South Pacific.
A Member of the Audit Committee R Member of the Remuneration Committee N Member of the Nominations Committee 43 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Overview Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NonExecutive Directors Alexander Waugh Nicholas George Kwek Eik Sheng Title Independent Non-Executive Title Independent Non-Executive Title Non-Executive Director Director and Chairman of the Director and Chairman of the Appointment May 2011 Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Age 30 Appointment June 2009 Appointment June 2009 Kwek Eik Sheng was appointed to the Board in May Age 48 Age 58 2011.
He has been with the Hong Leong Group since Committees A R N Committees A R 2006, before joining City Developments Limited in 2009, where he is currently Head of Corporate Alexander Waugh was appointed to the Board Nicholas George was appointed to the Board in Development.
He is a world renowned author, literary June 2009.
He is a Chartered Accountant and is a critic and composer.
He has commercial experience Director of LGT Capital Partners UK Limited.
He holds a Bachelor of Engineering in Electrical and in event management, the media industry and is the Notably in 2003, Mr. George was a founding Electronics Engineering from Imperial College of founder of a successful publishing business.
partner of KGR Capital, a leading Asian Fund Science, Technology and Medicine and a MPhil in of Funds Specialist that was sold to LGT in 2008.
Finance from Judge Business School, Cambridge He currently holds the position of Chairman at University.
euNetworks Limited and also sits on the Board of GK Goh Holdings Limited: both companies are listed on the Singapore Stock Exchange.
In addition, he is a Director of Aberdeen New Dawn Investment Trust plc which is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
He has over 30 years of experience in investment banking and was a Managing Director of JP Morgan Securities previously Jardine Fleming in Asia from 1993 to 2002 and a Managing Director of HSBC Securities in Asia from 2002 to 2003.
Ian Batey Title Independent Non-Executive Director Appointment August 2011 Age 76 Mr Batey was appointed to the Board in August 2011.
An accomplished brand specialist, he launched his advertising agency, Batey Ads, in Singapore in 1972.
Under his leadership, Batey Ads became SE Asias largest independent advertising group, responsible for the development of many iconic Asian brands including Singapore Airlines and Raffles Hotel.
The agency has since become part of Grey Singapore, a subsidiary of WPP plc.
Mr Batey has been widely recognised for his contribution to the advertising industry and to the wider community, culminating in 1999 with the first Lifetime Achievement Award to be bestowed by the Institute of Advertising Singapore.
44 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Overview Annual Report and Accounts 2011
