Directors report The Directors present their report for the financial year ended 31 December 2011.
This Directors Report is deemed to be the management report required to be published in accordance with DTR4.1.
Activities of the Group The principal activity of the Group is ownership and management of hotels around the world.
Business Review The Business Review incorporates sections covering financial, operating, risk factors and Non-GAAP information for the year ended 31 December 2011 and is set out on pages 20 to 38.
Those sections, which form part of this Directors Report, provide information about the Groups strategy, its businesses, their financial performance during the year, the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group and its likely development.
A description of the Groups business model is included on pages 6 and 7 as required by Code provision C. 1.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Results and Dividends The profit on ordinary activities before taxation was 193.3m 2010: 128.6m.
An interim dividend of 2.08p per share was paid on 7 October 2011.
The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 10.42p per share 2010: 7.92p and a special dividend of 4.0p per share 2010: nil, which will, if approved at the annual general meeting, be paid on 18 May 2012 to shareholders on the register on 23 March 2012.
Total dividends relating to the year are expected to amount to 52.3m.
The Company will be offering a scrip dividend alternative in respect of the final dividend.
Employees During the year the average number of people employed by the Group was 10,912 2010: 11,232.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc operates in various countries and values highly the rich ethnic and cultural diversity of its people by nurturing a working environment that recognises, develops and values people with different views, styles and approaches.
The Companys policy is to provide equality of opportunity for all employees without discrimination and continues to encourage the employment, training and advancement of disabled persons in accordance with their abilities and aptitudes, provided that they can be employed in a safe working environment.
Suitable employment would, if possible, be found for any employee who becomes disabled during the course of employment.
Further details on employee involvement are included in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 39 to 41.
Share Capital The issued share capital of the Company, together with details of the movements in the Companys share capital during the year, are shown in note 29 to the consolidated financial statements.
Details of shares issued pursuant to the Groups share-based incentive schemes are shown in the notes to the accounts on pages 121 to 123.
Rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, a copy of which can be obtained from Companies House or by writing to the Company Secretary.
Amendments to the Companys Articles of Association can be made by Special resolution of the shareholders.
At the Companys annual general meeting in May 2011 the Directors were authorised to allot shares up to a nominal amount of 31,329,470 and to allot such shares up to this nominal amount in connection with a rights issue and otherwise to allot shares for cash on a non pre-emptive basis up to a nominal amount of 4,699,420.
In addition, the Company was authorised to make market purchases of up to 10% of the Companys issued share capital.
All of these authorities remained in effect as at 31 December 2011.
The voting rights attached to the Companys ordinary shares are not restricted and there are no restrictions on the transfer of the Companys shares.
None of the Companys shares carry special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Neither the 45 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors report continued Share Capital continued Company nor its Directors are aware of any agreements between shareholders that could result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on voting rights.
Substantial Shareholdings As at 21 February 2012, the Company had received details of the following material shareholdings in its issued share capital.
Save as disclosed below, no changes to the material shareholdings listed have been reported to the Company between 31 December 2011 and the date of this report.
% of Number of issued share shares capital City Developments Limited 174,433,158 54.93 Schroders plc 15,490,857 4.88 Aberdeen Asset Management plc 15,451,769 4.87 Prudential plc 12,141,915 3.82 the interests of Schroders plc include the notifiable interest of the following company:- Schroder Investment Management Limited 15,151,069 4.77 the interests of Prudential plc include the notifiable interest of the following company: The Prudential Assurance Company Limited 12,127,405 3.82 As at 31 December 2011, the notified material interests of Prudential plc were as follows: % of Number of issued share shares capital Prudential plc 19,349,935 6.09 M&G Group Limited 19,335,425 6.09 M&G Limited 19,335,425 6.09 M&G Investment Management Limied 19,299,754 6.08 The Prudential Assurance Company Limited 18,956,243 5.97 Directors Biographical details of Directors are shown on pages 42 to 44.
The Companys Articles of Association contain provisions concerning the appointment and replacement of Directors.
Details of the share interests of Directors are shown on pages 59 and 60.
No changes to these interests occurred between the year end and the date of this report.
Indemnities The Company has provided each of its Directors with a qualifying third-party indemnity, as defined in section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
In addition, the Company has provided qualifying pension scheme indemnities to the directors of Millennium & Copthorne Pension Trustee Limited which acts as trustee to the Groups UK pension plan.
These indemnities remain in force as at the date of this report.
During the year, the Company has maintained cover for its Directors and Officers and those of its subsidiary companies under a Directors and Officers liability insurance policy, as permitted by Section 233 of the Companies Act 2006.
46 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors report continued Ethics and Business Conduct The Group has in place policies which outline the standards of behaviour required of all employees when acting on the Groups behalf which include acting professionally, with honesty, integrity, objectivity and in compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
The Board of Directors has implemented an anti-bribery policy which prohibits the offering, the giving, the solicitation or the acceptance of any bribe, whether cash or other inducement.
Whistle-blowing procedures are in place to enable employees to raise concerns about any activity they consider to be unlawful, is a breach of authority, falls below accepted standards or practice, amounts to improper conduct or could damage the Groups reputation.
It is the Companys and the Groups policy to agree the terms of payment with suppliers at the commencement of the trading or contractual relationship and to operate within such terms subject to satisfactory completion of the suppliers obligations.
It does not follow any particular guidelines established by third parties.
The effect of the Groups payment policy is that its trade creditors at the financial year-end represent 24 days 2010: 25 days.
At the year end, the Company had nil trade creditors 2010: nil.
Corporate Social Responsibility Details of the Groups wider approach to managing its Corporate Social Responsibility CSR can be found on pages 39 to 41 which include details of charitable donations made during the year.
The CSR report is deemed to be part of the Directors Report.
The Board takes regular account of the significance of social, environmental and ethical matters to the business of the Company and identifies value arising from those matters as well as opportunities to enhance value that may arise from them.
Significant short and long-term risks have been identified and assessed and the Board believes it has received adequate information to ensure that the Company has effective systems in place for managing the Groups key risks.
The Groups significant Risk Factors are included on pages 35 to 38.
To ensure the delivery of the Boards policies in respect of health, safety, and the environment, Wong Hong Ren, in his capacity as Group Chief Executive Officer, has been identified as the Board member responsible for these areas.
Financial Risk Management An indication of the Groups financial risk management objectives in respect of the use of financial instruments and its exposures to credit risk, interest rate risk and foreign currency risk is set out in the Business Review Risk Factors on pages 35 to 38, and in note 22 to the consolidated financial statements.
Going Concern Information on the principal risks and uncertainties that the Group faces throughout its global operations are included in Business Review Risk Factors on pages 35 to 38.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and debt facilities are described in the Business Review Financial on pages 25 to 33.
In addition, note 22 to the consolidated financial statements sets out the Groups policies and processes for measuring and managing risk from its use of financial instruments in relation to credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk both currency and interest rate-related.
Further details of the Groups cash balances and borrowings are included in notes 20 and 21 to the consolidated financial statements.
In assessing whether the Group is a going concern, the Directors follow a review process which is consistent with the principles set out in the guidance published by the Financial Reporting Council: Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009.
Cash flow forecasts for the Group have been prepared for a period in excess of twelve months from the date of approval of these consolidated financial statements.
These forecasts reflect an assessment of current market conditions.
The forecasts completed on this basis show that the Group will be able to operate within the current committed debt facilities and show continued compliance with the financial covenants.
In addition, management has considered various mitigating actions that could be taken in the event that market conditions are worse than their current assessment.
Such measures include further reduction in costs and in capital expenditure.
On the basis of the exercise as described above and the available committed debt facilities, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt a going concern basis in preparing the financial statements of the Group and the Company.
47 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors report governance Corporate Governance The Board is committed to ensuring that good practice in corporate governance is observed throughout the Group, and remains the responsibility of the whole Board.
The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of business integrity and professionalism in all its activities, and continues to support the highest standards in corporate governance.
The Board considers that, throughout the year, it was compliant with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2010, except for Code provision B.
7.1 requiring the annual election by shareholders.
The Board had agreed that it would apply provision B.
7.1 with effect from the Annual General Meeting in 2012.
A copy of the Code is available from the Financial Reporting Council www.
The Board Overall control of the Group is exercised by the Board, which has responsibility, amongst other things, for setting strategy and ensuring that adequate resources are available and leadership is provided to achieve the Groups strategy.
The Board meets up to ten times a year and has a schedule of matters reserved for its attention.
All Directors receive detailed papers one week prior to Board and committee meetings.
Reserved matters which require Board approval include: acquisitions: significant property transactions: capital expenditure above predetermined limits: major contractual commitments: Board level and Company Secretary appointments terminations: significant litigation issues: the Groups financial statements: communications with shareholders and approval of certain group-wide policies including health, safety and environment policies, treasury policy, ethics policy, anti-bribery policy and whistle-blowing procedures.
Other matters which are reserved for the Board have been delegated to its standing committees, details of which are set out further in this report.
Executive management is responsible to the Board for the Groups operational performance including: implementing Group strategy as determined by the Board: maintaining adequate internal control systems and risk management processes: monitoring operational performance against plans and targets and reporting to the Board any significant variances: maintaining an effective management team and succession planning.
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, one executive Director, five independent non-executive Directors and three other non-executive Directors, two of whom are appointees of the majority shareholder, City Developments Limited.
Each Director is expected to fulfill their duties for the benefit of all shareholders and it is believed that the independent non-executive Directors provide strong independent judgement to the deliberations of the Board.
Directors biographies shown on pages 42 to 44 identify the Chairman, Senior Independent Director, the Chairman of the Boards standing committees and other Directors considered by the Board to be independent, having taken consideration of the factors set out in Code provision B.
There have been no significant changes in the Chairmans external commitments since the last annual report.
A written statement defining the respective responsibilities of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive Officer has been agreed and approved by the Board.
All Directors have access to the advice of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring the Board procedures and applicable rules and regulations are observed.
In addition, the Directors are able, if necessary, to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
There is the opportunity for non-executive Directors to meet separately with the Chairman.
The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, is also responsible for ensuring that Directors receive appropriate training at the Companys expense where specific expertise is required in the course of the exercise of their duties.
All Directors receive a Board Compendium detailing matters relating to Board procedures.
The Board has established agreed procedures for managing potential conflicts of interest.
These procedures and any potential conflicts authorised in accordance with section 175 4 Companies Act 2006, as permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, are reviewed by the Board at least annually.
The Board is satisfied that the procedures for managing potential conflicts remain effective.
Succession planning for non-executive Directors is considered by the Nomination Committee as appropriate.
Kwek Leng Joo retired from the Board on 6 May 2011 and Connal Rankin retired from the Board 27 June 2011 after a period of illness.
Kwek Eik Sheng and Ian Batey were appointed directors on 6 May 2011 and 15 August 2011, respectively.
48 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors report governance continued The Board continued All of the directors, with the exception of Richard Hartman, will stand for election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Board Committees In relation to certain matters, committees have been established with specific delegated authority.
The standing committees of the Board are Audit, Remuneration and Nominations.
The terms of reference for these committees are available, on request, from the Company Secretary and on the Groups website at www.
com corporate investor relations board committees.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all standing committees of the Board.
Audit Committee Chair Nicholas George Review of the Year Examples of matters considered by the Committee during the year include: Group compliance with PCI security compliance Ongoing reviews of the Groups risk management process Approval and adoption of a policy on non-audit fees Consideration of the Bribery Act compliance, policies and processes to ensure adequate procedures are in place In conjunction with the remuneration committee, a review of performance conditions and targets used for long-term incentives The Audit Committee consists entirely of independent non-executive Directors.
It is considered that Nicholas George has recent and relevant financial experience as required by the Code.
The duties of the Audit Committee include: Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management procedures: Consideration of the appointment of the external auditor and to make appropriate recommendations through the Board to the shareholders to consider at the annual general meeting: Agreement of the detailed scope of the external audit prior to the commencement of their audit: reviewing the scope and results of the audit and its cost effectiveness: and recommendation of the audit fee to the Board: Monitoring the integrity, prior to submission to the Board, of periodic financial statements, annual accounts, reports to shareholders and any other public announcement concerning the Companys financial position, corporate governance statements and statements on the Groups system of internal controls: Ensuring that arrangements are in place for employees to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible fraud risk or wrong doing in financial reporting or other matters: Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit function: agreeing the annual work plan and being satisfied itself that the function has the proper resources to enable it to satisfactorily complete such work plans: review status reports from the internal audit: considering managements response to any major finding and providing support, if necessary, for any follow-up action required: and ensuring that the function obtains free and unrestricted access to all Group activities, records, property and personnel necessary to fulfill its agreed objectives.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the independence and objectivity of the external auditor and has reported to the Board that it considers that the auditors independence and objectivity has been maintained.
Audit independence and objectivity are safeguarded by the Audit Committee monitoring and approving, when appropriate, the nature of any non-audit work and the levels of fees paid.
The Committee has established a formal policy on non-audit services consistent with the FRCs Audit Committee Guidance published in December 2010.
A copy of the policy is available, on request, from the Company Secretary or on the Groups website www.
com corporate investor relations downloads non-audit services policy - version 1 - jan 2012. pdf.
Details of fees paid to KPMG Audit plc and its associates are shown in note 6 to the accounts.
49 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors report governance continued Audit Committee continued The external auditor and head of internal audit normally attend all Audit Committee meetings.
Executive Directors and senior management from the Groups finance function are normally invited to attend.
Separate meetings are held with the external auditor without the presence of any member of executive management and similar meetings are held with the head of internal audit.
Remuneration Committee Chair Alexander Waugh Review of the Year Examples of matters considered by the Committee during the year include: Review of executive Directors and senior managements salaries and benefits Agreeing compensation arrangements for the new Chief Executive Officer A review and revision of the performance conditions used for the long-term incentive plan Review of short-term bonus arrangements and targets The Remuneration Committee consists entirely of independent non-executive Directors.
It is responsible for considering and making recommendations to the Board, within agreed terms of reference, on the Companys remuneration policies, determining the remuneration packages of executive Directors and the operation of the Companys employee share-based incentive schemes.
The Group Chief Executive Officer would normally be invited to attend meetings, if appropriate, but would not be present when his own remuneration is discussed.
The Committee takes independent advice as deemed necessary.
The Directors Remuneration Report is given on pages 54 to 62, where further details of remuneration strategy are given.
The fees paid to non-executive Directors are considered by the full Board, having regard to any relevant advice received.
Nominations Committee Chair Kwek Leng Beng Review of the Year Examples of matters considered by the Committee during the year include: Succession planning for the outgoing Chief Executive Officer Ongoing succession planning for Board members, including the Chief Financial Officer, and senior management positions The Nominations Committee comprises a majority of independent non-executive Directors and meets as necessary.
On behalf of the Board, the Committee reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board, considers succession planning for Directors and other senior executives, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Group and what skills and expertise are needed on the Board in future.
The Committee is responsible for identifying and nominating for the approval of the Board candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise.
50 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors report governance continued Board and Committee Meetings The number of meetings of the Board, and its committees, held during the year are shown below together with attendance details of each Director.
Figures in brackets represent the maximum number of Board or committee meetings held whilst the individual concerned is a Board member or member of the relevant committee.
Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Kwek Leng Beng Chairman 8 8 na na 1 1 Richard Hartman 5 8 na na na Wong Hong Ren 8 8 na na na Christopher Keljik 8 8 5 5 7 8 1 1 Shaukat Aziz 7 8 na 4 8 na Nicholas George 7 8 5 5 8 8 na Kwek Leng Joo 1 2 na na na Kwek Leng Peck 4 8 na na 1 1 Alexander Waugh 8 8 2 3 8 8 1 1 Kwek Eik Sheng 6 6 na na na Ian Batey 3 3 na na na Connal Rankin 4 2 4 1 Connal Rankin was unable to attend Board and Committee meetings held due to ill health.
Evaluation Process During the year an internal Board evaluation process has been undertaken, facilitated by the Directors completing on-line questionnaires.
The evaluation process focuses on key themes including: Board composition and expertise The operation of Board Committees Strategic and operational oversight Risk management and internal controls Succession planning and Human Resource management Feedback from the evaluation process is compiled by the Company Secretary and is considered by the Board.
The Board plans to have an externally facilitated evaluation in 2012.
The performance of executive and non-executive Directors is assessed annually by the Chairman.
During the year, the Chairman and independent non-executive Directors met without the executive Directors in attendance.
Evaluation of the Chairman is conducted by the independent non-executive Directors led by the senior independent non-executive Director.
Internal Control System The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control, including the Companys financial reporting process and the Groups process for preparation of consolidated accounts, and for monitoring its effectiveness.
In establishing this system, the Directors have considered the nature of the Groups business, with regard to the risks to which that particular business is exposed, the likelihood of such risks occurring, their potential impact and the costs of protecting against them.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement.
The Groups significant Risk Factors are included in the Business Review on pages 35 to 38.
51 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors report governance continued Internal Control System continued The Board confirms that, in accordance with the Turnbull guidance, there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process is reviewed by the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board and has been in place for the year under review, and up to the date of the approval of the Annual Report.
Primary responsibility for the operation of the system of internal controls is delegated to executive management.
The effectiveness of the operation of the internal control system is reviewed by an internal audit function and, where appropriate, by the Companys external auditor, who report to management and to the Audit Committee.
In addition, responsibility is delegated to executive management to monitor the effectiveness of the systems of control in managing identified risks as established by the Board.
The internal audit department reviews the effectiveness of key internal controls as part of its standard work programme, and individual reports are issued to appropriate senior management.
These reports are summarised and distributed to the Audit Committee, the Group Chief Executive Officer, senior management of the Group and the external auditor.
They are subsequently reviewed by the Audit Committee, which ensures that, where necessary, recommendations on appropriate corrective action are drawn to the attention of the full Board.
The main features of the Groups internal control framework are: The Groups strategic direction is regularly reviewed by the Board, which sets business objectives for the Group.
Annual plans and performance targets for each region are set by the executive management team and reviewed by the Board on a geographical basis in the light of overall objectives: Within the financial and overall objectives for the Group, agreed by the Board, the day-to-day management is delegated to the Group Chief Executive Officer and executive management.
The executive management team receives a monthly summary of the results from the business and carries out regular operational reviews with business managers to ensure appropriate pursuit of the overall objectives and management of the primary risks of the Group.
Communication with Shareholders General presentations are made after the announcement of final and half-yearly results.
There is a programme of meetings with institutional shareholders to review the Groups performance and prospects.
In addition, the senior independent non-executive Director has meetings with a range of major shareholders during the year and other non-executive Directors also have the opportunity to attend such meetings.
Regular feedback is provided to the Board of views expressed by shareholders.
At general meetings there is the opportunity for all shareholders to question the Chairman and other Directors including the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations committees.
The Company prepares separate resolutions on each substantially separate issue put to shareholders and does not combine resolutions together inappropriately.
A schedule of the proxy votes cast is made available for inspection at the conclusion of the proceedings and the Annual Report is laid before the shareholders at the annual general meeting.
Notice of the annual general meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the date of the meeting, and the Company encourages all shareholders to make positive use of the Companys annual general meeting for communication with the Board.
Auditor In accordance with Section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution regarding the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Statement of The Directors as to Disclosure of Information to The Auditor The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
52 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors report governance continued Annual General Meeting The annual general meeting will be held at 10:00 am on Thursday, 3 May 2012 at the Millennium Hotel London Mayfair, Grosvenor Square, London W1K 2HP.
A detailed explanation of each item of non-routine business to be considered at the annual general meeting is included with the Notice of Meeting.
By order of the board Adrian Bushnell Company Secretary 21 February 2012 53 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2011
