Strategy and business model Hotel Operations The Groups hotel operating strategy is interlinked with asset management because it controls the yield characteristics on the Groups asset portfolio, through driving revenues and maintaining disciplined control of costs.
Management applies sophisticated analysis, supported by technology, to achieve an optimum balance between hotel occupancy and room rates in all market conditions.
A high proportion of the Groups operating functions are fide-centralised, so that local management can respond quickly to local markets.
This factor also enables the Group to maintain a low level of central overhead costs.
Managed and franchised hotels form a relatively small part of the Groups business.
These are primarily in strategically significant locations, where the Group wishes to develop and maintain a presence for example to promote cross selling opportunities but does not see an immediate commercial advantage in asset ownership.
Asset Management The Groups asset management strategy compares the long-term return on its existing hotel assets against a range of alternative investments.
Asset management initiatives tend to be opportunistic, increasing returns for the Groups shareholders over the longer term and thus representing an intrinsic part of the Groups value.
Where returns from an individual hotel are not competitive, the Group will seek to enhance profitability through a variety of means, including management re-focus and investment in the asset to enhance yield : or disposal of the asset identification of alternative uses such as condominium development to enhance capital value.
In the case of new asset acquisition opportunities, the Group sets competitive hurdles to ensure that return on investment criteria are satisfied.
The Groups investment in CDL H-REIT Singapore and First Sponsor Capital Limited China further support the asset management strategy, providing opportunities to acquire, develop and dispose of attractive assets in a capital efficient manner.
6 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Overview Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Strategy and business model continued The Group is an owner-operator of high quality branded hotels in diverse locations attractive to business and leisure customers, with a particular focus on significant gateway cities and Asian emerging markets.
The Groups owner-operator business model has been consistently cash generative and profitable since the Companys formation in 1996.
The model is designed to maximise long-term total returns to shareholders through interlinked hotel operating and asset management strategies, led by a talented and highly skilled management team, with experience in both disciplines.
Hotel Operations Yield on Assets Asset Management Capital Efficiency Acquisitions Driving Responsive to Investment Disposals Revenues Local Markets Alternative Use Cost Control 7 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Overview Annual Report and Accounts 2011 8 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Overview Annual Report and Accounts 2011
