Overview Misys Leading technology and innovation 3KGJOTM ZKINTURUM GTJ OTTU GZOUT Z ZNK NKGXZ UL TGTIOGR YKX OIKY U[X SGXQKZY Financial services is changing The importance of innovation Growth regions The financial services market is Global institutions and those in the more Misys has over 1,300 customers changing rapidly.
Financial institutions mature markets of the USA and Western in 120 countries around the globe.
of all shapes and sizes need to keep Europe are re-engineering their existing Financial institutions in the emerging abreast of regulatory requirements, systems to be able to cope with these markets of Latin America and Asia were respond to changing customer changes.
In the growth markets of Asia, less affected by the credit crisis and we expectations, manage risk and take Latin America and the Middle East and are seeing continuing growth in demand advantage of opportunities in new Africa many banks and other financial from these regions.
We are partnering growth areas.
Subject to a higher level of institutions do not have complex legacy with many clients to help them adopt scrutiny than ever before, they also need systems in place and can take more best practice processes to get the most to ensure transparency across all areas immediate advantage of packaged from their software solutions as well as of their business.
building additional functionality to meet is playing a critical role by delivering the local regulations and business functionality and agility needed to keep We are engineering our solutions to make requirements.
up with the fast pace of change.
it as easy as possible for our clients to take advantage of the benets that we offer.
By Our global footprint and partner network Misys is a pure play financial services championing the concept of continuous means that we have the resources and provider, committed to innovation migration with our BankFusion solutions, expertise to service clients worldwide.
We we are enabling banks to renovate their provide a broad range of solutions to existing systems with new functionality For more information help all types of financial institutions while minimising the impact on their go to page 12 run their businesses more efficiently day-to-day operations.
Our solutions help our customers to comply with industry We are integrating many of our regulations, meet the changing solutions to provide end-to-end support requirements of their customers and for a broad range of financial activities, retain competitive advantage.
Many and to enable our clients to access the financial institutions are using our full range of functionality available across solutions to help them to grow their our different products.
business by expanding into new sectors and geographies.
For more information go to page 16 04 Annual Report 2011 Overview Misys Leading technology and innovation Customer Geography Europe 500 customers Americas 38% of total 250 customers Asia Pacic 19% of total 320 customers 25% of total Middle East and Africa 230 customers 18% of total Misys serves customers in over 120 countries Focus on leadership Leading in banking and trade transactions is leading many Leading in capital markets Transaction banking is becoming more banks to look at how they can increase The acquisition of Sophis has catapulted important as banks return to fee-earning their efficiency by consolidating their Misys into a leadership position in the activities after the credit crisis.
In many systems in these areas.
We now generate cases their underlying systems are in more than 60% of our revenue from our need of modernisation.
Misys is the Misys is leading the way in innovating core Capital Markets business units Treasury leading provider in the transaction banking banking systems with the BankFusion & Capital Markets and Misys Sophis.
space and is the only organisation that platform.
BankFusion is the newest core Our capital markets solutions address can offer banks a fully integrated solution banking system available in the market requirements across four major areas for payments, cash management and embracing the latest technology of business: sell-side, buy-side, lending trade finance via our portal solutions.
developments and offering a completely and risk management.
The ability to have a single view of cash new approach to delivering, implementing and upgrading a core banking system.
Misys Solution Portfolio Misys provides a comprehensive suite of solutions to help financial Misys institutions run their businesses more efficiently and cost effectively.
Capital Markets Banking TCM Misys Sophis Core Transaction Opics RISQUE BankFusion Payment Summit LIFE Universal Manager Loan IQ VALUE Banking Online, iSophis BankFusion Mobile & Equation Portal BankFusion Trade RISK Midas Innovation For more information i go to www.
com U] JU ]K ZGQK GJ GTZGMK UL U[X VUYOZOUT& 3 Annual Report 2011 05 Overview Misys Leading technology and innovation 3KGJOTM ZKINTURUM GTJ OTTU GZOUT.
RUHGR XKGIN Misys is a truly global organisation, providing software solutions to financial institutions across the world, from the recognised financial centres of London, New York, Hong Kong and Singapore to the growth regions of Africa, Latin America and Asia.
We have aligned our resources to these geographical growth opportunities and are committed to providing the best software, services and support to our customers, regardless of their location.
Our global footprint and diverse pools of talent in different locations enable us to meet these objectives.
06 Annual Report 2011 Overview Misys Leading technology and innovation Six Global Development Centres providing centres of excellence for R&D and 24 7 customer support customers across 120 countries staff in over 35 ofces worldwide Annual Report 2011 07
