Business review Misys Leading technology and innovation 6VKT :U[XIK :NOY KGX NGY YKKT YOMTOIGTZ VXUMXKYY OT ZNK JK KRUVSKTZ UL U[X H[YOTKYY GY ]K TU] NG K L[RR UVKXGZOUTGR Y YZKSY [V GTJ X[TTOTM OT HUZN UL U[X ZGXMKZ SGXQKZY Misys Open Source Solutions MOSS In many cases, cost has been an is pioneering the development and impediment to the creation of community adoption of open source solutions in exchanges.
MOSS led a number of two key sectors healthcare in the worldwide open source development creation of health information exchanges projects that resulted in the creation of HIEs and the carbon market in the core exchange components that make development of global environmental up the Misys Connect Exchange registries that enable organisations to platform.
Coupling the open source measure, reduce and trade their carbon platform with the proprietary Misys emissions.
This year has seen significant Connect Portal provides users with progress in the development of our cost effective, best-of-breed solutions business.
Our first healthcare clients are that are open and standards-based.
live on the Misys Connect Exchange The Hartford Hospital exchange in and Misys Connect Portal and in Connecticut was the first exchange Bob Barthelmes Executive Vice President partnership with The Climate Registry to go live with an initial patient load of and General Manager we have developed and deployed the over 2.5 million patient records.
largest cloud-based voluntary carbon eHealthConnecticut was the second registry system in the world.
exchange to go live and is now fully Business summary operational and is transferring data Health Information Exchanges between three hospitals and two 3 Deployed largest cloud-based a ripe market for open source Federally Qualied Health Centres.
voluntary carbon registry system The US market for healthcare information in the world technology is booming, thanks to the With a proven, operational open source 3 First clients live on the Misys American Recovery and Reinvestment HIE in the market, we are gaining traction Connect Exchange and Misys Act of 2009 that has set aside more both inside the US, elsewhere in the Connect Portal than $US 40 billion in incentive dollars Americas region, and in Europe and 3 Over 2.5 million patient records on to providers provided that they use Australia.
We are now focused on Hartford Hospital exchange the technology in a meaningful way.
building out our distribution network 3 Announced partnership with iCET 2011 marks the first year when those to pursue these and other opportunities and The Climate Registry to deploy payments began to ow as part of the around portals and community an Energy & Climate Registry for Stage 1 meaningful use demonstrations.
China Stage 2 of the meaningful use payments is expected to be predicated on the use of HIEs.
HIEs aim to promote interoperability by enabling the sharing of patient records between provider ofces and hospitals, and tying together the related services required for end-toend patient care.
Being an emergent segment, Open Source is reported within Corporate & Other in the financial statements.
32 Annual Report 2011 Business review Misys Leading technology and innovation Strategy update Lead: 2-4 years Future 3 Develop a profitable Open Source 3 Extend healthcare footprint in US business 3 Explore healthcare opportunities in Achieved Europe and Australia 3 Continue working with NGOs to 3 Integrate third-party technologies expand roll out of environmental into our platforms registry platforms Achieved 3 Build partner distribution network 3 Develop Connect strategy Achieved 3 Develop carbon trading platform application Not achieved Leading in carbon registry systems Extending our footprint iCET announce Chinas Energy As a result of our partnership with We are starting to reap the rewards and Climate Registry The Climate Registry, a non-profit of our investment in open source organisation that provides meaningful solutions with live platforms now iCET announced that it will join information to reduce greenhouse gas fully operational in both of our target forces with the Beijing Environmental emissions, we have developed and sectors.
Our focus for the coming year Exchange, Los Angeles-based The deployed the largest cloud-based will be to extend our footprint in the Climate Registry and New York-based voluntary registry system in the world.
US for healthcare, as well exploring software company MOSS to promote More than 8,000 facilities from 850 opportunities in Europe and Australia the Energy and Climate Registry as organisations are providing data to which are growth regions for HIEs: the predominant greenhouse gas the registry making it one of the leading and to continue working with NGOs to reporting platform in China.
bodies involved in the monitoring, expand the roll out of our environmental reporting and verication of emissions.
We are also actively The goal of the Energy and Climate expanding our partner relationships to Registry ECR is to produce a reliable, At the UN Climate Summit, held in build our distribution network.
consistent and veriable information Mexico in late 2010, it was announced database and reporting tool for energy that we are working in partnership with consumption and carbon emissions the Innovation Center for Energy & on the corporation and local Transportation iCET and The Climate municipality levels.
By joining to Registry to deploy an Energy & Climate the ECR, multinational and domestic Registry for China.
We are in discussions corporations will be encouraged to with several other NGOs regarding the voluntarily sign up to report input deployment of our registry platform in parameters to calculate energy other regions.
consumptions and produce GHG emission inventories, which will be veried by a certied third party.
Costs are less than half of what we would have expected if we had gone with a commercial HIE product and it is certainly meeting the expectations I had from a cost standpoint from the very beginning.
Stephan D. ONeill Vice President of information services, Hartford Hospital and board member, eHealthConnecticut Annual Report 2011 33
