Overview Misys Leading technology and innovation 3KGJOTM ZKINTURUM GTJ OTTU GZOUT 9KRGZOUTYNOVY ZNGZ SGZZKX Evolving the partner model and scale.
In turn, our partners provide Partners are an extension of our sales We work as one team with our partners Misys with greater reach into the force and delivery teams.
In-country to be fully aligned in front of customers.
marketplace, greater scale to execute specialists are key to extending our reach In some regions we have implemented on customer requirements, and their and helping us cover new territories, partner-led coverage strategies localising complementary skills and solutions enabling us to extend farther and faster our products, addressing local issues and deliver greater depth of value to our than we could do on our own.
resolutions and driving high value solutions customers.
Teaming for customer value Our ability to partner more effectively We bring together the collective talent No one company can provide all the has enabled us to provide more of the best information technology solutions to meet the diverse needs comprehensive, cost-effective solutions companies, systems integrators, of financial institutions in todays that drive greater customer value.
consultancy practices and local partners marketplace.
Our Partner Value Net empowering an entire community comprises global, regional and in-country Partnerships are essential in helping to benefit from a strong collaboration partnerships across all our business Misys to scale our business.
We have of knowledge, relationships and skills.
We align as built a Partner Value Net that enables They offer a broad range of value added one team to drive and support business us to execute with more speed, scope services around Misys solutions, working opportunities that lead to incremental on design, implementation and delivery revenue.
The depth and breadth of our of them.
network ensures better alignment to Global partner footprint our customers demands for integrated, end-to-end solutions and provides the s Regional GTM Partners skills and services they require.
By tapping into our Partner Value Net we increase our market presence, learn about new opportunities and can fast track the sales cycle resulting in increased market penetration and higher revenues.
With regular governance and execution on our joint business plans, we consistently grow our revenues together.
This year, we closed 35% of new name business in conjunction with our partners, and expect to increase this rate further over the coming 12 months.
Misys has more than 100 partners across the world including more than 40 solution and technology partners.
Our strategic partners include everis, HCL Technologies, IBM and Microsoft.
12 Annual Report 2011 Overview Misys Leading technology and innovation Our strategic partners include: HCL Technologies is a leading global IT Services company, everis is a multi-national consulting company offering focusing on transformational outsourcing, underlined by business development and strategy, technological applications, innovation and value creation.
It offers an integrated portfolio maintenance and outsourcing solutions.
everis has operations of services including software-led IT solutions, remote in Europe, Latin America and the US with more than 10,000 infrastructure management services, engineering and R&D consultants.
We work together with everis to increase our services and BPO.
We work together with HCL for off-shore penetration in Europe, expand international markets, jointly development, IT support, professional services, and global collaborate to implement a range of services to existing and go-to-market coverage to open new markets.
This extends new clients and deliver local, customised solutions, presence our reach in fast growing economies to gain market share and support.
and is delivering growth and value for customers.
For a century, only IBM has created technology around the Founded in 1975, Microsoft is the worldwide leader in world to invent and integrate hardware, software and services software, services and Internet technologies for personal to enable the Financial Services industry to work smarter.
Microsoft offers a wide range of partner with IBM at many levels, from hardware and middleware innovative products and services designed to help individuals technology and services, to developing complete customer and organisations realise their full potential.
We work with value propositions for our joint customers.
Microsoft to develop new delivery mechanisms for our banking solutions and differentiated performance for our IBM is a registered trademark of International Business Machines Corporation.
Long-standing relationships We are developing new solutions such Improving customer satisfaction Our customer base is one of our biggest as BankFusion, utilising portal technology Achieving continuous improvements in assets.
We have an impressive installed to provide integrated transaction banking customer satisfaction rates is a priority base worldwide and enjoy long-standing solutions and unlocking the value of our for all Misys employees, and is included relationships with many of our customers.
capital markets solutions to meet the as a key measure in each employees We are actively engaged in strengthening evolving needs of our customers.
Misys uses Net our customer-facing resources so that we Promoter from Satmetrix to support can deepen these relationships further, Creating bespoke solutions its customer loyalty programme, effectively helping our customers to address their Packaged software solutions are easier capturing customer feedback, identifying pain points, expand their businesses and to upgrade and maintain and have a lower actions to improve and distributing relevant gain competitive advantage with our total cost of ownership.
This being said, information to employees so they can technology solutions.
we appreciate that our customers have follow up with customers.
requirements specic to their business Enabling our customers to compete or the regions in which they operate.
We Great relationships shared success We are investing heavily in technology work with our customers to understand We value all of our relationships and and innovation to deliver world-class their needs.
Where appropriate, we invest in them to ensure shared success.
In many incorporate bespoke developments into Our strong management team and financial institutions, the decision to invest our product roadmaps so that all of our values are geared towards client focus in software and systems is based on cost customers can take advantage of them.
and efficiency considerations, the need to This symbiotic relationship is hugely meet changing customer and regulatory beneficial to our customer base.
requirements, and the need to achieve or retain competitive advantage.
Improving customer satisfaction with Net Promoter from Satmetrix Misys uses Satmetrix to support its customer loyalty programme.
0% - 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 TCM Misys Banking For more information on Technology and Innovation go to page 16 U] JU ]K YZG UTK YZKV GNKGJ UL ZNK SGXQKZ& 3 Annual Report 2011 13 Overview Misys Leading technology and innovation 5K ] solutions are driving our business 3KGJOTM ZKINTURUM GTJ OTTU GZOUT 14 Annual Report 2011 Overview Misys Leading technology and innovation of R&D spend is on new solutions new BankFusion customers this year Investment in technology and innovation has been at the heart of our turnaround strategy to deliver world class solutions to our customers.
We have shifted our R&D spend so that the majority is invested in the development of new solutions, which are now gaining significant traction with our customers.
We are delivering innovation in all areas of our business from core banking to portal technology and componentisation projects that unlock the functionality within our different software solutions.
Misys is also pioneering developments in the carbon and healthcare markets with our open source solutions.
