Business review Misys Leading technology and innovation 4OY Y :UVNOY 4OY Y :UVNOY GJJXKYYKY G RGXMK YROIK UL ZNK TGTIOGR YKX OIKY YKIZUX LXUS OT KYZSKTZ HGTQY UT ZNK YKRR YOJK ZU MRUHGR GYYKZ SGTGMKSKTZ UXMGTOYGZOUTY NKJMK L[TJY GTJ LGSOR ULIKY UT ZNK H[ YOJK How rms manage risk is changing Demand for cross-asset portfolio As regulation intensies and cross-asset and risk management solutions class strategies, as well as the use of is on the rise derivatives, become more prevalent, fully For many organisations, their current integrated portfolio and risk management trading or portfolio management solutions are becoming increasingly solutions are not geared up to deal important.
The turmoil of the past three with the complexity of todays financial years has increased the need for rms instruments and the associated market to understand and assess their risk and credit risk implications.
few years have seen many banks strengthening their securities finance In the buy-side, the use of derivatives business and increasing their use of and risk management are becoming instruments such as Portfolio Swaps an integral part of rms trading and and ETFs Exchange Traded Funds Pascal Xatart Executive Vice President compliance strategies to secure and as they strive to improve market access and CEO Misys Sophis improve performance.
In the sell-side, and investment offerings for their client liquidity shortages have led banks to base.
These changes are driving review liquidity risk as well as their investment banks to strengthen their Business summary day-to-day cash at risk.
New Basel business processes and improve risk regulations have also resulted in banks management procedures.
3 4th quarter revenue 17m up 32% taking a much more analytical view 3 4th quarter total order intake up of credit risk with the introduction of Interest in commodities has increased 1% at 11m measures such as CVA credit value with investment banks creating more 3 4th quarter adjusted operating adjustment and IRC incremental investment and hedging products to profit 6m up 155% risk charge.
satisfy increased demand pushed 3 4th quarter adjusted operating up by high volatility in the commodity margin 33% up from 17% As a result, both buy-side and sell-side markets.
Last year, three Misys Sophis 3 Key new buy-side customers rms must combine trading and risk clients incorporated European and US added management practices in the way in gas and power commodities into their which they manage their assets.
portfolios for the first time in order to leverage regulation changes.
As financial institutions expand the scope of their investment or trading strategies, they are looking for a solution that can handle multiple asset classes, as well as sophisticated risk calculations.
We have kept pace with recent trends 4th quarter revenue by strengthening our ow business processes, introducing new commodity, fund and synthetic products and investing in market, credit and liquidity enterprise risk management.
Financial performance measures reported on a like-for-like basis.
See the financial review for reconciliation to as reported measures.
26 Annual Report 2011 Business review Misys Leading technology and innovation KRO KXOTM GR[K GTIU 7UVURGXK GTJ OZY OT KYZSKTZ HGTQOTM GXS GTIG RKZZO A long standing client, Banca Aletti the have this in place as soon as possible for the investment banking arm of Banco Popolare an whole Banco Popolare Group as part of its Italian cooperative bank has been using Misys internal model for market risk and in order to be Sophis RISQUE since 2005.
The bank initially fully compliant with the Basel Accord and other implemented RISQUE to manage its equities and regulatory requirements.
equity derivatives business and quickly extended the platform to cover all of its trading activities Leveraging Misys to deliver a rapid solution including xed income, credit, ination, forex The Misys Sophis team leveraged the depth of and commodities.
Today, a very relevant part of functionality available in the broader Misys solution the banks portfolio is managed on the RISQUE suite to provide a fast, proven solution to Banco platform which is its primary front-to-back ofce Popolare.
As Misys Opics Risk Plus ORP already trading and risk management system.
has the ability to calculate IRC, a new module integrating ORP and RISQUE will be delivered A new risk reporting challenge so that Banco Popolare can take advantage of The new Basel 2.5 framework requires IRC this functionality within Banca Alettis existing Incremental Risk Charge reporting to be in place RISQUE system.
Banco Popolare wanted to Positioned for growth A successful integration with Misys Expanding our penetration Misys Sophis heritage lies in the We are very pleased to be part of of the buy-side sell-side, where we developed a market the Misys team and the opportunities The buy-side market for portfolio and leading trading and risk management that this affords to our people and our risk management solutions is still at a solution, renowned for its handling of business.
Our sales teams have already relatively early stage of development.
This advanced a number of cross-selling With more than 10,000 organisations expertise led us to develop a similar opportunities and we fully expect this worldwide that have a potential need solution for the buy-side, which quickly activity to increase over the coming for a system, this represents a massive surpassed the capabilities of other 12 months.
opportunity, and as such will remain a portfolio management solutions due to rm focus for Misys Sophis.
As our its ability to process complex products Misys Sophis VALUE will be positioned prospective customer base is widely and derivatives, its integrated risk as Misys agship solution for the dispersed across the globe, we will management capabilities and its ability buy-side and we feel confident that we leverage Misys geographic footprint, to address the specic needs of will be able to win a larger percentage especially outside of Europe and in the hedge funds.
of the buy-side pipeline with this offering, emerging markets of Asia Pacic and further solidifying our leadership position Latin America.
Our goal is to position Misys Sophis as in this segment.
the fide facto provider of portfolio and More exibility for our clients risk management solutions, recognised Misys Sophis RISQUE, our solution for At Misys Sophis, our philosophy as being able to handle every part of a the sell-side is complementary to Misys has been to deliver our solutions in the financial institutions needs, from both a Summit.
By combining our research way that our clients wish to use them, functional and an asset class standpoint.
and development efforts, our clients be these in-house implementations, will be able to benefit from additional hosted or leasing options, or SoftwareToday, we are recognised as the functionality currently available in the as-a-Service SaaS delivery.
The market leading solution for equities, Misys suite of products, as well as software componentisation project equity derivatives and commodities improved asset class coverage in the currently underway at Misys will result on the sell-side and the leading crossareas of Forex, xed income and interest in even more exibility for our clients in asset portfolio and risk management rate and credit derivatives.
Equally, the way in which they can select and solution on the buy-side.
With the full Summit clients will be able to benefit consume our solutions and services.
force of Misys behind us, we will be from RISQUE functionality in equities, able to expand our solutions further, equity derivatives and commodities.
leveraging its development resources and geographical coverage to position ourselves to capture a larger share Strategy update of, as well as actively expand, our Plan addressable market.
3 Reinforce leadership in the buy-side 3 Leverage cross-selling opportunities 3 Improve breadth and depth of system functionality 3 Maximise integration with TCM products 3 Geographic expansion Annual Report 2011 27
