Business review Misys Leading technology and innovation NOKL, KI[ZO KY XK OK] IUTZOT[KJ growth in revenues across Asia, Latin America, Africa and the Middle East BankFusion customers The year was one of significant progress Return of capital to shareholders Substantial investment in product in the ongoing transformation of Misys and creation of pure play financial development now producing a that began in 2007.
We established Misys services software company pipeline of new solutions as a pure play financial services software During the year, we returned 670m to We have continued to invest heavily in company by divesting Allscripts and Misys shareholders from the proceeds research and development 19% of subsequently increased our exposure to of our divestment of Allscripts.
As a result revenue this year.
Our significant product the fast-growing capital markets sector of the Allscripts sale, we created a pure development spend is now producing a by acquiring Sophis.
We have continued play financial services company, with an pipeline of new and innovative solutions.
to invest in innovation and technology, opportunity to be a leader in the financial As a result, 41% of our orders in the year with the bulk of our investment going services industry.
came from new solutions developed over towards the development of new the last two years, compared with 28% solutions.
We are also investing to Increased exposure to high-growth in the previous year.
expand the skills base in the customercapital markets facing parts of our organisation.
The We believe capital markets will be the Investment in people and skills results of our investments began to be faster-growing of the financial services This year, we made a record number evident in increased revenues from Asia markets that we operate in, and we of new hires around 900 people.
and other growth regions, a return to substantially increased our presence Our investments in people have been growth in our banking division, and rapid with the acquisition of Sophis, a leader in focused on the growth regions of Asia, revenue growth from Misys Sophis.
portfolio and risk management solutions, Latin America, Africa and the Middle which improves our asset class coverage East, where we see exciting sales These achievements have generated and greatly accelerates our buy-side opportunities in the years ahead.
Its integration into the Misys of our people are now outside the UK in our organisation is a great tribute to group has been successful.
our ongoing strategy and the dedication acquisition, Misys Sophis has already of our staff to make our transformation demonstrated a high level of growth, a success.
with 32% revenue growth in its first quarter as part of the Group.
22 Annual Report 2011 Business review Misys Leading technology and innovation Misys business segment reporting structure Misys of our people outside of UK and US Banking TCM Misys Sophis We made significant investments in the Growth from new regions and During this year, we made significant customer-facing parts of our operations new solutions progress in the ongoing transformation of to upgrade our skills base and attract Our investments in Asia, Latin America, Misys.
We have a strong leadership team new talent into our organisation sales, Africa and the Middle East have brought in place that is ready to take the business customer service and pre-sales solution early signs of growth.
Revenues across to the next level.
As a result, we are consulting.
Our training programmes these regions grew 14%.
strongly positioned to create value for have been expanded, including the our customers and for our shareholders, successful launch of new graduate Our new solutions have brought back making Misys an innovative workplace for programmes in New York, India and growth to our Banking business, with our people.
We are confident in the future London.
We have extended existing 12% order intake growth in the year, of our business and our ongoing strategy partnerships and established new as a result of our new solutions.
to achieve and maintain a leadership ones, with industry leaders such as We have launched and established position in all of our market segments.
HCL, everis, IBM and Microsoft.
BankFusion as the newest and most modern core banking platform in the Mike Lawrie Our independent customer survey last decade, with 40 customers so Chief Executive officer this year has shown a significant rise in far, just over a year after its general customer satisfaction to the highest level release.
BankFusion is now recognised since the beginning of our turnaround.
independently as one of the leading This makes us more relevant to our banking platforms in the marketplace.
customers and gives us the permission We have applied for two patents so to upgrade customers to our new far to protect the unique technology solutions.
underpinning BankFusion, and are continuing to invest in the banking functionality available in the platform.
