Business review Misys Leading technology and innovation GTQOTM SGQOTM IUTZOT[U[Y SOMXGZOUT G XKGROZ ]K GXK NKRVOTM HGTQY ZU SOTOSOYK ZNK XOYQ UL IUXK HGTQOTM Y YZKS XKVRGIKSKTZY UX [VMXGJKY GTJ GXK INGTMOTM ZNKOX GVVXUGIN ZU Y YZKS XKTU GZOUT Banks want to get the best out of BankFusion takes a continuous new technologies migration approach to system renovation, This is where Misys comes in.
We are enabling banks to identify and prioritise developing some of the most innovative key functions, upgrading or replacing each solutions available to meet banks area over time while keeping the business requirements for their core banking running.
In this way, system upgrades or and transaction banking businesses.
replacements can be implemented with BankFusion is the newest core banking a minimum of disruption to a banks solution to hit the streets in the past day-to-day business operations.
Embracing the latest developments in service-oriented Secondly, a bank has the option to take architecture and componentisation, BankFusion as a packaged system such our development teams have as BankFusion Universal Banking which created a completely new approach they can easily add to and maintain over Al-Noor Ramji to delivering, implementing and time.
Both options make it signicantly Executive Vice President and upgrading a banking system.
easier for banks to upgrade or replace General Manager existing processes and add new BankFusion shows strong demand functionality as and when required.
The traction that we have experienced Business summary with BankFusion over the year A banking system for today demonstrates that the banking Today, banks face a plethora of challenges 3 Total revenue 167m up 3% community is ready to rethink its which their legacy banking systems were including a 10% increase in approach to systems and technology.
simply not designed to meet.
For example, the 2nd half Adoption rates have been strong, a banks cost-to-income ratio can be 3 Total order intake 93m up 12% particularly within our existing client adversely impacted by the high cost of 3 Adjusted operating profit 36m up base, and by the end of the year we maintaining older banking systems, largely 17% as a result of higher revenues had 40 BankFusion customers.
due to the vast multitude of interfaces and continued cost discipline between them, and the inability to bring 3 Adjusted operating margin The attraction of BankFusion is twofold.
new products to market quickly or make increased to 21% Firstly, it minimises the risk associated them compatible with new distribution 3 BankFusion adoption accelerated with a core system replacement which channels such as mobile banking, with 27 sales in the period and has led many banks to maintain their affecting its profitability.
40 customers in total legacy systems and customise them over 3 26 new name customers of trade time.
Today, the cost of maintaining these The exibility inherent within BankFusion or payments solutions systems and keeping them up-to-date means that it is better able to address with ever changing requirements is these issues, equipping banks with becoming untenable, in particular at a the ability to innovate and bring new time when banks are keeping a sharp products to market within days, not eye on their cost-to-income ratios.
weeks, incorporate new regulations and market changes within their ongoing business processes, and realise synergies from M&A activities more quickly.
We are helping banks to reduce their cost-to-income ratio, making them best in class.
Financial performance measures reported on a like-for-like basis.
See the financial review for reconciliation to as reported measures.
30 Annual Report 2011 Business review Misys Leading technology and innovation Strategy update Lead: 2-4 years Future 3 Grow Misys BankFusion developer 3 Grow Misys BankFusion developer community community Not achieved 3 Penetrate Tier 1 and Tier 2 banks 3 Help banks to launch new services 3 Maintain add-on module pipeline by leveraging social networking for cross-sell channels Achieved 3 Leader in core banking operating system market In progress gaining traction with BankFusion new Transaction Banking customers Leading the way in transaction exceptional sales growth, winning trade services, and money market foreign banking customers across our territories.
This ability to offer Misys has continued to consolidate its Mobile has won its first customers and a consolidated view of cash and trade market-leading position in transaction is expanding into new areas including transactions is helping banks to win new banking solutions through a winning social media.
At combination of solution innovation, new Misys we are using portal technology customer wins and highly successful Making life easier for banks as well as making our solutions available implementations.
We are uniquely corporate clients on a single platform so that banks can placed, both in the breadth of our Online, mobile and portal solutions are provide new and competitive solutions transaction banking solutions portfolio changing the way in which banks can to their customers.
This unied vision for and our ability to integrate them for offer services to their corporate clients.
online banking solutions means that our maximum operational efficiency.
Banks are also taking advantage of the clients are able to rationalise their banking efficiency gains and new services that infrastructure, reduce maintenance and This year, our trade finance solutions won can be delivered by combining our portal management costs and automate the global award for best Trade Finance solutions, such as cash management, previously manual processes.
Tech-Vendor in Trade Finance Magazines Awards for Excellence.
Sales order intake grew by over 50% this year, including 26 new customer wins, reinforcing Misys as the leader in trade services solutions.
Misys Trade Portal has been updated with enhanced user-interface tools and KRO KXOTM GR[K improved navigation.
Misys Payment Manager has also 5GZOUTGR GTQ UL 6SGT established itself as a market leader, attracting significant customer wins National Bank of Oman NBO, one We were very impressed by the and demonstrating highly successful of the largest banks in Oman and the fully integrated front-to-back trade implementations in less than six months.
first local bank in the Sultanate, has finance solution offered by Misys.
chosen the Misys trade finance solution The corporate Service Level Enabling new distribution channels as part of its plan to expand its trade Agreement-driven workow and for retail banking customers finance business.
The Misys solution business dashboard incorporated Impressive progress has been made will help the bank launch innovative into the system were important by our online banking portfolio.
The trade products as well as increasing differentiating factors.
We are Misys personal finance solution for traditional trade volumes.
confident that Misys TI Plus and retail banking customers has enjoyed Trade Portal will help us to meet The integrated solution combines the our growth targets for our traditional power of the back-ofce processing products as well as newer ones, system, Misys TI Plus, with the awardsuch as factoring.
winning Misys Trade Portal, the e-business console.
This will enable Humayun Kabir customers to connect seamlessly to General Manager Wholesale NBO and conduct their international Banking, National Bank of Oman trade business at the same time as accessing a wide range of financial supply chain services.
