Business review Misys Leading technology and innovation :XKGY[X GVOZGR 4GXQKZY :UMKZNKX ]OZN ZNK TK]R GIW[OXKJ 4OY Y :UVNOY JO OYOUT ]K GXK ZNK RKGJOTM YULZ]GXK VXU OJKX ZU ZNK IGVOZGR SGXQKZY ]OZN ZNK HXUGJKYZ GYYKZ IRGYY IU KXGMK GTJ HOMMKYZ I[YZUSKX OTYZGRRKJ HGYK OT ZNK OTJ[YZX Leading provider to the Actions and progress capital markets We continued to win new customers Treasury & Capital Markets TCM is a We improved our market position again global leader in its industry and provides this year, adding 25 new customers: a number of fully-integrated solutions and significant customers wins included a services to financial institutions, including: large tier 1 bank in the United States, cross-asset, front-to-back portfolio and Macquarie Bank in Australia, OSK in risk management systems, commercial Malaysia, BEAC in the Cameroon, Hypo loan trading and processing systems, Real Estate in Germany and Mizrahi Bank and conrmation matching systems for in Israel.
We continued to expand our the foreign exchange, derivatives and presence in China with six new name precious metals markets.
banks, bringing our total Chinese customer base to 35.
We also added TCM predominantly sells and implements three new name banks in Mexico, Ed Ho Executive Vice President its solutions with sell-side rms, extending our position in this fast growing and General Manager corporations, government-sponsored market.
In general, mid-tier banks were entities and asset servicers.
Together with less affected by the financial crisis and the newly acquired Misys Sophis division, have been active with their IT spend: Business summary we are the leading provider of software 21 out of our 25 new name wins were solutions to the capital markets with more mid-tier banks, and 32 of our customers 3 Total revenue 185m up 3% than 20 years experience and over 500 in this segment went live last scal year.
3 Total order intake 108m down 3% customers globally, including 19 of the top 3 Adjusted operating profit 43m 20 capital markets rms, and covering all We enhanced our market-leading up 2% as a result of strong cost segments of the market, including the solutions controls whilst maintaining TCM markets, asset managers, hedge Last scal year, we released new investment in technology and funds and life insurance companies.
versions of software for each of our feature upgrades three key solutions: Summit FT v5.5, 3 Adjusted operating margin Our customers use our solutions to Opics Plus v3.1, and Loan IQ v7.1.
maintained at 23% enable more effective and efficient trading 3 25 new name customers performance and processing, improved Summit FT v5.5 monitoring and reporting, and risk Added business intelligence, management across all asset classes.
advanced reporting capabilities During the past few years, financial and functional improvements in institutions have remained focused FX options and equities on improving efficiency and generating Added new back ofce and cost savings across their IT platforms.
reconciliation capabilities through Many have turned to integrated solutions our partnership with SmartStream such as ours that offer the benets of Commenced a major technology automation via straight-through processing refresh with the aim of componentising STP and are looking to reduce the the system in a service-oriented number of systems that they need to architecture SOA over a three year support.
This is especially true in light period.
This programme will leverage of industry consolidation, where the BankFusion platform capabilities to organisations are less inclined to support enable interoperability of functionality multiple infrastructures across businesses across our TCM systems Financial performance measures reported that have merged or been acquired.
See the financial review for reconciliation to as reported measures.
28 Annual Report 2011 Business review Misys Leading technology and innovation Strategy update Lead: 2-4 years Future 3 Extend product portfolio coverage 3 Target needs of mid-tier banks and functionality 3 Expand footprint in emerging Achieved with further economies developments planned 3 Continue with STP and system consolidation opportunities 3 Boost services capability 3 Continue technology upgrade and capacity programme across all solutions Achieved 3 Improve breadth and depth of system functionality to support 3 Extend into higher value customer needs service offerings 3 Generate revenue opportunities Achieved with Misys Sophis through crosssale efforts 3 Increase use of partnerships Achieved new name customers Opics Plus v3.1 We are helping our customers respond working closely together on cross-selling We encountered some issues with early to tough conditions opportunities and we expect to be able customers upgrading to Opics Plus v3.
x Regulation and compliance are high on to drive deeper into this market and software during the year.
We have now everyones agenda as many organisations leverage Misys Sophis leading position largely worked through these issues are compelled to upgrade their systems to in the buy-side, equities and equity but they did have a short term negative meet regulatory requirements.
We aim to achieve significant impact on Opics Plus revenue growth.
regulations are changing rapidly many of revenue synergies over the next three which are still being discussed and are years across our existing customer base We now have: becoming more stringent.
Added new blotters and double-byte that this will drive the demand for new capabilities to meet requirements solutions and will continue to shape our Maintaining leadership in countries such as China, where product roadmaps.
We are currently Our priority in the coming year will be we have significant market share developing new functionality for Central to maintain and build on our leadership 13 Opics Plus upgrades in the year Counterparty Clearing, with the input of position by strengthening our client and 15 customers are now live on an some of our customers, with the first phase partner relationships, integrating the Opics Plus v3.
x release of delivery in September 2011.
We also Misys Sophis skills and expertise with We expect many more of our Opics won our first standalone risk management TCM, and continuing to invest in our customers to upgrade to version 3. x deal in China with Shanghai Pudong Bank people, our technology and the value this coming scal year to assist them with their Basel compliance propositions of our solutions.
We expect to and compliance will drive the demand Loan IQ v 7.1 leverage this solution and extend it to our for our new solutions, and will continue Released the Java version of other customers in China.
to shape our product roadmaps.
the software Performance and scalability, especially Enhanced our bi-lateral lending We are generating new revenue across vanilla asset classes, are capabilities for commercial lending, opportunities becoming much more relevant as including significant performance One of our key goals for this year was transaction volumes rise exponentially.
and scalability enhancements to extend our presence in the buy-side Delivering further improvements in these Added double-byte capabilities market.
This has been achieved with the areas will be of paramount importance for the Asia Pacic market acquisition and ongoing integration of the to our continued success.
Three customers in early adopter Misys Sophis business.
Our divisions are status upgrading to this release We have built new web-based portals Misys has been a key strategic across all three key solutions enabling vendor to our rm, with Summit, our clients to interact directly with Misys Sophis RISQUE and Loan IQ their customers, and giving them a as significant systems in our IT hub.
competitive edge through online client The acquisition of Sophis further access.
We have successfully sold these strengthens the interrelationships portal solutions into the Summit, Opics between our two companies, and Plus and Loan IQ customer bases.
we look forward to the further integration of the solutions and the stronger value propositions that Misys will provide for us.
Marnix van Stiphout ING Bank Annual Report 2011 29
