Overview Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 Key a A Non-Executive Director 1.
Tim Jones, aged 48 b A member of the Audit Committee bcde e Executive Chairman Finance Director c A member of the Remuneration Committee Appointed as Executive Chairman in October Tim was appointed Finance Director in d A member of the Nomination Committee 2011 having been Interim Non-Executive October 2010.
Prior to joining the Company, e A member of the Executive Committee Chairman since July 2011.
Bob has over he held the position of Group Finance Director Ages correct at 21 November 2011.
30 years of extensive food and beverage for Interserve plc, a support services group.
experience with a particular focus on food-led, Previously, he was Director of Financial managed restaurants and pubs.
He is currently Operations at Novar and held senior financial Senior Independent Director of Britvic plc, roles both in the UK and overseas in the Chairman of David Lloyd Leisure Limited logistics company, Exel plc.
Tim is a member and a Board adviser to the Delphi Partnership, of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in a corporate finance advisory firm.
He was England and Wales and obtained an MA in previously a main board director of S&N plc in Economics at Cambridge University.
the role of Chairman and Managing Director of the Scottish & Newcastle retail division.
Doug Evans, aged 49 e He has also been Chairman of Regent Inns, Company Secretary & General Counsel Chairman of Park Resorts, Chairman of Next Appointed to the Board in October 2011 Generation Clubs, Managing Director of having held the position of Company Beefeater Restaurants, one of Whitbreads Secretary & General Counsel since he pub restaurant brands and a director of The joined Mitchells & Butlers in January 2011.
Doug was previously at Royal Mail where he was Group General Counsel.
Ron Robson, aged 48 this he held Company Secretary & Corporate abcd Deputy Chairman Legal Director positions at Exel plc and Appointed as Deputy Chairman in July Engen Limited.
2011, Ron is currently a senior executive with Tavistock Group and is a nominated 5.
Douglas McMahon, aged 46 abcd shareholder representative of Piedmont Inc. Non-Executive Director He was previously Chief Financial Officer of Appointed a Non-Executive Director in Tamar Capital Partners and Group Finance October 2010, Douglas is a Managing Director Director of Kenmore, both property of Tavistock Group and is a nominated investment and management groups.
From shareholder representative of Piedmont Inc. 2005 to 2008 he was Group Finance Director He has two decades of marketing experience, of The Belhaven Group plc, a listed pub previously serving as Chairman and CEO retailing, brewing and drink distribution of Publicis New York, General Manager of group.
Prior to that he held a number of J. Walter Thompson New York and Chief senior finance roles including Group Finance Marketing Officer at Consumer News and Director of a listed shipping and logistics Business Channel CNBC.
group, and trained as a Chartered Accountant with Arthur Andersen.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2011 13
