Overview Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Key performance indicators It is a key principle of the Group to align In FY 2011 Mitchells & Butlers implemented the interests of the Directors and other and monitored its performance against its employees with those of its shareholders.
strategy principally through three KPIs.
Executive remuneration therefore includes measures linked to the KPIs below.
Full The performance in the year was as follows: details of the various schemes in operation are shown from page 26 in the Report on Directors remuneration.
KPI KPI definitions Progress in FY 2011 1.
Same outlet like-for-like sales growth The sales this year compared to the sales in the Mitchells & Butlers operational and previous year of all UK managed sites that were marketing plans have delivered like-for-like trading in the two periods being compared, sales growth of 2.6% in FY 2011 compared expressed as a percentage.
KPI KPI definitions Progress in FY 2011 2.
EPS growth Adjusted earnings per share for the year The disposal of the non-core pubs, bowls compared to last year, as reported in the and lodges resulted in Group operating financial statements, expressed as a percentage.
profits down by 8.7% and EPS by 5.7% in FY 2011 up 7.3% and 25.8% respectively in FY 2010.
KPI KPI definitions Progress in FY 2011 3.
Incremental return on expansionary capital Incremental return is the growth in annual site The performance in this area remains well EBITDA expressed as a percentage of the above our cost of capital.
Pre-tax EBITDA associated capital investment for sites having returns of 21% are being achieved on the received expansionary investment over the expansionary capital projects carried out last two financial years.
For sites which have not over the last two years 31% EBITDA as been trading for a full 12 months, incremental at FY 2010. return is estimated based on an annualisation of actual post-investment trading.
Expansionary capital is capital invested to increase the trading area of a site or to materially change the customer offer.
Expansionary capital represents investment over and above the maintenance investment cycle for a site.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2011 09
