Directors report Principal activities Shareholders passed a resolution at the 2011 The Boards responsibilities in Mitchells & Butlers is the leading operator AGM to permit the Directors to undertake respect of the Company include: of managed restaurants and pubs and, as market purchases of up to 40,904,986 of the at 24 September 2011, had an estate of Companys shares.
This authority will expire Determining the overall business and 1,605 sites including 65 leased and franchised at the earlier of the 2012 AGM or 27 March commercial strategy Identifying the long-term objectives sites in the UK, and 39 restaurants in 2012.
No shares have been purchased by the Reviewing the annual operating budget Germany.
In order to reshape Mitchells & Company during the year.
and financial plans Butlers into a food-led business centred Determining the basis of allocation of capital around core concepts which have significant A resolution proposed at the 2011 AGM to Considering all matters relating to a major change of policy growth potential and facilitate withdrawal permit the Directors to allot shares, together from the more price sensitive drinks-led with shares and other relevant securities in For our latest financial information go to: businesses, the Company disposed of 333 connection with a rights issue, was not www.
com investors non-core pubs on 14 November 2010, passed.
Between the AGM and the end of the following the approval of the disposal by year, shares with a nominal value of 33,421 The Directors present their report and the shareholders at a General Meeting held on were allotted under all-employee schemes as audited financial statements for the year 26 October 2010. permitted under Section 549 Companies Act ended 24 September 2011.
No securities were issued in connection businesses, activities and future developments Possible offer from Piedmont Inc. with a rights issue during the year.
of the Company and its subsidiaries is given On 12 September 2011, Piedmont Inc. on pages 1 to 11 which, together with the announced that it was considering making The Company is not aware of any agreements Corporate governance statement and Audit an offer for Mitchells & Butlers, at 230p per between shareholders that restrict the transfer Committee report, are incorporated by share.
The Independent Directors of Mitchells of shares or voting rights attached to the shares.
reference into this report and, accordingly, & Butlers plc comprising Bob Ivell, Jeremy should be read as part of this report.
Blood and Tim Jones announced that they Interests of the Directors and their immediate would not recommend an offer, if made, on families in the issued share capital of the Details of the Groups policy on addressing such terms.
Company as at the year end are on page 33 risks are given on pages 10 to 11 and 21 to of the Report on Directors remuneration.
22 and details about financial instruments are On 13 October 2011, Piedmont Inc. shown in note 19 to the financial statements.
announced that it had decided not to Dividends These sections include information about proceed with an offer for the Company.
No final dividend will be paid in respect of the trends and factors likely to affect the future year ended 24 September 2011 2010 nil.
development and performance of the Share capital No interim dividend was paid during the year Groups business.
The Company undertakes The Companys issued ordinary share capital 2010 nil.
no obligation to update forward-looking as at 24 September 2011 comprised a single statements.
class of ordinary shares of which 409,467,418 Interests in voting rights shares were in issue and listed on the London As at the date of this report, the Company was Associated key performance indicators for the Stock Exchange 25 September 2010 aware of the following interests in its shares: Groups business are set out on page 9.
Details of movements in Ordinary % of the issued share capital can be found in note Shareholder shares capital This report has been prepared for, and only 22 to the financial statements on page 67.
Piedmont Inc. 93,463,000 22.82% for, the members of the Company as a body, Each share carries the right to one vote at Elpida Group Ltd 85,020,885 20.76% and no other persons.
The Company, its general meetings of the Company.
All issued Baillie Gifford 21,688,977 5.30% Directors, employees, agents or advisers do shares are fully paid up and carry no additional Legal & General 14,533,901 3.55% Smoothfield Holding Limited 14,185,101 3.46% not accept or assume responsibility to any obligations or special rights.
There are no other person to whom this document is restrictions on transfers of shares in the U sing the total voting rights figure announced to shown or into whose hands it may come and Company, or on the exercise of voting rights the London Stock Exchange on 31 October 2011 any such responsibility or liability is expressly attached to them, other than those which of 409,502,671. disclaimed.
may from time to time be applicable under existing laws and regulations.
At the year end, 429 shares were held in Treasury and the Companys employee share trusts held 2,539,988 shares.
Mitchells & Butlers plc 14 Annual report and accounts 2011 Overview Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors Directors indemnity Essential contracts or arrangements Details of the Directors as at 21 November As permitted by the Articles of Association, The Company has a number of contractual 2011 and their biographies are shown on the Directors have the benefit of an indemnity agreements with suppliers in support of its page 13.
The Directors at 24 September 2011 which is a qualifying third party indemnity business activities.
Whilst the loss of some and their interests in shares are shown on provision as defined by Section 234 of the of these arrangements may cause temporary page 33.
Changes to the Board of Directors Companies Act 2006.
The indemnity was disruption, none are considered to be during the year and subsequent to the year in force throughout the last financial year, essential to the business of Mitchells end are set out in full in the Corporate and is currently in force.
governance statement on page 19. also purchased and maintained throughout the financial year Directors and Officers Change of control provisions The powers of the Companys Directors liability insurance in respect of itself and its There are no significant agreements which are set out in the Companys Articles of Directors.
No indemnity is provided for the contain provisions entitling other parties to Association.
Directors are appointed in Companys auditor.
exercise termination or other rights in the accordance with the Articles of Association, event of a change of control of the Company.
which require any mid-year appointee to Conflicts of interest stand for reappointment at the next AGM.
The Companys Articles of Association There are no provisions in the Directors or Directors who wish to continue in their role permit the Board to consider and, if it sees fit, employees service agreements providing for must submit themselves for re-election at authorise situations where a Director has an compensation for loss of office or employment an AGM at least every three years and, in interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, occurring because of a takeover.
addition, such further Directors if any must with the interests of the Company Situational retire by rotation to bring the number retiring Conflicts.
The Board has a formal system in The trustee of the Mitchells & Butlers Share by rotation up to one-third of the number of place for Directors to declare Situational Incentive Plan will invite participants on whose Directors in office at the date of the notice Conflicts to be considered for authorisation behalf it holds shares to direct it how to vote of meeting.
Any Director appointed during by those Directors who have no interest in the in respect of those shares, and if there is an the year will not be counted in determining matter being considered.
In deciding whether offer for the shares or other transaction which the one-third who should stand for re-election to authorise a Situational Conflict, the nonwould lead to a change of control of the by rotation.
Over and above this, at the conflicted Directors are required to act in the Company, participants may direct it to accept 2012 AGM, the Company will comply way they consider would be most likely to the offer or agree to the transaction.
7.1 of the UK Corporate promote the success of the Company for the trustee of the Mitchells & Butlers Employee Governance Code which states that all benefit of all shareholders, and they may Benefit Trust may, having consulted with the directors of FTSE 350 companies should be impose limits or conditions when giving Company, vote or abstain from voting any subject to annual election by shareholders.
authorisation, or subsequently, if they think shares it holds or accept or reject an offer this is appropriate.
The Board believes that relating to shares in any way it sees fit, and it Under a Deed of Appointment between the systems it has in place for reporting and may take all or any of the following matters Piedmont Inc. and the Company, Piedmont considering Situational Conflicts continue to into account: the long-term interests of Inc. has the right to appoint two shareholder operate effectively.
beneficiaries, the non-financial interests of directors to the Board whilst it owns 22% beneficiaries, the interests of beneficiaries or more of the issued share capital of the Related party transactions in their capacity as employees or former Company, and the right to appoint one Internal controls are in place to ensure that employees, the interests of future shareholder director to the Board whilst it any related party transactions involving beneficiaries and considerations of a local, owns more than 16% of the Company but Directors or their connected persons are moral, ethical, environmental or social nature.
In the event that Piedmont Inc. carried out on an arms length basis and are owns less than 16% of the Company any such properly recorded.
The rules of certain of the Companys shareholder directors would be required to share plans include provisions which apply resign immediately.
in the event of a takeover or reconstruction, as set out below.
Provisions which apply in the event of a takeover or reconstruction Share plan Provision in the event of a takeover Long-Term Incentive Plan Awards vest pro rata to performance and time elapsed, alternatively participants may be allowed or required by the Company to exchange their awards Performance Restricted Share Plan Awards vest pro rata to performance and time elapsed and lapse six months later Short-Term Deferred Incentive Plan Bonus shares may be released or exchanged for shares in the new controlling company Executive Share Option Plan Options may be exercised within six months of a change of control Sharesave Plan Options may be exercised within six months of a change of control Share Incentive Plan Free shares may be released or exchanged for shares in the new controlling company Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2011 15 Directors report continued Employment policies We provide opportunities for employees Policy on payment of suppliers The Group employed an average of 40,728 to give their feedback to the Company in a Mitchells & Butlers plc is a holding company people in 2011 2010 44,600. number of ways, from team or shift meetings and has no trade creditors.
in restaurants and pubs, discussion groups Through our diversity and equal opportunities with Executive Committee members, annual The policy of its principal operating policy, the Company aims to provide an surveys for all employees and the Mitchells subsidiaries is to agree particular terms with environment which enables job candidates & Butlers annual Business Forum.
Business major suppliers and to abide by those terms, with disabilities to perform better by seeking, Forum representatives collect questions from subject to satisfactory performance by the where possible, to make reasonable employees across the Company and put supplier.
Amounts owed to other suppliers are adjustments.
Through our online recruitment them to a special Executive Committee.
settled in the month following that in which system, candidates can inform us direct The questions and answers are published the subsidiaries receive a valid invoice.
The about their disability, so that we can make in Whats Cooking.
average number of days the Group takes to adjustments, enabling them to perform to the pay an invoice is 38 days 2010 40 days.
best of their ability on assessment events.
Employee engagement Whats the Big Idea?, is a company-wide Charitable donations and Should any employee of the Company initiative where employees are encouraged to charitable activity become disabled during their time with submit their ideas for improving the business, The Company continues to support us, we actively make adjustments, including environmentally, financially or otherwise, via community initiatives and charitable causes, arranging appropriate training, to keep the our dedicated employee website.
full details of which are given on page 6 in the employee with us.
We take steps both to Corporate social responsibility section of this increase the effectiveness of employees Our retail teams participate in e-learning, Annual report.
with disabilities and to ensure they are in covering food, health and fire safety, a suitable role.
A more detailed account Challenge 21 and Intermediate Food Hygiene.
Political donations can be found in our separately published The Company made no political donations Social Responsibility Review 2011 at Mitchells & Butlers is keen to encourage during the year and intends to maintain its www.
com responsibility greater employee involvement in the Groups policy of not making such payments.
It will, performance through share ownership.
It however, as a precautionary measure to Employee communication operates two HMRC approved all-employee avoid inadvertent breach of the law, seek Mitchells & Butlers communicates with its plans, which are the Sharesave Plan and the shareholder authority at its 2012 AGM to employees on a frequent basis and in a Share Incentive Plan.
The Company also make limited donations or incur limited number of ways to suit their different working operates four other plans on a selective basis, political expenditure, although it has no patterns.
This includes: which are the Performance Restricted Share intention of using the authority.
Plan, the Short-Term Deferred Incentive Plan, a corporate intranet website: the Executive Share Option Plan and the Funding and liquidity risk a dedicated external website for Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Further details In order to ensure that the Groups long-term retail employees: on the plans are set out in the Report on funding strategy is aligned with its strategic email news alerts: Directors remuneration.
objectives, the Treasury Committee letters: regularly assesses the maturity profile of line manager briefings: During the year, the Company has remained the Groups debt, alongside the prevailing e-newsletters for mobile workers: within its headroom limits for the issue of new financial projections and three year plan.
a monthly magazine poster, shares for share plans as set out in the rules This enables it to ensure that funding levels Whats Cooking, for the retail estate: and of the above plans.
The Company uses an are appropriate to support the Groups plans.
communications forums or road shows employee benefit trust to acquire shares in held by function or brand across the market when appropriate to satisfy share the Company.
awards in order to manage headroom under the plan rules.
No shares in the Company Details of the financial and economic factors were purchased by the employee benefit affecting the performance of the Company are trust during FY 2011. shared with all employees at the appropriate time using the methods listed above.
Mitchells & Butlers plc 16 Annual report and accounts 2011 Overview Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The current funding arrangements of the Annual General Meeting Group consist primarily of the securitised The notice convening the Annual General notes issued by Mitchells & Butlers Finance Meeting is contained in a circular sent to plc and associated liquidity facility.
Further shareholders with this report and includes information regarding these arrangements full details of the resolutions proposed.
The terms of the securitisation contain a number of financial Auditor and operational covenants.
Compliance Following a competitive tender during with these covenants is monitored by the year, Deloitte LLP was appointed as Group treasury.
auditor to the group and Ernst & Young LLP resigned.
Deloitte LLP has expressed its The Group prepares a rolling daily cash willingness to continue in office as auditor forecast covering a six week period and of the Company and its reappointment an annual cash forecast by period.
These will be put to shareholders at the AGM.
forecasts are reviewed on a daily basis and used to manage the investment and borrowing Post-balance sheet events requirements of the Group.
A combination of There are no post-balance sheet events cash pooling and zero balancing agreements to report.
are in place to ensure the optimum liquidity position is maintained.
Committed facilities By order of the Board outside of the securitisation are sized to ensure that the Group can meet its mediumDoug Evans term anticipated cash flow requirements.
Director & Company Secretary 21 November 2011 Going concern The financial statements which appear on pages 36 to 81 have been prepared on a going concern basis as, after making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Additional information for shareholders Following the implementation of the EU Takeovers Directive into UK law, the Company is required to provide certain information for shareholders.
The information required is included elsewhere within this Directors report.
In addition the Company is required to inform shareholders that the Companys Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2011 17
