MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 28 29 An evolving marketplace.
k Market overview k Operating review Accounts Governance Business review Overview MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Marketplace overview Private sector Good opportunities.
63% 1.2bn 2011 Revenue Sector Market MITIE size pa share In existing markets Finance and professional 5bn 4.7% Manufacturing 5bn 2.7% Technology and communications 4bn 3.0% Retail 5bn 3.7% andbeyond.
Property management 6bn 3.2% Utilities 8bn 1.2% As a strategic outsourcing and energy services company, Transport and logistics 11bn 1.1% Construction 9bn 0.5% weserveboth private and public sector clients.
Leisure 6bn 0.9% Our marketplace continues to evolve, driven by theneeds of all Organisations are seeking to drive down clientsto improve efficiency while reducing costs.
Energy remains costs by focusing on integrated services, supplier rationalisation, retendering and amajor expense for many clients and frequently outstrips other innovation.
As companies consolidate, factors in terms of potential savings.
they are examining their cost base and identifying opportunities for outsourcing.
We are working with clients to look at how best to structure Our ability to deliver integrated services is outsourcing solutions, in new and innovative ways.
Weinitiate again proving a key differentiator.
As we capitalexpenditure projects and deliver new energy contracts have seen with the recent contract thatlead to significant reductions notonlyin monetary terms, awards from Vodafone and Rolls-Royce, butalso incarbon emissions, whichis an important issue for many clients are keen to access our strengths in a broader range of integrated allsectors.
Technology is another important driver, as more clients appreciate the value of instant information being displayed via a dashboard on their PC.
We are also experiencing a number of clients choosing to take a whole life view and linking the initial capital expenditure to the lifetime operating expenditure of their contracts.
Critical infrastructure projects such as data centres will be a major challenge for all sectors in the coming years.
A data centre is the hub of a modern organisation, withfailure causing the loss of company- @MITIE Group PLC it is Isams online is great and critical facilities including email and good to see companies convenient!
Well done MITIE access to the internet.
Many organisations thatwe work with committing for introducing it, especially are currently initiating plans to invest to a strategy for growth.
as a oating security officer significant funds in data centre infrastructure #startupbritain.
and the low-carbon energysolutions Richard Betts Nezam Uddin Twitter comment, Facebook comment, topower them.
April 2011 April 2011 Looking at outsourcing activity in thevarious sectors, the financial and professional services area remains particularly active.
Many clients are changing their procurement models andthis has led to high levels of private sector tenders, most especially in the retail, transport and utilities sectors.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Public sector International Emerging growth markets An increasing number of clients We continue to identify opportunities 37% 0.7bn aretakinga pan-European view on innew markets, and recently we were 2011 Revenue procurement.
They want to leverage awarded contracts in two sectors which Sector Market MITIE theirspend in order to reduce costs are new to us.
size pa share andimprove efficiency across national Government 6bn 3.9% In February 2011 we signed our first boundaries.
For example, during the Social housing 9bn 2.3% agreement for the energy provision for a yearRolls-Royce appointed us for the Education 12bn 1.4% waste-to-energy plant.
All energy to the facilities and energy management of Healthcare 10bn 1.0% plant will be sourced from local wood, .
Many of our The UK Government, local authorities with surplus energy being sold back into clientshave an international presence.
andother bodies are initiating cutbacks, the national grid.
Towards the end of 2010, Asthey centralise their procurement many of them significant.
They are wewereawarded a five-year contract operations, we expect that business lookingat expenditure in ne detail bythe Home Office to deliver a full through pan-European contracts 30 fromheadcount to energy cost and this custody and detention service at willincrease.
This 31 Weexpect this trend to remain in place As part of our international strategy, is our first contract inthe prisons sector, an during the coming years.
We believe weacquired Dalkia FM in Irelandand area where we anticipate significant thatoutsourcing has the potential to have developed a seniormanagement future opportunity.
reduce costs while also improving team with globalexperience.
services, and we are well-positioned to This team works closely with our support theUK Governments agenda partnersinService Management ofaddressing the deficit, particularly International SMI to develop inourfocus areas of justice, health,  forMITIE.
According to research, the value of the Mutual ownership models have a EMEA Europe, Middle East and Africa parttoplay in reducing the costs of market for outsourced FM services is in management and administration.
excess of 250 billion, of which around Thesehave worked well in the private 10%is integrated services.
As we sector and are likely to deliver similar lookatvalue-creating opportunities benets in the public sector.
Partnerships acrossEurope for specic clients, between the public and private sector weareincreasingly well-placed are expected to be important as the toexploitthis tremendous potential.
Government seeks to transform the way inwhich services are provided.
Energy costs are a key issue for the public sector but so too are carbon emissions.
The Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme came into effect in April 2010.
The CRC is a huge part of the Governments pledge to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 80% from 1990 levels by 2050.
The scheme will see organisations with total half-hourly metered electricity consumption greater than 6,000 mega watt hours ayear equivalent to approximately 460,000 Using the MITIE model Heading to Ireland electricity spend forced to buy to enter niche markets In June 2010, we acquired the allowances for each tonne of carbon integrated Facilities Management Wayne Felton is Managing Director dioxide CO they emit and be placed business of Dalkia in Ireland.
2 of Property Solutions, our latest ina league table according to their Itprovides integrated FM solutions start-up and living proof that we fora range of clients in both the energy performance.
are passionate about providing public and private sectors, opportunities for entrepreneurs operatingin a variety of industries Through our CarbonCare service, we are usingthe MITIE model.
Property including technology and Solutions complements our existing helping all organisations, including those communications, transport and Property Management business, in the public sector, to manage their logistics, manufacturing, utilities managing both domestic and energy use and carbon footprint.
This acquisition allows commercial property insurance us to further support our clients claims.
It manages large, overseas, and we are delighted to non-emergency insurance claims, welcome the management team as well as emergency response and employees.
services via a 24-hour customer service centre.
Accounts Governance Business review Overview
