MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Larry Hirst CBE %RDUG RI 'LUHFWRUV Non-Executive Director Member of the Audit Committee Roger Matthews Larry joined MITIE as a Non-Executive Director on Non-Executive Chairman 1 February 2010.
He held the position of Chairman of IBM Chairman of the Nomination Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Europe, Middle East and Africa until July 2010 and held a number of senior positions during his 32 year career with Roger was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of MITIE IBM including General Manager, IBM Northern Region and Group PLC in December 2006 and was later appointed Chief Executive IBM UK and Ireland.
Larry was previously as Non-Executive Chairman in July 2008.
Roger previously appointed as Chairman of e-skills Sector Skills Council.
held the roles of Group Finance Director of J Sainsbury plc Larry was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of ARM and Group Managing Director and Group Finance Holdings plc in January 2011 and is also Non-Executive Director of Compass Group PLC.
Roger is Non-Executive Chairman of UK Trade and Industry Technology Board, Chairman of LSL Property Services PLC, a Non-Executive a Commissioner of the UK Commission for Employment Director of Zetar PLC and Trustee of Cancer Research UK.
and Skills and a UK Business Ambassador.
Ian Stewart David Jenkins Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Senior Independent Director Ian was appointed as Chief Executive of MITIE Group PLC Chairman of the Audit Committee in 2001 and was appointed as Non-Executive Deputy Member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees Chairman in March 2007.
Ian was a founding member of David was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in MITIE.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Generation UK 46 March 2006.
David was previously a senior Partner with Limited, suppliers of scaffolding, access and safety systems.
Deloitte LLP in London having spent over 20 years in 47 Assurance and Advisory Services.
David is Chairman Ruby McGregor-Smith of Development Securities PLC and a Non-Executive Chief Executive Director of Renewable Energy Systems Holdings Limited.
Ruby was appointed as Group Finance Director of MITIE He is a Governor of Downe House School.
Group PLC in December 2002, later appointed as Chief Operating Officer in September 2005 and subsequently as Terry Morgan CBE Chief Executive in March 2007.
Prior to joining MITIE, Ruby Non-Executive Director held a range of senior roles within the support services Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Audit and Nomination Committees sector, primarily at Serco Group plc.
In addition, she is a Non-Executive Director of Michael Page International plc.
Terry was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in July During the year, Ruby was appointed to the board of 2009.
He is currently Chairman of Crossrail and holds trustee directors for the Business in the Community BitC positions at M J Gleeson Group PLC, Invest in Thames organisation and continues to act as Chair of Race for Gateway London Limited, Manufacturing Technology Opportunity, a part of the BitC organisation with a focus Centre Limited and the National Skills Academy for Railway on diversity in the workplace.
Terry was previously Chief Executive of Tube Lines Limited and has also held positions with BAE Systems, Rover Group PLC and Lucas Girling Limited.
Suzanne Baxter Group Finance Director Graeme Potts Suzanne was appointed as Group Finance Director of Non-Executive Director MITIE Group PLC in April 2006.
Suzanne is a Chartered Member of the Remuneration Committee Accountant.
Prior to joining MITIE, she specialised in Graeme was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in mergers and acquisitions related transaction support July 2006.
Graeme previously held appointments with and also held a number of commercial and operational Inchcape PLC, RAC Motoring Services and Reg Vardy plc.
roles with Serco Group plc.
Suzanne holds a seat on the He is a Non-Executive Director of BEN, the Motor & Allied Opportunity Now Advisory Board, a part of the BitC Trades Benevolent Fund and is Non-Executive Chairman organisation with a focus on gender diversity in the of Bikers Legal Defence Limited.
Graeme is Managing workplace, and is also a member of the Finance and Director of Eden GM Limited, a motor retail group.
Bill Robson Executive Director Bill joined MITIE Group PLC in January 1992 following the acquisition of Trident Maintenance Services Limited.
He was appointed as an Executive Director in August 2001 and now holds the position of Managing Director of the Groups Property Management division.
Accounts Go Gov five errn nanc ance e Business review Overview MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 'LUHFWRUV UHSRUW &RPSOLDQFH ZLWK WKH &RGH The Board recognises that the manner in which the group is governed is critical to the long-term success of the business and is committed to the principles of corporate governance, for which the Board is accountable to shareholders, as detailed in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2008 the Code.
In May 2010, the Financial Reporting Council FRC introduced the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 the New Code.
The disclosure requirements of the New Code apply to companies with accounting periods commencing on or after 29 June 2010.
Accordingly, the disclosure requirements of the New Code will be reported in the 2012 corporate governance statement, however all other provisions of a continuing nature are referred to where relevant within this statement.
This report, together with the Directors remuneration report, provides details of key aspects of MITIEs corporate governance environment and explains the manner in which the Board has applied the principles and provisions of good governance as set out in Section 1 of the Code and the New Code where relevant.
Throughout the reporting period, significant consideration has been given to the balance of the Board and its Committees and the Board is conscious of any non-compliance with the Code.
During the year and before the retirement of Roger Goodman on 31 March 2011, the Board reflected a ratio of 4:5 of independent Directors to nonindependent Directors excluding the Chairman compared to a 1:1 requirement under the Code.
The Board confirms that the group has complied with all relevant provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code throughout the year other than as noted above.
With effect from 1 April 2011, the Board complies with the provisions of Code A.
3 and has going forward an equal number of independent and non-independent Directors excluding the Chairman.
%RDUG VWUXFWXUH DQG OHDGHUVKLS Role of the Board The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company and accordingly, reviews and agrees the strategy for the group proposed by the Executive Directors on an annual basis.
In setting the strategy, the Board takes account of key matters such as market trends, competitive environment, private public sector approach, international aspects, people and talent and the MITIE model as explained further below ensuring at all times that sufficient consideration is given to risk and internal controls.
Matters that are exclusively dealt with by the Board include: setting group objectives and strategies, approving business plans and budgets and monitoring performance against these, approving material acquisitions, disposals and business start-ups, including any material transactions outside of the normal course of business, approving the Groups Half-yearly and Annual Report and Accounts, appointing and removing the Chairman, Directors and Company Secretary, management of the groups risk profile and monitoring the groups corporate governance arrangements.
Approvals are managed in accordance with the groups delegated authorities and matters are also set out in a schedule of matters reserved for the Board which is available at www.
Roles and responsibilities There is a clear division of responsibility between the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive as formally set out in the terms of reference for each of these roles.
The Chairman is a Non-Executive Director and is responsible for the effective running and leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness.
The Chairman liaises with the Company Secretary on the annual Board plan, agrees and sets the Board agendas, ensuring at all times that there is sufficient time allocated for strategic discussions.
The Chairman encourages openness and fluid communication between Executive and Non-Executive Directors, a culture which has been facilitated by meetings between the Chairman and individual Directors.
The Chairman ensures that the Non-Executive Directors contribute effectively and that the Executive and Non-Executive Directors are aware of the views of major shareholders.
He is also responsible for ensuring that the Board addresses major challenges faced by MITIE and for the effective performance of the Board and its committees.
The Chairman is available to consult with shareholders throughout the year and will be available at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
The Chief Executive is responsible for all aspects of the operation and management of the group and its business within the authorities delegated by the Board.
She is responsible for developing and effectively implementing strategy following approval of the strategic and financial plan by the Board.
The Chief Executives remit includes proposing investment into new business and geographical areas and ensuring at all times that the groups risk profile is appropriately considered.
She ensures the timely and accurate disclosure of information to the Board and to shareholders.
She leads the Executive Directors and senior management team in the day-to-day running of the groups business under clear delegation of authority from the Board.
The Chief Executive maintains regular dialogue with the Chairman on all important Company matters and together they provide coherent leadership of the group.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Non-Executive Directors are responsible for exercising their independent skill and judgement.
In reviewing the proposals for the strategic direction of the group, the Non-Executive Directors constructively challenge and probe the Executive Directors, offering a breadth of knowledge, experience and individual skills.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors are responsible for contributing to the formulation and development of strategy.
During the reporting period, the Non-Executive Directors held one-to-one meetings with certain senior divisional management teams to gain wider understanding and appreciation for the business when approving strategy.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors monitor high level corporate reporting and satisfy themselves as to the integrity of financial information and the operation of key financial controls.
The terms of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors and the Executive Directors service contracts are available for inspection at MITIEs registered office, the head office and at the AGM.
The role of the Senior Independent Director is to make himself available to shareholders should they have concerns which have not been resolved through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Group Finance Director or for which such contact is inappropriate in the circumstances.
The Senior Independent Director in particular reviews information on major shareholders and financial analysis to obtain a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of shareholders.
Explained further below is the Senior Independent Directors role in succession planning and performance evaluation for the Chairman.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring good communication flows within the Board and its committees and ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
Director indemnity The Company maintains Directors and officers liability insurance, providing appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its Directors and or officers.
The Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company extend the protection provided to Directors in respect of any litigation against Directors relating to their position as a Director 48 of the Company, and specifically provide that the Company may indemnify Directors against any liability incurred in connection with any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust in relation to the Company and that the 49 Company may fund defence costs.
Individual Directors would still be liable to pay damages awarded to the Company in any action against them by the Company and to repay their defence costs to the extent funded by the Company if their defence was unsuccessful.
Accounts Go Gov five errn nanc ance e Business review Overview MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 'LUHFWRUV UHSRUW FRUSRUDWH JRYHUQDQFH VWDWHPHQW %RDUG HIIHFWLYHQHVV Composition of the Board The membership of the Board as at 31 March 2011 and biographical details of the Directors including details of committee chairmanships and other positions held are given on page 47.
During the year one Executive Director, Roger Goodman, retired from the Board.
7.1 of the New Code, all Directors will submit themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM and details are provided in the Notice of AGM which is also available at www.
During the year, Non-Executive Director independence was considered by the Board.
The Board determined that all Non-Executive Directors as at 31 March 2011, with the exception of the Deputy Chairman Ian Stewart, were independent in mind and judgement, and free from any material relationship that could interfere with their ability to discharge their duties effectively.
Specific consideration was given to David Jenkins prior role with Deloitte LLP MITIEs external auditors and his term of appointment.
The Board determined that David is independent given that he had not been involved in the provision of services to MITIE and the passage of time since his departure from Deloitte LLP in May 2004.
The Board has determined that David continues to provide independent influence and constructive support to the Group in his role as Senior Independent Director.
As part of the ongoing review of Board performance the Nomination Committee and the Board specifically reviewed the roles of Chairman and Senior Independent Director, and the composition and chairmanship of each of its committees.
The Board is satisfied that its composition is appropriate having regard in particular to the integrity, skills, knowledge and experience of its Directors and the size and nature of the business, and having regard to its desire that the Board does not become too large and unwieldy.
The Board as at 31 March 2011, following Roger Goodmans retirement, was comprised of four independent Non-Executive Directors: a Non-Executive Director deemed nonindependent as a result of his prior role as Chief Executive of the group, the Non-Executive Chairman and three Executive Directors.
The Board has four formally constituted committees: the Audit Committee, the Executive Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee for which the duties and responsibilities of each are set out in the terms of reference which are available at www.
All Board committees are provided with sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
Further details in relation to the composition, role and functioning of each committee are set out within this Directors report, with the exception of the Remuneration Committee which is explained further in the Remuneration report on page 61.
The Executive Committee members are Ruby McGregor-Smith, Suzanne Baxter, Bill Robson and, until his retirement as a Director on 31 March 2011, Roger Goodman.
It functions primarily as an approval and signing committee and meets on an ad hoc basis, as and when required.
Powers are specifically delegated to the Committee by the Board as evidenced in the Board minutes and the group Delegated Authorities Register, and the Committee are instructed to revert to the Board should any further decision making be required.
In addition, the group operates an Executive Board.
It is not a formally constituted committee of the Board, operating solely under the delegated powers of the Chief Executive, but is charged with supporting the Chief Executive in the operational management of the group.
Board appointments The Nomination Committee leads the process for appointments to the Board and makes appropriate recommendations to the Board.
Directors are appointed and may be removed in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company and the provisions of the Companies Acts.
As at 23 May 2011, the members of the Committee are: Roger Matthews Committee Chairman, David Jenkins and Terry Morgan.
Ruby McGregor-Smith stepped down from the Committee during the year but continues to attend meetings at the invitation of the Chairman.
During the year, the Committee met to evaluate the balance and composition of the Board.
The Committee is committed to ensuring that new Directors bring the requisite skills, knowledge and experience required for the role being considered.
It oversaw the Board succession planning with relation to the retirement of Roger Goodman and determined that his responsibilities be maintained by the Executive Board members.
In considering any succession for the role of the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director chairs the Committee.
In addition, with support from the newly appointed Group HR director, the Committee has introduced a separate meeting in the coming year, which will be attended by the Chief Executive and Group HR director, to address succession planning for the Board and across the Group to ensure that there is a sufficient mix of experience and skills.
The Committee recognises the need for the Board to have a balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company as outlined in B.
1 of the New Code and in the search for new candidates, the Committee has due regard for the benefits of diversity, including gender, in line with section B.
New Director appointments recommended to the Board by the Committee are undertaken in accordance with the Committees objective appointment and recruitment process.
Director commitments Executive Directors are permitted to accept appointments outside the group provided permission is sought from the Chairman and the Chief Executive and that the additional appointments do not interfere with the Directors ability to discharge their duties effectively.
The commitments outside the group of the Executive Directors are detailed in the Remuneration report on page 64.
Executive Directors are entitled to retain any fees earned from these external appointments.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Director development The Board has a general policy that each new Director receives a tailored induction suitable to their role which includes visits to Company and key client sites, and that all new Directors receive a tailored information pack which includes a copy of MITIEs Memorandum and Articles of Association, latest Annual Report and Accounts, committee terms of reference and copies of recent Board minutes and supporting papers.
In addition to the induction pack, all Directors receive a copy of the Board Handbook, which contains essential information such as Board and committee terms of reference, an overview of Directors statutory duties, corporate governance and regulatory guidelines, a copy of the Board delegated authorities and an overview of the Companys insurance arrangements.
The Handbook is reviewed and updated regularly as and when regulatory developments arise.
Director information and support Directors are supplied with an agenda and supporting papers for all Board meetings in a timely manner and, in the same timeframe, have access to a secure facility for accessing board packs electronically.
This ensures that each Director is appropriately briefed and able to discharge their duties properly.
Papers submitted regularly for the Boards review include reports on health and safety, current trading and performance, corporate development activities and briefings from the Company Secretary on matters relating to corporate governance.
The Board will also receive, from time to time, detailed presentations from non-Board members on operational matters.
The Board, its committees and its Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and, where appropriate, external independent legal advice funded by MITIE.
In addition to scheduled Board and committee meetings during the year, the Chairman met the Non-Executive Directors on several occasions without the Executive Directors being present and the chairman of the Audit Committee meets with the Group Finance Director on a regular basis.
All Directors are expected to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively 50 and, where possible, attend all Board meetings and the AGM.
Any time commitment matters are addressed by the Chairman with the Director concerned.
During the year ended 31 March 2011, there were six scheduled Board 51 meetings.
Additional unscheduled Board meetings were held to deal with the review and approval of acquisitions and issues relating to shares and other administrative matters.
Each year, the Board holds a dedicated strategy meeting and a budget meeting.
Directors attendance at scheduled Board and committee meetings Audit, Remuneration and Nomination of which they are members is shown in the following table: Director Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Number of meetings held in year: 6 3 8 1 R J Matthews 6 8 1 I R Stewart 6 1 R McGregor-Smith 6 S C Baxter 6 2 N R Goodman 6 W Robson 6 D S Jenkins 63 81 G J Potts 6 7 T K Morgan CBE 6 3 8 1 L Hirst CBE 63 Note: 1 Ruby McGregor-Smith stepped down from the Nomination Committee in May 2010.
2 Roger Goodman retired from the Board on 31 March 2011.
Directors Interests With regards to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the Code, the New Code, the Companies Acts and related legislation.
The Articles may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
Director conflicts The Board has a formal policy on the declaration and management of director conflicts in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company which has operated effectively during the reporting period.
Any potential situation or transactional conflict must be reported as soon as possible to the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary.
Where a potential conflict is authorised under the statutory powers and powers granted under the Articles of Association to the Board, such conflict is kept under on-going review.
Accounts Go Gov five errn nanc ance e Business review Overview MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 'LUHFWRUV UHSRUW FRUSRUDWH JRYHUQDQFH VWDWHPHQW Board evaluation and re-election The Board is committed to effective and rigorous review of its performance and that of the committees and individual Directors, and accordingly a formal evaluation of the performance and effectiveness of the Board, its committees and of each Director is performed annually.
Director performance evaluation for the current year has been carried out using a combination of formal appraisal questionnaires completed by all Board members and through meetings and discussions.
This process includes feedback on the performance of the Chairman which is reviewed by the Senior Independent Director and independent discussions are held as required with the Non-Executive Directors in order to appraise the performance of the Chairman.
The results of these reviews are reported to the Board and used to improve the Boards performance.
Results of the prior year appraisal process identified an overall level of satisfaction with the performance of the Board and that of its committees and Directors.
Notwithstanding this, several further improvements in Board operation have been implemented during the reporting year, including introducing a separate meeting to deal with strategic planning each year which is followed up with defined actions to be reported back to the Board, clearer focus within management reporting on strategic matters and a strengthening of the HR support for the Remuneration Committee.
As part of the formal Board evaluation, the Board has considered the performance of each Director and is satisfied that they continue to be effective and demonstrate clear commitment to their role.
7.1 of the New Code all Directors are subject to annual re-elections.
The Board is currently considering its approach to the externally facilitated performance evaluation of Directors every three years in accordance with B.
%RDUG DFFRXQWDELOLW Financial and business reporting The Company is required to set out a fair review of the business of the group during the reporting period including an analysis of the position of the group at the end of the reporting period and the principal risks and uncertainties facing the group.
Details of the Business review are contained in this Directors and Governance report and the following sections of this Annual Report and Accounts: the Chairmans statement on page 4 and 5: the Chief Executives review on pages 6 to 11: the Key Performance Indicators on pages 12 to 14: the Marketplace overview on pages 30 and 31: the Operating review which includes the business model on pages 31 to 34: the Sustainability review on pages 35 to 38: the Financial review on pages 39 to 43: and Factors that could affect our business on pages 44 and 45.
Collectively these sections present a balanced assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
They demonstrate how the Directors have acted in the way most likely to promote the success of the Company, explaining how the Company generates and preserves value over the longer term and provides an overview of the strategy for delivering the Companys objectives.
Going concern The Directors acknowledge the Financial Reporting Councils Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies issued in October 2009.
The groups business activities, together with factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business review as referred to on pages 6 to 45.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial review on pages 40 to 43.
In addition, Note 25 to the consolidated financial statements includes details of the groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The groups financial forecasts, taking into account possible sensitivities in trading performance, indicate that the group will be able to operate within the level of its committed borrowing facilities.
The groups committed borrowing facilities comprise 100m of US Private Placement Loan Notes expiring between December 2017 and December 2019 which were issued in December 2010 and its committed banking facilities.
The group renegotiated its banking facilities in March 2011 and its new committed facility of 250m will be available for drawdown in July 2011, subject to the approval of an amendment to the Articles of Association at the forthcoming AGM to clarify the definition of borrowing limits.
Until that point, the groups existing committed banking facility of 230m remains available for use by the group.
The new committed facility will remain in place until September 2015.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk management and internal control The Board recognises that it is responsible for determining the level of risk acceptable that is appropriate for the group when establishing and operating to achieve the groups strategic objectives.
The Board is responsible for the groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
This system is designed to support the groups pursuit of achieving its objectives and strategies and also the identification and management of risks that may impact upon MITIE and upon the environment in which the group operates.
The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failing to achieve these objectives and strategies and it will only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement and loss.
Internal control framework The Board and senior management are responsible for maintaining and developing a culture of integrity, competence, fairness and responsibility throughout the group.
Essential to this is the recruitment and retention of highly skilled individuals who promote the highest standards of integrity, competence, governance and ethical behaviour.
Group policies and procedures support the business by providing an operational internal control framework for the group, each division and operating business to work within.
This framework is designed to balance the need for group-wide consistency and control with the autonomy that local management require to develop and manage each operating business successfully.
In order to delegate responsibilities clearly and effectively to the groups operating businesses and to ensure compliance with the matters reserved for the Board, a formal delegated authorities matrix is issued to all operating subsidiaries that includes both financial and non-financial authorities and matters relating to strategy, contract approval, recruitment, capital expenditure, banking transactions and specific group policies.
Each operating subsidiary is headed by a managing or regional director who has authority to manage their business within this framework of delegated authorities and group policies and procedures outlined above.
To support the business further, the group has a team of specialist resources with individuals responsible for specific functions including legal, health 52 and safety, IT, insurance, human resources, tax, pensions, purchasing, finance and business risk.
Regular dialogue 53 between these functions and the operating businesses provides additional support and forms a key part of the system of internal control.
Monitoring the system of internal control Monitoring is carried out throughout the year via the receipt and review of various reports, presentations and discussions with management, as set out above.
Specifically, the Audit Committee supports the Board by monitoring and guiding the activities of the internal audit function, including approving the internal audit programme, reviewing regular internal audit reports from the business risk function and via meetings with the Head of Business Risk.
The internal audit programme is designed to provide a level of assurance over key risks as identified in the group risk register and is developed by the Head of Business Risk who reports to the General Counsel and independently to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee also receives regular reports from the external auditors who contribute a further independent perspective on certain aspects of the internal financial control systems arising from their work.
As necessary, the Audit Committee will have dialogue with the Executive Directors on their control responsibilities and in particular, those relating to specific matters reported by internal or external auditors.
To further encourage a culture of risk management within the business, the Executive Board regularly reviews the programme of risk management undertaken across the group to demonstrate the importance of the management and assessment of risk at a senior level.
Risk management The Board confirms that there is a continuing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the group which has been reviewed and improved during the reporting period with support from Grant Thornton.
This work has focused on the assurance framework that exists within the group, the use and compilation of risk registers and an increase in the use of computer assisted audit techniques.
The Board confirms that its risk assessment process has been in place throughout the reporting year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts and that this process is monitored by the Board in accordance with the revised guidance on internal control issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
Specifically, the Board considers the nature and extent of the significant risks it takes in setting strategy which are detailed further in the section regarding risk factors that could affect the business on pages 44 and 45.
The process for identifying, evaluating and managing risks requires the group and its principal businesses to consider strategic, operational, financial and compliance risks and the effectiveness of the mitigating controls based on a pre and post-controls risk evaluation.
The principal risks identified from this process are recorded on the groups risk register which is maintained by the groups Business Risk function.
This register is reviewed periodically by the Board.
The risk register forms the basis of the internal audit programme for each year with risk areas reviewed on an annual to triennial basis dependent upon materiality and inherent risk assessment.
During the reporting period, the Board has been considering the introduction of the Bribery Act 2010 and accordingly, has implemented a revised Fraud Policy and accompanying procedures to mitigate the risks posed within the business.
Whistleblowing activity is communicated to the Audit Committee along with the results of investigations carried out.
These investigations have not identified any risks that result in a material, unmitigated exposure to the group.
Accounts Go Gov five errn nanc ance e Business review Overview MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 'LUHFWRUV UHSRUW FRUSRUDWH JRYHUQDQFH VWDWHPHQW Reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control In line with Turnbull Guidance and C. 2.1 of the New Code, the Board performs a formal annual assessment of the operation and effectiveness of the system of internal control covering all material controls, including financial, operation and compliance controls, and updates this assessment prior to the signing of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Board also holds discussions with senior management and reviews the results of a formal internal controls review and system effectiveness confirmation from each operating subsidiary.
The Head of Business Risk attends each Audit Committee meeting to provide regular updates on the effectiveness of the groups internal controls.
The Board confirms that management has taken steps during the year to improve the system of internal control, embed effective controls further into the operations of the group and to address improvements as they come to managements attention.
These steps are monitored at executive level to ensure they are implemented appropriately and that they are effective.
Consolidated accounts preparation and financial reporting The consolidated accounts of the group are prepared by the Group Finance function that is responsible for the review and compilation of reports and financial results from each of the operating divisions and subsidiaries within the group, in accordance with the group internal control and reporting procedures.
Each operating division supports its report and results submission with a statement of compliance with the groups principal internal controls which is subject to review and sample audit by the internal audit function.
In addition, the representations made by the Board in support of the consolidated financial statements including those in relation to the operating divisions are supported by detailed papers and cascaded reporting requirements throughout the group, which are reviewed by either the group finance team or internal audit and presented to the Audit Committee and the Board for final approval as appropriate.
Internal control systems: information and communication The group maintains a number of systems and processes that report relevant information to group executive management and the Board as necessary.
This includes financial and non-financial information regarding business performance, compliance with policy and procedure, relevant regulations and business critical matters.
At an operational level each division and business holds regular board and management meetings.
To maintain and develop relationships between separate divisions and to address specific matters, regional meetings are also held and are attended by regional representatives of each division.
Senior group management also regularly attend these meetings.
The Audit Committee The Company has a formally constituted Audit Committee comprised of independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Audit Committee is generally responsible for: monitoring and reviewing the integrity of the groups corporate reporting which includes any formal announcements relating to the groups financial performance, and any significant financial reporting judgements therein: monitoring and reviewing the independence and objectivity of the groups external auditors, the objectivity and effectiveness of the audit process and the effectiveness and implementation of the group policy on the provision of non-audit services the Non-Audit Services Policy : monitoring and reviewing the integrity and effectiveness of the groups internal financial controls environment, internal audit function and business risk management structures: and making recommendations to the Board on shareholder resolutions for the appointment of, and remuneration for, external auditors.
The chairman of the Committee will be available at the AGM to answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
Committee composition The Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by David Jenkins.
During the year the Audit Committee comprised: David Jenkins, Terry Morgan and Larry Hirst.
The composition of the Committee meets the requirements of the Code.
All members of the Committee are considered as being appropriately experienced to fulfil their duties and David Jenkins continues to be deemed by the Board as at the date of this report, to have significant, recent and relevant financial experience through his qualifications and held appointments.
Meetings of the Committee During the year the Audit Committee held three meetings see summary of meeting attendance on page 51.
The Audit Committee invited the external auditors, Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Head of Business Risk to attend relevant parts of the meetings of the Committee.
The matters under consideration at these meetings included: generally monitoring the groups corporate reporting process and the statutory audit of the annual Group accounts: the Half-yearly Financial Report and Annual Report and Accounts: critical accounting policies and judgements: MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 the review of the external auditors audit plan, nature and scope of work and overall summary of key issues and judgements: the re-appointment of the external auditors: the approval of fees for the external auditors: the effectiveness of the external auditors including the appropriateness and skills of the audit team: compliance with the Non-Audit Services Policy by the external auditors and maintenance of auditor independence: the approval of the group risk assurance framework and the internal audit plan for the year ending 31 March 2011: the review of key internal audit reports and findings: and generally monitoring the effectiveness of the internal control, audit and risk management systems and functions.
The Committee also met separately with the external auditors and the Head of Business Risk met with the Chairman of the Audit Committee without the presence of the Executive Directors.
Internal audit function The remit of the Audit Committee includes the monitoring of the internal audit function and the arrangements by which employees may raise concerns regarding any matters of financial reporting or other perceived improprieties across the group.
The groups internal audit function reports directly to the Group Counsel and the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Committee continues to review the size and composition of the internal audit function to ensure that it remains effective given the increasing size and complexity of the group and the emphasis placed upon remediation, rectification and re-audit of issues identified through the internal audit programme.
54 External auditor 55 Prior to 1994, MITIE was audited by BDO Binder Hamlyn who merged their practice with Deloitte.
Since 1994, MITIE Group PLC has been audited by the firm now known as Deloitte LLP previously Touche Ross & Co, Deloitte & Touche and Deloitte & Touche LLP.
Each year the Audit Committee reviews auditor performance in respect of audit services, audit related services and non-audit services.
The Audit Committee is committed to ensuring the independence and objectivity of the external auditors and confirms that the requirements of the Non-Audit Services Policy have been met throughout the year.
When considering the appointment of the external auditor, there are no contractual obligations that restrict the Audit Committees capacity to recommend a particular firm for appointment.
The lead audit engagement partner is rotated every five years, with the next rotation due in respect of the year ending 31 March 2014.
The Audit Committee is satisfied with the performance of the external auditor and after due consideration, has recommended the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP to the Board.
The Audit Committee has approved a Non-Audit Services Policy that ensures that the Audit Committee has visibility over the levels of non-audit work performed by the auditors and requires notification to the chairman of the Audit Committee for any non-audit spend with the auditors that, on an annual basis cumulatively exceeds 50% of the annual audit fee and or where any item, regardless of amount, is considered significant.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that this policy provides sufficient control over the levels of non-audit spend with the Auditors whilst providing sufficient flexibility for the Group Finance Director to approve expenditure on advice below those levels.
This policy also restricts the external auditors from performing work which will result in them auditing their own work, making management decisions for the group, creating a conflict of interest, finding themselves in the role of advocate for MITIE or creating any potential threat to their independence.
Additionally, the external auditors will only be considered for the provision of non-audit services if they are best suited to perform the work in question.
Deloitte LLP also maintains its own internal controls designed to safeguard its independence.
A summary of the fees paid to the external auditors is given in Note 6 to the financial statements.
Disclosure of information to the auditors Each of the Directors in office as of the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts confirms that: so far as he she is aware, there is no relevant audit information being information required by the auditors in the preparation of their report of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and he she has each taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of such information.
This confirmation is given, and should be interpreted, in accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Re-appointment of auditors Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors and the resolution to re-appoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Accounts Go Gov five errn nanc ance e Business review Overview MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 'LUHFWRUV UHSRUW FRUSRUDWH JRYHUQDQFH VWDWHPHQW 6KDUHKROGHU GLDORJXH The Board is committed to an on-going pro-active dialogue with institutional and private investors and welcomes the introduction of the UK Stewardship Code applicable to institutional shareholders, to further encourage engagement between the Company and its shareholders.
The principal method of communication between the Board and shareholders is via news announcements, the Interim Management Statements, the Half-yearly Financial Report, the Annual Report and Accounts, the Sustainability Report and MITIEs website www.
A full programme of formal and informal events, institutional investor meetings and presentations are also held following the Halfyearly and Preliminary Results announcements which are led by the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director are available for additional meetings with shareholders upon request.
The Board encourages the on-going dialogue between the Directors and investors and as such all Directors were present at the 2010 AGM and made themselves available for direct discussions with shareholders.
Latest group information, financial reports, corporate governance and sustainability matters, Half-yearly and Preliminary Results presentations, major shareholder information and all announcements are made available to shareholders via the MITIE website www.
com which has a specific area dedicated to investor relations.
Significant importance is attached to investor feedback on the groups performance, and as such the Executive Board receives an investor relations report at each meeting detailing corporate news, share price activity, investor relations activity and major shareholder movements.
The Board is updated by the Executive Directors on these matters and receive the monthly Chief Executives report which has a section dedicated to investor feedback and broker updates and detailed analyst and investor feedback following the Half-yearly and Preliminary Results presentations.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Board is made aware of the issues and concerns of the major shareholders.
The AGM also allows shareholders to address and discuss any issues surrounding the group directly with the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Electronic communications The Directors remain committed to improving and extending the electronic methods in which the Company communicates with its shareholders, not only allowing the latest information on the group to be provided instantly but recognising the environmental benefits.
The Board encourages each shareholder to join the growing number of investors electing to receive their information electronically and further details on how to register are provided on the inside back cover of this report.
LQDQFLDO PDWWHUV Financial results and dividends A detailed commentary on the financial results of the group for the year is contained within the financial review on pages 39 to 43 of this report.
The profit before taxation for the financial year is 86.8m 2010: 79.7m.
The Directors have recommended and paid the following dividends during the year: recommended a total Ordinary dividend of 9.0p per share for the year ended 31 March 2011 2010: 7.8p with a total value of 31.9m based upon the number of shares issued as at 23 May 2011 2010: 27.6m paid on 3 February 2011, an interim dividend of 4.1p per Ordinary share with a total value of 14.4m 2010: 13.1m recommended a final dividend of 4.9p per Ordinary share with a total value of 17.5m based upon the number of shares issued as at 23 May 2011 2010: 14.5m The final dividend for the year will be paid on 12 August 2011, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM, to Ordinary shareholders on the register on 24 June 2011.
The Company operates a Dividend Re-Investment Plan DRIP which allows shareholders to build their holding by using the cash dividend to purchase additional shares in MITIE.
Further details on the operation of the DRIP are included at the back of this report and are available from MITIEs Registrar.
During the reporting period, the trustees of the Companys Employee Benefit Trusts waived dividends on shares held.
Shares held in the Employee Benefit Trust are for the operation of the Companys employee share schemes as explained further on page 65.
&DSLWDO VWUXFWXUH Share capital and powers of shareholders The group is financed through both equity share capital and debt instruments.
Details of changes to the Companys share capital are given in Note 29 to the financial statements.
The Company has a single class of shares 2.5p Ordinary shares with no right to any fixed income and with each share carrying the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, holders of Ordinary shares are entitled to participate in any dividends pro-rata to their holding.
The Board may propose and pay interim dividends and recommend a final dividend for approval by the shareholders at the AGM.
A final dividend may be declared by the shareholders in a general meeting by ordinary resolution, but such dividend cannot exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 In December 2010, the Company completed an issue of US private placement loan notes with institutional investors.
The issue consisted of 40m of notes denominated in sterling and fixed at 4.38% maturing in nine years and 60m of notes denominated in US dollars $96m maturing in seven years.
The US dollar denominated private placement proceeds were swapped into sterling debt with half fixed at 3.88% and half with a floating sterling interest rate of LIBOR plus 1.26%.
On 29 March 2011, the group renegotiated its banking facilities and its new committed facility of 250m will be available for drawdown in July 2011 subject to the approval of an amendment to the Articles of Association at the forthcoming AGM to clarify the definition of borrowing limits.
Further details can be found in the Notice of AGM.
Restrictions on the trading of shares Certain shares that are issued as consideration upon acquisition by the Company of the shares of minority shareholders in MITIE Model companies have restrictions placed upon them that both prevent the transfer of such shares and or attach specific claw-back provisions for periods of up to two years following allotment.
Otherwise, there are no specific restrictions on the size of any shareholding or on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the provisions of the Articles of Association of the Company available at www.
com investors corporate-governance and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between Company shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital.
Details of employee share schemes are set out below and in Note 34 to the Accounts.
Share capital authorisations The 2010 AGM authorised: the Directors to allot under s551 Companies Act 2006 shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 3,318,825.41 56 shares representing one third of the issued share capital plus 15,029,127 outstanding commitment in respect of options granted under MITIEs share schemes such total equating to 37.59% of the issued share capital as at 31 March 2010 57 during the reporting period, the Directors utilised this authority and the preceding authority to allot 4,615,605 shares to an aggregate nominal amount of 115,390.13 to employees participating in MITIEs share schemes and to minority shareholders in consideration for MITIE Model shares as explained further below: the dis-application under Section 570 1 Companies Act 2006 of pre-emption rights over allotted shares up to an aggregate nominal value equal to 441,464.63 or a maximum 17,658,585 shares representing 5% of the issued share capital as at 31 March 2010 during the reporting period, the Directors utilised this authority and the preceding authority to allot 4,615,605 shares to an aggregate nominal amount of 115,390.13 to employees participating in MITIEs share schemes and to minority shareholders in consideration for MITIE Model shares as explained further below: and the Company to make market purchases of its own shares up to a total of 35,317,170 shares representing 10% of the issued share capital as at 31 March 2010 during the reporting period, the Directors did not utilise this authority.
Further details of these authorisations are available in the notes to the 2010 Notice of AGM available at www.
Shareholders are referred to the 2011 Notice of AGM which is available at www.
com investors which contains similar provisions in respect of the Companys equity share capital.
During the year to 31 March 2011 there have been no purchases by the Company of MITIE shares.
The exact amount and timing of future purchases will be determined by the Company and will be dependent on market conditions and other factors.
It is the Companys present intention to cancel any shares it buys back, rather than hold them in treasury, but this policy will be reviewed on a case by case basis.
Further details on the proposed renewal of powers for share buyback and the allotment of shares in the Company are provided in the Notice of AGM.
Under the terms of certain shareholder agreements and articles of association relating to MITIE Model companies, certain minority shareholders in such companies may provide an option for the purchase by the Company of their minority shares.
The mechanism for calculating the price to be paid in respect of such transfer is transparent, on an arms-length basis, and in accordance with the pricing structure generally applicable for other transfers under the MITIE Model.
In consideration for these purchases, the Company generally has the option to settle payment in cash or in MITIE shares.
On 12 August 2010, the Company announced the purchase of certain minority shareholdings in six MITIE subsidiary companies.
The selling shareholders gave certain warranties and assurances relating to past and future performance of the relevant subsidiary companies.
The shares issued in consideration are being held in safe custody for a maximum period of two years and may be sold to meet any claims that the Company may have in the future in relation to those warranties and assurances.
Details of these structures are generally available to the extent incorporated into the articles of association for individual MITIE Model companies from Companies House at www.
Other share matters There are a number of other agreements with provisions that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company such as bank facility agreements and employee share plans.
None of these are considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on the business or the group as a whole.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs solely because of a take-over bid.
Accounts Go Gov five errn nanc ance e Business review Overview MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 'LUHFWRUV UHSRUW RWKHU LQIRUPDWLRQ Interests in share capital As at 23 May 2011 the Company has been notified of the following significant holdings of voting rights in its shares under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: Number of Percentage Ordinary shares of share of 2.5p each capital Massachusetts Financial Services Company 17,993,365 5.09% Majedie Asset Management Limited 16,327,802 5.05% FMR LLC 18,000,006 5.04% Invesco Limited 17,965,851 5.02% Details of the Directors interests in the share capital of the Company are detailed within the Remuneration report.
As at 23 May 2011, the Directors interests have not changed from those held as at 31 March 2011.
AGM The 2011 AGM will be held at the offices of UBS Investment Bank, 1 Finsbury Avenue, London, EC2M 2PP at 2.30pm on 13 July 2011.
The Notice of AGM will be available at www.
2WKHU LQIRUPDWLRQ Employee involvement and employee equity-based incentivisation The Board remains committed to fostering and developing a culture of employee involvement in the business through communication with employees and equity involvement whereby employees are enabled to build a stake in the Company through the Companys various equity-based incentive schemes.
Communication with MITIEs employees continues to have a high priority.
The group communicates with employees through the use of Group-wide mailings, employee magazines and updates, employee-focused initiatives and media networks and provision of access to broadcasts of periodic financial presentations.
We are also committed to developing our use of social media tools as an effective way of communicating with our people as we recognise that these methods can provide great ways of allowing our people to give us feedback, share ideas and engage with the wider MITIE community.
Our social media tools are supported by a new, Group-wide intranet system that was launched during the year.
The system has already improved communications and information sharing across the business and includes regular blog updates by the Executive Board members and functional teams.
Through the use of their own communication processes each of the groups businesses is encouraged to ensure that employees are kept informed on Group and individual business developments and social networking sites continue to play an important part of engagement and communication with employees.
The group continues to operate its Group-wide MITIE Stars-programme to recognise and reward exceptional performance by its people.
The MITIEs Got Talent, Group-wide talent contest continues to be supported and encourages employee engagement and recognition.
The Group Sustainability Report contains further details of these initiatives and is available from www.
Employees remain actively involved in the groups activities via an employee forum.
This year the forum held two meetings and included presentations by senior management or functional heads as requested by the employee representatives.
The Board will continue to seek increasing involvement and activity of the employee representatives.
The Board believes that the groups culture of employee equity involvement is a significant driver in the groups growth performance and that this assists in attracting and retaining skilled and committed employees.
During the year the group has continued to operate the MITIE Long Term Incentive Plan to incentivise and reward senior members of the MITIE management team, the Executive Share Option Scheme for certain other employees and the Savings Related Share Option Scheme which is open to all eligible employees of the group.
During the year, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the effectiveness and suitability of the groups employee share schemes and recommended to the Board amendments to equity-incentive schemes as outlined further in the Remuneration report and Notice of AGM, specifically the introduction of a Share Incentive Plan to be available to all employees and therefore encouraging wider equity participation within the group.
The Board believes that the changes proposed to shareholders maximise the accessibility, effectiveness and incentive value of equity schemes.
The group has historically grown by giving entrepreneurial managers the opportunity to create wealth by taking the risk of starting a new business, taking equity stakes at fair value in those new businesses in conjunction with MITIE and then, dependent on a pre-agreed pricing structure, offering to sell that stake to MITIE predominantly in exchange for MITIE shares, at the option of MITIE.
This incentivisation scheme typically provides for such managers to elect to offer their stake in their business to MITIE between the fifth and tenth years from the date of establishment of the business.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Recipients of shares under this incentivisation scheme are generally restricted from selling the MITIE shares received as consideration for a minimum of two years.
The Board believes that this is a unique business model that has driven MITIEs past performance and continues to ensure a close alignment of interest between MITIE shareholders and the management and employees of the group.
Accordingly, on 17 January 2011, the group launched a 10m Entrepreneurial Fund to back management teams with innovative ideas for starting mutually owned businesses.
Employee diversity and inclusion The Board remains committed to developing further a culture that encourages the inclusion and diversity of all of the groups employees through respecting and appreciating their differences and to promoting the continuous development of employees through skills enhancement and training programmes.
The groups employment policies are designed to attract, retain, train and motivate the very best people, recognising that this can be achieved only through offering equal opportunities regardless of gender, race, religion, age, disability, sexual orientation or any other aspect of diversity.
Applications from disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
It is the policy of the group that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons including those who become disabled whilst employees of the group should, as far as reasonably possible, be identical to that of other employees.
The Company actively supports diversity and inclusion and during the reporting period, established a Diversity & Inclusion Steering Group to heighten awareness of diversity issues and accordingly oversaw the launch of a dedicated diversity week.
Activities included presentations, workshops and training sessions focused on equality and diversity issues.
Further information can be found within the groups dedicated Sustainability Report which can be found at www.
Financial instruments 58 The groups financial instruments include bank loans, finance leases, overdrafts, US private placement loan notes and 59 performance guarantees.
In addition, various other financial instruments such as trade creditors and trade debtors arise from its trade.
The use of interest rate swaps and currency derivatives are used to manage interest and currency risk when necessary or material.
The principal objective of these instruments is to raise funds for general corporate purposes and to manage financial risk.
Further details of these instruments are given in Note 24 to the financial statements.
Finance costs The amount of interest capitalised by the group is set out in further detail in Note 9 to the financial statements.
Payment of creditors The groups policy is to comply with the terms of payment agreed with suppliers, preferably on the groups standard purchasing terms as notified to suppliers, or otherwise to adhere to the suppliers standard terms.
A copy of the groups standard purchasing terms can be found at www.
At 31 March 2011, the group had 36 days purchases outstanding 2010: 31 days.
Fixed assets The Board does not believe that there is any material difference between the book value and the current open market value of the groups interests in land and buildings.
Events after the balance sheet date There have not been any significant events since the balance sheet date.
Future developments The operating review sets out the Boards view on likely future developments of the group.
Research and development Given the nature of the groups activities it does not carry out any material research and development work.
Donations Donations to charity and community projects made during the year amounted to 190,738 2010: 110,500.
It is the groups policy not to make political donations, and during the reporting period no political contributions were made 2010: nil.
The total value of community investment was 534,015 2010: 392,483.
Branch offices The group operate registered branch offices in the Republic of Ireland and the Isle of Man.
Further details of the groups principal subsidiaries are given in Note 37 to the financial statements.
By order of the Board Marie-Claire Haines Company Secretary 23 May 2011 Accounts Go Gov five errn nanc ance e Business review Overview MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 'LUHFWRUV UHSRUW VWDWHPHQW RI 'LUHFWRUV UHVSRQVLELOLWLHV Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the accounts The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Directors are required to prepare the financial statements for the group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRS and have chosen to prepare Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
In the case of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS accounts, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with IFRS where applicable.
The Directors are also required to properly select and apply accounting policies, present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information and, provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific IFRS requirements is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
In the case of UK GAAP accounts, the Directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently, make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company, safeguarding the assets, taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities, and the preparation of a Directors report and Directors remuneration report which comply with the relevant requirements of the Companies Acts, Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs.
The Directors are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company website.
Financial statements published by the Company on this website are prepared in accordance with UK legislation which may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
To the best of each Directors knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards and contained within this Annual Report and Accounts, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole and the management report, which is incorporated into the Directors report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with the description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
By order of the Board Ruby McGregor-Smith Suzanne Baxter Chief Executive Group Finance Director 23 May 2011 23 May 2011
