Mondi products Responsible, effective product stewardship involves actively managing the environmental, safety and health impacts of our products through their life cycle.
We base our product stewardship approach on the Life-Cycle Initiative set out in the United Nations Environmental Programme UNEP.
Both hardwood and softwood pulp is produced largely for internal use.
Pulp A total of 3.7 million tonnes was produced in 2011 2010: 3.7 million tonnes.
Mondi is a leading European, Russian and South African producer of UFP, used Uncoated ne paper for a wide range of of ce and professional printing applications for inkjet, laser and offset printing.
Well-known brands include Color Copy, MAESTRO and IQ, as well as the Russian Snegurochka and South African ROTATRIM brands.
A wide-ranging portfolio of corrugated case materials is produced for corrugated Virgin & recycled packaging applications.
Mondis ProVantage consists of four clusters: Appearance, containerboard Kraft, Recycled and Semi Chem Performance.
Our ECO7 containerboard machine in Swiecie, Poland combines cost-ef ciency with a reduced environmental impact without compromising quality or performance.
It produces high-quality, lightweight, recycled uting and testliner for cost-ef cient and environmentally sound packaging.
Since the modernised PM21 started operating at our Syktyvkar mill in Russia, Mondi has been delivering white-top kraftliner with improved quality and printability.
Mondi is a leading supplier of corrugated packaging in Europe, with a strong focus Corrugated packaging on central and south-east Europe.
Our portfolio includes conventional boxes and trays, point-of-sale displays, shelf-ready and heavy-duty packaging and is centred on the Eco, Easy and Smart product lines.
Eco-optimised packaging stands for ef cient material usage, Easy-optimised focuses on ease of handling and convenient shopping experience, while Smartoptimised packaging incorporates particularly intelligent features such as RFID, going beyond conventional designs.
16 Integrated report and financial statements 2011 5 5036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 16 036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 16 2 2012 03 02 9:45 AM 012 03 02 9:45 AM Mondi offers an impressive range of kraft papers.
Our products are in use Kraft paper everywhere, every day, from specialised packaging and heavy-duty industrial applications to supermarket shelves.
The paper comes in a wide range of grades, each catering to the speci c requirements of different packaging concepts.
Sack kraft paper comprises the most comprehensive range of high-quality grades on the market.
The speciality kraft paper portfolio contains a broad range of paper grades for special and customised applications.
Mondi is the worlds largest producer of industrial bags and offers a wide Industrial bags variety, including ultra-strong and air-permeable bags with sophisticated closure techniques.
These products are used to package, among other products, cement, chemicals, seeds, animal feed, our and milk powder, as well as automotive parts and organic bio-waste.
Our innovative Terra Bag is the worlds first certi ed biodegradable valve bag and consists of one or two plies of sack kraft paper and an optional ply of biodegradable lm.
Mondi is a backward-integrated leader for intelligent paper and plastic-based Coatings & consumer materials and customer-oriented packaging solutions.
packaging Polymer and biopolymer-based packaging minimises content wastage by extending the products shelf life and it also ranks among the most energy-ef cient and economical delivery methods available.
These products include extrusion coating products, release liners and consumer packaging.
Our expertise in extrusion coating, laminating, siliconising and printing enables us to offer customised products for the food, pet food, building, medical and hygiene industries, among others.
Mondi is a small producer of newsprint and telephone directory paper, Newsprint manufactured in South Africa and the UK.
The Green Range was first launched in Mondis UFP business and consists of Green Range TM products from well-managed forests that are all FSC or PEFC certi ed, some of which are totally chlorine free TCF or 100% recycled.
In 2010, the Green Range was extended to smart packaging products including for instance Sustainex biodegradable packaging, the Terra Bag, Advantage One sack kraft paper and the Eco corrugated packaging line.
The NAUTILUS SuperWhite carbon neutral of ce paper range provides customers Carbon neutral products with the option to reduce their impact on climate change by reducing their carbon footprint during the product life cycle.
Mondi Group 17 5 5036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 17 036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
