Chairmens statement Cyril Ramaphosa David Williams Joint chairman Joint chairman A more detailed review of the Groups performance is Dear stakeholder set out in the chief executives review, the chief financial We are very pleased to report on a record set of results in a of cers review, the sustainable development review and the year that started with much improved market conditions but business review in this integrated report.
As indicated in our ended with broader macroeconomic weakness, giving rise chairmens statement last year, this years report re ects the to some slowdown in demand and pricing pressure across international move towards a more integrated approach to certain of the Groups product areas.
reporting, linking business and sustainability performance and contextualising financial performance to provide a balanced 2011 was a momentous year for a number of reasons.
The perspective of the years performance to stakeholders.
Arab Spring uprisings in the Middle East and North Africa Relevant environmental, social and governance issues are and the earthquake and tsunami in Japan in the first half of addressed throughout the report to provide a holistic view the year, coupled with concerns around the US economic of Mondis performance in 2011 and its strategy, risks and recovery, all had a profound effect on the global social, opportunities going forward.
As Mondi operates in both political and economic landscape.
More directly affecting an industry and in geographic locations where sustainable Mondis trading environment, the second half of the year development is critical to long-term success, we also refer was dominated by the ongoing macroeconomic challenges stakeholders to the full sustainable development report affecting the Eurozone and the wider European Union, with the available online at www.
threat of sovereign default and the break-up of the Eurozone creating widespread uncertainty in many of the countries in Paper making and packaging production are technical which we operate.
processes that require signi cant resources, including wood bre, water, energy and other materials to produce nished The Groups streamlined, high-quality assets performed products.
Although Mondi manages forests responsibly, very well throughout the year, with the focus on low-cost we recognise that some of the resources used to produce production and high-growth emerging markets again our products particularly energy and water are limited delivering positive outcomes for our shareholders, despite the and need to be managed responsibly to create and sustain more uncertain economic conditions.
Responsible forestry also has a critical role to play in Against this backdrop, the Group achieved very pleasing mitigating climate change.
We recognise that biodiversity results with underlying operating pro t increasing by 36% is a signi cant concern and that industry, including forestry, to E622 million and basic earnings per share alternative needs to take appropriate action.
As a Group we are not measure increasing by 57% to 71.8 euro cents per share, involved in deforestation or the logging of protected or con rming the validity of our strategy.
high conservation value HCV areas.
All of our forests have 6 Integrated report and financial statements 2011 5 5036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 6 036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 6 2 2012 03 02 9:45 AM 012 03 02 9:45 AM TM achieved FSC certi cation, and we do not source any timber from controversial sources.
Our approach is one of biodiversity stewardship.
We believe that our business practices, and our participation in and TM support of global bodies WBCSD, FSC, TFD, as well as our investment in research and development and indeed conservation, enables the Group to make a positive net biodiversity impact.
We therefore incorporate social and environmental considerations into our decision-making process.
The Group is highly integrated through the entire product life cycle, from the responsible development and management of forests, to the production and marketing of a variety of paper and packaging products, and nally, to the recycling of paper and packaging for use in our recycled bre products.
Mondi is committed to strong ethical values and professionalism in all of its activities.
As an essential part of this commitment, the boards of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc strive to achieve the highest standards of corporate governance and best practice, and are committed to the principles of transparency, integrity and accountability.
Selected information in this report is also assured or audited by independent auditors ERM CVS, for sustainability information, and Deloitte, for the financial statements, respectively.
A detailed account of corporate governance within the Group may be found on page 56.
30% increase in dividend to 26.0 euro cents per Swiecie, Poland share Mondi Group 7 5 5036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 7 036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 7 2 2012 03 02 9:45 AM 012 03 02 9:45 AM DIRECTORS REPORT Chairmens statement continued at a global, national, Group and operation, mill or business Mondis approach to integrating unit level.
Our approach is one of both informal and formal sustainability across the business multi-stakeholder dialogue, and we actively seek regular, At Mondi we recognise that we have a broader role in transparent engagement.
Our formal and fully transparent society as a creator of wealth, as a fair and safe employer Socio-Economic Assessment Toolbox SEAT process and and as a responsible corporate entity.
Sustainability is an Community Engagement Plans CEP demonstrate our level integral part of the way our Group is managed.
of engagement in more sensitive areas.
We appreciate and bene t from this dialogue and endeavour to maintain open At the end of 2010, we concluded our first five-year and productive relationships.
commitment period and took stock of what we had achieved during this period.
We were pleased to report We were very pleased to once again have been included in the that all our sustainability commitments set in 2005 were LSEs FTSE4Good Index Series membership, and the JSEs met or exceeded, with the exception of a few where we Socially Responsible Investment SRI Index.
Mondi was also achieved more than 90% of the commitment.
We have included in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index CDLI by since established our new set of five-year commitments the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP for the second year.
and report progress on these in our 2011 sustainable Growing shareholder value development report.
Our new commitments take into account material sustainability risks and opportunities facing 2011 was a challenging year for global equity markets, the Group, matters raised by our stakeholders, and the legal particularly for the paper and packaging sector.
Mondi however developments with regard to sustainable development.
remains one of the top performing shares in our industry.
It is pleasing to report that the Mondi plc share price outperformed We engage actively with our stakeholders shareholders, the average of our peer group in 2011 and has been in the top customers, employees and suppliers as well as governments, quartile of the peer group over the past three years.
non-governmental organisations NGOs, academic institutions, local communities, certi cation bodies, regulators We also concluded the demerger of Mpact and the related and the media in order to understand and respond to their consolidation of Mondi Limited shares in August of the year concerns and bene t from their contribution.
TSR and peer performance during 2011 Return index 180 160 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 Mondi Peer performance 8 Integrated report and financial statements 2011 5 5036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 8 036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 8 2 2012 03 02 9:45 AM 012 03 02 9:45 AM The Boards aim is to offer shareholders long-term dividend for his important contribution, particularly around safety and growth within a targeted dividend cover range of two to three sustainability issues.
We welcome Stephen Harris in his place, times over the cycle.
Given the strong financial performance, and we are con dent that his strong engineering background and knowledge of international manufacturing industries will good cash generation and the Boards stated desire to be of particular bene t to Mondi.
increase distributions to shareholders, we are pleased to recommend an increase in the final dividend.
The boards Strategy and outlook of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc have recommended a final dividend of 17.75 euro cents per share 2010: 16.5 euro cents In conclusion, the Mondi Groups stable strategic course in per share, payable on 10 May 2012 to shareholders on the the 2011 financial year facilitated a robust performance in an register at 13 April 2012.
Together with the interim dividend of unpredictable year and places us in a strong position as we 8.25 euro cents per share, paid on 13 September 2011, this move into 2012.
While the new year will no doubt continue to amounts to a total dividend for the year of 26.0 euro cents present both challenges and opportunities, we are con dent in the ability of the businesses to deliver sustainably strong per share.
In 2010, the total dividend for the year was cash ows.
Our ongoing intention is to increase returns 20.0 euro cents per share.
To shareholders on the South to shareholders, once we have ensured our asset base African registers of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc, an remains appropriately invested including various energy equivalent dividend of 78.79484 South African rand cents improvement initiatives and our debt levels are such that per share was paid on 13 September 2011 and, together we maintain investment grade credit metrics.
The Groups with a final dividend of 181.38548 South African rand cents product and asset portfolio will continue to be thoroughly per share payable on 10 May 2012, the total dividend assessed to ensure maximum value is achieved across all our amounts to 260.18032 South African rand cents per share.
operating regions, taking opportunities to strengthen these as appropriate.
We will also continue to carefully consider Acknowledgement of our people selected value-enhancing growth opportunities.
The 2011 financial year provided an unpredictable economic backdrop but con rmed Mondis ability to react appropriately Mondis integrated low-cost operations, emerging markets and perform well.
This is a tting re ection of the continued exposure and unrelenting focus on sustainable performance dedication of Mondis employees across the globe, who have ensure that the Group remains well-positioned to continue been steadfast and resolute in their pursuit of Mondis goals, generating strong cash ow through the cycle, and adding often in challenging circumstances.
We acknowledge the value for shareholders over the longer term.
ongoing contribution of the Boards, the executive leadership and all employees in the roles they continue to play as we all Cyril Ramaphosa work together to ensure a sustained and successful Joint chairman future for the Group and our stakeholders.
We also thank Colin Matthews, who retired from the Boards and as chairman David Williams of the sustainable development committee during the year, Joint chairman Mondi Group 9 5 5036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 9 036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
