DLC executive committee and company secretaries The DLC executive committee comprises the chief executive of cer David Hathorn chairman, the chief financial of cer Andrew King, the chief executive of cer of the Europe & International Division Peter Oswald and other senior members of management as detailed below.
John Lindahl Peter Machacek Ron Traill Philip Laubscher Carol Hunt Peter is vice-president of the Austrian Federation of Paper John Lindahl, 52: Group technical director Makers.
John Lindahl graduated in pulp and paper engineering from the Technical University of Helsinki in 1985.
He also holds an MBA from Jyvaskyla University from 1996.
Ron Traill, 57: Chief executive of cer: South Africa Division John has had an extensive career in the forest industry Ron Traill graduated in mechanical engineering and working in different operational managerial positions in Finland, management from Dundee Colleges in Scotland in 1980. the US and France in companies including M-real, Myllykoski He began his career as an industrial engineer with DRG and UPM.
At UPM he then moved on to tasks within Packaging Group, working in its Scottish paper mill.
He went corporate technology and investment co-ordination.
on to hold a succession of posts within the company, leading ultimately to his appointment as general manager.
Following From the industry he moved on to consulting and DRGs acquisition by Sappi in 1990, he worked for 10 years in engineering company Pyry, where he held different a number of general management roles.
executive positions in the forest industry business group, being involved in advisory services, pre-engineering studies Ron has also held senior operational positions with Fletcher and major implementation projects for the global pulp and Challenge and with Tullis Russell, the UKs largest independent paper industry for the last 11 years.
John joined Mondi as Group technical director in August 2011, He joined Mondi in 2003 as managing director of the with worldwide responsibility for projects, operational tet i pulp and paper mill in the Czech Republic, also optimisation and technical evaluation of major acquisitions.
assuming responsibility for the Mondi packaging paper business in Ruomberok, Slovakia.
Ron took up the position Peter Machacek, 59: Chief executive of cer: of chief executive of cer of Mondis South Africa Division in Uncoated ne paper & containerboard January 2008.
Peter Machacek graduated in business administration from the University of Vienna in 1976 and began his career with Philip Laubscher, 56: Company secretary Mondi Kienzle Datasysteme and Tetra Pak in Austria.
In 1981 he Limited moved to the Frantschach Group as sales and marketing Philip Laubscher, who holds BProc and LLB degrees and is manager of the groups converting business.
In 1988 he an attorney of the High Court of South Africa, was in-house became sales director of Patria Papier & Zellstoff, the sales counsel with national power utility Eskom for 15 years company for the Frantschach paper mill, and was shortly before joining Mondi in 1999 as head of legal services.
afterwards appointed to the management board of the mill.
He was appointed company secretary of Mondi Limited in January 2001.
In 2000 he became executive vice president of Mondi Packaging Paper, responsible for the Dyns, Frantschach, Carol Hunt, 50: Company secretary Mondi plc tet i and Swiecie paper mills, and subsequently became Carol Hunt, a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries chief executive of cer of Mondis packaging paper division, responsible for the Groups five newly acquired recycled & Administrators, spent 15 years with The BOC Group plc, holding various roles in the company secretariat, the last containerboard mills in Austria, Germany, Italy, Switzerland six years as deputy company secretary.
She joined Mondi and the UK.
in November 2006 and was formally appointed company Peter assumed his current role and joined the management secretary of Mondi plc in May 2007. board of the Europe & International Division following the reorganisation of the Groups operations at the beginning of Philip and Carol work together on the co-ordination of 2008.
Mondi Group 55 5 5036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 55 036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
