Board of directors Cyril Ramaphosa David Williams David Hathorn A chartered accountant, David retired as finance director Joint chairmen of Bunzl plc in January 2006, having served on the board Cyril Ramaphosa, 59: Joint chairman for 14 years.
He is a non-executive director of Dubai-based Cyril Ramaphosa was appointed joint chairman in May 2007 DP World Limited, Tullow Oil plc and Meggitt plc where he is the senior independent director.
He also chairs the audit and he is also a member of the DLC nominations committee.
committees of all three companies.
David is also a former A law graduate from the University of South Africa Unisa, non-executive director of the Peninsular & Oriental Steam he joined the Council of Unions of South Africa as a legal Navigation Company, Taylor Wimpey plc, George Wimpey plc, adviser in 1981.
He went on to join the National Union of Dewhirst Group plc and Medeva plc.
Mineworkers, South Africas largest trade union, serving as general secretary until 1991.
Executive directors Cyril is currently executive chairman of Shanduka Group David Hathorn, 49: Chief executive of cer Proprietary Limited, which owns Shanduka Newsprint David Hathorn graduated in commerce from the University Proprietary Limited and Shanduka Packaging Proprietary of Natal and quali ed as a chartered accountant in 1987 at Limited, and non-executive chairman of telecommunications Deloitte & Touche.
He joined Anglo American plc in 1989 group MTN Group Limited.
He is also a non-executive as a divisional finance manager, moved to Mondi in 1991 director of brewing group SABMiller plc, mining group and went on to serve as finance director and then general Lonmin plc and financial services groups Alexander Forbes manager of Mondi Europe until 2000, when he was appointed Equity Holdings Proprietary Limited and Standard Bank chief executive of cer of the Mondi Group.
He chairs the DLC Group Limited.
executive committee and is a member of the DLC sustainable development committee.
Cyril is past chairman of the Black Economic Empowerment Commission in South Africa.
He was chairman of the At Anglo American plc, David was a member of the executive Constitutional Assembly which negotiated South Africas committee from 2003 and an executive director from 2005 first democratic dispensation.
He holds honorary doctorates and served on the boards of a number of companies, from a number of institutions, including the University of including fide Beers, Anglo Platinum and Anglo Coal.
He Pennsylvania and the University of Massachusetts.
oversaw the demerger of Mondi and its dual listing in Johannesburg and London in 2007.
David Williams, 66: Joint chairman Andrew King, 42: Chief financial of cer David Williams was appointed to the Mondi Boards as senior independent director in May 2007 and as joint Andrew King graduated in commerce from the University of chairman in August 2009.
He is also chairman of the Cape Town and quali ed as a chartered accountant in 1994 DLC nominations committee and is a member of the at Deloitte & Touche.
He joined Minorco, the international DLC remuneration committee.
arm of Anglo American, as a financial analyst in 1995 52 Integrated report and financial statements 2011 5 5036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 52 036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 52 2 2012 03 02 9:47 AM 012 03 02 9:47 AM Andrew King Peter Oswald Anne Quinn and subsequently assumed responsibility for the groups Peter serves as a non-executive director of Telekom Austria investment management activities.
He transferred to Minorcos AG and as president of respACT-austrian business council for corporate finance department in 1998, working on a number sustainable development.
of group M&A activities before being appointed a vice president of Anglo American Corporate Finance in 1999.
Independent non-executive directors Andrew was appointed Mondis vice president of business Anne Quinn CBE, 60: Senior independent director development in 2002 and corporate development director Anne Quinn was appointed to the Mondi Boards in May in 2004.
He served as chief financial of cer of Mondi from 2007 and as senior independent director in August 2009.
June 2005 to May 2006, before being appointed as Group She chairs the DLC remuneration committee and is a strategy and business development director.
He was member of the DLC audit, nominations and sustainable heavily involved in the listing process and establishment of development committees.
the Groups dual listed corporate structures.
Andrew was appointed chief financial of cer in October 2008.
Anne graduated with a bachelor of commerce from Auckland University and has a masters degree in Peter Oswald, 49: Chief executive of cer: Europe & management science from the Massachusetts Institute of International Division Technology MIT.
She spent her early career with NZ Forest Peter Oswald graduated in law and business administration Products Limited and the US management consulting from the University of Vienna, beginning his career with company Resource Planning Associates.
She then joined Deutsche Bank and automotive company KTM.
He joined the Standard Oil of Ohio, which was subsequently acquired by Frantschach Group in 1992 as the head of internal audit, later BP plc.
Anne went on to work for BP in the US, Belgium, becoming corporate controller.
Colombia and the UK and held a number of executive positions, including group vice president.
She was awarded After serving as chief executive of the bag and flexibles a CBE for services to the natural gas industry.
business from 1995 to 2001, overseeing its recovery and expansion, Peter was appointed chief executive of Anne has also been a managing director of Riverstone Mondi Packaging Europe in 2002, leading its subsequent Holdings Europe, a private equity investment rm integration with Frantschach into the new Mondi specialising in the renewable and conventional energy and packaging division.
A non-executive director of Smiths Group plc, she was a At the beginning of 2008 Peter joined the Mondi Boards as non-executive director of The BOC Group plc from 2004 to chief executive of cer of the Groups Europe & International 2006.
She currently serves on the MIT Presidents Advisory Division, comprising all the former Mondi Packaging and Mondi Business Paper operations outside South Africa.
Committee to the Sloan School.
Mondi Group 53 5 5036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 53 036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 53 2 2012 03 02 9:48 AM 012 03 02 9:48 AM DIRECTORS REPORT Board of directors continued Stephen Harris Imogen Mkhize John Nicholas Imogen is currently chairman of Richards Bay Coal Terminal, Stephen Harris, 53 one of the largest coal export terminals in the world.
She is Stephen Harris was appointed to the Mondi Boards in also a director of energy group Sasol Limited and Mobile March 2011.
He chairs the DLC sustainable development Telephone Networks Proprietary Limited.
She is a member committee and is a member of the DLC audit, nominations of Rhodes University Board of Governors and chairman of and remuneration committees.
Imogen is a former director of He is chief executive of cer of Bodycote plc, a leading engineering group Murray & Roberts Holdings Limited and provider of thermal processing services.
A chartered engineer, was formerly a member of the Harvard Business School he graduated in engineering from Cambridge University and Global Alumni Board.
has a masters degree in business administration from the In 2001 Imogen was recognised by the World Economic University of Chicago, Booth School of Business.
He spent Forum as a Global Leader for Tomorrow.
his early career in engineering with Courtaulds plc and then moved to the US to join APV Inc from 1984 until 1995, John Nicholas, 55 where he held several senior management positions.
He was John Nicholas was appointed to the Mondi Boards in appointed to the board of Powell Duffryn as an executive October 2009.
He chairs the DLC audit committee and director in 1995 and then went on to join Spectris plc as an is a member of the DLC nominations committee.
He was also a nonexecutive director of Brixton plc between 2006 and 2009.
A fellow of the Association of Chartered Certi ed Accountants, he holds a masters degree in business administration from Imogen Mkhize, 48 Kingston University.
Imogen Mkhize was appointed to the Mondi Boards in May 2007.
She is a member of the DLC nominations and Much of Johns early career was spent in technology-focused remuneration committees.
international manufacturing and service companies involved in analytical instruments, re protection and food processing.
He Imogen graduated in information systems from Rhodes became group finance director of Kidde plc on its demerger University in 1984 and gained an MBA at Harvard Business from Williams Holdings and was group finance director at Tate School in 1995.
She completed a Diploma in Company & Lyle plc from 2006 to 2008.
Direction with the Institute of Directors GIMT in 2000 and has been involved in corporate governance for over He is currently a member of the UK Financial Reporting two decades.
She spent her early career with Anglo Review Panel, which seeks to ensure that the provision of American, Andersen Consulting and the financial services financial information by public and large private companies group Nedcor, before becoming managing director of complies with relevant reporting requirements.
telecommunications group Lucent Technologies South Africa.
Between 2003 and July 2006, she held the position John is a non-executive director of Ceres Power Holdings plc, of chief executive of cer of the 18th World Petroleum Hunting PLC and Rotork p. l. c. chairing the audit committees Congress, an international oil and gas event.
54 Integrated report and financial statements 2011 5 5036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 54 036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
