Previous Page View Contents Next Page 2 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Our business model is simple - help people to feel epic by saving money!
Our values drive the way we work.
They enable us to embrace our goals and work to achieve them with energy and enthusiasm, having as much fun as we can along the way.
com - Company Values We win Customers Providers together We nd We wow a way them Our customers Our providers We help our customers to save money on all of their By having considerable volumes of informed customers household bills by providing a free, easy to use online actively looking for products and ready to purchase, we service so they can compare a wide range of products in offer our providers an efficient and cost effective customer one place and find the product most suited to their needs.
acquisition solution across all of our channels.
This enables Our size means we are able to offer our customers our providers to target their marketing spend in an effective exclusive, market-leading deals, including some they cant and completely measurable way.
even get direct from providers.
Our revenue comes predominantly from fees paid to us by product providers when a customer clicks through to their website and actually applies for or purchases a product.
It is a success based marketing fee.
Previous Page View Contents Next Page Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC 3 Annual Report 2011 Previous Page View Contents Next Page 4 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2011 We find a way - by being innovative and pioneering, we always deliver a great solution Its all about helping our customers find even more ways to make the most of their money so they can feel epic!
We added new features and services throughout 2011, aimed at making MoneySupermarket.
com even easier for our customers to use and encouraging them to keep coming back to us day after day.
The following examples are just a few of the many innovative features delivered in 2011.
We launched our Smart Search tool within our credit cards channel which enables customers to be more readily matched with products that are tailored to their particular circumstances.
This enables customers to narrow down their relevant options and for providers to see only those customers who are relevant for their product.
We launched MoneySupermarket Deals which provides customers with significant discounts on products and services whether that is enjoying a meal at a local restaurant, having a pampering spa day, going to the cinema or taking in a West End show!
In October, we became the first price comparison website to offer our services on mobile devices through the launch of a fully functional motor insurance iPhone App.
We are now able to offer our motor insurance price comparison services to our customers whenever and wherever they want to access them.
For customers who need extra guidance in finding products to save them money, we are the only major price comparison website which offers customers a phone-based service so they can speak with one of our team to discuss the options available to them.
com Group PLC 5 Annual Report 2011 Previous Page View Contents Next Page 6 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2011 We win together - when our customers and providers are happy, so are we We spend a lot of time with our providers to understand how we can help them succeed in their chosen markets.
Strong relationships with our providers are crucial to the success of our business.
By working closely with our providers, and continuing to offer them an efficient, measurable and cost effective marketing tool, we are able to secure market-leading, exclusive products for our website.
We also spend a lot of time talking to our customers to understand what we can do to help them make the most of their money.
This helps us to focus our innovation on things that will make a real difference to our customers.
And of course, by giving customers access to products and deals through MoneySupermarket.
com which are not available anywhere else, we really do help our customers to save money on their household bills.
com Group PLC 7 Annual Report 2011 Previous Page View Contents Next Page 8 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2011 We wow them - marketing and PR are critical to building a household brand In 2011, we took a fresh approach to our TV advertising to drive the category forward and build on our position as the leading price comparison website.
The Youre So MoneySupermarket campaign focused on the emotional benefit of using our website and the fact that saving money makes you feel epic it proved very popular with TV audiences.
In January 2012 we launched a new Youre So MoneySupermarket campaign showcasing the breadth of our service and how we can help our customers save money on their household bills.
We supported our TV advertising with our PR campaigns which were aimed at engaging with and educating consumers on how they can save money with MoneySupermarket.
We achieved widespread media coverage in all major national broadsheets and tabloid newspapers, a large cross-section of national and regional broadcast media and major online news sites.
We also communicated directly with our customers through our weekly More Money email newsletter.
Our newsletters provide valuable information on products and services available through our website including market-leading exclusive products not available anywhere else.
com Group PLC 9 Annual Report 2011
