Previous Page View Contents Next Page Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC 25 Annual Report 2011 Directors Report The Directors present their report and the Group and Company Major shareholders Financial Statements of Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC the As at the date of this report, the Company had been notified of Company and its subsidiaries together the Group for the the following significant holdings of voting rights in its ordinary financial year ended 31 December 2011. shares in accordance with the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules: Number Principal activities of ordinary Percentage of The Company is a public limited company incorporated in shares voting ordinary share England, registered number 6160943, with its registered office Shareholder rights notified capital notified at Moneysupermarket House, St Davids Park, Ewloe, Simon Nixon 267,257,021 52.76 Chester, CH5 3UZ.
BlackRock Inc 25,454,379 4.998 FIL Limited 24,758,460 4.86 The principal activity of the Group is the introduction of business Capital Research & to financial, insurance, travel, home services and other product or Management Company 24,480,000 4.93 service providers through its websites.
The principal activity of the State Street Nominees Limited 20,581,165 4.14 Company is that of a holding company.
Share capital and control A fuller description of business activities is contained within the Financial and Business Review on pages 15 to 19.
The issued share capital of the Company comprises a single class of shares referred to as ordinary shares of 0.02p each.
As at 31 December 2011, the issued share capital of the Company Business review was 101,857 comprising 509,288,007 ordinary shares of 0.02p The Chairmans Statement on pages 10 and 11, the Chief each.
Full details of the share capital of the Company and Executives Report on pages 12 to 14, the Financial and Business changes to the share capital during the year are set out in note 16 Review on pages 15 to 19 and the Principal Risks and to the Group Financial Statements on page 64.
All the information Uncertainties on pages 20 and 21 provide a detailed review of the detailed in note 16 on page 64 is incorporated by reference into Groups activities, likely future developments and principal risks this report and is deemed to form part of this report.
All the information detailed in those pages is incorporated by reference into this report and is deemed to form At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on part of this report.
4 May 2011, shareholders authorised the Directors to allot up to 339,180,000 ordinary shares in the capital of the Company.
As at the date of this report, there have been no important events Directors will seek authority from shareholders at the forthcoming affecting the business of the Group which have occurred since 31 Annual General Meeting to allot up to 339,180,000 December 2011. ordinary shares.
Corporate governance On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every The Corporate Governance Report, the Audit Committee Report, the holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy, and Nomination Committee Report and the Directors Remuneration entitled to vote, shall have one vote and, on a poll, every holder Report on pages 29 to 42 are incorporated by reference into this of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy, and entitled to report and are deemed to form part of this report.
vote, shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
There are no issued shares in the Company with special rights with regard Results and dividends to control of the Company.
The Groups and Companys audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2011 are set out on pages 44 The notice of the Annual General Meeting specifies deadlines to 72. for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be passed at the Annual An interim dividend of 1.5p 2010: 1.3p per ordinary share and a General Meeting.
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers special dividend of 3.93p per ordinary share were paid to for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution are shareholders on 16 September 2011. announced at the Annual General Meeting and published on the Companys website after the meeting.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 3.03p 2010: 2.53p per ordinary share.
If approved by shareholders at the There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, this will be paid on Friday Company other than: 27 April 2012 to shareholders on the register at the close of Certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws business on Friday 30 March 2012. and regulations for example, insider trading laws.
Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services The final dividend, together with the interim and special dividends Authority whereby certain Directors, officers and employees of paid on 16 September 2011, gives a total dividend for the year of the Group require the approval of the Company to deal in 8.46p 2010: 3.83p per ordinary share.
ordinary shares of the Company.
Previous Page View Contents Next Page 26 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Directors Report continued Directors will seek authority from shareholders at the forthcoming Under the rules of the Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Share Annual General Meeting for the Company to purchase, in the Incentive Plan Plan, eligible employees were provided with the market, up to 50,928,800 of its own ordinary shares either to be opportunity to receive free shares on the listing of the Company cancelled or retained as treasury shares.
The Directors will only Listing with a value as at the date of Listing of 3,000, and use this power after careful consideration, taking into account the all employees are entitled to purchase ordinary shares in the financial resources of the Company, the Companys share price Company using money deducted from their pre-tax salary.
Plan and future funding opportunities.
The Directors will only purchase shares are held in trust for participants by Capita IRG Trustees such shares after taking into account the effects on earnings per Limited Trustees.
Voting rights are exercised by the Trustees share and the interests of shareholders generally.
on receipt of participants instructions.
If a participant does not submit an instruction to the Trustees, no vote is registered.
In addition, the Trustees do not vote on any unawarded or forfeit Research and development Innovation is important to the future success of the Group and shares held under the Plan as surplus assets.
As at the date of this report, the Trustees held 0.14% of the issued ordinary share to the delivery of long-term value to shareholders.
The Groups research and development expenditure is predominantly capital of the Company.
associated with computer and internet software systems.
Successfully developed software is used to develop new The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of products and to improve and extend the functionality and scope of the Groups internet operations.
securities and or voting rights.
The Company and Simon Nixon entered into a relationship Going concern agreement on 11 July 2007 to regulate the ongoing relationship After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a between them Relationship Agreement.
The Company and reasonable expectation that the Company, and the Group as Simon Nixon have agreed in the Relationship Agreement that a whole, have adequate resources to continue in operational Simon Nixon is entitled to appoint such number including himself existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Financial one Non-Executive Director for as long as he holds the beneficial Statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
interest in at least 15% of the ordinary shares of the Company, two Non-Executive Directors for as long as he holds the beneficial Directors interest in at least 30% of the ordinary shares of the Company The following persons were Directors of the Company during the and three Non-Executive Directors for as long as he holds the financial year ended 31 December 2011: Gerald Corbett, Simon beneficial interest in at least 50% of the ordinary shares of the Nixon, Peter Plumb, Paul Doughty, David Osborne, Graham Company.
The Relationship Agreement will terminate if Simon Donoghue, Michael Wemms, Rob Rowley and Bruce CarnegieNixon holds less than 15% of the ordinary shares of the Company.
Their biographical details are set out on pages 22 and 23.
As at the date of this report, Simon Nixon had not appointed any Non-Executive Directors pursuant to his rights in the Subject to law and the Companys Articles of Association, the Relationship Agreement.
Directors may exercise all of the powers of the Company and may delegate their power and discretion to committees.
Save in respect of Peter Plumbs service agreement details of which are set out on page 39 and provisions of the Companys The Companys Articles of Association give the Directors power share schemes which may cause options and awards granted to appoint and replace Directors.
Under the terms of reference of to employees under such schemes to vest on a takeover, there the Nomination Committee, any appointment to the Board of the are no agreements between the Company and its Directors Company must be recommended by the Nomination Committee or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or for approval by the Board.
The Articles of Association also require employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy Directors to retire and submit themselves for election at the first or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Annual General Meeting following their appointment and to stand for re-election at least every three years following their election or Save in respect of the Companys share schemes, there are no last re-election.
significant agreements to which the Company is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and the takeover bid.
UK Corporate Governance Code, all of the Directors will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, will The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended offer themselves for election or re-election.
by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
No amendments are proposed to be made to the existing Articles of Directors remuneration Association at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Remuneration Committee, on behalf of the Board, has adopted a policy that aims to attract and retain the Directors Authority to purchase own shares needed to run the Group successfully.
Details of the Directors At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 4 May remuneration is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on 2011, shareholders authorised the Company to purchase, in the pages 35 to 42. market, up to 50,928,800 of its own ordinary shares either to be cancelled or retained as treasury shares.
As at the date of this report, the Company had not purchased any of its own ordinary shares in the market.
com Group PLC 27 Annual Report 2011 The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Directors interests records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys Details of the Directors and their connected persons interests in transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the ordinary shares of the Company are set out in the Directors the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure Remuneration Report on pages 35 to 42.
No Director has any that its Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act other interest in any shares or loan stock of any Group company.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group The details of transactions with Directors of the Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
and related party transactions in the financial year ended 31 December 2011 are set out in note 22 to the Group Financial Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also Statements on page 68.
During the year, no Director had any responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors material interest in any contract of significance to the Groups Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Report that business.
complies with that law and those regulations.
Directors and officers insurance and indemnities The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity During the financial year ended 31 December 2011 and up to the of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys date of this report, the Company has maintained liability insurance website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and for its Directors and officers.
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Company has granted indemnities to each of its Directors and the Company Secretary to the extent permitted by law and its Statement of Directors responsibilities pursuant to Articles of Association.
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions and qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions were in force Disclosure and Transparency Rules 4.1.
12 Each of the Directors whose names and functions are set out on throughout 2011 and remain in force as at the date of this report in relation to certain losses and liabilities which the Directors pages 22 and 23 confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: The Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with the or Company Secretary may incur in the course of acting as Directors, Company Secretary or employees of the Company applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss or of any associated company.
of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole.
Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of The business review includes a fair review of the development the Annual Report and the Financial Statements and performance of the business and the position of the The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation and the Group and Company Financial Statements in accordance taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal with applicable law and regulations.
risks and uncertainties that they face.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Internal control Company Financial Statements for each financial year.
Under that The Corporate Governance Report and Audit Committee Report law they are required to prepare the Group Financial Statements on pages 29 to 33 includes the Boards assessment of the in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable Groups system of internal controls and consideration of the law and have elected to prepare the Company Financial guidance issued by the Turnbull Committee of the Institute of Statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and Chartered Accountants of England and Wales.
applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Employees Under company law the Directors must not approve the Financial Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and uses a number of ways to engage with employees view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and on matters that impact them and the performance of the Group.
These include formal half yearly business performance updates Company Financial Statements, the Directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them by members of the executive management team for all employees, regular update briefings for all employees, regular consistently.
Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and team meetings, the Groups intranet site which enables easy access to the latest Group information as well as Group policies, prudent.
For the Group Financial Statements, state whether they have and the circulation to employees of results announcements and other corporate announcements.
This also helps to achieve a been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
common awareness amongst employees of the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of the Group.
For the Company Financial Statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Company Financial Statements.
Prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will continue in business.
Previous Page View Contents Next Page 28 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Directors Report continued The Group has an established employee forum through which Disclosure of information to auditors nominated representatives ensure that employees views are The Directors who held office at the date of this report confirm taken into account regarding issues that are likely to affect them.
that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit A robust employee engagement survey process is also information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and in place to ensure that employees are given a voice in the each such Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have organisation and that the Group can take action based on taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit employee feedback.
information, and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
All employees are able to participate in the Companys Share Incentive Plan and Save As You Earn Scheme which gives Auditors employees the opportunity to purchase ordinary shares in the KPMG Audit Plc have indicated their willingness to accept Company.
This helps to encourage employee interest in the re-appointment as auditors of the Company.
A resolution performance of the Group.
proposing their re-appointment is contained in the notice of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and will be proposed to Equal opportunities shareholders at that meeting.
The Group is committed to providing equality of opportunity to all employees without discrimination and applies fair and Annual General Meeting equitable employment policies which seek to promote entry into The forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company will and progression within the Group.
Appointments are determined be held at Doubletree by Hilton Chester Hotel, Warrington Road, solely by application of job criteria, personal ability, behaviour Hoole, Chester, CH2 3PD on Wednesday 18 April 2012 and competency.
Disabled persons The notice convening the forthcoming Annual General Meeting Disabled persons have equal opportunities when applying for of the Company, with details of the business to be transacted vacancies, with due regard to their skills and abilities.
Procedures at the meeting and explanatory notes, is set out in a separate ensure that disabled employees are fairly treated in respect of circular which has been sent to all shareholders at the same training and career development.
For those employees becoming time as this report.
disabled during the course of their employment, the Group is supportive so as to provide an opportunity for them to remain By order of the Board with the Group, wherever reasonably practicable.
In the opinion of the Directors, all employee policies are deemed Darren Drabble to be effective and in accordance with their intended aims.
Company Secretary 27 February 2012 Borrowings The Group did not have any borrowings during the financial year ended 31 December 2011 2010: nil.
Financial risk management It is the Groups objective to manage its financial risk so as to minimise the adverse fluctuations in the financial markets on the Groups profitability and cash flow.
The specific policies for managing each of the Groups main financial risk areas are set out in note 17 to the Group Financial Statements on pages 64 and 65.
Political and charitable donations During the financial year ended 31 December 2011, the Group did not make any political donations 2010: nil and made charitable donations of 37,454 2010: 29,729.
Creditor payment policy It is Group policy to agree terms and conditions for its business transactions with suppliers.
Payment is made in accordance with these terms provided the supplier meets its obligations.
The average number of trade creditor days outstanding for the Group at 31 December 2011 was 48.8 days 2010: 50.8.
The Company is a holding company and therefore had no trade creditors at 31 December 2011 2010: nil.
