Overview Business review Governance Financial statements BOARD OF DIRECTORS Tim Stevenson OBE Mark Robertshaw Kevin Dangerfield Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Andrew Hosty Martin Flower CEO Morgan Ceramics Senior Independent Director Tim Stevenson OBE Mark Robertshaw Kevin Dangerfield Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Tim was appointed as Chairman of Morgan Crucible Mark was appointed as Chief Executive Officer in Kevin was appointed as Chief Financial Officer in December 2006.
He is also Chairman of Johnson August 2006.
Prior to this he was Chief Operating in August 2006, having joined Morgan Crucible Matthey plc.
Tim was Chairman of Travis Perkins plc Officer from February 2006 and Chief Financial in July 2000 as Deputy Group Financial Controller from 2001 to 2010, a non-executive Director of Officer from October 2004.
Before joining before being promoted to Group Financial Tribal Group plc from 2004 to 2008 and was latterly Morgan Crucible he was Chief Financial Officer Controller.
He is a non-executive Director of e2v their Senior Independent Director.
From 2001 to of Gartmore Investment Management plc from technologies plc.
Before joining Morgan Crucible 2005 Tim was Senior Independent Director and 2000 to 2004.
Mark is a non-executive Director of Kevin worked for London International Group plc Chair of the Audit Committee of National Express plc SEGRO plc and was a non-executive Director of and Virgin Retail Europe Limited.
He qualified as a and from 2000 to 2004 he was a non-executive Rathbones Brothers plc from 2006 to 2010. chartered accountant with .
Director of Partnerships UK plc.
From 1975 to 2000, Tim held a variety of senior management Andrew Hosty Martin Flower positions at Burmah Castrol PLC, including Chief CEO Morgan Ceramics Senior Independent Director Executive from 1998 to 2000.
He is a qualified Andrew was appointed as Chief Executive Officer Martin was appointed as a non-executive Director barrister and is Lord Lieutenant of Oxfordshire.
of Morgan Ceramics and joined the Morgan Crucible in December 2004 and Senior Independent Board in July 2010.
Before this appointment Director in April 2008.
He is Chairman of Croda he held a number of senior positions within the International plc and Low & Bonar PLC.
He was Morgan Crucible Group.
Andrew was Chief Executive previously Chairman of Autogrill Holdings UK plc, Officer of Technical Ceramics from 2004 to a non-executive Director of Autogrill Group Inc. and July 2010, whereupon the Technical Ceramics Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director and Thermal Ceramics Businesses were brought of Severn Trent Plc.
Martin held a variety of senior together as the Morgan Ceramics Division.
management positions with Coats plc from 1968 to He is a non-executive Director of British Ceramic 2004, and was Group Chief Executive of that Group Research Limited and was President of the British and Chairman of the Board from 2001 to 2004.
52 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2011 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements ExECUTIVE COMMITTEE Andrew Given Paul Boulton Don Klas Non-executive Director Company Secretary CEO Morgan Engineered Materials Simon Heale Peter Blausten Non-executive Director Director of Human Resources Andrew Given Mark Robertshaw Non-executive Director Chief Executive Officer Andrew was appointed as a non-executive Director in December 2007 and is the Chairman of the Kevin Dangerfield Audit Committee.
He was previously the senior Chief Financial Officer non-executive Director and Chair of the Audit Committee of VT Group plc, the Senior Independent Andrew Hosty Director and Chair of the Audit Committee CEO Morgan Ceramics of Spectris plc and a non-executive Director and Chair of the Audit Committee of Spirent Don Klas Communications plc.
Andrew was formerly CEO Morgan Engineered Materials Deputy Chief Executive of Logica plc and held senior management positions in Plessey and Paul Boulton Nortel Networks.
Company Secretary Simon Heale Peter Blausten Non-executive Director Director of Human Resources Simon was appointed as a non-executive Director in February 2005 and is the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
He is a non-executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of Coats plc, a non-executive Director and Chair of the Audit Committee of Kazakhmys plc, a non-executive Director and Chair of the CSR Committee of PZ Cussons Plc, a non-executive Director and Chair of the Audit and Compliance Committee of Marex Spectron Group Limited and Trustee and Treasurer of Macmillan Cancer Support chairing their Finance and Legal Committee and sitting on their Audit Committee.
He was Chief Executive of China Now from 2007 to 2008 and was Chief Executive of the London Metal Exchange from 2001 to 2006.
Simon qualified as an accountant with Price Waterhouse and has had extensive experience in the Far East, having held Member of the Audit Committee senior positions with the Swire Group in Japan and Member of the Remuneration Committee Hong Kong and with Jardine Fleming in Hong Kong.
Member of the Nomination Committee Annual Report 2011 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 53
