Overview Business review Governance Financial statements KeY PeRFORMAnce indicAtORs to support the Groups strategy and to historic performance.
At a business level, a As Morgan crucibles businesses grow and monitor performance, the Board of directors range of further benchmarks and other KPis evolve we will review and update the list of and the executive committee use a number of are also used as part of the divisional planning KPis selected to ensure they remain important financial and non-financial key performance and performance review processes.
in order to to the success of the Group.
these KPis are selected as measure the underlying performance of the being important to the success of the Group in business, management further analyse the Financial and non-financial performance is delivering its strategic objectives.
Progress is headline KPis to exclude the impact of reviewed in more detail in the divisional, assessed by comparison with the Groups acquisitions and foreign exchange.
financial and corporate responsibility sections strategy, its budget for the year and against of this Business review.
Performance KPi 2011 2010 Relevant strategic objective Financial KPIs Revenue growth 8.2% 7.9% creating consistent long-term value for shareholders Focus on higher growth markets Underlying operating profit growth 39.3% 31.9% creating consistent long-term value for shareholders Focus on higher growth markets to be high value-added to our customers to have a culture of operational excellence and cost-efficiency Underlying operating profit margin 12.9% 10.0% creating consistent long-term value for shareholders Focus on higher growth markets to have a culture of operational excellence and cost-efficiency Underlying profit before taxation 119.7m 75.7m creating consistent long-term value for shareholders Focus on higher growth markets to have a culture of operational excellence and cost-efficiency Free cash flow before acquisitions and dividends 57.8m 76.5m creating consistent long-term value for shareholders Return on Operating capital employed 33.7% 25.4% creating consistent long-term value for shareholders Underlying earnings per share 29.9p 18.7p creating consistent long-term value for shareholders dividend per share 9.25p 7.7p creating consistent long-term value for shareholders u Non-financial KPIs Year-on-year pricing change 2.3% 1.1% to be high value-added to our customers total employment costs as % of sales 29.2% 29.5% to have a culture of operational excellence and cost-efficiency employee turnover 13.7% 13.7% to find, keep and develop the right people training hours per employee 13.3 12.9 to find, keep and develop the right people lost time accident frequency per 100,000 hours worked 0.57 0.57 to have a culture of operational excellence and cost-efficiency to find, keep and develop the right people tonnes cO per m revenue 394 416 to have a culture of operational excellence and 2 cost-efficiency tonnes waste per m revenue 41 44 to have a culture of operational excellence and cost-efficiency Underlying operating profit is defined as operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets.
Underlying profit before taxation is defined as operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets less net financing costs.
Return on Operating capital employed is defined as Group underlying operating profit divided by the sum of working capital which excludes pension liability and provisions and the net book value of tangible assets.
Goodwill and other intangible assets are excluded.
U nderlying earnings per share is defined as basic earnings per share adjusted to exclude amortisation of intangible assets.
see note 9 on page 98 for definition of basic earnings per share.
u non-financial KPis are at constant currency and updated to reflect changes in reporting methodology.
Annual Report 2011 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 25
