86 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Governance: Directors report Principal group activities Results and dividends The principal activities of the Group are copper mining including exploration and The consolidated profit before tax has increased from US$2,573.2 million in 2010 development, the transportation of freight by rail and road and the distribution of to US$3,076.2 million in 2011. water.
These activities are mainly based in Chile.
The Companys principal activity The Board has recommended a final dividend of US 36.0 cents 2010 US 112.0 isto act as a holding company.
The Company is incorporated in England and cents per ordinary share, comprising an ordinary dividend of US 12.0 cents listedon the London Stock Exchange.
Group operations are carried out through 2010 US 12.0 cents and a special dividend of US 24.0 cents 2010 US 100.0 subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
The principal subsidiaries, associates cents.
An ordinary interim dividend of US 8.0 cents was paid on 6 October 2011 and joint ventures that make up the Group are set out in Notes 16 to 18 to the 2010 ordinary dividend US 4.0 cents.
This gives total dividends per share financial statements.
One subsidiary, the Antofagasta Railway Company plc, proposed in relation to 2010 of US 44.0 cents 2010 US 116.0 cents, including hasabranch in Chile known as the FCAB which provides rail freight services.
The total amount of dividends paid to ordinary shareholders including special dividends proposed in relation to 2011 will be US$433.8 million, Business review compared with US$1,143.6 million in 2010.
The Company is required by section 417 of the Companies Act 2006 to provide Preference shares carry the right to a fixed cumulative dividend of 5% per annum.
abusiness review in this report.
The requirements of the business review are The preference shares are classified within borrowings, and preference dividends fulfilledin the disclosures contained within the Chairmans statement on pages are included within finance costs.
The total cost of dividends paid on preference 5to7, the Marketplace section on pages 14 to 17, the Operational review including shares and recognised as an expense in the income statement was US$0.2 million information on expected future developments on pages 26 to 57, the Financial 2010 US$0.2 million.
Further information relating to dividends is set out in the review on pages 60 to 67 and the Corporate governance report on pages 72 to Financial review on page 64, and in Note 12 to the financial statements.
A summary of the key performance indicators considered most relevant to the Group is on pages 18 and 19.
Information on environmental, employee and social and community matters is included within the Corporate sustainability section Political contributions onpages 46 to 57.
Information on significant contractual and other arrangements The Group made no political donations during the year ended 31 December 2011 which are essential to the business of the Group is included within this Directors 2010 US$49,000 in relation to presidential elections.
The donations during report on pages 86 to 88.
A description of the financial risk management objectives 2010 were made in accordance with the Chilean legislation which governs the and policies of the Group, together with the principal risks and uncertainties facing financing of political parties and candidates in order to facilitate the democratic the Group, is contained in the Risk management section on pages 20 to 23, and process of the country.
The donations were made via the Chilean Electoral inNote 25 to the financial statements.
There have been no significant events since Management Body, which transfers funds to political parties and candidates.
the balance sheet date requiring disclosure in the financial statements.
All the above matters are incorporated into this report by reference.
Supplier payment policy and creditor days The Company acts as a holding company and does not trade in the United Kingdom Value of land or elsewhere.
Creditor days for the Group have been calculated at 46 days 2010 Land included within property, plant and equipment in the financial statements 32 days.
Each operating company is responsible for agreeing terms of payment ismainly held at cost.
It is not practicable to estimate the value of such land and with each of their suppliers.
It is Group policy that payments to suppliers are made mineral rights, since these principally depend on product prices over the long term in accordance with agreed terms.
and will vary with market conditions.
Land included in investment properties relates to forestry properties which the Group maintains but does not use in any of itsexisting operations.
This land is held for long-term real estate development andrecreational potential and is held in the financial statements at cost.
The fair value of such land is disclosed in Note 15 to the financial statements.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 87 Significant relationships Capital structure The Group has a number of significant contractual or other arrangements which Details of the authorised and issued ordinary share capital, including details of areessential to its operations and projects: anymovements in the issued share capital during the year, are shown in Note 30 tothe financial statements.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares, which the Group holds a number of mining and exploration rights in Chile and other carry no right to fixed income.
Each ordinary share carries one vote at any general countries in which it has exploration or development activities, normally granted meeting of the Company.
Details of the preference share capital are shown in Note by the relevant national government: 23 to the financial statements.
The preference shares are non-redeemable and are a significant proportion of the Groups sales of copper concentrate and other entitled to a fixed cumulative dividend of 5% per annum.
Each preference share payable elements and molybdenum concentrate are made under long-term carries 100 votes on a poll at any general meeting of the Company.
The nominal framework agreements with a number of customers.
These framework contracts value of the issued ordinary share capital is 96.1% of the total sterling nominal value will typically set out the minimum annual volumes to be supplied, with the of all issued share capital, and the nominal value of the issued preference share processing charges determined annually and the pricing of contained material capital is 3.9% of the total sterling nominal value of all issued share capital.
tobe in accordance with market prices.
A significant proportion of the Groups There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of shares or on their voting rights copper cathode sales are made under annual contracts with a number of beyond those standard provisions set out in the Companys Articles of Association customers.
These contracts will typically specify the volumes to be supplied, and other provisions of applicable law and regulation including, in particular, withthe pricing to be in accordance with market prices.
Further details of following a failure to provide the Company with information about interests in sucharrangements are given in Note 25 to the financial statements: sharesas required by the Companies Act 2006.
The Company is not aware there are collective labour agreements with each of the labour unions at the ofanyagreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result Groups operations.
These agreements are typically of between three and four inrestrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Several of these labour unions are affiliated with the Federacin Minera fide Chile: The Company has the authority to purchase up to 98,585,669 of its own ordinary the Group has contracts with a number of suppliers to sub-contract certain shares, representing 10% of the issued ordinary share capital.
With regard to the services at each of its mine sites, including vehicle and equipment maintenance appointment and replacement of Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles and other logistical services.
In addition, the Group has a number of medium and of Association, the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010, the Companies Act long-term contracts for the supply of key inputs such as electricity, sulphuric 2006 and related legislation.
The Articles of Association may be amended by acid, oil and explosives with a number of suppliers: special resolution of the shareholders.
There are no significant agreements inplacewhich take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the tax invariability agreements are in place in respect of the Groups four Company.
There are no agreements in place between the Company and its miningoperations Los Pelambres, Esperanza, El Tesoro and Michilla Directors or employees which provide for compensation for loss of office whichprovide that specified rates will apply in respect of the mining royalty resultingfrom a change of control of the Company.
forspecified periods: in 2003 the Group was awarded a 30-year concession to operate the water rights and facilities in the Antofagasta Region of Chile, supplying domestic Directors interests and indemnities andindustrial users.
The domestic tariffs are controlled by the Chilean Water Details of Directors contracts and letters of appointment, remuneration and Regulator.
Further details are given in Note 36 to the financial statements: emoluments, and their interests in the shares of the Company as at 31 December 2011 are given in the Remuneration report.
No Director had any material interest the transport division has long-term contracts with a number of customers, ina contract of significance other than a service contract with the Company whichtypically govern volumes and pricing structures: and oranysubsidiary company during the year.
the Group has shareholder agreements in place governing its relationship withitspartners at its operations and development and exploration projects.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and to the extent TheGroup also has a number of earn-in agreements in respect of exploration permitted by the laws of England and Wales, Directors are granted an indemnity and development projects.
from the Company in respect of liabilities personally incurred as a result of their office.
In respect of those matters for which the Directors may or may not be indemnified, the Company maintained a Directors and Officers liability insurance policy throughout the financial year.
This policy has been renewed for the current financial year.
88 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Governance: Directors report Conflicts of interest Substantial shareholdings The Companies Act 2006 requires that a Director must avoid a situation where he As at 31 December 2011 and 12 March 2012, the following significant holdings has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, ofvoting rights in the share capital of the Company had been disclosed to the with the Companys interests.
The Company has undertaken a process to identify, Company under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5: and, where appropriate, authorise and manage potential and actual conflicts.
Each Ordinary share Preference share Total share Director of the Company has identified his interests which may constitute conflicts, Table of substantial capital capital capital including for example, directorships in other companies.
The Board has considered shareholdings % % % the potential and actual conflict situations of each of the Directors and decided Metalinvest Establishment 50.72 94.12 58.04 inrelation to each situation whether to authorise it and the steps, if any, that need Kupferberg Establishment 9.94 8.27 tobe taken to manage it.
The authorisation process is not regarded as a substitute Blackrock Inc. 5.10 4.24 for managing an actual conflict of interest if one arises.
The monitoring and, if Aureberg Establishment 4.26 3.54 appropriate, authorisation of actual and potential conflicts of interest is an ongoing process.
Directors are required to notify the Company of any material changes in Metalinvest Establishment and Kupferberg Establishment are both controlled by those positions or situations that have already been considered, as well as to notify theE.
Abaroa Foundation, in which members of the Luksic family are interested.
the Company of any other new positions or situations that may arise.
In addition Asexplained on page 138, Metalinvest Establishment is the immediate parent toconsidering any new situations as they arise, the Board considers the conflict company of the Group and the E. Abaroa Foundation is the ultimate parent position of all Directors formally each year.
Aureberg Establishment is controlled by Jean-Paul Luksic, the Chairmanof the Company.
By order of the Board For and on behalf of Petershill Secretaries Limited Company Secretary 12 March 2012
