70 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Governance: Board of Directors 1 Jean-Paul Luksic 1 Executive Chairman 48 Committees: Nomination C Appointed to Antofagasta 1990 Jean-Paul Luksic has over 20 years of experience with Antofagasta.
Prior to his appointment as Chairman in 2004 hewas Chief Executive Officer of Antofagasta Minerals S. A.
2 6 inwhich capacity he oversaw the development of the LosPelambres and El Tesoro mines.
He plays a key role inshaping the strategic direction of the Group, and leading the Board.
Hechairs the Business Development Committee, which focuses on the mining divisions growth opportunities.
degree in management and science from the London School of Economics.
Current external roles: He is chairman of the Consejo 3 7 Minero, the industry body representing the largest international mining companies operating in Chile, andisanon-executive director ofQuienco S. A.
2 Gonzalo Menndez Non-Executive Director 63 Appointed to Antofagasta 1985 4 8 Gonzalo Menndez has extensive experience in commercial and financial businesses across Latin America.
He holds a degree in business administration from the Universidad fide Chile and is a public accountant.
Current external roles: He is a director of several companies including Quienco S. A. and Banco fide Chile andis chairman of the board of directors of Banco 5 9 Latinoamericano fide Comercio Exterior S. A. Bladex.
3 Ramon Jara Non-Executive Director 59 Committees: Sustainability and  C Appointed to Antofagasta 2003 Ramon Jara is a lawyer with wide-ranging legal andcommercial experience in Chile.
Current external roles: He is a director of several companies including Empresa Nacional del Petrleo.
Heischairman of theFundacin Minera Los Pelambres andadirector of the Fundacin Andrnico Luksic A. whichare charitable foundations in Chile.
The ages of the Directors are shown as of the date of the 2012 Annual General Meeting Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 71 4 Guillermo Luksic 7 Hugo Dryland Non-Executive Director 56 Non-Executive Director 56 Appointed to Antofagasta 2005 Appointed to Antofagasta 2011 Guillermo Luksic has considerable experience across a range Hugo Dryland has extensive expertise in corporate finance of commercial and industrial sectors in Chile.
andmergers and acquisitions within the mining sector, with over 25 years of investment banking experience in natural Current external roles: He is a director of several resources with Rothschild.
Prior to joining Rothschild he companies including Nexans S. A. and Banco fide Chile and practised law in the United States, specialising in the natural chairman of Quienco S. A. resources and infrastructure sectors.
5 Juan Claro He holds Masters Degrees in Business and Comparative Lawfrom the University of Warwick UK and the George Non-Executive Director 61 Washington University US respectively.
Committees: Remuneration and Talent, Nomination, Current external roles: He is a senior managing director Sustainability and Stakeholder Management atRothschild and is Global Head of Rothschilds investment Appointed to Antofagasta 2005 banking activities in the mining and metals sector.
Juan Claro has extensive industrial experience in Chile, andhas played an active role in the representation of Chilean 8 Tim Baker industrial interests within the country and internationally.
Non-Executive Director 60 He is a former chairman of the Sociedad fide Fomento Fabril Committees: Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Talent C, Chilean Society of Industrialists, the Confederacin fide la Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Produccin y del Comercio Confederation of Chilean Appointed to Antofagasta 2011 Business and the Consejo Binacional fide Negocios Chile-China Council for Bilateral Business Chile-China.
Tim Baker has significant mining operational experience, acrossNorth and South America and Africa.
He was Current external roles: He is currently chairman of previously executive vice-president and chief operating officer Embotelladora Andina S. A. and Energia Coyanco S. A. and is at Kinross Gold Corporation, and prior to that was executive adirector of several other companies in Chile, including Entel general manager of Placer Dome Chile.
He has previously Chile S. A. and Empresas CMPC S. A.
He is also a member managed mining operations in Chile, the United States, ofthe governing boards of Universidad Adolfo Ibez and Tanzania and Venezuela and held geological and production Centro fide Estudios Pblicos, a non-profit academic roles in Kenya and Liberia.
in Geology from Edinburgh University.
6 William Hayes Current external roles: He is a director of Augusta Non-Executive Director 67 Resource Corporation, Eldorado Gold Corporation and PacificRim MiningCorporation.
Committees: Audit and Risk C, , Nomination 9 Manuel Lino Silva fide Sousa-Oliveira Appointed to Antofagasta 2006 OllieOliveira William Hayes is the Senior Independent Director.
He has held Non-Executive Director 59 awide range of finance and operational roles in the copper andgold mining industries, in Chile and North America.
Committees: Audit and Risk Hewas previously a senior executive with Placer Dome Inc.
Appointed to Antofagasta 2011 from 1988 to 2006.
He is a former president of the Consejo Ollie Oliveira has over 30 years experience in the mining Minero, the industry body representing the largest industry, in corporate finance, operational and strategic roles.
international mining companies operating in Chile and former He held various senior executive positions within the Anglo president of the GoldInstitute in Washington, D. C. American group and the fide Beers group, including Executive He holds an M. A. degree in International Management from Director Corporate Finance and Head of Strategy and theThunderbird School of Global Management.
Business Development of fide Beers S. A.
Current external roles: He is a director of Royal Gold Inc.
He holds a B. Com degree from the University of Natal Durban with postgraduate qualifications in Accounting andEconomics.
He is a Chartered Accountant CA SA andChartered Management Accountant FCMA.
Current external roles: He is a director of several companies including Ferrous Resources Limited.
