Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 03 Mineral resources including ore reserves of the Groups subsidiaries 13.7bn tonnes Breakdown by subsidiaries 13.7 13.4 F A A Los Pelambres 6,006 mt @ 0.51% Cu E G B Telgrafo 2,965 mt @ 0.34% Cu C Esperanza sulphides 2,019 mt @ 0.36% Cu D 9.2 D Caracoles 1,301 mt @ 0.41% Cu E Antucoya 1,106 mt @ 0.31% Cu 6.4 F El Tesoro 260 mt @ 0.58% Cu C G Michilla 67 mt @ 1.57% Cu 4.4 Total 13.7bn tonnes @ 0.43% Cu B 07 08 09 10 11 2: Organic and sustainable growth 3: Growth beyond of the core business the core business Telgrafo Caracoles Antucoya Twin Metals Located in the Groups Centinela Mining Located in the Centinela Mining District Antucoya is an oxide deposit A copper-nickel-PGM deposit located District close to Esperanza andEl Tesoro, south of Telgrafo, a feasibility study is locatedinChiles Antofagasta region.
in Minnesota, USA, which the Group is a feasibility study is under way in respect under way for this project.
Theproject is expected to enter seeking to develop with Duluth Metals of this project.
A pre-feasibility study is under Page 39 way for the project.
Page 38 Page 40 Page 41 Los Pelambres Resources billions of tonnes Reko Diq Energy 2011 A pre-feasibility study is under way The Group is seeking to develop The Group has exploration and examining potential for long-term theReko Diq deposit in Pakistan via development projects relating to Los Pelambres 6.0 expansion of Los Pelambres.
the Tethyan joint venture company.
geothermal and coal gasification Telgrafo 3.0 Theresource base could potentially International arbitration has been prospects, as well as investing in Caracoles 1.3 support a more than doubling initiated to protect Tethyans legal relevant power generation capacity ofexisting plant capacity.
rights inrelation to the project.
Page 39 Page 42 Page 43 Group EBITDA by division Revenue by division US$3,661m US$6,076m A Mining 3,511 A Mining 5,782 C A C A B B 1 1 1 Los Pelambres 2,642 1 Los Pelambres 3,677 4 4 2 Esperanza 519 2 Esperanza 923 3 3 El Tesoro 463 3 El Tesoro 827 3 4 Michilla 157 4 Michilla 355 5 Exploration 215 B Transport 179 2 6 Corporate and other items 55 C Water 115 2 B Transport 76 C Water 74 04 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 2011 highlights Record production, with copper production up 22.9% to640,500 tonnes and gold production up more than fivefold to 196,800 ounces compared with 2010.
Record revenues and profitability with turnover of US$6.1 billion up 32.7% over 2010 and EBITDA ofUS$3.7 billion up 32.1% over 2010.
Total dividend for the year of 44 cents per share, representing a total distribution to shareholders of US$433.8 million, and an overall payout ratio of 35% ofnet earnings.
Challenges in the ramp-up at Esperanza largely addressed in 2011, with remaining remedial measures relating to performance and reliability of the plant under review.
Antucoya project approved, and Memorandum of Understanding signed with Marubeni Corporation whereby they will become a 30% partner in the project.
Significant progress in growth pipeline with a feasibility study initiated in the Centinela Mining District and pre-feasibility studies at Los Pelambres and Twin Metals.
2 Dividends include both ordinary and special dividends as explained on pages 64 and 65.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 05 Group copper production was 640,500 tonnes, compared Chairmans statement with 521,100 tonnes in 2010.
This increase reflected mainly the 90,100 tonnes produced by Esperanza in its first year 2011 was a solid year for the Group, in terms of both production and ofoperation, as well as an increase in Los Pelambres profitability, reflecting mainly the impact of the start-up of Esperanza.
production to 411,800 tonnes 2010 384,600 tonnes, Copper production of 640,500 tonnes increased by 22.9% and reflecting the full-year impact of its plant expansion which hadbeen completed during 2010.
The start-up of Esperanza goldproduction of 196,800 ounces increased more than fivefold is also having a transformational change in the Groups gold compared with 2010.
EBITDA was 32.1% higher than the previous production with a total of 196,800 ounces produced in 2011, year at US$3,660.5 million.
The ramp-up of Esperanza was the key a more than fivefold increase compared with the 35,100 ounces produced in the prior year.
Nevertheless, production milestonefor the Group in 2011.
We have made significant progress was lower than originally anticipated as a result of which during 2011 in addressing the challenges we have faced at Esperanza Group production was below the original forecast of during the ramp-up, with remaining remedial measures relating 715,000tonnes of copper and 324,000 ounces of gold.
Wehave made significant progress during 2011 in totheperformance and reliability of the plant under review.
addressing the challenges we have faced at Esperanza Weareforecasting further production growth for 2012, with expected duringramp-up with remaining remedial measures under production of approximately 700,000 tonnes of copper, 280,000 evaluation.
Molybdenum production at Los Pelambres increased by 12.5% to reach 9,900 tonnes.
ounces of gold and 11,000 tonnes of molybdenum.
The increase in thecopper and gold production reflects the first full year of operation The Group also has a stable net cost position, despite continuing industry cost pressures, with forecast 2012 atEsperanza following the completion of the main ramp-up activities.
weighted average cash costs net of by-product credits We have also made excellent progress with our growth projects during ofapproximately 105 cents per pound, compared with 101.9cents in 2011 and 104.0 cents in 2010.
This largely 2011 with the approval of the Antucoya project, and significant reflects the increased production from Esperanza with advances in respect of our core areas of the Centinela Mining District itslownet cost position given its significant gold credits.
and Los Pelambres in Chile as well as the Twin Metals project in the Netcash costs nevertheless remain sensitive to market pricesfor by-products.
At the end of 2011 the Group had a net cash position of Jean-Paul Luksic US$1,139.7 million and total gross cash, cash equivalents Chairman and liquid investments of US$3,280.0 million.
We have continued with our consistent and significant capital returns to our shareholders, with total dividends in respect of2011 amounting to US$433.8 million, which represents anoverall payout ratio of 35% of net earnings.
Strategy The strategy for the Groups mining business is based aroundthree key pillars.
Firstly, the existing core business ofthe Group the Los Pelambres, Esperanza, El Tesoro andMichilla mines: secondly, continuing to grow this core business by further developing the districts around our existing asset base in the Centinela Mining District formerly known as the Sierra Gorda District and at Los Pelambres: and finally, continuing to develop and search for additional opportunities including early-stage growth in copper both inChile and abroad.
The ramp-up of Esperanza during the year, while slower than originally anticipated, was a key milestone in the development of the first pillar in our strategy.
We have also made significant advances with our growth projects during 2011.
Thekeyfocus here is on the Centinela Mining District and LosPelambres.
In the Centinela Mining District a pre-feasibility study was completed during 2011, and a feasibility study in respect of the Telgrafo and Caracoles projects was initiated at the end of the third quarter, which is expected to conclude in early 2013.
06 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 We have also started to invest ourselves in a number of Chairmans statement innovative energy projects in geothermal, and underground coal gasification reflecting the key role which energy supply, and in particular cleaner energy sources, will play inChiles development.
The shortage of skilled workers in Chile is a critical issue forthe mining sector.
The Groups initiatives in respect of Current estimates are that each of these projects could thisissue include an apprenticeship programme for training support a plant of a similar scale to the existing Esperanza school leavers from local communities, developing a graduate operation, which could result in annual production of trainee programme, started in 2010, to attract young somewhere in excess of 150,000 tonnes of copper for each professionals to the Company, and working alongside our project, along with gold by-products.
At Los Pelambres, mining peers in Chile to identify and address the shortage aconceptual study was completed early in the year, ofmining professionals.
The partnership aims to raise andapre-feasibility study was initiated in May 2011. awareness of mining as a career choice and in future it will Theverylarge resource base could support a large-scale develop fast track training programmes to increase the expansion ofthe operation, potentially more than doubling number of skilled workers in the sector.
In terms of water, we believe that use of sea water will start We have also made very significant progress in terms tobecome the norm for new mining projects.
Our work at ofthethird pillar of our strategy.
In December 2011 the Esperanza, with the first use of untreated sea water in a largeAntucoya project was approved.
Construction is expected to scale Chilean mining project, means we are well placed to take approximately two and a half years, with first production build on that experience.
expected during the second half of 2014.
We expect to produce an average of 80,000 tonnes of copper a year, overa mine life of just over 20 years.
The Group is also Health and safety progressing with its other international growth opportunities.
The Board deeply regrets the death of one worker at the At the Twin Metals project in Minnesota, the acquisition of Antofagasta Railway Company in 2011.
The worker was run theassets of Franconia Minerals Corporation was completed over by a train in the city of Calama.
The Board has a clear during 2011, which has effectively doubled Twin Metals target of zero fatalities and considers any fatality to be mineral and land assets.
A pre-feasibility study was initiated unacceptable.
The company investigated the cause of the during2011 following the completion of a conceptual study.
accident and found that proper safety procedures had not In Pakistan, Tethyan the Groups joint venture with Barrick been followed.
After the accident, the company circulated Gold Corporation is seeking to develop the Reko Diq information to further raise employees awareness of health deposit.
Disappointingly, in November 2011 the Government and safety procedures.
There were no fatalities at any of the of Balochistan rejected Tethyans application for a mining Groups mines in 2011. lease.
Tethyan has commenced two international arbitrations in order to protect its legal rights.
Dividends The Boards policy is to establish an ordinary dividend which Sustainable development can be maintained or progressively increased at conservative Sustainable development forms an integral part of the long-term copper prices and through the economic cycle.
Groupsdecision making process and supports achievement Inaddition, the Board recommends special dividends when of its business strategy.
The Board continues to place key itconsiders these appropriate after taking into account the importance on a range of considerations including health level of profits earned in the period under review, the existing andsafety, management of human resources, environment cash position of the Group and significant known or expected and community relations.
Mining projects both in Chile and worldwide are likely to The Board has recommended a final dividend for 2011 facea number of challenges over the next few years.
A very of36cents per ordinary share, which amounts to significant investment from the mining industry is anticipated, US$354.9million and if approved at the Annual General and that is likely to put pressure on three areas in particular Meeting, will bepaid on 14 June 2012 to shareholders energy, labour and water.
onthe Register atthe close of business on 11 May 2012.
This final dividend comprises an ordinary dividend of In terms of energy, the primary response will continue 12centsand a special dividend of 24 cents.
This gives tocome from private generators, investing in capacity totaldividends for the year of44 cents, including the toensure the Chilean grid is able to meet demands.
interimdividend of 8 cents which was paid in October, TheChilean government will also need to ensure there amounting to US$433.8 million and representing a remains a supportive framework to encourage the necessary distribution of 35% of 2011 net earnings.
However, we have been taking focused action to support our own projects and operations encouraging the In 2010 total dividends were 116 cents, representing a payout development of new power plants dedicated to supplying our ratio of 109.
As previously stated, the special dividend of operations.
At Los Pelambres we have signed a long-term 100cents in that year reflected the successful completion of supply agreement which supports the construction of Chiles the two key growth projects the Los Pelambres expansion largest wind farm, and also taken a 30% stake in that project.
and the Esperanza mine development in that year.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 07 Our continued production growth from our portfolio of Corporate governance low-cost assets, and our strong financial position, mean that Charles Bailey and Daniel Yarur retired from the Board we are well placed to make the most of these conditions.
duringthe year, and I am very grateful for their contribution tothe Group and would like to wish them both every future The Groups 2012 production is forecast to be approximately success.
Charles had been a Director since 1987, and played 700,000 tonnes of copper, 280,000 ounces of gold and a significant role in the complete transformation of the Group 11,000 tonnes of molybdenum.
The increase in the copper which we have seen over that period.
and gold production compared with 2011 reflects the impact of Esperanza operating in a steady-state of production for I was very pleased to be able to welcome Hugo Dryland, afull year, following the completion of the main ramp-up TimBaker and Ollie Oliveira to the Antofagasta plc Board process during 2011. during 2011.
Between them they bring a considerable range of experience and expertise in the international mining sector, The forecast for 2012 weighted average cash costs net with many years of operational, financial, strategic and ofby-product credits is for approximately 105 cents per corporate finance experience across a wide range of countries.
pound, only marginally above the 2011 net costs of 101.9 cents.
The relatively stable costs, despite ongoing industry On 7 March 2012 Marcelo Awad, the Chief Executive cost pressures, again reflects the increased production from Officerof Antofagasta Minerals S. A. Antofagasta Minerals, Esperanza, with its low net cost position given its significant advised the Board of his resignation with immediate effect.
Net cash costs nevertheless remain sensitive Until a successor is appointed, the Board has requested that tomarket prices for by-products.
Iassume his responsibilities on an interim basis.
Marcelo had been Chief Executive Officer of Antofagasta Minerals since Excluding by-product credits, weighted average gross cash 2004, and during that time he oversaw the significant growth costs are expected to be approximately 165 cents in 2012, of the Groups mining operations and development of its compared with 155.2 cents in 2011.
I would like to thank him for his leadership of this increase is due to the greater proportion of the Groups Antofagasta Minerals his commitment and contribution production that is expected from Esperanza in 2012 when tothe Group over the years has been widely appreciated compared with 2011.
On a net cash cost basis, Esperanza andwe wish him every success in the future.
isexpected to be the lowest cost of the Groups four mines in2012: however on a pre-credit basis its costs are expected During the year, we updated our Ethics Code to take into to be higher than the weighted average of the remainder of account recent best practice and I was pleased to launch the the Group and hence its higher production volumes increase new version at our headquarters in Santiago Chile.
The Code, overall weighted average pre-credit costs.
The remainder of which has since been rolled out across the Group, sets out the increase is mainly due to the impact of lower grades in our commitment to undertaking business in a responsible 2012 at Los Pelambres and general inflationary pressures.
We expect to continue making considerable progress with our growth projects in 2012 with the start of construction Outlook of the Antucoya project, and further progress with our Copper has performed well in the first two months of 2012, evaluation studies on our other key growth projects.
increasing from 343 cents per pound at the start of the year Workonthe feasibility study in respect of the Telgrafo and to around 390 cents by the end of February.
Despite the Caracoles projects and the pre-feasibility studies in respect improvement in the copper price since the year end, ofLos Pelambres and Twin Metals will continue through macro-economic uncertainty means that prices in the 2012, with the completion of these studies expected during shortterm are likely to remain volatile.
The Group also expects to advance with its substantial long-term market fundamentals remain positive for copper, exploration programme, both in the prospective Centinela with inventories remaining at low levels by historic standards.
Mining District as well as across Chile and internationally.
The ramp-up of Esperanza was akeymilestone in the year.
Our continued production growth from our portfolio of low-cost assets, and our strong financial position, mean that we are well placed to take advantage of these many opportunities.
Jean-Paul Luksic Chairman 12 March 2012 08 Exploration Over the past five years we have more than quadrupled the resource base of the Groups subsidiaries, as a result of our own in-house exploration success.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 09 Strategic review Our business model page 10 Strategy for the mining business page 12 Our marketplace page 14 Key performance indicators page 18 Risk management page 20 10 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Strategic review: Our business model The Group creates value for its shareholders through thediscovery, development and operation of copper mining operations.
We have achieved significant organic growth, reflecting The mining lifecycle thesuccess of our in-house exploration activities.
This has Exploration Evaluation Construction allowed us to exercise full control over the development 3-5 years 3-5 years 3-5 years ofour projects from the earliest stage, maximising the The Groups significant growth Typically we contract an external Given the high level of up-front opportunities to add value to those projects, as we consider pipeline principally relates to engineering firm to take the lead capital investment required to that a significant part of the potential value of a mining resources identified by our own role in conducting the evaluation construct a significant mining in-house exploration activities.
studies, under the close control of operation, effective management projectis realised or lost during the evaluation stage when Over the past five years we have anowners team from the Groups of the costs, timing and efficiency the optimal nature of the project is determined.
We have a more than quadrupled the resource projects team.
Our projects team of the construction can be key proven track record in successful project delivery, designing base of the Groups subsidiaries, have a great depth of experience toaprojects overall return and constructing operations which maximise the value of asa result of our own in-house indesigning projects which make oninvestment.
Generally best use of complex mineral ourmineral deposits.
The Group typically uses a principal theGroup uses its own in-house deposits, utilising innovative EPCM Engineering, procurement team to conduct exploration in technical solutions across a wide Our operations are focused on up-stream mining activities, and construction management those areas where the Group range of environments within Chile.
where we consider most of the value in the production chain contractor to manage the hashistorically had its deepest The ability to successfully prove-up is realised.
The majority of our production is from low-cost, construction process, again under experience, namely Chile and Peru.
mineral resources into ore reserves the close control of an owners team long-life assets, providing increased assurance of a Typically when the Group wishes to during evaluation is a key stage from the Groups projects team.
engage in early-stage exploration satisfactory return on the significant up-front capital inrealising the potential value of work outside of those areas it does amining project.
investment, and allowing us to generate value even so through partnerships with other Sustainability considerations are duringlow points in the commodity price cycle.
companies already established in integral to our evaluation process, those locations.
with the Group seeking to maximise Investment versus income social and environmental value through the design of its projects.
Investment Income Governance The Business Development Committee focuses on the mining divisions growth opportunities.
The committee The development of mining operations is a long-term, capital reviews potential growth opportunities both internal projects and potential transactions, approves transactions and project expenditures within designated authority levels, recommends transactions in excess of those intensive process.
The period from initial exploration, through levels to the Board for approval, and monitors ongoing projects.
See page 74 for more information.
detailed evaluation studies, construction, and to the start of production will often be in excess of 10 years.
Construction Exploration projects Telgrafo Antucoya of a new mining operation will typically involve major capital Major exploration programme Resources: 3.0 billion tonnes Expected mine life: investment.
Depending upon the nature of the project and throughout Chile at 0.34% copper by-products c. 20 years market conditions, it can take in excess of five years of More on page 38 Earn-in agreements in North Expected average operation to recoup the initial investment.
America, Latin America, annualcopper production: Europe, Africa and Australia 80,000tonnes Caracoles Revenues can vary significantly over time, reflecting the More on page 42 Current estimated capex: Resources: 1.3 billion tonnes cyclical nature of commodity prices.
Long-life operations US$1.3 billion at 0.41% copper by-products increase the likelihood of benefiting from several high Twin Metals More on page 39 More on page 40 pointsin the commodity price cycle.
Pre-feasibility study under way Los Pelambres Project Mine plans will usually be designed to mine higher Franconia assets acquired gradeareas towards the start of the mine life, in order Resources: 6.0 billion tonnes More on page 41 at 0.51% copper by-products tomaximisethe net present value of the operation.
Thismeansthat average ore grades will often decline More on page 39 over the mine life, with production volumes decreasing over time, along with revenues depending on 3-5 years 3-5 years 3-5 years commodity price levels.
Investment Income Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 11 Our strategy The strategy for growing our mining business isbasedaroundthree pillars: 3 Growth beyond the core business 2 Organic and sustainable growth of the core business 1 The existing core business Operation 25 years The majority of our production is Our products are generally We have comprehensive plans Governance from low-cost, long-life operations, soldatprevailing market prices.
inplace for the eventual closure An Executive Committee reviews significant matters in respect allowing us to generate value Themarketing of the Groups and decommissioning of our of the mining division.
The committee approves capital evenduring low points in the production is undertaken by mines, with the aim of protecting expenditures by the mining operations and corporate centre commodity price cycle.
We produce ourin-house marketing team, the environment and the interests within designated authority levels, leads the annual budgeting copper concentrate and cathode, allowing us to develop long-term of local people.
and planning processes, monitors the performance of the along with gold and molybdenum relationships with key customers, mining operations and promotes the sharing of best practices by-products.
and to gain aclose understanding across the operations.
Our operations are focused on the core up-stream mining activities, There is a key focus on operating as this is where we consider most ina safe, sustainable manner.
of the value in the production chain Given the long-life, capital intensivenature of our individual is realised, and so we have no smelting or fabricating capacity mining operations, operating in a manner which is sustainable over within the Group.
the long term is key to delivering The initial mine plan can often be value.
In particular, working closely improved over the course of the with local communities to ensure mine life through the optimisation that the operation is a beneficial of processes, brownfield contributor to the region is seen expansions or incorporation of askey.
additional reserves into the mine plan.
This can be a significant additional source of value through increasing production, reduced costs or extending the mine life.
Esperanza Los Pelambres El Tesoro Michilla Start of operation: 2011 Start of operation: 2000 Start of operation: 2001 Start of operation: 1959 End of mine life: 2026 End of mine life: 2037 End of mine life: 2022 End of mine life: 2015 Years of operation: 1 16 Years of operation: 12 38 Years of operation: 11 22 Years of operation: 53 57 2012E copper production: 2012E copper production: 2012E copper production: 2012E copper production: 160,000 175,000 tonnes 390,000 tonnes 100,000 tonnes 40,000 tonnes More on page 30 More on page 28 More on page 32 More on page 34 25 years 12 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Strategic review: Strategy for the mining business The strategy for growing our mining business isbasedaround three pillars.
1: The existing core business 2: Organic and sustainable growth of the core business The first pillar of our strategy for the mining The second pillar of the strategy is to achieve business is to optimise and enhance our sustainable, organic growth from further existing core business the Los Pelambres, developing the areas around our existing Esperanza, El Tesoro and Michilla mines.
Los Pelambres had a record year of production, In the Centinela Mining District formerly referred reflecting the first full year of operation at the toasthe Sierra Gorda District, a pre-feasibility study expanded175,000 tonnes per day plant capacity.
wascompleted during 2011, and a feasibility study inrespect of the Telgrafo and Caracoles projects Main ramp-up process at Esperanza was completed wasinitiated at the end of the third quarter.
with production of 90,100 tonnes of copper and 157,100 ounces of gold.
At Los Pelambres, a conceptual study was completed early in the year, and a pre-feasibility study was Production commenced from the Mirador deposit initiatedin May 2011. during the second half of 2011, contributing 28,600 tonnes to El Tesoros total production of 97,100 tonnes.
Michillas board approved an extension to its mine life from 2012 to 2015 and studies are continuing in respect of a further possible extension to 2018.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 13 The Group uses the following enablers to support our strategy: 3 Growth beyond the core business Quality of existing assets The Group has a high-quality, low-cost portfolio of operating assets anddevelopment projects, with a weighted average net cash cost 2 Organic and of101.9 cents lb in 2011.
This means it is well positioned to perform sustainable growth strongly throughout the commodity price cycle.
Pages 28 to 35 of the core business Strong financial position The Group continues to generate consistent cash flows from its operations which has enabled the Group to make consistently strong capital returns to our shareholders.
Page 67 1 The existing core business Extensive mineral resource base The Group has substantial mineral resources, well in excess of the ore reserves incorporated in existing mine plans, which could provide the potential for expansions in production volumes or extensions of existing mine lives.
The total resource tonnage of the Groups subsidiaries at theend of 2011 was 13.7 billion tonnes.
 Talent 3: Growth beyond The Groups management team has a strong track record of delivering strong operational performance and developing major growth projects.
the corebusiness The Group values the importance of its workforce.
The Group provides The third pillar of the strategy is to look for its employees with training and opportunities to fulfil their potential, growth beyond the areas of our existing andwith fair remuneration which reflects their contribution.
This has been reflected in the good history of labour relations across the Group.
operations both in Chile and internationally.
During2011 the Group successfully completed new long-term labour The primary focus is on potential early-stage agreements with unions at Esperanza, El Tesoro and Los Pelambres.
Page 52 Antucoya project approved in December 2011, and Commitment to health and safety Memorandum of Understanding signed with Marubeni Management of health and safety is a key priority for the Group.
TheGroup aims to work to the highest standards to safeguard its Corporation whereby they will become a 30% partner employees, contractors and communities.
Efficient environmental management At the Twin Metals project in Minnesota, the acquisition The Group recognises the importance of the effective management of the assets of Franconia Minerals Corporation was ofthe environmental impacts of its activities, from exploration through toclosure.
It promotes efficient management of natural resources, completed during 2011, which has effectively doubled inparticular energy efficiency and responsible water use.
Twin Metals mineral and land assets.
Following Pages54to57 completion of a conceptual study, a pre-feasibility study Community relations for an eventual underground operation of this copperThe Group seeks to manage the social impact of its activities, and aims nickel-PGM project was initiated during 2011. to make use of its operations as a platform for the social and economic development of its local communities.
Page 53 Continued early-stage exploration across Chile and The key risks which could impact on these strategic enablers are set further development of the Groups portfolio of earlyouton pages 22 and 23. stage international earn-in agreements.
14 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Strategic review: Our marketplace Our products Our customers Our mining operations produce copper with by-products of gold, The most significant end market for the Groups products molybdenum and silver.
Los Pelambres and Esperanza produce isAsia with just over 70% of the Groups revenue generated copper concentrate containing gold and silver which is sold on to from sales to the region.
smelters for further processing and refining into copper cathodes A significant proportion of the Groups sales of copper as well as the production of silver and gold.
The El Tesoro and concentrate are made under long-term framework Michilla mines produce refined copper cathodes.
These framework contracts will typically set also produces molybdenum concentrate which is sold to outthe annual volumes to be supplied, with the pricing of molybdenum roasters for further processing and refining.
thecontained copper in line with London Metal Exchange LME market prices.
A deduction is made from LME prices Copper in the case of concentrate, to reflect treatment and refining The principal end markets for refined copper are construction charges TC RCs the smelting and refining costs and electrical and electronic products, which account for more necessary to process the concentrate into copper cathodes.
than 60% of global copper demand, followed by industrial These TC RCs have typically been determined annually and machinery, transport and consumer products.
Theprice of are normally in line with terms negotiated across the market.
copper is typically determined by the major metals exchanges the London Metal Exchange LME, Commodity Exchange A significant proportion of the Groups copper cathode sales COMEX, and the Shanghai Futures Exchange SHFE.
are made under annual contracts, which again specify Theprice of copper is affected by the supply-demand volumes to be supplied and with pricing in line with LME fundamentals as well as being influenced byfinancial investors market prices.
In transactions between producers and which can lead to volatile and cyclical movements.
consumers a premium or discount over the metal exchanges price is negotiated to reflect the differences in quality, Gold logistics and financing that can be agreed compared Gold is used as an investment asset and for jewellery and withthemetal exchanges alternatives.
various industrial and electronic applications.
Gold can be The Groups molybdenum contracts are also made under readily sold on numerous markets throughout the world.
long-term framework agreements with the pricing usually Benchmark prices are generally based on London Bullion being based on Platts average monthly prices.
Across the industry neither copper producers nor consumers Molybdenum typically make annual commitments for 100% of their The main use of molybdenum is as a key alloying element production or their needs and therefore producers normally insteel although it is also used in other products such as keep a portion to be sold on the spot market throughout the catalysts.
Contract prices are typically based on the monthly calendar year.
The prices realised by the Group during a specific period will Mining division revenue Global copper consumption differ from the average market price for that period because, by product US$m by sector market % in line with industry practice, sales agreements generally provide for provisional pricing at the time of shipment with D A A C E B final pricing based on the average market price for the month 1 in which settlement takes place.
The period for which sales 4 remain open until settlement occurs for copper concentrate D sales is, on average, three to four months from shipment date, for copper cathode sales on average one month from 3 shipment, for molybdenum sales on average two months C B from shipment and for the gold content of copper concentrate 2 sales approximately one month from shipment.
A Copper 5,085.1 A Construction 32.4 1 Los Pelambres 3,255.9 B Electronic products 33.1 2 Esperanza 646.4 C Industrial machinery 12.8 3 El Tesoro 827.8 D Transport 13.4 4 Michilla 355.0 E Consumer products 8.3 Source: Brook Hunts Long Term Copper B Gold Los Pelambres Esperanza 315.2 Outlook December 2011 C Molybdenum Los Pelambres 293.8 D Silver Los Pelambres Esperanza 88.2 Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 15 Copper concentrate Market environment 2011 market performance Refined copper The concentrate market continued to be in significant deficit, 2011 market performance with available smelting capacity significantly in excess of mine The average LME price over the course of 2011 reached supply, resulting in low treatment and refining charges TC anall-time annual high of 400 cents per pound.
The copper RCs which favour mine producers.
At the end of 2011 price performed strongly during the first half of the year, concentrate stocks in the production chain reached critical reaching a record high of 460c lb reflecting market tightness, low levels taking TC RCs to very low levels.
supply shortfalls, weakness in the US dollar and renewed investment interest in copper.
As a result of concerns Market outlook regarding Europes sovereign debt crisis and the outlook for Current consensus estimates are for the concentrate market the global world economy, the copper price dropped sharply to remain in deficit during the coming years, although it will in September and then subsequently recovered in the latter depend on the utilisation capacity by smelters.
Typically, part of the year.
The Groups average realised price was annual negotiations for TC RCs for the next year are 373c lb which reflected negative provisional pricing concluded in final months of the preceding year.
Annual adjustments of US$286 million.
negotiations are continuing with respect to 2012 charges, The lower apparent demand in China in the early part of with no definitive benchmark having been achieved.
Settlements have been reported by market analysts in the Underlying Chinese demand performed well, and overall range of US$60.0 per dry metric tonne of concentrate for analyst consensus is that global copper demand growth smelting and 6.00 cents per pound of copper for refining wasapproximately 3.2%.
toUS$63.5 and 6.35 cents, compared with the 2011 benchmark terms of US$56.0 and 5.60 cents.
Market outlook Gold The strong market fundamentals, including continued strong Gold prices have remained strong throughout 2011 averaging demand from China and slower than expected supply growth US$1,572 per ounce compared with US$1,226 per ounce in support a positive medium-term outlook, with global 2010.
With the slower pace of economic recovery in Western inventories still at low levels.
With the global macro-economic economies, monetary easing by central banks, geopolitical uncertainty still affecting sentiment, continued volatility in the concerns and sovereign debt issues and US dollar weakness, copper price in the near term is expected.
However, with the gold has continued to attract investment interest.
current low global stock levels, even with the current market uncertainty, it is expected that there will be relatively strong Molybdenum market conditions in the year with current market consensus The molybdenum price averaged US$15.5 per pound in of an average price of approximately 380 cents for 2012.
2011 compared with US$15.7 per pound in 2010.
During From 2014 onwards, significant new production capacity is 2011 the price decreased from a high of US$17.9 per pound expected to come on-stream which could push the market in February to a low of US$12.7 per pound in October as back into surplus.
Investment demand remains a key driver aresult of destocking from traders and producers together inthe copper price, therefore leaving prices vulnerable to with an increase in the amount of material being exported increased volatility.
Market consensus for global forecast byChina.
There was a net surplus in 2011 mainly as a demand growth and refined production growth is for resultof significant production increases in North America.
Thefundamentals in the near term remain solid with the highmarginal cost of production at primary mines limiting thesupply growth andproviding a support to prices.
Average LME copper price The2012 market consensus is for an average price Cents per pound ofUS$15 per pound.
400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 80.7 130.0 167.1 305.3 323.3 315.3 234.1 342.0 399.7 16 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Strategic review: Our marketplace Key inputs and cost base 2010-2012E weighted average net cash cost The Groups mining operations are dependent on a range including by-product credits Cents per pound ofkey inputs, such as mining equipment including the supply 3.2 3.4 6.5 and maintenance of vehicles and replacement parts such 4.8 13.1 4.1 5.0 3.4 105.0 astyres, electricity, labour and fuel.
In the case of a copper 104.0 101.9 9.2 concentrate producer such as Los Pelambres or Esperanza, 23.3 steel balls used in the milling process are also a significant input cost.
With cathode producers using the SX-EW process, such as El Tesoro and Michilla, sulphuric acid is a key input.
The availability and cost of these inputs can be key operational issues, particularly during times of strong demand for commodities.
The Groups strong supplier relationships will ensure that it is in a position to identify opportunities toreduce costs and improve the quality of the key services and inputs that are required at the operations.
The Groups key operations of Los Pelambres and Esperanza are competitively positioned within the first quartile of the cost curve, reflecting their significant molybdenum and gold 2011 weighted average cash cost excluding by-products.
The Groups overall costs average around the by-product credits % 40th percentile of the cost curve.
The low cost nature of these key operations, and in particular the increased low-cost A A Energy 12 production from Esperanza, has allowed the Group to keep B Shipping and tolling charges 14 B the Groups average net cost position stable, despite strong C Services 14 industry cost pressures.
The net cash cost position for 2012 D Labour 11 J I is forecast to be approximately 105 cents per pound, which E Maintenance 10 F Fuel 6 isin line with the 2011 weighted average net cash cost of H C G Sulphuric acid 5 101.9 cents per pound.
This stable cost position has allowed G H Steel milling balls 4 us togenerate consistently strong margins even during more I Explosives and reagents 3 F challenging market conditions, with an EBITDA margin at D J Other 21 E around 60% over the past four years.
Total 155.2 cents per pound 100 Labour Labour agreements are in place at all of the Groups mining operations, generally covering periods of between three tofour years.
The next labour negotiations are expected to startin 2014.
In 2011, new agreements were made with six of the total 13 labour unions across the Group.
Contractors are a significant part of the Groups workforce at all of the operations, although the ratio of employees to contractors varies.
At Esperanza the ratio is 1:1 i. e. one employee for each contractor whereas at Los Pelambres, the ratio is 1:4.
2010 Esperanza on-site costs Others Exchange rate and ination effect Acid cost Energy By-product credits and tolling charges 2011 Others Exchange rate and ination effect Acid cost Energy 2012E Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 17 Electricity supply Oil price There are two energy grids from which the Group takes The main use of fuel at the operations is in the trucks used itsenergy requirements the northern grid SING which totransport ore extracted from the mine site to the plant for supplies the Esperanza, El Tesoro and Michilla mines and processing, as well as to move waste rock from the mine site thecentral grid SIC which supplies Los Pelambres.
Improving fuel efficiency is a strategic IntheSIC approximately 40% of the energy is provided priority for the Group with the number of litres of fuel byhydroelectric plants with the remainder being provided consumed per tonne of material extracted being a key bycoal, LNG and diesel fuelled plants whereas in the SING reporting indicator for the operations.
During 2011 the approximately 70% of the energy comes from coal fired Antofagasta Minerals corporate centre entered into a new power stations.
contract to cover the fuel needs of the current operations.
The Group has long-term electricity supply contracts in place Exchange rate at each of its mines.
In most cases the cost of electricity The Groups costs are also impacted by the Chilean peso under these contracts will be linked to some degree to the exchange rate, as on average across the Groups mining current cost of electricity on the Chilean grids or the costs operations approximately 40% of costs are denominated ofgeneration of the particular supplier.
However, the main inChilean pesos.
However, the economic exposure to energy contract at Los Pelambres was fixed for a two-year fluctuations in the Chilean peso exchange rate is partly period, with 2012 being the final year of the contract under mitigated by a natural hedge, as the copper industry is a its existing energy supply agreement.
The energy price major component of the Chilean economy, and movements currently being paid by Los Pelambres is significantly below inthe copper price and Chilean peso tend to be correlated.
the current spot prices in the central grid.
The current The Chilean peso strengthened from an average rate LosPelambres energy contracts will terminate at the end ofCh$510.4 US$ in 2010 to an average rate of Ch$483.4 of2012 while at Michilla the current contract will terminate in US$ in 2011. mid-2012.
Both these operations are currently in the process Michilla has hedged a portion of its operating costs of negotiating new long-term energy contracts.
denominated in Chilean pesos to limit its exposure to the Chilean central and northern grid spot energy prices effect of movements in the exchange rate.
Sulphuric acid Other purchasing and service contracts The Group also normally contracts for the majority of its The Group has a range of other longer term purchasing sulphuric acid requirements for future periods of a year or contracts and service agreements, with the supply of tyres longer, at specified rates.
In most cases contractual prices being one of the most significant.
The operations typically will be agreed in the latter part of the year, to be applied have in place five-year supply contracts to meet their tyre tothe purchases of acid for the following year.
The operations also have contracts with a Water range of suppliers to subcontract certain services including The Group has a secured water supply for each of its vehicle and equipment maintenance as well as other operations with the necessary permits in place to use surface logisticalservices.
Although the contracts are normally water as well as water from nearby wells.
The Group has withthe individual operations, the tender and negotiation pioneered the use of sea water for its mining operations process is typically co-ordinated by the Antofagasta Minerals inChile, with both its Esperanza and Michilla mines using corporate centre to maximise the benefits of economies untreated sea water.
Future projects in Chile including ofscale.
Antucoya are likely to use untreated sea water in order to limitthe effect that the Groups operations will have on the water supply of the local communities.
18 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Strategic review: Key performance indicators The Group uses the following KPIs to assess progressagainst our strategy.
Financial KPIs An analysis of Financial KPIs is Revenue Earnings per share EBITDA includedwithin the Financial review US$6,076.0m US125.4 cents US$3,660.5m onpages 60 to 67.
principally from the sale of copper as shareholders.
Performance in 2011: The increase in wellas the molybdenum, silver and gold Performance in 2011: The increased turnover was partly offset by higher unit by-product credits.
attributable profit was a result of the costs at the mining division and increased Performance in 2011: Revenue increased increased revenue partly offset by exploration and evaluation spend to give by 32.7% as a result of increased copper increased expenses and taxation.
Capital expenditure Net cash US$772.9m US$1,139.7m 1,385.8 2,919.1 1,335.3 1,189.6 1,946.5 772.9 1,595.7 1,345.1 1,139.7 466.0 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 Why it is important to us: A measure Why it is important to us: An indication ofthe Groups investment in current ofthe funds generated by the business operations and growth projects.
andavailable for future growth and return for shareholders.
Performance in 2011: Capital expenditure in 2011 decreased by 44.2% reflecting the Performance in 2011: Strong operating completion of the majority of construction cash flows offset by capital expenditure, of Esperanza by early 2011. tax and dividends paid.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 19 Operational KPIs An analysis of the Groups copper, Copper production Molybdenum production Gold production molybdenum and gold production 640,500 tonnes 9,900 tonnes 196,800 ounces isincluded within the review of each 640.5 10.2 196.8 9.9 operation in the Operational review 8.8 onpages 28 to 35 and within the 521.1 7.8 7.8 477.7 Financial review on pages 60 and 61.
442.5 428.1 37.8 35.1 23.5 19.7 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 Why it is important to us: Key operational Why it is important to us: A significant Why it is important to us: A significant parameter for the Group as copper is the by-product for the Group.
Performance in 2011: Increased Performance in 2011: Gold increased Performance in 2011: Increased copper molybdenum production of 12.5% to196,800 ounces due to the start-up production of 22.9% mainly as a result duetohigher plant throughput at ofEsperanza.
2 Further information on health and Lost time injury Cash costs safetyis provided in the Corporate 1 frequency rate LTIFR 3.2 US101.9 cents lb sustainability section on pages 5.6 104.0 101.9 50and51.
96.3 87.3 4.4 An analysis of the Groups cash costs isincluded within the review of each 3.2 operation in the Operational review on 2.8 pages 28 to 35 and within the Financial 1.9 review on page 62.
31.6 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 1 Why it is important to us: Safety is a key Why it is important to us: A key indicator The lost time injury frequency rate is the priority for the Group with the LTIFR being ofoperational efficiency.
number of accidents with lost time during one of the principal measures of this.
theyear per million hours worked.
Performance in 2011: Cash costs 2 Performance in 2011: The LTIFR in 2011 benefited from by-product credits at Cash costs are an industry measure of the was 3.2 accidents with lost time per million Esperanza which partly offset higher cost of production and are further explained hours worked.
costsat the other three mining operations.
20 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Strategic review: Risk management Effective risk management is an essential element oftheGroups operations and strategy.
The accurate andtimely identification, assessment and management ofrisk is key to the operational and financial success oftheGroup.
Risk management framework The Groups risk management framework can be divided into three tiers: Governance Ensuring that the Groups vision, strategy and objectives are communicated throughout the organisation, and that appropriate governance structures and policies and procedures are in place to embed those key aims and objectives.
Governance Risk management Ensuring that there are appropriate structures and processes in place to identify andevaluate risks, and that appropriate controls and mitigating actions are Enterprise risk developed to address those risks.
Ensuring that details of the key risks, and management theperformance in managing those risks, are reported on a timely basis to therelevant individuals.
Compliance Ensuring that the Groups internal policies and procedures and control activities, aswell as all relevant external laws and regulations, are adhered to.
Compliance Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 21 The Board has ultimate responsibility for determining the The risk management function reports to the Audit and Risk Board nature and extent of the significant risks that the Group is Committee at least twice a year, with updates on the key risks willing to take to achieve its strategic objectives and for and mitigations, and summaries of internal audit reviews maintaining sound risk management and internal control which have been undertaken.
Specific matters will be Audit and Risk Committee systems.
The Directors receive a detailed analysis of the key reported by the risk management function to the Audit matters for consideration in advance of each Board meeting.
andRisk Committee on an immediate basis if necessary.
They also receive regular reports which include analysis of Risk management function During 2011 the reporting line for the risk management key metrics in respect of operational, financial, environmental Overall responsibility for risk function was to the Antofagasta Minerals CEO, and and social performance, as well as key developments in the management activities from2012 the reporting line is now to the Audit and Groups exploration and business development activities, Maintenance of risk register RiskCommittee.
information on the commodity markets, the Groups talent Oversight of risk workshops toupdate risk register management activities and analysis of the Groups financial The General Managers of each of the operations have overall Oversight of business risk investments.
This facilitates the timely identification of responsibility for risk management within their business.
registers potential key issues and any necessary mitigating actions.
There are also risk co-ordinators within each business, who Review of effectiveness The Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board with its have direct responsibility for the risk management processes ofmitigating actions review of the effectiveness of the risk management process, within that business, and for the ongoing maintenance of the Co-ordination with Internal Audit and monitoring of key risks and mitigations.
The chairman individual business risk registers.
There are risk workshops ofthe Audit and Risk Committee reports to the full Board for each business held at least annually, in which the business following each committee meeting, allowing the Board to units risks and corresponding mitigation activities are understand and if necessary further discuss the matters reviewed in detail to allow a thorough updating of the considered in detail by the committee.
There is a monthly Operational Performance allowthe Board to monitor the Groups major risks and Review OPR process whereby the individual mining related mitigations, and assess the acceptability of the operations report to the Antofagasta Minerals corporate levelofrisks which arise from the Groups operations centre.
Risk is typically reviewed in detail as part of this anddevelopment activities.
process on a quarterly basis, with the operations reporting onthe development of their key risks and mitigations.
The Groups Ethics Code sets out our commitment to undertaking business in a responsible and transparent The mitigation activities in relation to the most significant manner.
The Code demands honesty, integrity and strategic and business unit risks are reviewed by the risk responsibility from all employees and contractors, and management function at least annually, through direct includes guidelines to identify and manage potential on-site review.
An Ethics Committee, comprising members of senior executive management, is responsible Areas of focus during 2011 forimplementing, developing and updating the Ethics Code anddevelopment of key risks and monitoring compliance with the Code.
During 2011 Particular areas of focus in risk management during anupdated version of the Ethics Code was launched by the 2011included: Groups Chairman and the Antofagasta Minerals CEO, and a roll-out of the updated Ethics Code across the Group: was rolled out across the Groups operations.
Further details are provided in the Sustainability report on page 46. further implementing and embedding processes in respect of the UK Bribery Act 2010 and the Chilean anti-corruption There is a central risk management function which has overall law: and responsibility for risk management activities across the developing a Group-wide risk compliance programme.
The risk management function maintains the Groups risk register, which includes the strategic risks that cover the Particular key risks which are considered to be increasing most significant threats to the Groups performance and the insignificance include competition for talent and other key achievement of its strategy.
The risk register is updated on a resources, particularly in respect of identifying, acquiring and continuous basis, and strategic risk workshops are held at developing new projects, both within Chile and internationally.
least once a year, in which senior management from across the business perform a comprehensive review of the Groups Further information key strategic risks and related mitigation activities.
The risk Further information about the Groups risk management management function presents to the Executive Committee systems are given in the Corporate governance report on which comprises the Antofagasta Minerals CEO and senior pages 72 and 81 and in the Sustainability report on page 46. management see page 74 for further details at least twice Further detailed disclosure in respect of financial risks a year, reporting on the development of the Groups key risks relevant to the Group are set out in Note 25 to the and mitigations and the risk management process.
22 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Strategic review: Risk management Principal risks and uncertainties Set out below are the Groups principal risks and related mitigations.
The table shows the trend ofwhether the risk is considered to have been increasing ordecreasing in significance over time.
Risk Trend Mitigation Operational risks The key operational risks relating to each operation are identified as part of the regular risk review Mining operations are subject to a number of circumstances not wholly within the process undertaken by the individual operations.
This process also identifies appropriate mitigations Groups control, including damage to or breakdown of equipment or infrastructure, for each of these specific operational risks.
unexpected geological variations or technical issues, extreme weather conditions and Monthly Board reports provide a variance analysis of operational and financial performance, natural disasters, which could adversely affect production volumes and costs.
allowing potential key issues to be identified on a timely basis, and any necessary actions, monitoring or control activities to be established.
The Group has appropriate insurance to provide protection from some, but not all, of the costs thatmay arise from such events.
Details of the operational performance of each of the Groups operations are included within the Operational review on pages 26 to 45.
The Group assesses political risk as part of its evaluation of potential projects, including the nature Political, legal and regulatory risks offoreign investment agreements in place.
Political, legal and regulatory developments affecting the The Group may be affected by political instability and regulatory developments in Groups operations and projects are monitored closely.
The Group utilises appropriate internal and thecountries in which it is operating, pursuing development projects or conducting external legal expertise to ensure its rights are protected.
Issues with the granting of permits, or the withdrawal or variation of permits already granted, and changes to regulations or taxation could adversely Details of any significant political, legal or regulatory developments impacting the Groups operations affect the Groups operations and development projects.
are included within the Operational review on pages 26 to 45.
Strategic resources Contingency plans are in place to address potential short-term disruptions to strategic resources Disruption to the supply of any of the Groups key strategic inputs such as electricity, such as electricity.
The Group enters into medium and long-term supply contracts for a range water, sulphuric acid and mining equipment could have a negative impact on ofkeyinputs to help ensure continuity of supply.
Technological solutions, such as increased use of sea water in the Groups mining processes, canhelp address long-term limitations on scarce resources such as fresh water.
Longer-term restrictions on key strategic resources such as water and electricity couldimpact opportunities for the growth of the Group.
Information on the Groups arrangements for the supply of key inputs are included within the Marketplace section on pages 16 and 17, and details of significant operational or cost factors A significant portion of the Groups input costs are influenced by external market related to key inputs are included within the Operational review on pages 26 to 57. factors and are not entirely within the control of the Group.
The Group considers exposure to commodity price fluctuations within reasonable boundaries to Commodity prices bean integral part of the Groups business, and its usual policy is to sell its products at prevailing The Groups results are heavily dependent on commodity prices principally copper market prices.
The Group monitors the commodity markets closely to determine the effect of price and to a lesser extent molybdenum.
The prices of these commodities are strongly fluctuations on earnings and cash flows, and uses derivative instruments to manage its exposure influenced by world economic growth, and may fluctuate widely and have a tocommodity price fluctuations where appropriate.
corresponding impact on the Groups revenues.
The sensitivity of Group earnings to movements in commodity prices is set out in the Financial review on page 65.
Details of hedging arrangements put in place by the Group are included within the Financial review on page 65 and in Note 25 to the financial statements.
Prior to project approval a detailed feasibility process is followed to assess the technical and Development projects commercial viability of the project.
Detailed progress reports on the ongoing development projects A failure to effectively manage the Groups development projects could result are regularly reviewed, including assessments of the progress of the key project milestones and indelaysin the commencement of production and cost overruns.
Demand for actual performance against budget.
supplies, equipment and skilled personnel could affect capital and operating costs.
Increasing regulatory and environmental approvals and litigation could result in Details of the progress of the Groups development projects are included within the Operational delaysin construction or increases in project costs.
The Group assesses a wide range of potential growth opportunities, both from its internal portfolio Growth opportunities and external opportunities, to maximise its growth profile.
A rigorous assessment process is The Group may fail to identify attractive acquisition opportunities, or may select followed to evaluate all potential business acquisitions.
The long-term commodity price forecasts used when assessing potential projects and other investment opportunities are likely to haveasignificant Details of the Groups growth opportunities are set out in the Operational review on pages 36 to 43. influence on the forecast return on investment.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 23 Risk Trend Mitigation Identification of new mineral resources The Group has teams conducting active exploration programmes both within Chile and elsewhere.
The Group needs to identify new mineral resources in order to ensure continued The Group has entered into early-stage exploration agreements with third parties in a number future growth.
The Group seeks to identify new mineral resources through ofcountries throughout the world, and has also acquired interests in companies with known explorationand acquisition.
There is a risk that exploration activities may not geological potential.
A review of the Groups exploration activities is set out in the Operational review on pages 42 and 43.
Ore reserves and mineral resources estimates The Groups reserves and resources estimates are updated annually to reflect material extracted The Groups ore reserves and mineral resources estimates are subject to a number of during the year, the results of drilling programmes and updated assumptions.
The Group follows the assumptions and estimations, including geological, metallurgical and technical factors, JORC code in reporting its ore reserves and mineral resources which requires that the reports are future commodity prices and production costs.
Fluctuations in these variables may based on work undertaken by a Competent Person.
The Groups reserves and resources estimates result in lower grade reserves or resources being deemed uneconomic, and could are subject to a comprehensive programme of internal and external audits.
lead to a reduction in reserves or resources.
The ore reserves and mineral resources estimates, along with supporting explanations, are set out on pages 146 to 152.
Talent The Groups performance management system is designed to provide reward and remuneration The Groups highly skilled workforce and experienced management team is critical structures and personal development opportunities appropriate to attract and retain key employees.
tomaintaining its current operations, implementing its development projects, and The Group has in place a talent management system to identify and develop internal candidates achieving longer-term growth.
The loss of key individuals and the failure to recruit forcritical management positions.
appropriate staff may have a negative impact on the performance of the existing There are long-term labour contracts in place at each of the Groups mining operations which help operations and the growth of the Group.
Labour disputes could result in disruption to ensure labour stability.
The Group seeks to identify and address labour issues which may arise tooperations.
throughout the period covered by existing long-term labour agreements.
Contractors employees are an important part of the Groups workforce, and under Chilean law are subject to the same duties and responsibilities as the Groups own employees.
The Groups approach is to treat contractors as strategic associates.
Details of the Groups relations with its employees and contractors are set out within the Corporate sustainability section on pages 52 and 53 and within the Operational review on pages 26 to 57.
The Group focuses on identifying, mitigating and managing the safety risks inherent in its different Commitment to health and safety operations and development projects.
The Groups goal is to create a safety culture through regular Health and safety incidents could result in harm to the Groups employees, training and awareness campaigns for employees and contractors.
It also aims to reach workers contractorsor communities.
Ensuring safety and wellbeing is first and foremost families and local communities particularly on issues of road safety.
anethical obligation for the Group.
Poor safety records or serious accidents could have a seriousimpact on the Groups production and reputation.
The Group requires all contractors to comply with its Occupational Health and Safety Plan, andthisis monitored through monthly audit processes.
Further information in respect of the Groups activities in respect of health and safety is set out intheCorporate sustainability section on pages 50 and 51.
The Group has a comprehensive approach to incident prevention.
Relevant risks have been mapped Efficient environmental management and are monitored.
The Groups approach includes raising awareness among employees and An operational incident which damages the environment could affect the Groups providing training to promote operational excellence.
relationship with local stakeholders and the Groups reputation, and ultimately undermine its social licence to operate and to grow.
Potential environmental impacts are key considerations when assessing projects, including the integration of innovative technology in the project design where it can help to mitigate those effects.
The Group operates in challenging environments, including the Atacama desert The Group has pioneered the use of sea water for mining operations in Chile and strives to ensure wherewater scarcity is a key issue.
maximum efficiency in water use, achieving high rates of reuse and recovery.
Further information in respect of the Groups activities in respect of the environment is set out intheCorporate sustainability section on pages 54 to 57.
The Group aims to contribute to the local development of the communities in which it operates, Community relations inparticular through education, training and employment of the local population.
The Group Failure to adequately manage relations with local communities could have a direct endeavours to ensure clear and transparent communication with local communities, including impact on the Groups reputation and ability to operate at existing operations and through the use of local perception surveys, local media and community meetings.
theprogress and viability of development projects.
Details of the Groups community relations activities are included in the Corporate sustainability section on page 53.
24 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Evaluation We consider that a significant part of the potential value of a miningproject is realised orlost during the evaluation stage when the optimal nature of theproject is determined.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 25 Operational review Mining page 28 Transport page 44 Water page 45 Corporate sustainability page 46 PRAT BAQUEDANO SOCOMPA TUPIZA AL AL LA PAZ A GUAQUI VIACHA COCHABAMBA ORURO RIO MULATO UJINA AMINCHA AUGUSTA VICTORIA T T 26 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Operational review Our existing operations are focused in Chile.
2011saw the ramp-up of operations at Esperanza, a PERU record year of production at Los Pelambres, the start BOLIVIA of production from the Mirador deposit at El Tesoro, SUCRE and an extension of Michillas mine life.
POTOSI We expect to continue making considerable UYUNI progress with our growth projects in 2012 with ATOCHA thestart of construction of the Antucoya project, OLLAGUE TOCOPILLA VILLAZON continuing with work on the feasibility study in ANTUCOYA LAQUIACA CALAMA respect of the Telgrafo and Caracoles projects MICHILLA EL TESORO MEJILLONES andthe pre-feasibility studies in respect of ESPERANZA ARGENTINA ANTOFAGASTA LosPelambres and Twin Metals, as well as advancing with our substantial exploration programme.
CHANARAL The success of our existing assets and our growth projects is underpinned by our commitment to COPIAPO operating and growing in a sustainable manner.
LA SERENA OVALLE COMBARBALA ILLAPEL LOS PELAMBRES LOS VILOS CHILE Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information PRAT BAQUEDANO SOCOMPA TUPIZA AL AL TALTAL LA PAZ A GUAQUI VIACHA COCHABAMBA ORURO RIO MULATO UJINA AMINCHA AUGUSTA VICTORIA T T Water Water Catchment Catchment Lequena Quinchamale Water Catchment Toconce Filter Plant Cerro Topater Mixer Tank Water Catchment Puente Negro MICHILLA SQM Mantos Blancos Desalination Plant Filter Plant Salar del Carmen Agua Verde Wells Desalination Plant Filter Plant Taltal Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 27 Antofagastas mining  Towns and cities PERU Other mines and projects Plants BOLIVIA 8090 Pound Rail 6575 Pound Rail SUCRE 5060 Pound Rail POTOSI Other railways National highway UYUNI PERU ADASA facilities ATOCHA Distribution line for untreated water Distribution line for potable water OLLAGUE TOCOPILLA VILLAZON ANTUCOYA LAQUIACA BOLIVIA CALAMA MICHILLA EL TESORO MEJILLONES ESPERANZA ARGENTINA ANTOFAGASTA TOCOPILLA CHANARAL Chuquicamata ANTUCOYA COPIAPO Spence MEJILLONES EL TESORO ESPERANZA CENTINELA MINING EL TESORO ESPERANZA ANTOFAGASTA DISTRICT LA SERENA OVALLE COMBARBALA ILLAPEL LOS PELAMBRES LOS VILOS ARGENTINA CHILE CHILE 28 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Operational review: Mining The existing core business: The first aspect of the Groups strategy is to optimise and enhance the existing core business the LosPelambres, Esperanza, ElTesoro and Michilla mines.
Los Pelambres is a sulphide deposit located in Chiles Coquimbo Region, 240 km north of Santiago.
It produces copper Los Pelambres 60% owned concentrate containing gold and silver and molybdenum A record year of production, reflecting the first full year of concentrate, through a milling and flotation process.
operation at the expanded 175,000 tonnes per day plant capacity.
The 2011 production of 411,800 tonnes of copper 2011 Performance was the first time that Los Pelambres has exceeded the Operating profit 400,000 tonne level for annual production.
Operating profit at Los Pelambres was US$2,457.4 million compared with US$2,215.9 million in 2010, mainly reflecting the higher volumes partly offset by the marginal increase inon-site and shipping costs.
The realised price was nearly unchanged at 371.1 cents per pound in 2011 2010 2011 Production 371.7cents per pound.
Copper Molybdenum Gold Production tonnes 2010 384,600 tonnes 2010 8,800 ounces 2010 35,100 In 2011 Los Pelambres produced 411,800 tonnes of payable 7.1% 12.5% 13.4% copper, 7.1% above 2010 production of 384,600 tonnes, mainly due to the 10.8% higher plant throughput as a result 411,800 9,900 39,800 of the full year effect of the plant expansion which was completed during 2010, partly offset by lower ore grades.
2012 Forecast Ore throughput averaged 176,600 tonnes per day during the year 2010 159,400 tonnes per day.
The plant throughput Copper Molybdenum Gold tonnes tonnes ounces is currently limited by environmental permits to an average of175,000 tonnes per day, averaged over a 12-month period 390,000 11,000 28,000 running from May to April.
Molybdenum production was 9,900 tonnes in 2011, 12.5% 2011 Financials above 2010.
The increase mainly reflected the higher plant Cash costs Operating profit throughput as a result of the 2010 plant expansion, and to a US cents per pound 2010 US$2,215.9m lesser extent, higher recoveries.
-1.3% 10.9% US78.3 cents US$2,457.4m Position within mininglifecycle Los Pelambres plant control room allows continuous monitoring and optimisation of the process.
Exploration Evaluation Construction Production Start of operation: 2000 End of mine life: 2037 Years of operation: 12 38 Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 29 Costs Cash costs for 2011, which are stated net of by-product credits and include tolling charges, were 78.3 cents perpound, marginally below the 79.3 cents for 2010.
Thisreflected an increase in on-site and shipping costs, offset by marginal increases in molybdenum, silver and gold by-product credits.
On-site and shipping costs increased from 106.8 cents per pound in 2010 to 110.0 cents, reflecting cost inflation across a range of input costs as well as the impact of the stronger Chilean peso, partly offset by lower energy costs.
There was a marginal increase in tolling charges to 18.0 cents per pound 2010 17.6 cents, resulting in total cash costs before by-product credits of128.0 cents per pound 2010 124.4 cents.
On-site and shipping costs for 2012 are forecast to be Production Total capital expenditure in 2011 was US$174.3 million, approximately 122 cents per pound, compared to the 411,800 tonnes andis expected to remain at a similar level in 2012.
This increase is due to unit 411.8 cost increases resulting from lower production levels and 390.0 384.6 Sustainable development general inflationary effects.
The current forecast is for tolling 339.2 Labour negotiations were satisfactorily concluded at 311.6 charges to remain at a similar level in 2012 as in 2011 LosPelambres in May 2011 with the plant union, which atapproximately 18 cents.
Cash costs before by-product covers approximately 20% of employees, for a new credits are expected, therefore, to increase to approximately 44-month labour agreement running until January 2015.
140 cents per pound compared with 128.0 cents per pound Thiswas concluded in advance of the expiry of the existing in 2011.
Based on a molybdenum price of approximately agreement, which ran until November 2011.
During 2010 US$13 per pound and a gold price of approximately LosPelambres had concluded negotiations with the main US$1,850 per ounce, by-product credits are expected union which covers more than 70% of employees, mainly tobearound 50 cents per pound, compared with atthe mine and port, for a new 46-month labour agreement 08 09 10 11 12E 49.7centsin2011, which results in net forecast cash running until September 2014. costsofapproximately 90 cents in 2012, compared with78.3 cents in 2011.
Cash costs Outlook The main energy contract at Los Pelambres was fixed US78.3 cents lb Production foratwo-year period, with 2012 being the final year of 90.0 As previously announced, the initial forecast for 2012 thecontract under its existing energy supply agreement.
80.4 79.3 78.3 production is for approximately 390,000 tonnes of payable Theenergy price currently being paid by Los Pelambres is copper, compared with production of 411,800 tonnes in significantly below the current spot prices in the central grid.
This is due to an expected decrease in the average Los Pelambres is currently negotiating a new energy supply oregrade to 0.71% under the current phase of the mine contract for 2013 onwards.
This production forecast As previously disclosed, in November 2011 Los Pelambres is based on an average plant throughput of 175,000 tonnes signed a 20-year agreement with Pattern Energy Group LP per day.
The plant will on average run at a lower throughput Pattern for the supply of up to 40MW of power.
Pattern level during the first quarter of 2012 and will include a major will develop and operate the El Arrayan wind power plant maintenance of the plant during March.
The initial forecast which is expected to begin construction in early 2012 and 08 09 10 11 12E for2012 molybdenum production is for approximately 11,000 achieve commercial operation in the second half of 2013. tonnes, an increase of 1,100 tonnes on 2011 volumes, due InDecember 2011 the Group exercised an option to acquire to an increase in the molybdenum grade to approximately a 30% interest in the El Arrayan project, for a consideration 0.021%.
The initial gold production forecast is approximately ofUS$4.5 million, and will be responsible for its share 28,000 ounces.
Los Pelambres is continuing to review opportunities for further expansion.
In November 2011 an Environmental Impact Declaration was submitted to the authorities to increase the current annual average processing capacity limitof 175,000 tonnes per day allowed under existing environmental permits to allow more flexibility in the operationof the plant.
A response to the submission isexpected during the first half of 2012.
As explained in detail below, the Group has approved workona pre-feasibility study to analyse the potential for long-term, large-scale expansion of the Los Pelambres operation.
30 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Operational review: Mining The existing core business Esperanza is a sulphide deposit located in Chiles Antofagasta Region, 1,350 km north of Santiago.
It produces copper Esperanza 70% owned concentrate containing gold and silver through a milling The ramp-up of Esperanza was the key milestone for the andflotation process.
The mine significantly increases the scale of Following the completion of a three-year construction period the Groups production, with Esperanza expected to produce at a total capital cost of US$2.7 billion the commissioning between 160,000 and 175,000 tonnes of copper in 2012, ofEsperanza commenced in November 2010.
The ramp-up reflecting the first full year of operation following the continued throughout 2011 and Esperanza contributed completion of the main ramp-up activities.
US$384.1 million towards the Group operating profit in 2011.
2011 Performance Production 2011 Production Esperanza produced 90,100 tonnes of payable copper and Copper Gold 157,100 ounces of payable gold in 2011.
Plant throughput tonnes ounces averaged 55,700 tonnes per day in the year, copper ore grades averaged 0.56% and gold ore grades averaged 90,100 157,100 0.36g tonne.
Costs 2012 Forecast Net cash costs, which are stated net of by-product credits Copper production Gold production and include tolling charges, were 83.2 cents per pound, with tonnes ounces cash costs before by-product credits averaging 234.9 cents per pound in 2011.
There was a decrease in the cash costs 160-175,000 240-260,000 as the ramp-up progressed during the year, with cash costs before by-product credits reaching 201.0 cents per pound 2011 Financials inthe final quarter of 2011.
The high level of on-site and Cash costs Operating profit shipping costs during the year reflected the expenses US cents per pound associated with the ramp-up process, and the impact onunitcosts of the plant operating at significantly below US83.2 cents US$384.1m capacityduring this process.
Position within mininglifecycle Exploration Evaluation Construction Production A 3.5 km conveyor at Esperanza takes ore from the mine site tothe main ore stockpile.
Start of operation: 2011 End of mine life: 2026 Years of operation: 1 16 Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 31 Ramp-up activities Outlook The challenges in the ramp-up at Esperanza have been Production largely addressed, with remaining remedial measures relating It is expected that an average throughput level of between to the performance and reliability of the plant under review.
80,000 to 86,000 tonnes per day will be achieved in 2012.
The main focus of the ramp-up activities during 2011 was There is an ongoing process to further optimise the reliability onimproving the efficiency of the milling process and building and performance of the operation, including the installation of up the overall reliability of the plant.
Work on optimising temporary pre-crushing facilities during 2012, to consolidate themilling process included fine-tuning of the control system, the reliability of the milling process.
Esperanza is also fitting new lifters with a modified configuration to the SAG evaluating the potential to move beyond current processing mill, increasing the grate ports which filter the flow of material levels over the next one to two years, with the aim of reaching between the SAG mill and the pebble crusher and ball mills, the original design capacity of 97,000 tonnes per day.
in order to balance the grinding effort between the mills Duringthe first half of 2012 there will be two main areas andcrusher, adjusting the blasting pattern at the mine site offocus.
Firstly, to complete testing on the top layer of the tooptimise the size distribution of the ore fed into the milling ore body that will be mined and processed in the next two process, and increasing the power supply to the SAG mill.
This will allow a more precise assessment There was also a focus on removing bottlenecks downstream ofhowthe various processes within the plant will deal with of the plant, in particular with the tailings thickeners.
One of theparticular ore characteristics, including the hardness the areas of focus in improving the reliability was in relation ofthe ore, and whether some permanent additional tothe pumps within the sea water pumping system which pre-crushing capacity is required.
The other area of focus suffered mechanical issues during the first half of the year, isthe performance of the tailings thickeners, and in particular, thus causing temporary down-time and limitations to plant an evaluation of whether additional capacity is required to capacity as the necessary repair work was undertaken.
move beyond current processing levels.
Theresults of this work were reflected in the increase in Production of payable copper in 2012 is expected to be average plant throughput over the course of the year, from inthe range of 160,000 to 175,000 tonnes based on the 27,100 tonnes per day in Q1 to 76,500 tonnes per day average throughput of between 80,000 and 86,000 tonnes inQ4, averaging 55,700 tonnes per day over the full year.
per day and an expected average ore grade of 0.66% Sustainable development compared with an average ore grade of 0.56% in 2011.
Labour negotiations were satisfactorily concluded in May Goldproduction is expected to be in the range of 240,000 2011 with the main union, for a new 42-month labour ounces to 260,000 ounces based on an expected average agreement running to November 2014. ore grade of 0.35g tonne compared to an average ore grade of 0.36g tonne in 2011.
Costs On-site and shipping costs for 2012 are expected to be in therange of 174 to 184 cents per pound, a similar level to the 185.4 cents achieved in Q4 2011.
The marginal reduction in costs from the level achieved in the final quarter of 2011 isdue to the impact of increased production on unit costs partially offset by inflationary pressures.
The current forecast is for tolling charges to remain at a similar level in 2012 asin2011 at approximately 16 cents.
Cash costs before Esperanza maximises its water efficiency through thickened tailings technology and the use of sea water.
by-product credits are expected, therefore, to be in the rangeof 190 to 200 cents per pound.
Based on a gold price ofapproximately US$1,850 per ounce, by-product credits areexpected to be around 135 cents per pound, compared with151.7 cents in 2011, which results in forecast net cash costs in the range of 55 to 65 cents in 2012, compared with83.2 cents in 2011.
Esperanza is currently evaluating the potential for construction of a separate molybdenum plant for approximately 2,000 tonnes per year of molybdenum production over the remaining life of the mine with first potential production from 2015.
During November 2011 the Environmental Impact Declaration for this project was submitted to the authorities.
32 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Operational review: Mining The existing core business El Tesoro is a deposit located in Chiles Antofagasta Region, 1,350 km north of Santiago, which produces copper El Tesoro 70% owned cathodes using a solvent-extraction electro-winning process.
Production commenced from the Mirador deposit during It currently comprises three open pits Tesoro Central, thesecond half of 2011, contributing 28,600 tonnes to Mirador and Tesoro North-East which, along with oxide ElTesoros total production of 97,100 tonnes.
Mirador is orefrom Esperanza, feed a heap-leach operation and expected to result in reduced costs at El Tesoro while the aRun-of-Mine ROM leaching operation.
deposit is mined during the three-year period to 2014, aswell as extending El Tesoros mine life to 2022.
2011 Performance Operating profit Operating profit at El Tesoro was US$379.4 million, compared to the 2010 operating profit of $386.6 million.
2011 Production 2012 Forecast The2010 result included a credit of US$109.4 million fromthe reversal of the impairment originally recognised Copper cathode Copper cathode atElTesoro in 2008, following a review undertaken in light tonnes 2010 95,300 tonnes ofthe current commodity environment.
The 2011 operating 1.9% profit of US$379.4 million represents a 36.9% increase 100,000 onthe underlying 2010 operating profit of US$277.2 million 97,100 excluding this one-off credit.
This mainly reflects the increase in the realised copper price from 351.9 cents per pound in 2011 Financials 2010 to 391.2 cents per pound in 2011.
Cash costs Operating profit US cents per pound 2010 US$386.6m Production 2010 US169.2 cents Copper cathode production was 97,100 tonnes in 2011 compared with the 95,300 tonnes produced in 2010.
1.4% -1.9% Thisincrease mainly reflects the commencement of US171.6 cents US$379.4m operations in August 2011 from the higher grade Mirador deposit which contributed 28,600 tonnes towards the 2011 production.
During 2011 the ROM operation contributed Position within mininglifecycle 21,100 tonnes of cathode production and the remainder Exploration Evaluation Construction Production ofthe production came from the Tesoro Central and Tesoro North-East pits aswell as oxide ore from Esperanza which Start of operation: 2001 fedthe heap-leachoperation.
End of mine life: 2022 Mirador Years of operation: 11 22 The Mirador deposit, which is located approximately two and a half kilometres east of Tesoro North-East, contains reserves of 21.8 million tonnes of oxide ore at an average grade of 1.1%, and was included in the mine plan during 2010 when ElTesoro, which is 70% owned by the Group, paid US$350 million to the wholly-owned Antofagasta Minerals S. A. for theright to extract the oxide ores from the Mirador deposit.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 33 The average ore grade increased to 1.26% in 2011, Outlook compared with 1.10% in 2010.
The average ore grade Production increased to 1.51% in the second half of 2011 compared For 2012, the forecast for cathode production is with 1.04% in the first half of the year, with the increase approximately 100,000 tonnes.
This marginal increase on mainly due to ore being fed to the plant from the higher grade the2011 production level reflects a full year of production Mirador pit.
This increase in ore grade has resulted in lower from the Mirador deposit.
Production from the heap-leach plant throughput as the current operation is limited by the operation isexpected to be approximately 85,000 tonnes processing capacity of the SX-EW plant.
The plant throughput which will be mostly from the Mirador pit with approximately relating to the heap-leach operation averaged 23,800 tonnes 6,000 tonnes from Tesoro Central.
There will also be per day during 2011, compared with the 2010 throughput approximately 15,000 tonnes of production from the ROM of26,400 tonnes per day.
El Tesoro has completed work operation.
Ore grades forthe heap-leach operation are tode-bottleneck the SX-EW plant, which has increased the expected to increase to an average grade of 1.57% in 2012 maximum capacity of the plant from just under 100,000 2011 1.26% reflecting thehigher grade Mirador ore. tonnes of cathode production per year, to an annual capacity of approximately 105,000 tonnes.
Actual annual production During the three-year period from 2012 to 2014 El Tesoros levels will continue to also depend upon a number of factors production is expected to come primarily from the Mirador pit which could limit capacity elsewhere in the operation with the balance of the production coming from the Tesoro including ore grade and hardness.
North-East and Tesoro Central pits.
Once the ore from the Mirador deposit has been utilised by the end of 2014, Costs Production production is currently forecast to reduce as lower grade Cash costs were 171.6 cents per pound in 2011, compared material is processed once again from the Tesoro Central 97,100 tonnes with 169.2 cents in 2010.
During 2011 costs increased as andNorth-East pits.
As detailed in the Centinela District 100.0 97.1 aresult of higher sulphuric acid prices and the strengthening 95.3 section below, further exploration and evaluation work is 90.8 90.2 of the Chilean peso which was partially offset by the being conducted to identify additional oxide resources.
commencement of operations from Mirador.
Cash costs Thecombination of the processing of the oxides from both decreased to 161.7 cents per pound in the second half of the Telgrafo and Caracoles deposits could provide additional 2011 from an average of 183.0 cents per pound in the first resource for the El Tesoro plant over the rest of this decade.
half mainly due to the impact of ore from the higher grade Mirador pit.
Costs The forecast for cash costs at El Tesoro for 2012 is Capital expenditure in the year was US$119.5 million, approximately 160 cents per pound, compared with the including US$34.3 million relating to stripping costs at the annual average of 171.6 cents per pound during 2011 Mirador deposit, US$33.1 million relating to the purchase 08 09 10 11 12E reflecting the impact of a full year of production from Mirador.
ofnew mine equipment and US$6.7 million relating to the construction of the solar thermal plant which will provide heatfor the SX-EW plant.
Capital expenditure is expected Cash costs toincrease to approximately US$150 million in 2012 mainly US171.6 cents lb dueto extensive work to update the SX-EW plant.
171.6 169.2 160.0 Sustainable development 144.7 Construction of the US$14 million solar thermal plant 123.4 isprogressing well, with the plant expected to come into operation in the second half of 2012.
The operation of the thermal solar plant will reduce diesel requirements in the plants electro-winning boilers by 55% and cut the carbon emissions of the operation.
As previously announced, labour negotiations were satisfactory concluded at El Tesoro in August 2011 with 08 09 10 11 12E bothits unions for a new 44-month labour agreement running until April 2015.
These were concluded in advance of the expiry of the existing agreement, which was due to expire El Tesoro produces copper cathodes from its SX-EW plant.
34 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Operational review: Mining The existing core business Michilla is a leachable sulphide and oxide deposit located inChiles Antofagasta Region, 1,500 km north of Santiago.
Michilla 74.2% owned Itproduces copper cathodes using a heap-leach and Michillas board approved an extension to its mine life solvent-extraction electro-winning process.
The ore which from2012 to 2015 and studies are continuing in respect isprocessed by the Michilla plant comes from a variety of ofa further possible extension to 2018. sources from underground and open pit mines which are operated by Michilla itself, from other underground operations which are owned by Michilla and leased to third-party operators, and also material which is purchased from ENAMI, the Chilean state organisation which represents small and medium-sized mining companies.
The price paid for material purchased from ENAMI is in some cases linked to the market copper price.
2011 Production 2012 Forecast Copper cathode Copper cathode 2011 Performance tonnes 2010 41,200 tonnes Operating profit 1.0% Operating profit at Michilla was US$147.4 million, compared to the 2010 operating profit of $50.4 million.
This mainly 41,600 40,000 reflects the increase in the realised copper price partly offset by the increase in cash costs.
Michillas revenue was net of 2011 Financials US$15.6 million of realised losses on commodity hedging Cash costs Operating profit instruments.
As a high cost operation Michilla has over recent US cents per pound 2010 US$50.4m years often hedged a significant proportion of its production, 2010 US183.8 cents in order to ensure a reasonable level of return even if market prices were to weaken considerably.
Further details of the 161% 192.50% effects of commodity hedging instruments in place are given US213.3 cents US$147.4m in the Financial review.
Position within mininglifecycle Exploration Evaluation Construction Production Start of operation: 1959 End of mine life: 2015 Years of operation: 53 57 Michilla operates the Groups only underground mining operation.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 35 Production Total annual production in 2011 was 41,600 tonnes ofcopper cathodes, a marginal increase on the prior year production of 41,200 tonnes due to the higher average ore grades of 1.18% 2010 1.03%, which offset a reduction inthe plant throughput.
Average plant throughput decreased slightly to 12,500 tonnes per day, compared with 14,100 Outlook Production tonnes per day in the prior year.
Of the total production of41,600 tonnes approximately 16,000 tonnes came from Production 41,600 tonnes theLince open pit, approximately 13,000 tonnes came from The initial forecast for cathode production in 2012 is 47.7 the underground Estefana mine and approximately 6,000 approximately 40,000 tonnes.
The majority of this production 41.6 41.2 40.6 40.0 tonnes of production from ore provided by third parties.
is expected to continue to come from Estefana as well as Theremainder of the production came from ore purchased third parties and Aurora.
Pre-stripping of the Ncleo X deposit from ENAMI and from the Aurora deposit.
Pre-stripping of the commenced during the final quarter of 2011 and production Aurora deposit commenced during the first quarter of 2011, from the Ncleo X pit is expected to be approximately 1,400 with production from the Aurora pit ramping-up during the tonnes of copper in 2012.
The processing of the low grade year.
There is also a substantial amount of low-grade spent spent ore is also expected to contribute approximately 7,300 ore at Michilla.
This is material removed from the dynamic tonnes of copper production in 2012. heap-leach pads after the primary leach cycle is complete.
Costs Testing of this material has shown that this material 08 09 10 11 12E The initial forecast for cash costs in 2012 is approximately iscapableof being re-leached on the dynamic leach pads.
285 cents per pound, in line with the cash costs of 268.5 Thiscontributed approximately 1,000 tonnes of copper cents per pound in the final quarter of 2011.
The increase production in 2011, and will become an increasingly compared with the 2011 costs of 213.3 cents per pound important source of material for processing through reflects increased costs relating to the ramp-up of production theMichilla plant.
at the Ncleo X pit and the opening up of a new section ofthe Lince open pit as well as costs associated with Costs Cash costs processing ore from the spent ore piles.
The forecast does Cash costs averaged 213.3 cents per pound during 2011, US213.3 cents lb not include potential purchases of ore from ENAMI, the cost compared with 183.8 cents per pound in 2010.
The increase 285.0 of which is often linked to the market price of copper.
If such reflected the impact of mining of the Aurora pit, higher acid material continues to be purchased this could, particularly costs and the stronger Chilean peso.
213.3 ina strong copper price environment, further increase 2012 191.1 Capital expenditure in the year was US$52.7 million 183.8 cash costs through processing higher cost, but profitable, in2011compared to US$21.5 million in the previous year.
Approximately 60% of the Michillas operating Thesignificant increase was due to a US$25.9 million costs are denominated in Chilean pesos and approximately investment in the open pit mine fleet.
Capital expenditure 70% of those Chilean peso denominated costs in 2012 have in2012 is expected to be approximately US$65 million and been hedged with cross currency swaps to swap US dollars mainly relates to the finalisation of investments in the open pit for Chilean pesos to reduce its exposure to fluctuations mine fleet, completing the infrastructure for the spent-ore intheChilean peso US dollar exchange rate.
The average secondary leaching and underground mine development, 08 09 10 11 12E rate of these instruments is Ch$508 US$.
among other normal sustaining capital items.
Mine life In April 2011 Michillas board approved an extension to its Workers en-route to Michilla, which is situated mine life from 2012 to 2015, following a combination of in-fill at the top of Chiles coastal mountain range.
drilling studies to upgrade inferred resources as measured or indicated resources, engineering studies and mine planning to demonstrate viability.
Studies are continuing in respect of afurther possible extension to 2018.
36 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Operational review: Mining Growth projects and opportunities: The Group is focused on developing its projects and growth opportunities, both around its existing mining districts in Chile thesecondpillar of itsstrategy, and also beyond those areas, in Chile andinternationally thethirdpillar of its strategy.
The Groups primary focusison opportunities with the potential for large-scale development.
Current evaluation studies The Group has a portfolio of growth projects, which could The Groups primary focus in terms of its medium-term, provide significant potential for future growth over the large-scale growth potential is focused on its existing core forthcoming years.
Given the early-stage nature of these districts of the Centinela Mining District formerly known as projects, their potential and timing is inherently uncertain, the Sierra Gorda District and the Los Pelambres District.
andso the following information is only intended to provide Following the completion of the pre-feasibility study in the ahigh-level indication of potential opportunities.
The Groups Centinela Mining District at the end of September 2011, exploration and evaluation expenditure in 2011 on growth theGroup approved the initiation of a feasibility study in projects was US$215.4 million.
In December 2011 respect of the Telgrafo and Caracoles deposits.
Following theAntucoya project was approved by the Board and a the completion of the scoping study at Los Pelambres during Memorandum of Understanding was signed with Marubeni thefirst half of 2011, a pre-feasibility study commenced Corporation where they will become a 30% partner in the toanalyse in detail the growth opportunities.
A pre-feasibility project for a consideration of US$350 million.
Construction study is under way at the Twin Metals  isexpected to take place through 2012 and 2013, with first deposit located in north-eastern Minnesota.
During the year production expected in 2014.
Twin Metals acquired 100% of the assets of Franconia Minerals Corporation of Canada which holds  deposits that are contiguous to the Twin Metalsdeposits.
Indicative timelines for evaluation studies Evaluation, permitting Construction Production andfinancing Antucoya Telgrafo sulphides Caracoles sulphides Los Pelambres Twin Metals 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 37 Current evaluation studies Reserves and resources The Group intends to continue to invest strongly in its growth opportunities.
The Groups commitment to organic exploration has been rewarded over recent During2012 the total forecast expenditure in relation to exploration and evaluation yearsthrough the major increase in theresource base.
The total resource tonnage activities is approximately US$300.0 million.
ofthe Groups subsidiaries has increased more than fourfold over the past five years, from 3.2 billion tonnes in 2006 to 13.7 billion tonnes in 2011.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure Mineral resources including ore reserves US$215.4m of the Groups subsidiaries 13.7bn tonnes 13.7 13.4 F A 300.0 E G 215.4 9.2 D 6.4 4.4 99.0 C 67.1 54.9 38.1 B 07 08 09 10 11 12E 07 08 09 10 11 A Los Pelambres 6,006 mt @ 0.51% Cu E Antucoya 1,106 mt @ 0.31% Cu B Telgrafo 2,965 mt @ 0.34% Cu F El Tesoro 260 mt @ 0.58% Cu C Esperanza 2,019 mt @ 0.36% Cu G Michilla 67 mt @ 1.57% Cu D Caracoles 1,301 mt @ 0.41% Cu Total 13.7bn tonnes @ 0.43% Cu The mineral resources relate only to the Groups subsidiaries and do not include amounts relating to the Groups joint venture at Reko Diq 38 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Operational review: Mining Organic and sustainable growthofthe core business: The second aspect of the strategy is to achieve sustainable, organic growth from further developing theareas around our existing asset base in Chile.
Telgrafo is likely to be the earlier of the two projects.
Centinela Mining District Depending on the successful conclusion of the feasibility Introduction study and permitting, construction at Telgrafo could The Groups primary focus for exploration in Chile remains the potentially take place between 2014 and 2016, with Centinela Mining District formerly known as the Sierra Gorda firstproduction from 2017.
District which is located in the Atacama desert in northern Chile, and which stretches over a length of approximately Telgrafo 30km.
The Group owns or controls a number of properties Resources inthe district, containing both sulphide and oxide resources.
Sulphides The district encompasses the Groups Esperanza and El Tesoro operations, as well as the Telgrafo and Caracoles 2.9 billion tonnes at 0.34% copper, projects, stretching through to Centinela and Polo Sur where 0.010% molybdenum and the Group have been undertaking extensive drilling work.
A 0.11g tonne gold total of US$91.9 million of exploration and evaluation expenditure was incurred during 2011 2010 US$41.3 Position within mininglifecycle million relating to the pre-feasibility study at the Telgrafo and Exploration Evaluation Construction Production Caracoles deposits as well as other work across the districts.
The total mineral resource in respect of these two deposits is4.3 billion tonnes with an average copper grade of 0.36% The Telgrafo deposit is part of Esperanzas existing property, along with additional gold and molybdenum credits.
and is owned through Minera Esperanza and hence the Groups Thesedeposits represent approximately 30% of the interest in the deposit is 70%.
The mineral resource at the totalmineral resources of the Groups subsidiaries.
Telgrafo deposit is 2,965 million tonnes at an average copper grade of 0.34%, of which the sulphide deposit represents Evaluation studies 2,901 million tonnes at 0.34% copper plus 0.010% Following the completion of the pre-feasibility study in the molybdenum and 0.11g tonne gold and the oxide deposit district during 2011 the Group is conducting a feasibility represents 64.1 million tonnes at 0.21% copper.
As a result study for the district to study the options for processing ofnew information from the in-fill drilling as well as adjustments sulphide ores from the Telgrafo and Caracoles deposits, to the geological and estimation models, mineral resources aswell as the potential to process oxide ores from those have increased by 238 million tonnes.
The deposit has deposits in the existing El Tesoro plant.
Based on the results approximately 150 million tonnes of pre-stripping which of the pre-feasibility study the current estimates are that each includes approximately 50 million tonnes of oxide resource of these projects could support a plant of a similar scale which could potentially be processed at the El Tesoro SX-EW tothe existing Esperanza operation, which could result in plant from 2015.
Current expectations are that initial works for annual production of somewhere in excess of 150,000 the Telgrafo project could start in 2014 with first production tonnes of copper for each project, along with gold bypotentially from 2017, with a mine life of up to 34 years.
The current plan is for separate processing lines forthe Telgrafo and Caracoles deposits, with some shared infrastructure including a single tailings processing system.
The resources include a significant molybdenum content andtherefore the current plan envisages the inclusion of amolybdenum plant.
The metallurgical testing has shown thatuntreated sea water can be used to process the sulphide ores.
The untreated sea water will be piped from the coast tothe plant, as at Esperanza.
Preliminary indications of the potential capital costs of these projects are that each could The Centinela Mining District contains both be in the region of US$3.5 billion at todays prices.
the Telgrafo and Caracoles deposits as well as being a primary area of focus for early stage exploration.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 39 Caracoles Ongoing areas of focus A feasibility study on the Telgrafo and Caracoles deposits, Resources for which a budget of US$109 million has been approved, Sulphides iscurrently under way.
The environmental impact assessment is expected to be submitted to the authorities in the first half 1.1 billion tonnes at 0.41% copper, of 2012.
Detailed work on the feasibility study will continue 0.014% molybdenum and through into 2013 with possible approval of the project 0.15g tonne gold expected in 2014.
The Group is also undertaking significant drilling at Centinela and Polo Sur to the south of the district, Position within mininglifecycle as well as in the area between Telgrafo and Caracoles Exploration Evaluation Construction Production during 2012.
Based on the results of the intensive drilling campaign currently being performed it is anticipated that The Caracoles deposit is situated approximately 10 km ascoping study could commence during 2013 in respect south-east of Esperanza, and is 100% owned by the Group.
ofthese additional areas within the district.
The mineral resource at Caracoles is 1,302 million tonnes at Los Pelambres an average copper grade of 0.41%, of which the sulphide deposit represents 1,089 million tonnes at 0.41% copper Resources plus 0.014% molybdenum and 0.15g tonne gold and the oxide deposit represents 212 million tonnes at 0.40%copper.
6.0 billion tonnes at 0.51% copper, During 2011 an extensive programme of in-fill drilling was 0.011% molybdenum and performed which along with the change in the cut-off 0.03g tonne gold A feasibility study for the Centinela Mining gradehas resulted in an increase of 286 million tonnes of District is under way.
The Caracoles deposit has approximately 600 million tonnes of pre-stripping which couldpotentially take Exploration Evaluation Construction Production upto four years to complete and includes approximately 150 million tonnes of oxide which could potentially be processed Los Pelambres is continuing to review options for the at the El Tesoro plant, again from 2015.
First production from longer-term development of the mine, especially given the sulphide deposit at Caracoles is likely to be somewhat thesize of the resource base, which at 6.0 billion tonnes at later than Telgrafo, reflecting the process for mining the 0.51% copper plus 0.011% molybdenum and 0.03g tonne oxide deposit, the higher levels of pre-stripping, and also gold is more than four times the ore reserves of 1.45 billion thedesirability of phasing keyengineering and construction tonnes.
Given the size of the resource base it is possible that phases of the two projects, in order to ensure the most a more than doubling of existing plant capacity could be the efficient process and to minimise the duplication of resources optimal choice.
Currentexpectations are that construction in respect of the Caracoles project could start in Following the completion of a scoping study looking at 2015 with first production potentially from 2020 and a mine opportunities for the longer-term large-scale development life of up to 22 years.
atLos Pelambres in the first half of 2011, the Group approved just under US$100 million of expenditure on a pre-feasibility The combination of the processing of the oxides from both study, with a drilling campaign to recategorise mineral the Telgrafo and Caracoles deposits could provide additional resources, in order to analyse in detail these growth resource for the El Tesoro plant over the rest of this decade.
The pre-feasibility study commenced in Other exploration work in the district July2011 and is expected to be completed during 2013, In addition to the above properties a further US$50.6 million potentially then to be followed by a feasibility study.
It is of exploration work was performed in other areas of the possible that any project could be a staggered process, highly prospective Centinela Mining District during 2011 potentially with the first incremental production coming inrelation to a number of other properties which the Group through at some point from 2019 onwards.
Unlike the owns in the area, in particular the Llano-Palaeocanal, Groups operations and projects in northern Chile, Centinela and Polo Sur deposits.
These deposits contain LosPelambres is situated in an agriculture area, with bothsulphide and oxide mineralisation, and exploration work competing demands over land and water use, which suggests that these deposits have the potential to contain needtobe addressed in a sustainable manner.
mineral inventory of between 450 to 690 million tonnes, witha corresponding average grade of between 0.54% and0.44%.
As discussed above in the El Tesoro section, production commenced from the Mirador deposit at El Tesoro during 2011.
Exploration work is also continuing on the Mirador sulphide deposit.
40 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Operational review: Mining Growth beyond the core business: The third aspect of the Groupsstrategy is to look for growth beyond the areas of  both in Chile and internationally.
Antucoya will be developed as a conventional open pit mine Antucoya and the ore will be processed using a dynamic heap-leaching Reserves Potential annual copper facility and a SX-EW plant and will use untreated sea water cathode production throughout the operations.
While the project will be one ofthelowest copper-grade green-field projects to be 642 million 80,000 tonnes developed in Chile, there are a number of compensating tonnes of factors.
Thedeposit is relatively shallow and therefore 0.35%copper thepre-stripping process to remove the 35 million tonnes ofoverburden is expected to only take nine months.
Position within mininglifecycle Theoperational stripping ratio is also low, with a waste to oreratio of approximately 1:1.
The deposit is located within Exploration Evaluation Construction Production awell-developed mining area, which allows easy access topre-existing infrastructure including power, water and Antucoya is a copper oxide deposit located in Chiles human resources.
A sulphur burning plant is expected Antofagasta region approximately 45 km east oftheGroups tobeconstructed on site to supply sulphuric acid to the Michilla mine.
operation, reducing the overall cost of the acid supply, The Board approved the Antucoya project in December andanEnvironmental Impact Declaration application has 2011.
The Group also signed a Memorandum of been submitted to the relevant authorities inrespect Understanding with Marubeni Corporation in December 2011 ofsuchaplant.
whereby Marubeni will become a 30% partner in the project During the start of 2012 US$54 million of orders were for a consideration of US$350 million and a commitment placedfor long lead time equipment such as shovels and tofund its pro rata share of the development costs of the front loaders.
Construction of the project is expected to take project.
Definitive agreements are expected to be signed approximately two and a half years, followed by a ramp-up inMarch 2012 and the transaction is expected to close period of production which is expected to start during 2014. during the second half of 2012 upon satisfaction of certain The forecast capital expenditure for 2012 is US$320 million.
Full approval for the Environmental Impact Assessment The project is expected to produce an average of 80,000 forthe project was received in July 2011. tonnes of copper cathodes per annum through a standard heap-leach process, and is expected to have a mine life ofapproximately 20 years.
The capital cost estimated under the feasibility study is US$1.3 billion.
The finalisation of the key construction contracts which is under way will allow a finalestimate of the likely development costs.
The cash costs are estimated to be approximately 145 cents over the first five years of operation and 155 cents over the mine life.
Theapproved mine plan includes proved and probable Ore The test pit at Antucoya has allowed detailed testing Reserves of 642 million tonnes of 0.35% copper using a oftheleaching of the ore from the deposit.
cut-off grade of 0.21% during the 20-year mine life.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 41 The conceptual study evaluated possible environmental, United States Twin Metals operational and economic issues, with the most viable Position within mininglifecycle options being taken forward to the next phase of project development.
The pre-feasibility study commenced in Exploration Evaluation Construction Production September 2011, with the lead contractor being Bechtel Mining & Minerals.
Further in-fill drilling will be conducted, The Group acquired a 40% controlling stake in Twin Metals focusing on better defining the scope, depth and breadth Minnesota LLC Twin Metals from Duluth Metals Limited ofthe targeted ore deposits.
Other activities currently under Duluth in 2010.
The Twin Metals copper-nickel-PGM way include metallurgical testing of metal ore samples and deposit is located in north-eastern Minnesota, USA.
the collection of environmental baseline data.
ThepreUnderthe terms of the agreement with Duluth, the Group is feasibility study is expected to be completed in mid-2013, providing US$130 million of funding over a three-year period and if approved then to be followed by a feasibility study.
to advance the project towards a bankable feasibility study.
Thispre-feasibility study will be used to begin the process The Group also has the option to acquire an additional 25% ofapplying for the necessary environmental and other of the project company following the completion of permits required for the proposed mine.
thefeasibility study, based on the then net present value oftheTwin Metals project as determined by that study.
Resources Duluth has previously published an NI 43-101 compliant Franconia acquisition resource estimate for the Nokomis-Maturi deposit, consisting During the year Twin Metals acquired 100% of Franconia of 550 and 274 million tonnes of indicated and inferred Minerals Corporation of Canadas Franconia assets.
resource, respectively, with a combined copper grade of Franconias principal assets were a 70% interest in the Birch approximately 0.6% and a combined copper equivalent Lake Joint Venture BLJV which holds the Birch Lake, gradeof approximately 1.5%, taking into account the nickel, Maturi and Spruce Road  and platinum, palladium and gold content.
palladium deposits that are contiguous to the Twin Metals deposits.
Franconias assets were acquired for US$76.6 Franconia has previously published NI 43-101 compliant million in a combination of cash and shares.
The Franconia resource estimates for the Birch Lake, Maturi and Spruce transaction effectively doubled Twin Metals mineral and land Road deposits.
In respect of the Birch Lake deposit these assets, providing the opportunity for greater efficiency and estimates consisted of 176.8 million tonnes of indicated maximum environmental protection for the project.
resources grading 0.528% copper, 0.169% nickel, 0.101%cobalt, 0.239g t platinum, 0.515g t palladium, Evaluation studies 0.117g t gold with a combined copper equivalent grade During 2011 a total of US$40.0 million of exploration of1.177%, plus an additional 39.9 million tonnes of inferred andevaluation expenditure was incurred by the Group resources with a grade of 0.496% copper, 0.157% nickel, inrespect of the project 2010 US$10.9 million.
0.009% cobalt, 0.210g t platinum, 0.431g t palladium, Apre-feasibility study has commenced, after the completion 0.103g t gold and a combined copper equivalent grade of of the conceptual study in the first half of 2011.
For the Maturi deposit these estimates consisted envisaged that the operation will comprise an underground ofan inferred resource of 119.9 million tonnes with a grade mine and use a hydro-metallurgical process to recover of0.67% copper, 0.25% nickel, 0.02% cobalt, 0.25g t thebase and precious metals from the bulk copperpalladium, 0.09g t Platinum and 0.04g t gold.
Spruce Road deposit these estimates consisted of an inferred resource of 124 million tonnes with a grade of 0.59% copper and 0.21% nickel.
The Nokomis-Maturi deposits and the nearby Birch Lake, Maturi and Spruce Road deposits are the subjects of the Drilling work in progress at the TwinMetals project in Minnesota.
ongoing pre-feasibility study being undertaken by Twin Metals.
The engineering firm AMEC was contracted in 2011 to consolidate the drilling information to develop updated andconsolidated geological models and a mineral resource estimate to support the pre-feasibility study.
The geological models and resource estimates are currently in an advanced stage of development, but not yet finalised.
42 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Operational review: Mining Growthbeyondthe core business In November 2011 Tethyan initiated an administrative appeal Reko Diq with the Government of Balochistan in respect of the mining The Group holds a 50% interest in Tethyan Copper Company lease application process.
Limited Tethyan Australia, its joint venture with Barrick notified that this administrative appeal had been rejected.
Tethyan Australia is seeking, Tethyan has also commenced two international arbitrations with and through its wholly-owned Pakistan subsidiary, inorder to protect its legal rights.
Tethyan strongly believes Tethyan Copper Company Pakistan Private Limited that it has complied with the requirements of the Balochistan Tethyan Pakistan and, together with Tethyan Australia, Mineral Rules and the CHEJVA and is entitled to the grant of Tethyan to develop the Reko Diq copper-gold deposit in the mining lease.
However, given the uncertainty caused by the Chagai Hills District of the province of Balochistan in the Government of Balochistans rejection of Tethyans mining south-west Pakistan.
Tethyan has held a 75% interest in lease application, the Group has recognised a provision anexploration licence encompassing the Reko Diq deposit, against the US$140.5 million carrying value of intangible with the Government of Balochistan the provincial authority assets and property, plant and equipment relating to holding the remaining 25% interest, resulting in an effective theproject.
interest for the Antofagasta group of 37.5%.
The relationship between Tethyan and the Government of Balochistan in respect of their interests in the project is governed by the Other exploration and Chagai Hills Exploration Joint Venture Agreement CHEJVA.
evaluationactivities The Group has continued with its extensive early-stage The mineral resource at Reko Diq is estimated at 5.9 billion exploration activities beyond its existing core districts, both tonnes with an average copper grade of 0.41% and an inChile and internationally.
In general, this is undertaken by average gold grade of 0.22g tonne.
The Groups the Groups internal exploration team in those areas where 37.5%attributable share of this resource amounts to the Group has historically had its deepest experience, namely 2.2billion tonnes.
Typically when the Group wishes to engage Tethyan completed the feasibility study in respect of the inearly-stage exploration work outside of those areas it does project and submitted this to the Government of Balochistan so through partnerships with other companies already in August 2010.
On 15 February 2011, Tethyan submitted an established in those locations.
application to the Government of Balochistan in accordance During 2011 the Groups internal exploration team continued with the Balochistan Mineral Rules for a mining lease.
to perform exploration work in Chile, in areas beyond the Tethyans exploration licence had been due to expire on existing core locations of the Centinela Mining District and 19February 2011, but the submission of the mining lease Los Pelambres, with a new focus on generative activities.
application suspended the expiry of the exploration licence These include the progress of the northern porphyries for the mining area covered in the application.
On 15 programme, as well as geological work in other prospective November 2011, Tethyan was notified by the Government of belts.
Several new exploration targets have been identified Balochistan that the Government had rejected the application.
and their geological evaluation and drilling started in late 2011.
The deep sulphide potential at Antucoya was evaluated during 2011 and further follow up drilling is under way.
Similar deep sulphide potential studies were designed for the Conchi deposit and will be developed in early 2012.
In 2011 the Group also signed an agreement with Codelco in relation to exploration in Chile.
The Group continued to fund the work in Rio Figueroa, the exploration project located in the Atacama Region in which the Group holds a 30% stake.
The combined expenditure on these exploration and evaluation activities inChile during 2011 was US$19.6 million.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 43 The Group has continued to expand its portfolio of Mulpun early-stage international exploration interests through a Work is continuing on the potential underground coal gasification number of earn-in agreements.
During 2011 the Group UCG project at the Mulpun coalfield, situated near Valdivia incurred US$15.4 million of exploration and evaluation insouthern Chile, along with the Groups partner in the project expenditure in relation to its international early-stage Carbon Energy Limited Carbon Energy of Australia.
During the year the Group entered into During 2011 work continued on the feasibility study for new agreements in Sweden, Turkey, Portugal and Canada.
thepilot plant as well as on the construction of main Subsequent to the year end the Group entered into further infrastructure such as roads, drilling platforms and electricity agreements in Canada and Finland.
The pilot plant will allow the gathering of detailed theresults of the exploration activities to date, the Group data about the way in which the proposed coal gasification decidedduring 2011 not to proceed further with its earn-in process works with this particular deposit.
Total expenditure agreement in Eritrea.
of US$17.6 million relating to the pilot plant was capitalised in2011.
Energy The Group is also continuing with its exploration and El Arrayan development activities relating to geothermal and coal energy In December 2011 the Group exercised an option to acquire prospects as well as entering into further investments in a 30% interest in Parque Eolico el Arrayan SPA El Arrayan, power generation.
a company which is constructing the wind power plant.
Theplant will supply up to 40MW of power to Los Pelambres Energa Andina under a 20-year supply contract.
The consideration was Energa Andina S. A, is continuing with its activities for US$4.5 million.
This investment is being accounted for theexploration and development of geothermal energy asanassociate undertaking in the financial statements.
In May 2011 Origin Energy Limited El Arrayan started construction of the 115MW plant in early acquired Empresa Nacional del Petrleos ENAP 40% 2012 and has an estimated total cost of approximately stake in Energa Andina S. A. to become the Groups joint US$280 million of which it is expected that a significant venture partner in this entity.
Energa Andina is currently proportion will be debt financed and the plant is expected managing 15concessions, and during 2012 will include tostart operating in the second half of 2013.
The Group fournew concessions granted in the last bidding process willbe responsible for its share of the development costs.
toEnerga Andina and Origin, resulting in a total of 19 concessions grouped into 12 projects.
It is engaged in Inversiones Hornitos adirect application process to acquire a number of further The Antofagasta Railway Company FCAB group owns concessions that willcomplement the development of the a40% interest in Inversiones Hornitos S. A. Inversiones present projects.
During 2011 exploration slim hole drilling Hornitos.
Inversiones Hornitos has constructed and is was completed atthe Tinguiririca project, situated close nowoperating the 165MW Hornitos thermoelectric power toSantiago, which demonstrated the existence of an active plant inMejillones in Chiles Antofagasta Region.
In November 2011 slim hole drilling wasresponsible for its 40% share of the approximately atthe Pampa Lirima project in northern Chile commenced.
US$385million total development costs of the power plant.
During 2012 it is expected that a slim hole drilling programme During 2011 US$6.4 million of funding was provided to will be held atother locations with the possibility of starting Inversiones Hornitos to give a total loan of US$107.5 million afeasibility geothermal drilling phase during the second half of which US$26.2 million was repaid in the year.
The Group incurred US$7.4 million of expenditure Hornitos contributed US$21.7 million to the Group results during 2011 relating to its share of this geothermal in2011 which included a US$18.8 million relating to exploration work.
compensation for lost profits from the main contractor asaresult of delays to the construction.
Recording of exploration drill samples.
44 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Operational review: Transport In Chile, the Antofagasta Railway Companys FCAB main business continues to be the transport of copper cathodes from and sulphuric acid to mines in the Antofagasta Region.
In Bolivia, FCAB has a 50% controlling interest in the Ferrocarril Andino, which connects to the Chilean network at Ollague.
The transport division had a solid operational performance during 2011 with total volumes increasing to 8.3 million Transport tonnes compared with 8.1 million tonnes in 2010.
FCABs trucking service, Train Ltda.
is a key part of Railvolumes increased to 6.4 million tonnes and road FCABsbi-modal transport service.
The FCAB typically volumes remained at1.9 million tonnes.
provides services to customers under long-term contracts, Combined turnover at the transport division was often with agreed pricing levels which are subject to US$178.8million, a 15.6% increase compared to the adjustments for inflation and movements in fuel prices.
This increase largely reflected a change in the mix of the sales volumes as well as tariff adjustments in line with cost including fuel, inflation and exchange.
Capital expenditure in 2011 was US$20.5 million compared to US$18.5 million in the prior year.
2011 Volume transported The Antofagasta port, which is managed by the Groups 30% Rail tonnage Road tonnage Combined tonnage associate investment Antofagasta Terminal Internacional S. A.
ATI is a strategic investment for FCAB andcomplements its principal business as the main 3.8% -1.2% 2.6% transporter of cargo within Chiles Antofagasta Region.
6,419 1,896 8,315 FCAB also owns Forestal S. A. which manages the Groups forestry assets.
Forestals two properties, Releco-Puir 2011 Financials andHuilo-Huilo, comprise 26,295 hectares of native forest Operating profit near the Panguipulli and Neltume lakes, in Chiles Region fide 2010 US$43.8m LosLagos.
During 2011, Forestal continued with its ongoing forestation, fertilisation and thinning programme to maintain 43.4% these assets.
US$62.8m The FCAB restores and maintains its locomotives androlling stock in its in-house workshop.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 45 Water Aguas fide Antofagasta ADASA operates a 30-year concession for the distribution of water in Chiles Antofagasta Region which itacquired from the stateowned Empresa Concesionaria fide Servicios Sanitarios S. A. ECONSSA in 2003.
Combined domestic and industrial water sales in 2011 amounted to 48.3 million cubic metres compared with Water the2010 volumes of 46.3 million cubic metres.
This was ADASAs operation consists of two main businesses, asaresult of increased demand from both regulated and aregulated water business supplying domestic customers unregulated clients.
Water volumes are sourced from surface and an unregulated business serving mines and other rights and the desalination plant in the city of Antofagasta.
Sales to domestic customers are priced Turnover in 2011 was US$114.9 million, a 24.4% increase inaccordance with regulated tariff structures, while sales compared with 2010.
This improvement reflecting improved toindustrial customers are generally priced in accordance tariffs, the increase in volumes and also the impact of the with contractually agreed levels.
stronger Chilean peso being the currency in which the majority of sales are billed.
While the increased revenues were partially offset by higher operating costs, the business still achieved a 11.1% increase in operating profits to 2011 Volume sold 2011 Financials US$56.1 million.
Water million cubic Operating profit metres 2010 46.3 2010 US$50.5m In early 2011, an environmental application was submitted forthe construction of a second desalination plant in the city 4.3% 11.1% of Antofagasta under the terms of the existing concession, 48.3 US$56.1m toprovide additional capacity for future growth in domestic and industrial demand.
A decision to proceed with this project, if environmental permits are approved, could be taken later in 2012.
The plant, which would have an estimated capacity of 1,000 litres per second, has an estimated cost of US$120 million and would come into operation by 2014.
ADASA is forecasting similar volumes to those sold in 2011for 2012.
The Companys revenues and profits are predominantly in Chilean pesos, and will be impacted by therelative strength or weakness of that currency against the US dollar, the currency in which the Group reports its results.
There was a review of the tariffs during 2011 which resulted in no changes to the tariffs for the next five years.
ADASA built and maintains the regions only botanical garden.
46 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Operational review: Corporate sustainability Sustainable development forms an integral part of theGroups decision making process and supports achievement of its business strategy.
Managing sustainability performance through clear policies and procedures supports the Groups business Overview strategy in the following ways: The Board continues to place importance on a range of Maintaining a social licence to operate maintaining considerations including health and safety, management of positive relationships with the communities near to the human resources, the environment and community relations.
Groups sites as well as with regulators and other stakeholders is critical to the smooth operation of the The Groups impact on the environment, employees and business and its future growth.
Having clear social policies contractors, and on local communities must be carefully and engaging regularly with community members helps managed at all of its operations.
The Group also looks toavoid conflicts and maintains the Groups social licence to operate.
foropportunities for its operations to add social and Complying with regulations carefully monitoring and environmental value, for example through local job managing the social and environmental impacts of the creationand investment.
Groups operations helps it to meet current and future regulatory requirements.
Attracting and retaining talent there is a growing shortage of skilled mining professionals in Chile, with theshortfall predicted to reach 20,000 by 2015.
Antofagasta Minerals focus on recruitment and training and positive employee relations will help it to access the labour resources it needs to secure, strengthen and grow itscorebusiness.
More information The Group reports its sustainability performance throughthis Annual Report and further information isavailable in the Groups Sustainability Report and onthecompany website.
Two of the Groups four mines, Los Pelambres and ElTesoro, publish annual sustainability site reports that areavailable on their company websites.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 47 Principles and strategy Material issues, risks and opportunities The Group has 10 Sustainable Development Principles The Groups strategy focuses on the risks and opportunities toguide the decision making and actions of its employees that are most material to its business and its stakeholders.
and contractors and to help embed sustainability into the These are identified through our risk management and business.
The principles and key social and environmental engagement processes.
policies are included in The Way We Think, The Way We The sustainability issues considered to be most Act which is available on the Groups website.
materialto the Group are: In support of its strategic plan, Antofagasta Minerals also has Social Environmental a social and environmental strategy for the mining division.
Safety: protecting the safety, Resource use efficiency: The strategy defines how Antofagasta Minerals intends to health and wellbeing of including energy, water, fuel, generate economic, social and environmental value, and employees and contractors land use and waste recycling hastwo core elements: Talent: attracting and Reducing environmental 1.
Social responsibility retaining workers and impacts: including air quality, To build relationships of trust and mutual benefit with developing their skills water quality and availability, stakeholders by taking action in three areas: greenhouse gas emissions, Labour relations: Responsible behaviour The mining division will biodiversity and heritage maintaining positive relations prioritise the health and safety of employees and with employees, contractors contractors, maintain a beneficial work environment, and the unions that reduce negative impacts on society, engage with key representthem stakeholders and monitor progress against commitments.
Community relations: Risk management The mining division will seek to maintaining positive relations identify, reduce and manage socio-political risks and be with communities near to the adequately prepared to manage any crises or incidents Groups operations that occur.
Community investment: Developing local human capital The mining division targeting community will seek to contribute to local development in the investment programmes communities near its sites through job creation and local tobenefit local people sourcing, and by supporting local education.
The division will also seek to implement initiatives to improve local Risk management quality of life and support the development and growth Risks to each division, including social and environmental ofother economic activities.
risks, are identified and monitored through the Groups central risk management system.
Environmental responsibility steps to ensure risks are monitored and managed To protect the environment and natural resources consistently across its divisions.
bytaking action in three areas: Operational efficiency including managing tailings Workshops are held annually with the general managers andother waste, water, electricity, fuel consumption andrisk co-ordinators for each mining company to identify andland use.
The key risks, monitoring Controlling environmental impacts including air and procedures and mitigation plans are reviewed and agreed.
water quality, water availability, biodiversity, greenhouse The General Manager for each mining company ensures gas emissions and environmental incidents.
mitigation plans are followed and the risk co-ordinators areresponsible for ongoing monitoring.
Environmental benefits including, enhancing biodiversity, protecting cultural heritage, raising In 2011 and early 2012, the Boards Audit and Risk environmental awareness and supporting environmentally Committee visited the mining, transport and water divisions friendly innovations.
toassess progress against mitigation plans.
TheRisk Management team also visited each division tomake sure The railway and water division continue to strengthen their risks, including sustainability risks, are being managed approach to managing sustainability issues.
Workshops were held with senior managers andoperational staff to review key strategic risksand ensure existing controls are adequate.
The current sustainability risks and mitigating measures are listed on page 22 of this report.
48 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Operational review: Corporate sustainability Environmental and social indicators are included in the Corporate sustainability governance monthly performance reports submitted by the mining Antofagastas Board has ultimate responsibility for businesses to the Board, and are reviewed by Antofagasta sustainability.
The Board has put in place procedures Minerals environment and external affairs managers.
andmanagement structures at Group and divisional level Eachmining company sets environmental and social goals toensure the implementation of its sustainable development that reflect local priorities, in line with the Assessment of principles and Antofagasta Minerals social and environmental Environmental Performance and Assessment of Social strategy.
These arrangements are part of the overall Group Performance tools.
governance arrangements described in the Corporate Governance Report.
Audit and performance assessment The Directors responsibilities, including those relating to risk Regular internal and external audits are used to assess management and control, are described in the Statement performance and implementation of the mining divisions ofDirectors Responsibilities.
management systems and compliance with the law in regard to environment, labour, social security and occupational In 2011 the Group reviewed and updated its governance health issues as well as employment standards.
The membership of the Corporate Sustainability Committee of the Board was renewed Each division undertakes regular internal operational audits aspartofthis process.
The revised committee, renamed tomonitor compliance.
In 2011, members of the Groups theSustainability and Stakeholder Management Committee, Auditand Risk Committee highlighted the importance of hasthree members: Ramon Jara chairman, Tim Baker and auditprocedures during visits to each division.
The new committee will review and update Group companies shared best practice by participating in crosssustainability policies and strategy, provide guidance, monitor audits of other companies within Antofagasta Minerals.
and review progress against sustainability indicators and Externalauditors are commissioned by the mining division targets, escalate matters of concern to the Board and toassess contractor compliance with its safety, human rights approve the annual Sustainability Report.
and labour standards, including its criteria on fair wages, collective bargaining, paid overtime and vacations, and Management systems and reporting thoseprohibiting child labour and forced labour.
Antofagasta Minerals has two management systems formonitoring progress on social and environmental performance.
The Assessment of Environmental Performance AEP tool includes indicators for seven Certification ISO 14001 ISO 9001 OHSAS 18001 areasof environmental performance: climate change, Los Pelambres water, biodiversity, waste, air quality, cultural heritage and land stewardship.
In 2011, Antofagasta Minerals further El Tesoro developedits Assessment of Social Performance ASP Michilla tooland introduced indicators for health and safety, Esperanza employeedevelopment and diversity, contractor Antofagasta Railway Company compliance, stakeholder relationships, responding tocommunity grievances and community investment.
Aguas fide Antofagasta Moreinformation onthe indicators will be available intheGroups 2011 Sustainability Report.
The Group has achieved certification to the international management standards ISO 14001, ISO 9001 and OHSAS 18001 at a number of sites see table below.
Esperanza isworking towards ISO 14001 and OHSAS 180001 certification.
Antofagasta Railway Company is working towards certification to ISO14001 and Aguas fide Antofagasta aims to extend its certification to the food safety standard, ISO 22000, to cover all of its operations.
Senior managers in each company are responsible for implementing Group level policies and procedures and Mining contractors are regularly audited to ensure compliance reporting day-to-day progress.
with the Groups labour standards.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 49 corruption, ensuring good working conditions and avoiding Stakeholder engagement child labour, and protecting confidential company information.
The Group recognises the importance of stakeholder The Code includes terms of reference for the Ethics Committee engagement at the local, national and international levels.
and explains how employees can report concerns about ethical Regular dialogue helps to identify and address sustainability behaviour, along with procedures for investigating breaches risks and opportunities and to build strong relationships with ofthe Code.
The Group has additional guidelines for ethical key stakeholders based on trust and mutual benefit.
It helps behaviour in giving or receiving gifts and invitations us to avoid conflict and contributes to the long-term success andapolicythat bans facilitation payments.
The Ethics Code was updated in June 2011 to make sure The Group has identified its key stakeholders as: investors, itreflected the requirements imposed under the new Chilean employees and contractors, communities, local and national anti-bribery laws and UK Bribery Act.
The Chairman of the governments and regulators, and the media.
Board presented the new Code to all employees of the In 2011, meetings with responsible investors were held mining, transport and water divisions, and a video of his togetfeedback on the Groups approach to sustainability speech was used to launch the Code.
The Audit and Risk issues.
The Group also participated in the Carbon Disclosure Committee members reviewed the communication of the Project CDP and CDP Water Disclosure Project.
Ethics Code to employees at each division during their site visits see Risk Management.
The mining division conducts an annual employee perception survey.
The results are reviewed by senior management who Employees can report any unethical behaviour or request develop action plans to respond to key findings.
See page 53 guidance on an ethical issue, anonymously if necessary, via for information on employee engagement.
Reporting channels and procedures were highlighted when the revised Code of Ethics was The mining division interacts with communities near launched in 2011.
Since the launch of the revised Code, six toitssites at all stages of exploration, project development, reports were received.
All reports of suspected misconduct operation and closure.
The mining division conducts annual are investigated by the Ethics Committee and two employees stakeholder perception surveys to get feedback from were dismissed in 2011 for non-compliance with the Code.
employees, contractors, workers families, local people, NGOs and politicians.
The 2011 results will be summarised The Group uses a risk-based due diligence framework for inthe Groups Sustainability Report 2011. assessing potential business partners for exploration projects.
The framework is used to evaluate corruption risks and Customer feedback on the Groups water division, Aguas fide ensure business partners meet the Groups ethical standards.
Antofagasta, is received through the annual customer survey conducted by the Chilean Sanitary Services Commission SISS.
In 2011, the water division conducted a separate Human rights survey to get feedback on its customer service, desalination The Group respects the rights of everyone that comes process and social performance.
intocontact with its business, including employees, contractors, suppliers and the communities near to Ethical conduct itsoperations.
The Group has procedures in place Stakeholders expect the Group to meet high ethical standards toprotect human rights, such as: and to be transparent about the way it works.
It must also Ensuring employees and contractors are paid complywith increasing anti-bribery and anti-corruption legislation afairwage.
in Chile and in the United Kingdom.
In the longer-term, pursuing development projects around the world will make it even more Ensuring no under-age workers are employed.
important to have robust standards and procedures.
Providing employees and contractors of the mining division with good living conditions and making sure The Group is committed to meeting high ethical standards.
theworking environment for all workers meets strict TheEthics Committee oversees its approach, monitors health and safety standards.
compliance of the Groups policies and investigates any reports of suspected unethical conduct.
The Committee is composed Respecting the rights, culture and heritage of local of the Vice President of Control Risk, Vice President of Human communities including indigenous peoples.
Resources and Corporate Affairs, and Corporate Legal Holding regular meetings with community Counsel.
The work performed by the Ethics Committee membersaffected by our operations and responding isoverseen by the Board Audit and Risk Committee.
The Groups Code of Ethics sets the ethical standards that Putting comprehensive plans in place to leave a positive employees, contractors and business partners must meet.
social, economic and environmental legacy when TheCode covers compliance with laws and regulations, amining site reaches its closing stage.
avoiding conflicts of interest, tackling fraud, bribery and 50 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Operational review: Corporate sustainability Protecting the safety of employees, contractors and local Employees and contractors communities is a priority for the Group.
The Board has Safety acleartarget of zero fatalities and considers any fatality What is the issue?
Extracting and processing copper creates a number The Group focuses on identifying, mitigating and managingthe ofhealth and safety risks.
These include risks relating safety risks inherent in its different operations and development tofire, explosions, electrocution, falls from height, falling projects.
Regular safety management workshops held with rocks orequipment, vehicle collisions, accidents with employees and contractors are used toreview risks, share machinery, chemical exposure, dust inhalation and noise.
bestpractice and to agree management plans and reporting With aworkforce of around 10,600 people, the mining procedures.
Health and safety management systems are division must manage these risks to prevent injuries established across the Group.
As contractors make up more than 70% onManagement systems and reporting.
ofAntofagasta Minerals workforce, ensuring they The Group requires all contractors to comply with its understand and meet the divisions health and safety Occupational Health and Safety Plan.
Los Pelambres standards is a priority.
ismaking certification to OHSAS 18001 a requirement The railway division aims to ensure the safety of its forcontractors and is helping them to achieve this.
workers and the people that come into contact with its The Groups goal is to create a safety culture through railway lines or crossings.
Supplying good quality, safe regulartraining and awareness campaigns for employees drinking water to customers and collecting and disposing andcontractors.
It also aims to reach workers families and of waste water safely is the focus of the water divisions localcommunities particularly on issues of road safety.
safety management programme as well as ensuring thehealth and safety of its workers and contractors.
Antofagasta Minerals has a team of safety experts that train and supervise workers and contractors.
All new workers andcontractors must undergo an extensive health check andcomplete a health and safety induction course before entering one of the mining operations.
Employees and contractors also attend refresher workshops on our safety policies and procedures at least every other year.
Detailed safety standards are in place for specific activities such as drilling and blasting, handling explosives, working at heights and operating machinery or vehicles.
Themining division operates personal identification systemsfor machinery, so that machines can only be operated by authorised and appropriately trained personnel.
All facilities have been constructed to withstand the impact ofearthquakes and both crisis management and evacuation plans have been put in place for emergency situations.
Contractors must demonstrate they have adequate health andsafety management systems, standards and procedures in place and their compliance with safety procedures isregularly reviewed.
Contractor safety practices at the mining, railway and water divisions are monitored through regular external audits.
Safety incidents involving Antofagasta Minerals employees orcontractors are reported through an online system.
The Group focuses on identifying, mitigating and managing Healthand safety managers report safety performance thesafety risks inherent in its operations.
tothemines senior management each week.
All incidents areinvestigated and action plans put in place to prevent recurrence.
This may include: redesigning procedures and ormaintenance programmes, revising equipment control, protection and blockage systems and further training forworkers.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 51 The Board deeply regrets the death of one worker at the Embedding risk management and near-miss incident Antofagasta Railway Company in 2011.
The worker was reporting procedures was a particular focus in 2011. runover by a train in the city of Calama.
The company InAugust 2011, Antofagasta Minerals risk management team investigated the cause of the accident and found that visited each mine and held a workshop with senior managers propersafety procedures had not been followed.
After the and contractors to review safety risks and agree procedures accident, the company circulated information to further raise for managing them and reporting incidents consistently.
employees awareness of health and safety procedures.
Theaim of the workshop was to ensure all the mines share acommon, and thorough, risk-based approach to managing There were no fatalities at any of the Groups mines in risk-based safety, and to encourage them to share examples 2011.
However, there was an increase in the mining divisions of best practice.
The division aims to make preventative LostTime Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR, highlighting the actions more effective and to reduce the number of needfor continued vigilance to avoid fatal accidents in future.
incidentsresulting in lost working time.
The average LTIFR for the mining companies increased toanaverage of 2.1 injuries per million hours worked in Protecting workers and contractors health is also a priority.
2011compared with 1.6 the previous year see above.
As well as implementing high standards on issues such as Theincrease in the LTIFR at El Tesoro is partly explained dust control and the use of protective equipment, Antofagasta because more accidents happened during a site-wide Minerals provides a yearly preventative health check for maintenance shutdown.
We are reviewing our procedures workers and runs programmes on issues such as healthy and preparation process, including worker training, to prevent eating, combating stress and smoking cessation.
Many of this from happening again.
At Esperanza and Los Pelambres, itsoperations provide gyms and other sporting facilities for although the number of accidents went down the size of workers and offers healthy eating options in cafeterias.
theworkforce also decreased which meant the LTIFR and AllInjury Frequency Rate AIFR increased.
The LTIFR for Aguas fide Antofagasta remained roughly thesame in 2011, but the companys AIFR substantially improved to an average of 8.2 accidents with and without losttime in 2011, compared with 22.4 the previous year.
Thisis a result of the companys efforts to improve contractorsafety standards.
Previously only the FCAB was included.
Data includes workers and contractors.
Definitions: LTIFR Number of accidents with lost time during the year per million hours worked.
AIFR Number of accidents with and without lost time during the year per million hours worked.
Chilean mining industry source Servicio Nacional fide Geologa y Minera.
Data from the Chilean Mining Council Consejo Minero, an industry association which represents anumber of large mining companies in Chile.
 and Mining Council 2011 are not currently available.
52 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Operational review: Corporate sustainability Talent and job creation Training and development Antofagasta Minerals is developing the skills and expertise What is the issue?
ofemployees at all levels of the business by: The shortage of skilled workers in Chile is a critical issue Training managers at four levels trainee, first-time for the mining sector.
With around US $45bn of planned manager, middle manager and senior manager investment in mining in Chile from 2011 to 2020, the todeveloptheir leadership capabilities through the industry will need to hire around 44,000 additional Antofagasta Minerals Management Diploma programme.
1 workers to meet the total predicted demand.
A lack of The programme is delivered with the Adolfo Ibanez trained mining professionals can push labour costs up University School of Business and was completed significantly or prevent projects going ahead.
Attracting by117employees in 2011. and retaining staff from truck drivers to plant managers Providing all employees with opportunities for isan ongoing challenge for Antofagasta Minerals, its .
In 2012 we increased contractors and its peers.
ourtraining and development budget by around 30%.
In 2011, the Boards Remuneration Committee became the Labour relations Active and healthy lifestyles are Remuneration and Talent Committee.
Its terms of reference Building constructive relationships with employees, stronglypromoted.
were expanded to include responsibility for talent attraction contractors and the labour unions that represent them, and retention, reflecting the growing importance of talent andoffering attractive working conditions helps the Group tothe Group.
Antofagasta Minerals aims to widen the talent retain workers, avoid labour disputes and contributes pool for future recruitment through the following initiatives: totheproductivity and efficiency of the business.
An apprenticeship programme for training school leavers The Group has good relationships with the labour unions from local communities for specific operational roles in thatrepresent its workforce.
The Group engages regularly themining companies.
Apprentices are trained for mine with union leaders and discusses collective agreements and plant operation roles such as plant maintenance before they are due for renewal.
The Group aims to include female areinvited to strategic planning meetings and involved apprentices in this programme as part of its strategy indecision making that affects the workforce as early forwidening the talent pool.
Collective agreements are in place at all mining joined the mining operations.
operations that cover remuneration and terms and conditions Developing a graduate trainee programme, started in of employment.
In2011, there were six collective bargaining 2010, to attract young professionals to the company.
processes with unions at all of the Groups mines.
In2011, 17 engineering and geology graduates took part Thesenegotiations were successful.
in this programme and most of them were offered full-time Contractors are a significant part of Antofagasta Minerals positions with the business.
This programme will be workforce and the ratio of employees to contractors varies continued in 2012. from site to site.
For instance, at Esperanza the ratio is 1:1 Working with peer mining companies in Chile to identify and at Los Pelambres, the ratio is 1:4.
The Group expects and address the shortage of mining professionals.
contractors to treat their employees fairly and it sets high Thepartnership aims to raise awareness of mining as employment standards for contracting companies to follow, acareer choice and in future it will develop fast track inline with its own standards.
For instance, Antofagasta training programmes to increase the number of skilled Minerals sets a minimum salary that is double that set workers in the sector.
byChilean law, which contractors must pay their workers.
Antofagasta Minerals formalises objectives in a number ofareas such as health and safety and productivity through performance contracts, and contractors are expected topasson bonuses to incentivise their employees.
There were no labour disputes and no strikes among employees or contractors during 2011.
The Group keeps arecord of concerns raised by employees to make sure they are investigated and addressed.
The operations received apositive rating in the compliance audits conducted by the government agency responsible for monitoring compliance 1 Chile Foundation Labour Force in Chiles with Chiles labour laws.
Audits cover issues such as health The Group operates a training scheme for women in the region major mining industry.
Diagnosis and and safety and remuneration.
around the El Tesoro and Esperanza mines.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 53 In 2011 Antofagasta Minerals introduced a formalised Diversity grievance procedure for monitoring and resolving community The Group is committed to equal opportunities in all areas concerns.
When a community member raises a concern, ofemployment including recruitment, employee development themining companys External Affairs team is responsible and remuneration.
Women account for 7% of the workforce forrecording the details of the complaint, passing it to the across the mining division, compared with the national appropriate person within the company and checking that average for the mining industry of 6%.
Further data on thecomplaint has been resolved.
If the complaint is not dealt gender diversity will be available in the Groups Sustainability with appropriately, the External Affairs team pass the issue Report 2011.
Antofagasta Minerals has introduced a number onto the companys General Manager.
The number of of initiatives to increase representation of women including complaints that were responded to in good time is one atraining plan for local women near to the El Tesoro and ofAntofagasta Minerals social performance indicators.
The low number of women in the mining sector presents an opportunity to boost female employment Antofagasta Minerals works with community members to and the number of people working in mining overall.
address specific issues such as air quality, water quality and Recruiting and training more women is a key part of the site closures through joint community-company committees.
Groups talent strategy, particularly because only 37% For instance, at Los Pelambres, there is a joint committee 2 ofChilean women participate in the job market.
formonitoring dust levels and the mine adjusts its operations when dust levels are too high.
Employee engagement The Group keeps employees informed about the business Community investment and development through a range of channels including the intranet, The Group invests in communities to improve the lives newsletters, bulletin boards and social events.
The Group ofpeople close to its operations.
In 2011 it introduced seeks feedback from employees in the mining division newcommunity investment guidelines to co-ordinate through regular employee surveys.
In 2011, an average thecharitable activities and donations made by each of96% of Antofagasta Minerals workers responded to oftheoperating companies and ensure that all donations theAnnual Labour Climate Survey.
Details of the results comply with anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws.
The new willbe provided in the Groups Sustainability Report 2011. community investment procedure will enable the Group tokeep a central record of the contributions each operating Community relations and engagement company makes and in future, the Group intends to introduce What is the issue?
a mechanism formonitoring and reporting on the impact ofits donations.
Having a good relationship with the people affected by itsmining operations is critical to the Groups ability to The Group makes a positive contribution to socio-economic operate and grow.
This is particularly important at its development through taxes paid, employment created, largest mine, Los Pelambres, which is located close to a products and services purchased and through its social number of agricultural communities in the Choapa Valley.
investments made to enhance the development of local From the mine in the Cordillera fide los Andes to its port human capital.
atLos Vilos, Los Pelambres comes into contact with The Groups Social Strategy aims to provide training and around 40 communities.
other support to help local people access employment Three of the Groups mining operations are situated in opportunities at its sites.
For example, from its construction theAtacama desert, with few people living near the sites.
onwards, Esperanza committed to hire at least 30% Continuous engagement with the local The nearest community to El Tesoro is located at Sierra ofconstruction and operation workers from the Antofagasta communities benefits all parties.
The Groups newest mine, Region.
Its approach includes training to give 800 residents Esperanza, is located 5 km from El Tesoro and 30 km the skills they need in areas such as safety, quality, from the same community at Sierra Gorda.
The Groups environment and community relations to work at the mine.
mine at Michilla, on the coast, is located on a plateau, The Group supports education in schools, universities 25km from a small community of 250 inhabitants andtechnical colleges with a focus on widening access atCaleta fide Michilla that provide services to small andimproving quality.
It provides scholarships to help local miningcontractors and small-scale fishing.
people attend universities or technical colleges and funding tocover the costs of transportation, school uniforms and The Group aims to maintain positive relationships with other supplies.
To support efforts to improve teaching quality communities through regular and open communication.
it focuses on: teaching methodology including programmes Engagement with local stakeholders includes face-to-face toimprove reading skills, maths and science teaching, meetings, newsletters and radio broadcasts.
Every mining andteacher training: and school management and facilities company conducts an annual stakeholder perception survey including ensuring adequate sanitation and safety equipment to get feedback from employees, contractors, workers is in place and investing in classroom facilities and families, local people, NGOs and local politicians.
It has funded initiatives to promote Increasingly, the mining companies are working closely with information technology education and internet access, as community members to plan the future of the Groups mines, wellas supporting trainee programmes at local universities.
taking into account the interests of both the business and 2 local stakeholders.
54 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Operational review: Corporate sustainability The Groups environmental strategy Environment Constructing, operating and closing mining sites uses substantial amounts of energy and water and can affect waterquality, air quality, waste, biodiversity and land use.
AntofagastaMinerals environment strategy is to reduce the Environmental responsibility negative impacts of its operations, use resources efficiently andprovide environmental benefits such as renewable energy.
Achieving Controlling Providing Increasing scarcity of resources and concerns about operational environmental environmental theimpact of climate change have a material impact on efficiencies impacts benefits theGroups operations through the rising cost of energy andcompliance with environmental regulation.
Guided by Governance: theGroups Sustainable Development principles and Principles, standards and management systems environmental policy, the mining divisions strategy supports business objectives by improving the efficiency of operations, reducing regulatory risks and helping to maintain good Organisational culture: relationships with local communities.
People Antofagasta Minerals has an environmental management system in place to measure and manage the environmental impact of each mining operation.
Environmental performance is monitored through the Assessment of Environmental Performance AEP tool that tracks key performance indicators see page 48.
In 2011 Antofagasta Minerals developed standards for sevenareas of environmental performance: climate change, water, biodiversity, waste management, air quality, cultural heritage and land stewardship.
Six best practice handbooks were rolled out to help operational managers develop action Los Pelambres is focused on the particular environmental plans to apply the standards to the specific challenges challenges which arise from its location at the head of an ateach site.
The handbooks cover the lifecycle of the agricultural valley.
miningprocess, from exploration to mine closure, and were developed in line with internationally recognised guidance, forinstance, from the International Council of Mining and Metals.
The handbooks were signed-off by the relevant VicePresident at Antofagasta Minerals.
Project managers ateach site are responsible for their implementation.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 55 Energy and climate change Energy security Climate impact What is the issue?
Energy consumption is increasing in Chile by around 7%annually and production is struggling to meet this Chile is one of the most at risk countries in terms of the growing demand.
The energy-intensive mining sector predicted impact of climate change and the associated accounts forapproximately 50% of the countrys total changes in weather patterns.
To help address this, energyconsumption.
The amount of energy used theChilean government has set a target to reduce the toextract a tonne of copper will rise as older operations countrys carbon footprint by 20% by 2020.
Chilean The thermal solar plant at El Tesoro will typically produce lower grade ore and the ore will tend lawalready requires that 5% of energy generation must reduce diesel consumption.
Rising energy needs, be from renewable sources and this will rise to 10% by suppliesof fossil fuels, decreasing rainfall affecting 2020.
The Group intends to meet this target and play its hydropower projects and climate change legislation part in helping Chile reduce its carbon footprint through meanenergy security and energy efficiency are high energy efficiency and the exploration of alternative onthe Groups agenda.
energysources such as geothermal, wind and solar.
Chiles energy system is divided into two regional grids The Group has made significant investments in energy with distinct energy compositions.
The SING grid supplies efficiency measures and low carbon energy.
In 2011 the the north, including the Atacama Desert where three of Group completed a study of the potential effects of climate the Groups mining operations are located.
It is powered change on its operations.
The results of this study will be mostly by imported coal and natural gas.
Its emission available in the Groups Sustainability Report 2011. factor is three times as high as the SIC grid which supplies the centre and south of Chile and is powered mainly by Antofagasta Minerals aims to take a leading role in the use hydropower.
LosPelambres is supplied by SIC.
and generation of renewable energy in Chile.
At the end of2011 the Group agreed to invest in a 115MW wind farm As the Group continues to grow, its energy consumption project near Los Pelambres which will provide approximately islikely to increase.
The Group is working to improve energy 20% of the sites energy requirements and will be the largest efficiency while exploring alternative energy sources.
Energa wind farm in Chile.
In El Tesoro the installation of a thermal Andina S. A, the joint venture between the Group and Origin solar project for use in the electro-winning process is set to Energy of Australia, is continuing with its activities for the reduce diesel consumption by 55% and reduce the carbon exploration and development of geothermal energy prospects footprint of the plant by 7% 15,000 tonnes CO per annum.
It has been granted 15 concessions to date and The overall investment for the project will be US$16 million currently has eight projects in the exploration phase each with with a payback period of seven to eight years.
At Los Pelambres, potential capacity of 100-200MW.
In 2012 the company will around 10% of the sites energy needs are met by capturing conduct feasibility assessments to assess the viability of the energy from the braking on conveyor belts.
If successful, drilling of geothermal production wells Sustainability Report 2010 for more information.
will begin in 2013 and Energa Andina could be producing The Group measures and reports its CO energy by 2016. emissions 2 according to the Greenhouse Gas protocol of the Carbon Work is continuing on the potential underground coal Disclosure Project CDP.
In the latest year for which CDP gasification project UCG at the Mulpun coalfield, situated data is available, 2010, Group total CO emissions were 2 near Valdivia in southern Chile, along with the Groups partner 1.18million tonnes.
Further data will be published in the project, Carbon Energy Limited Carbon Energy of in theSustainability Report 2011.
The Mulpun pilot plant will produce gas by on-site coal gasification.
This technology transforms coal into synthetic gas that can be used to generate electricity.
InAugust 2010 the Group received environmental approval for the first stage of the project, which allows construction and operation of a pilot scheme including the first UCG panel and on-site facilities, and engineering studies in relation to the trial project were undertaken in the second half of the year.
56 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Operational review: Corporate sustainability The mining division monitors water consumption and Water resources efficiency at each operation.
In 2011 the Group participated What is the issue?
in the CDP Water Disclosure Project that measures water Water is a key input for mining and it is critical for management across some of the worlds most water intensive processing copper ore. Two of the Groups four mining companies.
Data on water consumption by source and water operations, Esperanza and Michilla, use sea water.
use efficiency will be published in the Groups Sustainability LosPelambres, located in the centre of the country Report 2011. intheCoquimbo region, uses both surface and The mining division has port facilities for Aguas fide Antofagasta supplies the city of Antofagasta with groundwater from the Choapa basin, and it aims to Los Pelambres, Esperanza and Michilla.
around 60% of its water needs from sea water.
The water avoidcompeting with the water needs of local people company has submitted a plan to the relevant authority andsmall-scale farmers.
toallow it to construct a third desalinization plant in the south ofAntofagasta, which could supply the remaining 40% Using water efficiently and recycling it wherever possible is ofthecitys water needs from 2014. acentral concern for the Groups operations.
All of the mines have water management plans in place to reduce and monitor Air quality and dust water use and ensure that emissions of wastewater meet Mining operations involve moving large amounts of earth, quality standards.
They work to maximise recovery of water.
which causes dust, impacting local air quality.
For mines To reduce demand on surface and groundwater sources inclose proximity to neighbouring communities, such as Antofagasta Minerals has pioneered the use of sea water LosPelambres, dust control is a critical issue.
The mining inthe mining process in Chile.
Michilla began using division has implemented a number of dust prevention non-desalinated sea water in the 1990s and likewise on methods such as sprinklers and foam.
At Los Pelambres, amuchlarger scale the Esperanza mine operates using ajoint company-community committee monitors dust levels.
All of the operations recycle An online air quality monitoring system issues an alert when mostof the water used in their processes through a dust levels are likely to exceed its target and the site can systemofindustrial water recirculation.
alterits operations to reduce dust levels when needed, for instance, due to changes in wind direction.
More information As both water availability and water quality are important is available in theGroups Sustainability Report.
social issues, each mining company engages with local communities to understand their concerns and evaluates Biodiversity howto reduce its impact on local water demands.
This is The Group recognises the importance of protecting local most relevant for Los Pelambres, as it is situated near to an ecosystems and biodiversity.
Biodiversity protection plans agricultural valley.
In 2011 Los Pelambres relocated one of aredeveloped for every mine in compliance with regulations itswater capturing systems so that from 2012 it will be able and take into account the interests of different stakeholders to collect water from the naturally lower quality upper section including farmers and landowners, local communities and of the Pelambres river.
This will improve the quality of water non-governmental organisations.
downstream which is used by the local communities.
The mining division carefully monitors the quality of groundwater and surface water near to the divisions tailings Punta Chungo port at Los Pelambres.
dams Quillayes, now closed, and El Mauro at Los Pelambres to make sure that local community supplies are not affected by leaching of heavy metals or sulphates.
Water quality is also monitored at Esperanzas tailings facility, although the facility is located in the desert where no underground water sources have been identified.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 57 Antofagasta Minerals efforts to promote biodiversity focus Tailings inparticular on the Choapa valley where our Los Pelambres It is particularly important that tailings are managed safely mine is located.
It has restored and manages a nature toprevent leakages which could impact water quality.
sanctuary at the Laguna Conchali wetlands which has Thefailure of a tailings dam could have a major impact on significant biological diversity.
It has also put in place localcommunities, the environment and the Groups workers.
programmes to protect peat lands and one of the few LosPelambres is the only operation that stores tailings remaining Chilean Palm forests.
All of these sites provide inadam.
Its Quillayes dam is no longer in use and it has habitats for endangered species.
In the Antofagasta Region, established a larger dam at El Mauro.
Both are designed operations are located in the Atacama Desert, the driest toresist extreme weather and high-magnitude earthquakes desert in the world, where there are very few animal and and are carefully monitored and maintained.
The mining division measures and monitors ofmeasures have been introduced to ensure the safety biodiversity for the few species that have been found in the ofinhabitants near to the mines tailings dams and to protect area, such as the Andean Fox and some migratory birds.
More information is available in the Following incidents at Esperanza and El Tesoro where foxes Groups Sustainability Report.
were found drowned in solution ponds in 2010, the mining Taking advantage of its geographical location, the companies improved fencing around the sites and used Esperanzamine has introduced thickened tailings scarecrows to keep species away.
El Tesoro has an technology.
This technology will reduce water consumption agreement with the Wildlife Rescue and Rehabilitation and means that the tailings are more stable during operations Centerof the University of Antofagasta CRRFS to rehabilitate and after the mine has closed.
It also reduces dust levels.
and release any animals found injured in the area.
El Tesoro measures and monitors biodiversity each year Closure provisions around its fresh water source, located west of the city Antofagasta Minerals aims to close and decommission ofCalama at the Ojos fide Opache.
In 2011, the company itsmining facilities safely and in ways that protect the begana project to improve the environment around the environment and the interests of local people.
It has Ojosde Opache stream, clearing more than 5,000 tonnes closureplans and provisions in place for all its operations ofwaste and debris from the area.
These are regularly updated, often in consultation with local people.
The mining companies Esperanza monitors its impact on the biodiversity of the include closure plans within the environmental impact marine environment at Michilla Bay where it has shipment assessment reports submitted to authorities for all new facilities.
Los Pelambres contributes to the protection projects, as required by Chilean legislation.
ofmarine biodiversity and the development of sustainable fishing in the coast around its facilities at Los Vilos, through In 2011, Antofagasta Minerals contributed to the development its charitable foundation.
of the Chilean governments new mine closure law that requires mining companies to put in place adequate plans and finances Waste for safe closure.
The law will come into effect in 2012.
Hazardous and non-hazardous waste Environmental incidents and fines Mining operations produce significant amounts of hazardous The Group aims to prevent environmental incidents at its and non-hazardous waste including waste rock, spent ore sites.
Chilean environmental law has a wide definition of and tailings waste from processing ore and concentrates.
The Group has a corporate protocol Hazardous waste consists mainly of used oils, rags and for identifying, classifying and reporting incidents to help containers with the remains of oil, lead-contaminated itsmining sites address incidents and prevent recurrences.
Waste is also an issue forthetransport and water divisions.
Information on incidents and fines during 2011 will beavailable in the Groups Sustainability Report 2011.
The Group aims to reduce the amount of waste it produces, to reuse resources where possible and to dispose of waste according to legal requirements.
The tailing thickeners at Los Pelambres.
58 Construction Given the level of up-front capital required to construct a mining operation, effective management of the costs, timing and efficiency are key to the overall return on investment.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 59 Financial review Review of performance page 60 Cash flows page 66 Financial position page 67 60 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Financial review Year ended Year ended Basis of preparation 31.12.11 31.12.10 Movement Movement The Groups financial statements on page 93 to 138 have been prepared US$m US$m US$m % inaccordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
Turnover 6,076.0 4,577.1 1,498.9 32.7 Theaccounting policies followed are set out in Note 2 to the financial statements.
EBITDA 3,660.5 2,771.9 888.6 32.1 The presentation currency of the Group and the functional currency of the Company Depreciation and amortisation 431.7 277.0 154.7 55.8 is the US dollar, the principal currency in which the Group operates and in which Impairments 140.5 109.4 249.9 228.4 assets and liabilities are denominated.
Net finance expense 21.2 18.7 2.5 13.4 Profit before tax 3,076.2 2,573.2 503.0 19.5 Review of performance Income tax expense 946.2 752.5 193.7 25.7 A detailed segmental analysis of the components of the income statement Net cash 1,139.7 1,345.1 205.4 15.3 iscontained in Note 6 to the financial statements.
Earnings per share US$ cents 125.4 106.7 18.7 17.6 The following table reconciles between the 2010 and 2011 profit before tax: Turnover US$m Group turnover in 2011 was US$6,076.0 million, 32.7% above the US$4,577.1 Profit before tax in 2010 2,573.2 million achieved in 2010.
The increase of US$1,498.9 million mainly reflected Turnover increased copper and gold sales volumes.
Increase in volume sold 1,018.6 Increase in realised price 150.9 Turnover from the mining division Turnover from copper concentrate and copper cathodes Increase in tolling charges 38.2 Turnover from copper concentrate and copper cathode sales increased Turnover from copper concentrate and cathode sales 1,131.3 byUS$1,131.3 million, or 28.6%, to US$5,085.1 million, compared with Increase in gold revenues 272.0 US$3,953.8million in 2010.
The increase mainly reflected the impact of Increase in silver revenues 58.7 highercopper volumes and, to a lesser extent, higher realised prices.
Decrease in molybdenum revenues 9.7 Turnover from by-products 321.0 Copper volumes Increase in transport division revenues 24.1 Copper sales volumes increased by 24.0% from 516,000 tonnes in 2010 to Increase in water division revenues 22.5 640,000 tonnes this year.
The uplift in volumes accounted for US$1,018.6 million Turnover from transport and water divisions 46.6 of the total increase in turnover from copper concentrate and cathode sales.
Increase in Group turnover 1,498.9 The increased sales volume resulted from higher production volumes, which are Operating costs analysed by mine in the Operational review on pages 28 to 35.
The increased Increase in volume sold 386.8 production volumes in the year were mainly due to the start-up of Esperanza and Increase in costs per unit sold 128.9 toa lesser extent increased production at Los Pelambres, reflecting a full year Decrease in charge for closure provisions 54.0 ofhigher throughput as a result of the plant expansion completed at that mine Increase in exploration and evaluation costs 116.4 during 2010.
Increase in corporate costs 8.9 Operating costs for mining division 587.0 Realised copper prices Increase in transport division operating costs 7.9 The Groups average realised copper price increased by 3.7% to 372.6 cents Increase in water division costs 15.4 perpound 2010 359.3 cents, reflecting the higher average LME copper price, Operating costs for transport and water divisions 23.3 which increased by 16.9% to 399.7 cents per pound 2010 342.0 cents, largely Increase in EBITDA 888.6 offset by provisional pricing adjustments.
The increase in average realised prices Increase in depreciation and amortisation 159.8 accounted for US$150.9 million of the total increase in turnover from copper Provision against Reko Diq assets in 2011 140.5 concentrate and cathode sales.
Reversal of El Tesoro impairment in 2010 109.4 Realised copper prices are determined by comparing turnover gross of tolling Effect of exceptional items 249.9 charges for concentrate sales with sales volumes in the year.
Realised copper Increase in share of profits from associates 26.6 prices differ from market prices mainly because, in line with industry practice, Increase in investment income 6.8 concentrate and cathode sales agreements generally provide for provisional Increase in interest expense 74.9 pricingat the time of shipment with final pricing based on the average market price Increase in other finance items 65.6 for future periods normally about 30 days after delivery to the customer in the case Increase in net finance costs 2.5 of cathode sales and up to 150 days after delivery to the customer in the case of Increase in profit before tax 503.0 concentrate sales.
Realised copper prices also reflect the impact of realised losses Profit before tax in 2011 3,076.2 or gains of commodity derivative instruments hedge accounted for in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurements.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 61 In 2011 there were significant negative mark-to-market adjustments to provisionally Silver revenues increased by US$58.9 million to US$88.2 million in 2011 invoiced sales as a result of the significant decrease in the LME copper price during 2010US$29.3 million.
US$36.4 million was due to a significant increase the second half of the year.
Pricing adjustments decreased initially invoiced sales involumes to2,499,000 ounces in 2011 compared with 1,471,000 ounces before adjusting for tolling charges by US$286.2 million in 2011, compared with in2011.
Esperanza produced and sold 724,000 ounces in its first year aUS$303.5 million increase of sales in 2010.
Further details of provisional pricing ofproduction and atLos Pelambres sales increased by 304,000 ounces.
adjustments are given in Note 25 d to the financial statements.
Therealisedsilver also increased significantly to US$35.7 per ounce comparedwithUS$20.4 per ounce, mainly reflecting high market prices, Realised prices, in particular at Esperanza, were also affected by the timing accounting for US$22.5 million of the increase.
anddistribution of sales during the year.
A higher proportion of the Groups salesof640,000 tonnes were achieved in the second half of the year in line with Production volumes are analysed by mine in the Operational review on pages production, mainly due to the continued ramp-up at Esperanza and also higher ore 28to35.
LME copper prices in the second half were 374.1 cents Turnover from the transport and water divisions per pound compared with 426.3 cents per pound, and hence realised copper Turnover from the transport division FCAB increased by US$24.1 million or prices were affected by the greater weighing of sales to the second half.
This partly reflected higher rail tonnages, which In 2011 turnover also included a net loss of US$15.1 million 2010 loss of increased 3.8%, as well as normal tariff adjustments.
However the transport US$81.4 million on commodity derivatives at El Tesoro and Michilla which matured division also benefited from an improved composition of sales in the period with during the year.
Further details of hedging activity in the year are given in Note 25 e ahigher proportion of freight moved on behalf of customers with longer distances to the financial statements.
The transport business also benefited from increased revenues fromsales of water in the year.
The movement in the LME copper price during the year is described in the Strategicreview on page 15.
Turnover at Aguas fide Antofagasta, which operates the Groups water business, increased by US$22.5 million or 24.4% to US$114.9 million in 2011.
The increase Tolling charges was due to a number of factors including increased demand from both regulated Tolling charges for copper concentrate at Los Pelambres and Esperanza and unregulated customers and tariff adjustments.
Turnover at Aguas fide increasedby US$38.2 million to US$172.2 million in 2011.
This resulted mainly Antofagasta is principally denominated in Chilean pesos, and so benefited from from the increased production volumes as the level of tolling charges, measured thestrengthening of that currency against the US dollar compared with 2010. incents perpound of copper produced, did not change significantly year-on-year.
Aguas fide Antofagasta also benefited from smaller increases in revenues from Tollingcharges are deducted from concentrate sales in reporting turnover and construction and engineering services.
hence the increase in these charges has had a negative impact on turnover.
Turnover from molybdenum, gold and other by-products Turnover from by-products at Los Pelambres and Esperanza relate mainly to molybdenum and gold, and a lesser extent silver.
Turnover from by-products increased by US$321.0 million or 85.3% to US$697.2 million in 2011, comparedwith US$376.2 million in 2010.
Gold revenues net of tolling charges were US$315.2 million 2010 US$43.4million, an increase of US$271.8 million.
The significant increase wasmainly due to an increase in gold sales volumes from 35,100 ounces in 2010to193,200 ounces in 2011, mainly due to the start-up of Esperanza which sold 153,400 ounces.
Gold revenues also benefited to a lesser extent from the increase in realised gold prices which were US$1,637 per ounce in 2011 compared with US$1,236 per ounce in 2010.
Realised gold prices mainly reflected higher market prices, but Esperanza also benefited from having a greater proportion of its production and sales in the second half of the year when gold prices were higher.
Molybdenum revenues net of roasting charges were US$293.8 million 2010 US$303.5 million, a decrease of US$9.7 million.
Higher molybdenum sales of 9,400 tonnes 2010 8,900 tonnes were offset by the decline in realised prices to US$15.1 per pound 2010 US$16.2 per pound.
62 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Financial review Net costs in respect of corporate and other items were higher at US$55.3 million Operating costs excluding depreciation and amortisation 2010 US$46.4 million mainly as a result of the increased level of costs Operating costs excluding depreciation and amortisation amounted to associated with supporting the Groups longer-term growth plans at the US$2,415.5million 2010 US$1,805.2 million, an increase of US$610.3 million.
This was due to the increase in volumes mainly at Esperanza and to a lesser extent Los Pelambres.
Operating costs excluding depreciation and amortisation Operating costs excluding depreciation and amortisation atthe transport and water divisions Operating costs at the transport division increased by US$7.9 million to atthe mining division US$102.8million.
This was mainly due to increased operating costs associated Operating costs at the mining division increased by US$587.0 million with increased rail volumes and longer distances under the mix of contracts toUS$2,271.9 million in 2011, an increase of 34.8%.
compared with the previous year, and to a lesser extent cost pressures.
Of this increase, US$386.8 million is attributable to the higher mining production Thesewerepartly offset by a slight decrease in the severance provision and sales volumes as explained in the Turnover section above, based on the followingareviewin the year.
As explained in more detail above, the additional turnover Operating costs at Aguas fide Antofagasta increased by US$15.4 million to including by-product revenues associated with these increased volumes was US$40.8million.
The increase mainly related to the increased costs associated US$1,330.0 million.
withthe higher volume of water sold.
The higher proportional increase in costs US$128.9 million is attributable to unit costs, principally due to the increase in relative to revenues was mainly due to the fact that increased demand was met onsite and shipping costs during the year.
Excluding by-product credits which bybringing into operation the final module of the desalination plant at the city arereported as part of turnover and tolling charges for concentrates which are ofAntofagasta, which has a higher cost to operate compared with water available deducted from turnover, weighted average cash costs for the Group comprising suppliedfrom surface sources.
on-site and shipping costs in the case of Los Pelambres and Esperanza and cash costs in the case of the other two operations increased from 124.3 cents per EBITDA and operating profit from subsidiaries pound in 2010 to 141.5 cents per pound.
This increase reflected the impact andjointventures onaverage cash cost of the ramp-up process at Esperanza and different cost EBITDA pressures across the operations.
Cash costs are analysed by mine in the EBITDA earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, and amortisation from Operational review on pages 28to35.
subsidiaries and joint ventures increased by US$888.6 million or 32.1% to Charges to the income statement for mine closure rehabilitation costs were US$3,660.5 million in 2011 2010 US$2,771.9 million.
US$15.5 million compared with US$69.5 million in 2010, a year-on-year reduction EBITDA at the mining division increased by 32.7% or from US$2,645.1 million in of US$54.0 million.
In 2010, operating costs at Los Pelambres included a one-off 2010 to US$3,510.4 million 2011.
As explained above, this was mainly due to the US$65.2 million charge relating to the increase in the closure provision following profit earned on increased volumes of metal sold, and to a lesser extent improved anupdated assessment during 2010 by external consultants, with the provision metal prices.
This was partly offset by higher unit costs and increased exploration increasing due to factors including an increase in the scale of the operation, and evaluation spend.
updated cost assumptions, and an acceleration of the timing of certain closure activities relating to the Quillayes tailings dam.
EBITDA at the transport division increased by US$16.2 million to US$76.0 million in2011, with the increased revenue as explained above partly offset by associated Exploration and evaluation costs increased by US$116.4 million to US$215.4million increased operating costs.
Aguas fide Antofagasta contributed US$74.1 million in in 2011 2010 US$99.0 million.
This reflected the increased level of exploration 2011 compared to US$67.0 million last year, mainly reflecting the increased evaluation activity across the Group.
The higher level of expenditure was due to a volumes and revenue as explained above which were partly offset by increased number of factors, including significant spending on the pre-feasibility study in the operating costs.
Centinela district which began in 2010 and was completed at the end of the third quarter of 2011 and higher expenditures at both Los Pelambres and Twin Metals where scoping studies were completed and pre-feasibility studies initiated during the year.
In addition, exploration activity both in the Groups core districts and generally in Chile and internationally increased compared with 2010.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 63 Depreciation, amortisation and provision against carrying Net finance expense values of intangibles and property, plant and equipment Net finance expense in 2011 was US$21.2 million, compared with a net finance Depreciation and amortisation increased by US$154.7 million to US$431.7 million expense of US$18.7million in 2010. in 2011, mainly due to the start-up of Esperanza, where depreciation amounted to Year ended Year ended US$134.8 million.
The loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment in 2011 31.12.11 31.12.10 was US$14.9 million, compared with US$9.8 million in the prior year.
US$m US$m Investment income 23.3 16.5 In 2011 a US$140.5 million provision against the carrying value of intangible assets Interest expense 93.2 18.3 and property, plant and equipment has been recorded within total operating costs Other finance items 48.7 16.9 relating to the Groups joint venture Tethyan Copper Company Pty.
Ltd. During 2010 Net finance expense 21.2 18.7 the reversal of the remaining US$109.4 million impairment originally recognised at El Tesoro in the year ended 31 December 2008 was recorded as an exceptional Interest receivable increased from US$16.5 million in 2010 to US$23.3 million in credit within total operating costs.
Further details of these items are given in Note 2011, reflecting slightly higher average cash balances and rates achieved, and the 39 to the financial statements.
inclusion of interest income from Esperanza which was previously capitalised while the project remained under construction.
Operating profit from subsidiaries and joint ventures As a result of the above factors, operating profit from subsidiaries and joint Interest expense increased from US$18.3 million in 2010 to US$93.2 million in ventures excluding exceptional items increased by 29.3% to US$3,213.9 million.
2011, mainly due to the start-up of Esperanza where interest expense in 2011 Including exceptional items, operating profit from subsidiaries and joint ventures wasUS$68.7 million as the borrowing costs relating to that operation had been increased by 18.5% to US$3,073.4 million.
capitalised while it was under development.
Interest costs also reflect the full year impact of other borrowings, principally those taken out by El Tesoro in the second Share of income net loss from associates half of 2010 to finance the acquisition of Mirador from Antofagasta Minerals S. A.
The Groups share of net profit from its associates was US$24.0 million 2010 Other finance items comprised a gain of US$48.7 million 2010 loss of netloss of US$2.6 million, an increase of US$26.6 million.
A gain of US$49.1 million 2010 loss of US$16.1 million has ofa net profit of US$21.7 million 2010 net loss of US$2.0 million from its 40% been recognised in respect of the time value element of changes in the fair value interest in Inversiones Hornitos, and a net profit of US$2.3 million 2010 net profit ofcommodity derivative options, which is excluded from the designated hedging of US$1.9 million from its 30% interest in ATI.
The increase in the share of income relationship, and is therefore recognised directly in profit or loss.
Foreign exchange related to the Groups 40% interest in Inversiones Hornitos largely reflects the gains included in finance items were US$14.2 million in 2011, compared with a Groups US$18.8 million share of compensation received by the associate forlost gain of US$9.6 million in the previous year.
A loss on foreign exchange derivatives profits from the main contractor as a result of delays to the construction.
In2010 of US$3.3 million 2010 loss of US$6.1 million is also included in other finance the Groups share of net loss from its associates included a net loss ofUS$2.5 items.
An expense of US$11.3 million 2010 US$4.3 million has been million from its 17.8% interest in Sunridge which was sold at the end of2010.
recognised in relation to the unwinding of the discount on provisions.
Profit before tax As a result of the factors set out above, profit before tax increased by US$503.0million or 19.5% to US$3,076.2 million in 2011 compared with US$2,573.2 million in 2010.
64 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Financial review Income tax expense Non-controlling interests The rate of first category i. e. corporation tax in Chile increased to 20% in 2011 Profit for the financial year attributable to non-controlling interests was from 17% in 2010 due to amendments to Chilean mining tax introduced by the US$893.4million, compared with US$768.9 million in 2010.
The increase is Chilean Government following the severe earthquake which affected Chile in 2010. mainlydue to the effect of the increased Group profit in 2011 in comparison to 2010.
Los Pelambres, El Tesoro, Michilla and Esperanza are also subject to a mining tax Earnings per share royalty which is tax deductible i. e. an allowable expense in determining liability Year ended Year ended tofirst category tax.
On 12 January 2011 the Group voluntarily elected to accept 31.12.11 31.12.10 US cents US cents amendments to the mining tax as permitted pursuant to a law enacted in Chile Earnings per share including exceptional items 125.4 106.7 on21 October 2010.
Between 2010 to 2012 production from Los Pelambres, Esperanza, El Tesoro and Michilla mines is subject to a mining tax at a rate of Earnings per share excluding exceptional items 139.7 100.6 between 4-9% of tax-adjusted operating profit, based on a sliding scale with the Earnings per share calculations are based on 985,856,695 ordinary shares.
minimum rate of 4% applying to operations with a tax-adjusted operating profit Asaresult of the factors set out above, profit for the 2011 financial year attributable margin of below 40% and a maximum rate of 9% applying to operations with to equity shareholders of the Company was US$1,236.6 million compared with atax-adjusted operating profit margin of above 75%.
Production from the Tesoro US$1,051.8 million in 2010.
Accordingly, basic and diluted earnings per share were North-East deposit and the Run-of-Mine processing at El Tesoro is subject to 125.4 cents in 2011 compared with 106.7 cents in 2010, an increase of 17.6%.
amining tax at a rate of between 5-14% of tax-adjusted operating profit, based onasliding scale with the minimum rate of 5% applying to operations with a Profit for the 2011 financial year attributable to equity holders of the Company tax-adjusted operating profit margin of below 35% and a maximum rate of 14% excluding exceptional items was US$1,377.1 compared with US$991.3 million applying to operations with a tax-adjusted operating profit margin of above 85%.
Basic and diluted earnings per share excluding exceptional items detailed inNote 5 to the financial statements were 139.7 cents in 2011 compared with In addition to first category tax and the mining tax, the Group incurs withholding 100.6 cents in 2010, an increase of 38.9%.
taxes on the remittance of profits from Chilean operations and deferred tax isprovided on undistributed earnings to the extent that remittance is probable Dividends intheforeseeable future.
Withholding tax is levied on remittances of profits Dividends per share proposed in relation to the year are as follows: fromChileat 35% less first category tax already paid in respect of those profits.
2011 2010 2009 2008 Duringthe year ended 31 December 2011 the effective tax rate of withholding US cents US cents US cents US cents taxwas approximately 18% of the amount remitted or expected to be remitted.
Ordinary The tax charge for the year was US$946.2 million and the effective tax rate Interim 8.0 4.0 3.4 3.4 was30.8%.
This rate varies from the standard rate principally due to the effect Final 12.0 12.0 6.0 5.6 ofthe mining tax which resulted in a charge of US$199.8 million representing an 20.0 16.0 9.4 9.0 effective tax rate of 6.5% and the provision of withholding tax of US$127.0 million Special representing an effective tax rate of 4.1%.
This rate varied from the standard rate of 17% for that year principally Total dividends to ordinary due to the effect of the mining tax which resulted in a charge of US$157.7 million shareholders 44.0 116.0 23.4 60.0 representing an effective tax rate of 6.1% and the provision of withholding tax of Dividends as a percentage of US$160.9 million which represented an effective tax rate of 6.3%.
The higher rate profit attributable to equity of withholding tax provision was mainly due to the higher level of dividends declared shareholders 35% 109% 35% 35% in respect of that year.
The Boards policy is to establish an ordinary dividend which can be maintained orprogressively increased at conservative long-term copper prices and through theeconomic cycle.
In addition, the Board recommends special dividends when itconsiders these appropriate after taking into account the level of profits earned inthe period under review, the existing cash position of the Group and significant known or expected funding commitments.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 65 The Board has recommended a final dividend for 2011 of 36 cents per ordinary Details of the mark-to-market position of these instruments at 31 December 2011, share, which amounts to US$354.9 million and if approved at the Annual General together with details of any interest and exchange derivatives held by the Group, Meeting, will be paid on 14 June 2012 to shareholders on the Register at the close aregiven in Note 25 e to the financial statements.
This final dividend comprises an ordinary dividend of The Group periodically uses foreign exchange derivatives to cover expected 12 cents and a special dividend of 24 cents.
This gives total dividends for the year operational cash flow needs.
At 31 December 2011 the Group had cross currency of 44 cents, including the interim dividend of 8 cents which was paid in October, swaps with a principal value of US$166.2 million relating to Michilla to swap Chilean amounting to US$433.8 million and representing a distribution of 35% of 2011 pesos for US dollars, at an average rate of Ch$508.2 US$1, covering a total period netearnings.
The weighted average remaining period covered by In 2010 total dividends were 116 cents, representing a pay-out ratio of 109%.
these hedges calculated with effect from 1 January 2012 is 9.9 months.
Aspreviously stated, the special dividend of 100 cents in that year reflected the Between31 December 2011 and 31 January 2012 US$7.4 million of cross successful completion of the two key growth projects the Los Pelambres currency swaps matured.
expansion and the Esperanza mine development in that year.
The Group also periodically uses interest rate swaps to swap the floating rate interest for fixed rate interest.
At 31 December 2011 the Group had entered Capital expenditure intocontracts in relation to the Esperanza financing for a maximum notional Capital expenditure decreased by US$612.9 million from US$1,385.8 million amountof US$840.0 million at a weighted average fixed rate of 3.372% in2010 to US$772.9 million in 2011.
This was mainly due to significantly maturingin February 2018. lowercapital expenditures at Esperanza of US$259.0 million 2010 US$1,058.6million reflecting the completion of the majority of the Commodity price sensitivities constructionofthe mine by early 2011.
Based on 2011 production volumes and without taking into account the effects Details of capital expenditure by mine are provided in the Business Review.
ofprovisional pricing and any hedging activity, a change in commodity prices Thecapital expenditure of US$772.9 million differs to purchases of property, wouldaffect turnover and profit before tax and earnings per share as follows: plantand equipment in the cash flow statement of US$666.6 million, mainly due Amount Increase Increase tothe US$46.1 non-cash portion of the acquisition of the assets of Franconia of increase in turnover and in earnings in price profit before tax per share detailed in Note 33 to the financial statements and the acquisition of leased Copper US$c10 Lb 141.3 6.9 assetsof US$40.0 million.
Molybdenum US$1 Lb 21.8 1.0 Gold US$100 ounce 19.7 1.0 Derivative financial instruments The Group periodically uses derivative financial instruments to reduce exposure tocommodity price movements.
At 31 December 2011 the Group had min-max instruments for 84,300 tonnes ofcopper production at Michilla covering a total period up to 31 December 2014.
Theweighted average remaining period covered by the min-max hedges calculated with effect from 1 January 2012 was 24.2 months.
The instruments had a weighted average floor of 344.9 cents per pound and a weighted average cap of448.0 cents per pound.
This represents approximately 80% of Michillas forecast production for 2012, and approximately 5% of Group copper production for that year.
The Groups exposure to the copper price will be limited by the extent of theseinstruments.
At 31 December 2011 the Group had futures contracts for 11,000 tonnes of copper production at El Tesoro covering a total period up to 31 January 2013.
Theweighted average remaining period covered by the arbitrage hedges calculated with effect from 1 January 2012 was 7.6 months.
The instruments had a weighted average price of 361.0 US cents per pound.
66 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Financial review Cash tax payments in the year were US$1,018.1 million 2010 US$427.9 million, Cash flows comprising corporation tax of US$586.5 million 2010 US$306.0 million, mining The Group cash flow statement is presented on page 96.
The key features are tax of US$213.1 million 2010 US$74.7 million and withholding tax of US$218.5 summarised in the following table.
These amounts differ from the current tax charge Year ended Year ended in the consolidated income statement of US$965.3 million 2010 US$631.5 31.12.11 31.12.10 US$m US$m million mainly because cash tax payments for corporation tax and the mining tax Cash flows from operations 3,552.5 2,433.9 partly comprise lower monthly payments on account in respect of current year Income tax paid 1,018.1 427.9 profits and partly comprise the settlement of the outstanding balance for the Net interest paid 47.6 16.2 previous year.
Acquisition of associates and subsequent capital The purchase of available for sale investments of US$27.3 million relates to the contributions 4.5 purchase of shares in Duluth Metals Limited, Eurasian Minerals Incorporated, Acquisition of available for sale investments 27.3 12.9 Stratex International plc and Sipa Resources Limited.
More details of the Purchases of property, plant and equipment 666.6 1,301.8 acquisitions are included in Note 19 to the financial statements.
Dividends paid to equity holders of the Company 1,183.0 236.6 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 741.0 702.7 Cash disbursements relating to capital expenditure in 2011 were US$666.6 million Other items 1.0 4.1 compared with US$1,301.8 million in 2010.
This included expenditure Changes in net cash relating to cash flows 134.6 260.1 ofUS$243.0million relating to Esperanza 2010 US$1,058.6 million, Exchange and other non-cash movements 70.8 9.5 US$151.3million 2010 US$134.3 million relating to Los Pelambres and Movement in net cash in the year 205.4 250.6 US$115.1 million 2010 US$27.7 million relating to El Tesoro.
Net cash at the beginning of the year 1,345.1 1,595.7 Dividends including special dividends paid to ordinary shareholders of the Net cash at the end of the year analysed on page 67 1,139.7 1,345.1 Company this year were US$1,183.0 million 2010 US$236.6 million, which related to the final dividend declared in respect of the previous year and the interim Cash flows from operations were US$3,552.5 million in 2011 compared with dividend in respect of the current year, and reflected the increased dividend per US$2,433.9 million last year, an increase of 46.0%.
This reflected EBITDA for the share paid out during 2011 compared with 2010. year of US$3,660.5 million 2010 US$2,771.9 million adjusted for a net working capital increase of US$108.0 million 2010 increase of US$338.0 million.
Dividends paid by subsidiaries to non-controlling shareholders were US$741.0 Theworking capital movements relate mainly to an increase in inventory levels million 2010 US$702.7 million, principally due to increased distributions by withthe start-up of Esperanza and Run-of-Mine production at El Tesoro partly LosPelambres and El Tesoro.
offsetby an increase in closure provisions.
Details of other cash inflows and outflows in the year are contained in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 67 Financial position Cautionary statement about forward-looking Year ended Year ended statements 31.12.11 31.12.10 The preliminary results announcement contains certain forward-looking US$m US$m statementswith respect to the financial position, results of operations and Cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments 3,280.0 3,541.6 businessof the Group.
Examples of forward-looking statements include those Total borrowings 2,140.3 2,196.5 regarding ore reserve and mineral resource estimates, anticipated production or Net cash at the end of the year 1,139.7 1,345.1 construction commencement dates, costs, outputs, demand, trends in commodity prices, growth opportunities and productive lives of assets or similar factors.
At 31 December 2011 the Group had combined cash, cash equivalents Thewords intend, aim, project, anticipate, estimate, plan, believe, andliquidinvestments of US$3,280.0 million 2010 US$3,541.6 million.
expect, may, should, will, continue, or similar expressions, commonly Excludingthe non-controlling interest share in each partly-owned operation, identify such forward-looking statements.
theGroups attributable share of cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments wasUS$3,041.1 million 2010 US$3,393.8 million.
Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors that are beyond the Groups control.
For example, New borrowings in the year amounted to US$241.3 million 2010 future ore reserves will be based in part on long-term price assumptions that may US$1,022.0million, mainly due to new short-term borrowings at Esperanza of vary significantly from current levels.
These may materially affect the timing and US$200.0 million and new finance leases at Los Pelambres of US$36.1 million.
Other factors include the ability to produce Repayments of borrowings and finance leasing obligations in the year were and transport products profitably, demand for products, the effect of foreign US$314.5 million, relating mainly to repayment of the Esperanza short-term currency exchange rates on market prices and operating costs, activities by borrowings of US$170.0 million and to a lesser extent regular repayments on governmental authorities, such as changes in taxation or regulation, and existing loans at Los Pelambres of US$134.1 million 2010 US$459.8 million politicaluncertainty.
relating mainly to repayment of Los Pelambres short-term borrowings and toalesser extent regular payments on existing loans.
Given these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, actual results could be materially different from any future results expressed or implied by these forward-looking Total Group borrowings at 31 December 2011 were US$2,140.3 million 2010 statements which speak only as at the date of this report.
Except as required US$2,196.5 million.
Of this, US$1,456.3 million 2010 US$1,486.8 million byapplicable regulations or by law, the Group does not undertake any obligation isproportionally attributable to the Group after excluding the non-controlling topublicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result  in partly-owned operations.
The Group cannot guarantee that its Balance sheet forward-looking statements will not differ materially from actual results.
Long-term provisions increased from US$244.4 million at 31 December 2010 toUS$321.1 million at 31 December 2011.
During the year ended 31 December 2011 there has been a charge of US$15.5 million to operating profit in relation toincreases to the rehabilitation provision, and US$56.7 million capitalised, principally in relation to the decommissioning provision at Los Pelambres followingan updated review.
Foreign currency exchange differences The principal subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the US dollar are Chilean peso denominated, of which the most significant is Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A.
Exchange rates used to translate the results of such subsidiaries are given inNote 37 to the financial statements.
In 2011 the currency translation loss recognised in net equity of US$25.1 million resulted mainly from the weakening in the Chilean peso during the year from Ch$468.01 US$1 at the start of 2011 to Ch$519.2 US$1 at the end of 2011.
In 2010 the currency translation gain recognised in net equity of US$27.1 million resulted mainly from the strengthening in the Chilean peso during the year from Ch$507 US$1 at the start of 2010 to Ch$468 US$1 at the end of 2010.
68 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 69 Governance Board of Directors page 70 Corporate governance report page 72 Remuneration report page 82 Directors report page 86 Directors responsibilities page 89 Production The majority of our mining production is from low-cost, long-life operations, allowing us to generate value even during low points in the commodity price cycle.
