Directors report The directors present their report on the affairs of the group, Dividend together with the financial statements and auditors report The directors recommend a final dividend of 11.9p per share.
for the 52-week period ended 26 March 2011.
The corporate An interim dividend of 6.4p was paid in February 2011 2010: governance statement set out on pages 30 to 35 forms part 5.5p per share making a total of 18.3p per share 2010: total of this report.
The chairmans statement at page 4 gives further of 16.8p per share.
information on the work of the board during the period.
The The Trustees of the Mothercare Employee Trust, who held principal activity of the group is as a specialist multi-channel 2,458,079 shares at the balance sheet date, have waived their retailer and wholesaler of products for mothers-to-be, babies entitlement to receive dividends in respect of 759,536 shares.
and children under the Mothercare and Early Learning Centre The remaining shares held by the Trust are conditionally brands.
It also owns and operates Gurgle.
com, the social awarded to participants in certain of the groups employee networking site for parents.
share schemes where such schemes provide for dividends to Business review accrue on such conditional awards.
Consequently the amount The principal companies within the Mothercare group for the of the dividends waived by the Trust will change from year to period under review were Mothercare plc the Company : year in accordance with conditional awards made.
Mothercare UK Limited and Chelsea Stores Holdings Ltd Substantial shareholdings which own the Mothercare and Early Learning Centre brands As at 26 April 2011, the Company has been advised by or is respectively, and Gurgle Limited.
Overseas, the group aware of the following interests in the Companys ordinary operates a sourcing operation, principally through Mothercare share capital: Procurement Limited in Hong Kong, and holds 30 per cent of the Percentage share capital of a joint venture with DLF Retail brands in India, Number of of issued 30 per cent of a joint venture with Goodbaby in China, and Holder shares share capital as at 16 May 2011 holds 23.06 per cent of the share capital of M&G Investment Mothercare Australia Limited.
The Companies Act 2006 requires Management Ltd 12,087,008 13.64% the directors report to contain a review of the business and Aberdeen Asset a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Management Group 10,945,744 12.36% group.
A review of the business strategy and a commentary Fidelity International Limited 9,509,947 10.74% on the performance of the group is set out in the performance DC Thomson & Company Ltd 9,250,000 10.45% highlights, our group overview, chairmans and chief executives Allianz Global Investors 5,285,133 5.97% statement, the business review and financial review on pages Ameriprise Financial Inc Group 4,758,472 5.37% 1 to 19.
The principal risks facing the business are detailed in Financiere fide LEchiquier 3,171,100 3.58% the corporate governance report at page 31.
These disclosures Legal & General Investment form part of this report.
The directors report is prepared Mgmt Ltd UK 3,137,595 3.54% for the members of the Company and should not be relied upon by any other party or for any other purpose.
Where Acquisition of own shares the directors report including the performance highlights, The Company was given a general approval at the Annual our group overview, business review, financial review, corporate General Meeting AGM in July 2010 to purchase up to responsibility report, directors remuneration report and 10 per cent of its shares in the market.
This authority expires governance report contain forward-looking statements after the AGM on 14 July 2011.
The authority has not been these are made by the directors in good faith based on the used during the year.
information available to them at the time of their approval of As at 17 May 2011, the Companys issued share capital was this report.
These statements will not be updated or reported upon further during the year.
Consequently such statements 88,579,997 ordinary shares of 50p each all carrying voting rights.
Details of the change in the Companys issued share capital should be treated with caution due to the inherent uncertainties, including both economic and business risk factors, underlying during the year is set out in note 24.
No shares were held in Treasury.
such forward-looking statements or information.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares.
Each share The use of financial instruments, the risk management carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the objectives and exposures are set out in the notes to the financial Company.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a statements and the corporate governance report on page 31. holding in the Company nor on the transfer of shares, which Going concern are both governed by the general provisions of the Companys The accounts have been prepared under the going concern Articles of Association and legislation.
The directors are not principle.
For full details please see the governance report on aware of any agreements between shareholders that may page 30. result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on voting rights.
Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 | 27 Directors report continued Details of the Companys employee share schemes are set In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, out in the remuneration report.
The Trustees of the Mothercare Richard Rivers and Neil Harrington retire by rotation from the Employee Trust abstain from voting its shareholding in board following the conclusion of the AGM on 14 July 2011 the Company.
Amanda Mackenzie is standing for election having been appointed since the last AGM.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of directors, Biographical details of all of the directors, indicating their the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the experience and qualifications, are set out on page 26.
Combined Code, the Companies Act and related legislation.
The Articles may be amended by special resolution of the Details of directors service arrangements are set out in shareholders.
The business of the Company is managed by the the remuneration report on page 40.
There are no special Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company subject contractual payments associated with a change of control to the provision of the Articles of Association, the Companies Act of the Company.
and any ordinary resolution of the Company.
There are a A statement of directors interests in the shares of Mothercare number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon plc and of their remuneration is set out on pages 41 and 82 a change of control such as commercial contracts, bank loan respectively.
A statement of directors interests in contracts agreements and employee share plans.
The only one of these and indemnity arrangements is set out on page 33. which is considered to be significant in terms of likely impact on the business of the group as a whole are the multi-currency Employees revolving facility agreements detailed in this directors report The Company involves all of its employees in the delivery which would entitle each bank to cancel the facility and require of its strategy.
It regularly discusses with all its employees its the repayment of all outstanding amounts on a minimum of corporate objectives, performance as well as the economic 30 days notice.
environments in which the Company trades through its business sectors.
This is achieved through the Company magazine Other than early vesting under the groups long-term incentive Small Talk, briefings, bulletins, email and video presentations.
plans, the directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company and its directors or employees that provide The Company aspires to develop a loyal and high-performing for compensation for loss of office or employment that would team through its DNA development processes.
As part of this occur because of a takeover bid whether successful or not.
development process it measures the capabilities of the groups employees, ascertains their development needs and develops Directors and implements programmes designed to ensure that the The following directors served during the 52-week period ended critical skills required for the development of both the individual 26 March 2011: and the Company are attained.
The Company is proud once Name Appointment again to have been included in The Sunday Times 25 Best Big Ian Peacock Chairman and independent non-executive Companies to Work For in 2011, and to come fourth in a survey director, chairman of the nomination carried out by the Reputation Institute which measured the committee reputations that companies hold in the eyes of the British public.
Karren Brady Independent non-executive director The groups remuneration strategy is set out in the remuneration resigned 13 August 2010 report.
That report includes details of the various incentive Bernard Cragg Senior independent non-executive director schemes and share plans operated by the group.
and chairman of the audit committee Ben Gordon Executive director The group is an equal opportunities employer and ensures Neil Harrington Executive director that recruitment and promotion decisions in all of its companies Richard Rivers Independent non-executive director are made solely on the basis of suitability for the job.
Disabled David Williams Independent non-executive director and people are given due consideration for employment chairman of the remuneration committee opportunities and, if employees become disabled, every Amanda Mackenzie Independent non-executive director effort is made to retain them by providing relevant support.
appointed 1 January 2011 Pensions The group operates pension schemes for those of its employees who wish to participate.
Details of the pension charge is set out in note 28.
The board is mindful that further change to elements of its pension provision will be inevitable given the proposed tax and auto-enrolment requirements to be introduced in 2011 and 2012.
In the circumstances the Company has commenced a series of reviews to seek a practical solution to these changes.
28 | Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Payment of suppliers This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in Payments to merchandise suppliers are made in accordance accordance with the provisions of Section 418 2 of the with general conditions of purchase, which are communicated Companies Act 2006. to suppliers at the beginning of the trading relationship.
It is the A resolution proposing the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP groups policy to make payments to non-merchandise suppliers, as auditors to the Company will be put to the AGM.
unless otherwise agreed, within the period set out in the suppliers invoice or within 60 days from the date of invoice.
Charitable and political donations The Company made a further donation to the Mothercare The amount owed to trade creditors at the end of the financial Group Foundation during the year of 102,841.
Total charitable year represented nil days 2010: nil days of average daily cash donations for the year ended 26 March 2011 were 282,161 purchases during the year for the Company and 62 days 2010: 414,070.
It is the Companys policy not to make political donations.
Fixed assets Changes in tangible fixed assets are shown in note 15 to Annual General Meeting the accounts.
A valuation of the groups freehold and long The 2011 Annual General Meeting will be held on Thursday, leasehold properties, excluding rack rented properties, was 14 July 2011 at 10.30am in the conference suite at the carried out by external valuers, as at December 2009 and was Companys head office at Cherry Tree Road, Watford, reported on last year.
The basis of the valuation is Existing Use Hertfordshire WD24 6SH.
Value in respect of properties primarily occupied by the group The notice of the meeting and a prepaid form of proxy for and on the basis of Market Value in respect of investment the use of shareholders unable to come to the AGM but properties, both bases being in accordance with the Practice who may wish to vote or to put any questions to the board Statements contained in the RICS Appraisal and Valuation of directors are enclosed with this annual report for those Manual.
A further internal valuation was carried out as at April shareholders who elected to receive paper copies.
This adjusted valuation of the properties Company wishes to encourage as many shareholders as resulted in a surplus over their net book value of 8,812,459. possible to vote electronically.
Those shareholders who have Significant agreements elected to, or now wish to participate in voting via electronic The group has entered into two agreements that are subject communications, may register their vote in respect of resolutions to change of control provisions.
These agreements are to be proposed to the AGM at www.
To use i a multi currency revolving facility dated 16 May 2011 in the facility shareholders will need their voting ID, task ID and respect of a 40,000,000 credit facility with Barclays Bank PLC shareholder reference number from their proxy form and for general business purposes and ii a multi currency revolving register at www.
For full details on how to facility dated 16 May 2011 in respect of a 40,000,000 credit use this facility please see the notice of meeting.
facility with HSBC Bank PLC for general business purposes.
Shareholders may also submit questions via email to These agreements supersede the multi currency revolving investorrelations@mothercare.
The chairman will respond facilities entered into by the group with Barclays Bank PLC in writing to questions received.
and HSBC Bank PLC on 26 April 2010.
As in previous years a copy of the chairmans opening Corporate citizenship statement to the meeting, together with a resum of questions The groups corporate social responsibility ethos and details and answers given at the meeting, will be prepared following of the programmes that it runs in its business relationships the AGM.
This will be made available to shareholders on around the world is set out on pages 20 to 25. request to the group general counsel and company secretary Auditors at the Companys head office.
In the case of each of the persons who were directors of The notice of meeting gives explanatory notes on the business the Company at the date when this report was approved: to be proposed at the meeting.
s o far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant By order of the board audit information as defined in the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and e ach of the directors has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information as defined and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Tim Ashby Group general counsel and company secretary 17 May 2011 Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 | 29
