Board of directors Ian Peacock Non-executive Chairman Appointed chairman on 1 November 2002 having joined the board as chairman elect on 1 August 2002.
Chairman of Family Mosaic plc, a London based Housing Association and Director and Chair of audit and compliance committee of C. Hoare & Co. A City Fellow of Hughes Hall, Cambridge, a Trustee of the PHG Foundation and Chairman of the Financial Advisory Committee for Westminster Abbey.
Previously a Trustee of WRVS and Chairman of Howden Joinery Group PLC formerly Galiform PLC and has also held a number of senior positions in the banking industry in London, New York and Asia with Kleinwort Benson Group and with BZW.
A special adviser to the Bank of England from 19982000, a non-executive director of Norwich and Peterborough Building Society from 19972005 and a Director of Lombard Risk Management PLC from 2000-2010.
Neil Harrington Ben Gordon Bernard Cragg Chief Executive Finance Director Senior non-executive Director Appointed in January 2006.
Formerly Senior Vice President and Managing Finance Director of George Clothing UK, non-executive director of Workspace a division of Asda Stores Limited, Chief Group Plc and non-executive director of Director, Disney Store, Europe and Asia Pacific.
Has also held senior management Financial and Admin Officer of Global Astro All Asia Networks plc, Progressive George, a division of Wal-Mart Stores Inc. Digital Media Group plc.
Formerly Group positions with the WHSmith Group in Europe and the USA and LOreal S. A.
Prior to joining Wal-Mart, was Finance Finance Director and Chief Financial Officer Director of Barclaycard International, of Carlton Communications plc, Chairman Paris.
Non-executive director of Britvic plc.
Member of the Institution a division of Barclays Bank plc and Group of I-mate plc and Datamonitor plc and a Financial Controller of French Connection non-executive director of Bristol & West plc of Civil Engineers.
Richard Rivers David Williams Amanda Mackenzie Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed in July 2008.
Formerly Head Appointed in August 2004.
Chair of Appointed in January 2011.
Chief Operating Partners of Duke Street Capital Marketing and Communications Officer of Strategy and Chief of Staff of Unilever LLP, Adelie Food Holdings Ltd, Oasis Dental and chaired Unilevers Corporate of Aviva plc.
A member of Avivas Healthcare Ltd and The Original Factory Executive Committee, Executive sponsor Ventures Group.
A non-executive director Shop Ltd. Non-executive Director of of Channel 4 Television Corporation for diversity and Chair of the operational Wagamama Ltd, the Royal London Mutual risk committee.
Amanda is on Lord Davies and LumeneOy, and a member of the Insurance Group Ltd.
Formerly chairman of Advisory Board of WPP.
steering board to increase the number Simple Ltd, Avebury Taverns Ltd, Sandpiper of women on corporate boards, and Ltd, Wyevale Garden Centres plc and Ideal a board member of the National Shopping Direct plc.
Former Governor of Youth Orchestra.
26 | Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011
