Our group International Our International business continues to go from strength to strength, with total 894 16.3% sales increasing by 16.3 per cent and International stores Total sales growth year on year retail space by 20 per cent.
International now represents around 50 per cent of total Clothing represents network sales and, for the first time this year, was the major more than half of profit generator for the group.
We added 166 new stores in the year taking our total number of stores to 894 in 54 countries outside the UK, with 39 franchise partners.
Europe our largest region, with 389 stores in 29 countries.
Middle East and Africa 263 stores in 12 countries and the home of our largest franchisee.
Asia-Pacific 242 stores in 13 countries including our joint ventures in China and India and our partnership in Australia.
This is currently our smallest region but the one with the greatest potential.
UK retailing During the year the UK retail environment remained challenging with lower consumer 587.2m 98 spending and poor economic growth Total UK sales Parenting Centres leading to a weaker trading performance in the UK.
We opened 11 out-of-town Parenting Total UK sales in the year were down 0.5 per cent to 587.2 million Centres during the with UK like-for-like retail sales down 4.0 per cent.
We continue to year, taking our total focus on reducing the operational gearing of our UK business and have announced plans to accelerate our UK property strategy, to 98.
This represents reshaping our portfolio whilst trialling the implementation of over a quarter of new formats.
Over the last three years through our UK property strategy we have reduced our in-town estate by a quarter and opened 21 larger and more profitable out-of-town Parenting Centres.
We now look to accelerate our property strategy over the next two years with around one-third of our store leases up for expiry.
We will continue to drive sales across our Direct and Wholesale channels whilst maintaining tight cost control.
2 | Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Direct Our Direct business benefits from the strong growth in e-commerce as retail 9.0% 10.5% sales continue to transition online.
Direct in Store Direct in Home To harness this opportunity, we continue to invest in new technology, increased services and wider online ranges We continue to grow our online ranges and to enhance the customer experience.
expanded our clothing category by 20 per cent Our total Direct sales rose 9.9 per cent over the year to over the year.
129.0 million and now account for 22 per cent of total UK sales.
In June last year we launched our new Early Learning Centre website to improve our customer offering.
More recently we extended our services through the launch of transactional mobile sites for both Mothercare and the Early Learning Centre to reflect the growth in m-commerce.
Next year we will relaunch the Mothercare website on a new, world-class platform with much greater capacity for innovation.
Wholesale Wholesale is a relatively new but exciting channel for the Mothercare group and 216% 350% we see strong growth on a global basis.
Total Wholesale 31.0m UK Wholesale 21.6m Wholesale provides us with the opportunity to maximise the revenue and profit potential of the Mothercare brand and in The Early Learning particular the Early Learning Centre brand.
Centre is moving away from a Total Wholesale revenue increased by 216 per cent to 31.0 million.
In the UK, Wholesale revenue increased by 350 per cent during traditional high the year to 21.6 million as this incorporated the launch of a new street retailer into clothing range, mini club, through a strategic partnership with Boots UK.
a recognisable toy brand in its own E arly Learning Centre toys are currently sold in Boots and Debenhams in the UK.
right, with learning at its core.
I nternationally, Early Learning Centre toys are sold through key retail partners including Eveil & Jeux in France, Top Toys in Scandinavia and Kidoh in Germany.
m ini club, launched in September 2010, is currently available in around 380 Boots stores in the UK and proving to be popular with customers.
Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 | 3
