com is our social networking site providing support and a wealth of information to registered users on all aspects of parenting as well as giving new mothers the chance of sharing experiences.
Results The Mothercare group has had a challenging year, with International continuing to deliver strong sales and profit growth and the UK seeing flat sales in a difficult trading environment together with a decline in The Mothercare brand is an indispensable profitability.
The Mothercare part of the process of parenting.
It has global group is comprised Group sales in the year rose by 3.6 per cent appeal and reach providing a one-stop shop to 793.6 million 2010: 766.4 million and group principally of two shopping environment in-store in 55 countries profit before tax reduced from 32.5 million to which, allied to its internet and catalogue iconic retail brands 8.8 million.
This is after charging 19.7 million of business, provides the widest range of products with international non-underlying items 2010: 4.7 million again for mothers-to-be and children up to eight mostly relating to the volatile non-cash foreign appeal: Mothercare years old with maternity and childrens clothing, exchange adjustments where we are required accessories, furniture, home furnishings, and Early Learning to revalue stock and commercial currency feeding, bathing, travel equipment and toys.
It also owns hedges to spot rate.
Underlying profit before Mothercare prides itself in being a specialist tax decreased from 37.2 million to 28.5 million the internet social retailer, providing products and services that are after a 2.2 million share-based payments networking site for safe, innovative and relevant to parents faced charge 2010: 14.4 million.
with the ever changing demands of bringing up parents, Gurgle.
The group remains cash generative at the children and helping them to meet the needs operating level and was debt free at year end and aspirations of their children, worldwide.
In May 2011, The Early Learning Centre also has a strong the group refinanced, increasing committed brand heritage.
Originally founded as a mail bank facilities from 40 million to 80 million order business providing toys and books with extended to May 2014 on improved terms, Ben Gordon educational content, it extended its reach into which includes a reduction in interest rate Chief Executive stores both in the UK and overseas.
It too has from 1.7% to 1.4% above LIBOR.
The increased a multi-channel approach offering customers facility, which is in addition to an uncommitted the choice to shop in-store, online or through 10 million overdraft, gives the group additional seasonal catalogues.
The Early Learning Centre opportunities to fund the next phase of our brand provides eight major categories of toys growth strategy.
and games primarily from birth to six years old.
With regard to the overall performance of the Both Mothercare and Early Learning Centre group and the strong underlying operating source products from around the world.
The cash flows generated from International in group co-ordinates the sourcing of its products particular, we are proposing a final dividend through three principal sourcing offices, one of 11.9p, an increase of 5.3 per cent, resulting each in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Bangalore.
in a full-year dividend of 18.3p, an increase These offices are the conduit for innovative of 8.9 per cent.
International results Product sourced from our key markets is then International reported sales in the year consolidated and shipped to our stores around increased by 17.2 per cent to 206.4 million the world using a dedicated supply chain 2010: 176.1 million.
Total International sales designed to be both cost and environmentally increased by 16.3 per cent to 570.9 million efficient.
The group also sources and supplies 2010: 490.9 million.
This was mostly driven products on a wholesale basis, such as the by a 15.6 per cent increase in International mini club clothing range launched with Boots retail sales to 561.5 million 2010: 485.9 million.
UK in September 2010. International underlying profit from operations was 18.5 per cent higher than last year at 27.5 million 2010: 23.2 million.
6 | Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 UK results Mothercare group strategy Total UK sales in the year were down Over the last six years, the Mothercare group 0.5 per cent at 587.2 million 2010: 590.3 has been transformed from a predominantly million.
UK like-for-like retail sales were down UK retailer with 520 million of network sales 4.0 per cent down 2.7 per cent including VAT, into a multi-channel global business with Direct in Home sales were up 10.5 per cent 1,158 million of network sales in 55 countries up 12.1 per cent including VAT to 82.9 million worldwide.
This transformation has been and sales from our new rapidly growing achieved through the strength of our two Wholesale channel increased by 350.0 per cent brands, Mothercare and Early Learning Centre, to 21.6 million.
excellent product design and innovation My dream kitchen by Early together with our focus on parenting and Learning Centre UK trading in the second half of the year specialism.
Over this period we have also was affected by adverse weather conditions financially re-engineered the group, improving in the key trading weeks before Christmas operating leverage and flexibility.
together with a general weakening in the consumer environment and increased Whilst this has been a tough year for retailing competition, particularly in Toys and Home in the UK, our strategy to grow International, & Travel.
This led to an increase in clearance Direct and Wholesale whilst rightsizing activity of autumn winter stocks in the fourth the UK portfolio has partly mitigated the quarter resulting in gross margin for the year impact on the group.
As a result of the being 2.5 percentage points lower than in downturn in trading, we have reviewed 2010.
As a result, UK underlying profit from our UK strategy and resolved to accelerate it.
operations was significantly lower than last We have announced plans to transform our The Early Learning Centre year at 11.1 million 2010: 36.1 million.
UK business through a radical restructure of website has been resized so World-class brands our UK property portfolio.
We have a unique it can be viewed better on a opportunity with one-third of our leases smart phone Specialism and innovation are central to the development of our two world-class global expiring in the next two years.
This will allow us to rightsize our UK high street portfolio whilst brands, Mothercare and the Early Learning Centre, as we continue to build the Mothercare we continue to drive multi-channel consumer options, develop our new and rapidly group as the leading global parenting business.
The Early Learning Centre brand growing Wholesale business and focus on reducing costs.
has also been a success internationally and we have more Early Learning Centre outlets At the same time we will continue to rapidly overseas than in the UK with 309 stores in grow the International business.
we set out plans to grow rapidly our We have been working hard on our clothing International sales by 1520 per cent per ranges, particularly the baby category where annum, opening at least 150 new stores each we have continued to grow market share in year.
These plans are on track and we expect the newborn baby range despite increased our International retail sales to almost double competition.
In Home & Travel our premium again to approximately 1 billion in 2013 14. ranges are performing well as customers are choosing to spend more money on considered purchases when buying quality and style.
In Toys, our wooden kitchens continue to be a popular choice with sales up 48% in the year.
Our Diner kitchen won the Junior magazine best design award for childrens toys aged 35 years.
Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 | 7 Growing with consumers across the world The International business continues to grow from strength to strength with 166 new store openings in the year, with retail space increasing by 20% and a continued plan for expansion.
Valentina collection Mothercare store, Huai Hai Sunshine garden mobile Mothercare store, Infinity Mall, Road, China Shanghai, China Mothercare store, Huai Hai Road, China 8 | Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Growing International Developing our brands overseas As part of our world-class sourcing and supply operation, last year we opened a new distribution centre in Shenzhen, China, allowing us to ship directly to our franchisees around the world.
China remains a key growth market for International is going from strength Mothercare and our stores continue to trade well.
to strength with total International We opened a further three Mothercare stores sales up 16.3 per cent, and profits this year, two in Beijing and one in Shanghai, up 18.5 per cent.
We opened 166 bringing total store numbers in China to 11. new stores in the year, increasing We plan to increase the number of stores in overseas retail space by 20 per cent.
China over the next year opening more stores The International business now in Shanghai and Beijing as well as trialling second tier cities.
represents approximately 50 per cent of group network sales, and is our It has also been a very strong year for our India largest profit generator.
There are business with 30 new stores opened during the now 894 stores in 54 countries outside year taking our total number of stores to 62.
The Mothercare Spin We now have 35 franchise stores and 27 with the UK.
is our number one our joint venture.
The potential for growth in The Asia-Pacific region had a particularly strong selling own brand India is tremendous with high brand awareness year with retail sales up 47.0 per cent.
This region across the middle classes and we remain on pushchair worldwide, is currently our smallest region but one with the track to have 200 stores by 2015. currently sold in biggest growth potential as it includes our joint 30 countries.
We have also commenced the roll-out of ventures in Australia, China and India.
The region our overseas e-commerce platform with our is benefiting from buoyant economic growth in franchise partners.
Earlier this year we launched China and India.
transactional websites for Mothercare in both Our newest joint venture, Mothercare Australia, Australia and Ireland which are performing well.
continues to make rapid progress in integrating Following this, we recently launched our first, and converting its recent acquisitions and non-English site, for the Early Learning Centre opening new Mothercare stores.
E-commerce is an area of tremendous Australia currently operates 47 stores: growth internationally and we have plans to 13 Mothercare and 34 Early Learning Centre.
introduce e-commerce platforms across much We have accelerated the store conversion of the International estate over time.
programme and this has resulted in an increase Finally, we announced our plans to open in our share of start-up costs this year.
Within the franchise stores in Latin America for next 12 months Mothercare Australia plans to the first time.
We expect to open trial stores create a chain of at least 60 Mothercare and during 2011 in Colombia and Panama.
Early Learning Centre stores, establishing the only mother and baby chain with a national footprint across Australia.
Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 | 9 Making learning fun from Kingston to Kutuzovskiy The Early Learning Centre brand provides eight major categories of toys and games for children primarily from birth to six-year-olds, with 309 international outlets.
Early Learning Centre, Kutuzovskiy, Russia Early Learning Centre Early Learning Centre, Mothercare and Early Learning Early Learning Centre, Kingston transactional website, Russia Peterborough store, UK Centre, Chalkida store, Greece store, UK 10 | Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 i Rightsizing the store portfolio Over the last three years our UK property strategy has been a key element in our overall Reshaping the UK strategy.
We have reduced the cost base and operational gearing in the store portfolio whilst Reshaping our portfolio: parenting focusing on the growth of Direct and the new centres and landmark stores.
During this time we have reduced the in-town estate by a quarter, benefiting from a high level of lease expiries to close high street stores.
At the same time we have taken advantage of the weak property market to open 21 larger and more profitable out-of-town Parenting Centres on favourable terms.
We have also transformed the Early Learning Centre estate, reducing the in-town store numbers by 50 whilst creating 109 new concessions within existing Mothercare Parenting Centres and larger out-of-town stores and opening 309 stores overseas.
Our property strategy has to date created a much more flexible estate with a significantly shorter average lease length, lower costs and improved operational gearing.
However this has Over the last three years we have opened only partially mitigated the effects of the recent 21 Parenting Centres, taking the total to 98. downturn in UK trading which has highlighted that operational gearing and high rents in town remain an issue.
We have announced a significant acceleration of the UK property strategy over the next two years.
98 Parenting Centres For more information refer to corporate responsibility page 21 Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 | 11 In total, 150 stores will be affected with As we reduce our exposure to the high street, UK retail sales approximately 110 stores closed and rents we will also be investing in the remaining core UK retail sales per square foot renegotiated to a substantially lower level on a estate and we have developed new store full-year UK retail sales further 40 stores.
We are in the fortunate position formats, one for Mothercare and one for the compared to year end of having 120 lease expiries in the next two years, Early Learning Centre which we are trialling over UK store square footage which is one-third of the entire estate, 90 in the next few months.
The vast majority of improved shopping environment, enhanced 288 292 280 these lease expiries fall within the lower profit displays, signage and store layouts and better in-town store estate.
There are also 30 more Early Learning Centre positioning in Mothercare stores which do not have a lease expiry and stores.
We have already started the trial and we which we plan to exit with a cash cost.
Total cash will be expanding this over the next few months.
costs are expected to be less than 5 million, ii Reducing costs although this will depend on negotiations.
We continue to focus on reducing the UK The results of this activity will be to transform cost base and have initiated a cost reduction the UK estate by March 2013 reducing total store programme which will save 5 million per numbers from 373 to an estimated 266, 102 of annum in addition to the property savings which will be out-of-town Parenting Centres and 09 10 11 outlined above.
These savings will be 164 in-town.
realised in the current financial year and By March 2013 we expect total rental costs within the UK operating segment.
to be reduced by approximately 12 million and total store occupancy costs, which comprise rent, rates and service charges, to be reduced by 18 million, both on an annualised basis.
Average lease length in the estate will also be improved and operational gearing will be enhanced.
In total we expect net annualised benefits of at least 4 million to 5 million per annum to March 2013.
The reduction of the UK in-town property estate goes hand in hand with our plans to grow Wholesale and Direct in the UK, thereby retaining a significant portion of sales but without the associated rent and rates costs.
Early Learning Centres Happyland Royal Wedding set became one of the best-selling toys of the season.
12 | Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Direct continues to be an important and fast-growing channel.
In 2010 11 Driving multi-channel Direct in Home sales increased by 10.5 per cent in the year to 82.9 million Continued growth and Direct in Store increased by 9.0 per cent to 46.1 million.
Total Direct sales were up 9.9 per cent to 129.0 million, representing 22.0 per cent of our UK business.
We remain the largest online specialist retailer in our space and continue to enhance our e-commerce offering through improved services and better website functionality.
Last July we relaunched the Early Learning Customers have the choice: Centre online platform which has delivery to home: collect in-store: standard, next day or nominated been a great success, and we plan to day delivery.
launch a new, world-class Mothercare online platform in 2012.
As the strength of online continues to grow, mobile is becoming an increasingly important access tool, with traffic from mobile devices increasing fourfold over the past 12 months.
In response to this trend we have launched new transactional mobile sites for both Mothercare and the Early Learning Centre.
46.1 m Direct in Store sales 82.9 m Direct in Home sales Gurgle.
com, our social networking site for parents Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 | 13 Wholesale is a relatively new but exciting channel for the Mothercare group.
Sales increased by 350 per cent Developing Wholesale to 21.6 million in the year in the UK.
Realising our potential This channel provides us with the opportunity to maximise the revenue and profit of our two brands while broadening the reach of our consumer offering.
It also enables us to retain sales in towns where we are closing our own stores.
In conjunction with our strategic partner Boots UK, we successfully launched the mini club brand in September.
The mini club range, which is now in its second season, is available in around 380 Boots stores.
It is performing well and we are pleased with the positive The Lift Off Rocket continues to response we have received for the new be one of Early Learning Centres spring summer range.
Group outlook In the new financial year, we expect International to continue to grow retail sales at 1520 per cent per annum with 150 new store openings.
We expect the environment to remain challenging in the UK, although we will benefit from continued growth in Wholesale and Direct together with the acceleration of our property strategy.
Wholesale is a rapidly growing channel for the Mothercare group 31.0 m Wholesale sales 14 | Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011
