The fabric of our success International growth, acquisitions, multi-channel strategies, innovative products.
Theres a lot to feel excited about.
To paint a picture of the breadth and depth of our achievements in 2010, weve picked out these highlights for you.
Going international with Simply Be We recently launched our Simply Be brand in the USA.
So far sales are encouraging, buoyed by groundbreaking new products such as Wow jeans and the Simply Voluptuous range.
After mailing out one million catalogues in the first season, were following up with three million in the second season complementing our focus on the UK and German markets.
fide 4 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Thinking bigger with Figleaves Our acquisition of Figleaves.
com in June 2010 strengthened our position as the UKs largest online lingerie retailer.
Our plans to develop the brands lifestyle appeal will create exciting new cross-selling opportunities.
com The power of now With online sales penetration at 45% and now exceeding the value of orders taken in our contact centres, its clear that our customers are opting for the ease and convenience of online shopping.
So were continuing to invest in our websites to make the experience as simple, intuitive and rewarding as possible.
Features include catwalk shows and how-to measuring videos.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 5 Transcending boundaries 365 trading is our new all-year-round strategy.
This extra flexible business model means our marketing is more targeted, reactive and efficient, keeping our profile raised and our brands highly visible.
Were concentrating our efforts across more channels, such as television, press, online and social networking, the catwalk and retail display advertising, and using pay-per-click and traffic generation too.
Heritage, expertise and product innovation Finding new ways to please longstanding customers and attract new ones takes fresh thinking and innovation.
Were particularly proud of Magisculpt, Simply Voluptuous and Wow jeans three of our most recent fitted ranges.
Its essential to stay focused on our longstanding brands of course, and our more established brands, including Ambrose Wilson and JD Williams, are performing consistently well.
6 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Reaching higher Jacamo, boasting exclusive ranges from 40 brands, including Penguin and Voy, has played a large part in the stellar performance of our menswear brands over the past year.
High & Mighty is also playing its part, with new high street stores and refits.
Meanwhile, our ambassador for Marisota, Arlene Phillips, is helping to boost the brands growing profile, and is working with us to design her own exclusive clothing range.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 7
