Directors and Officers a Audit committee member b Remuneration committee member c Nomination committee member A Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE 78 D Nigel Alliance OBE 76 G John McGuire 62 Non-executive Chairman c Non-executive Director Non-executive Director a, b, c Appointed a director and Chairman in 1968.
Appointed a director in 1969, he changed to Appointed a director in March 2004.
Formerly Chairman of Coats Viyella Plc.
He is also a Formerly Chairman of Corporate Banking He is also a director of a number of private director of a number of private companies.
for Royal Bank of Scotland Group in the companies, and was appointed a life peer North of England and Midland regions.
E Ivan Fallon 66 Vice Chairman of Royal Bank of Scotland Deputy Chairman Pension Fund Trustee Ltd.
Audit Chair B Alan White 56 Non-executive Director a, b, c of Stockport NHS Foundation Trust.
Chief Executive Appointed a director in 1994 and Deputy Non-executive Director and Chairman of Qualified as a chartered accountant with Chairman on 1 March 2009.
He was Chief Investment Advisory Panel for North West Arthur Andersen and was finance director Executive of Independent News & Media Business Finance Ltd.
Member General for Sharp Electronics, N Brown Group UK until March 2010: director of Truphone.
Assembly of The University of Manchester.
and Littlewoods before returning as Chief Chairman of the remuneration committee.
Chairman of the audit committee.
He is a non-executive director of Topps Tiles plc and Chairman F Lord Stone of Blackheath 68 H Anna Ford 67 of CBI in the North West.
Non-executive Director a, b, c Non-executive Director a, b, c Appointed a director in 2002.
Formerly with Appointed a director on 1 March 2009.
C Dean Moore 53 Marks & Spencer Plc until he retired as Non-executive director of J Sainsbury Plc, Group Finance Director Joint Managing Director in 1999.
Currently also Chair of their Corporate Responsibility Appointed in November 2003.
Previously Chairman of Sindicatum Climate Change Committee and member of the Remuneration Group Finance Director at T&S Stores Plc Foundation and the health charity DIPEx.
Honorary bencher of Middle and Graham Group Plc.
Also held various Chairman of the nomination committee.
roles with Lloyds Chemist Plc, Sketchley Plc, Blue Circle Industries and Grant Thornton.
I Philip Harland 55 Company Secretary Joined the company in 2000.
Previously company secretary and associate director of legal services at GUS Home Shopping Ltd.
16 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Financial Statements The Facts and Figures 18 Directors Report 24 Corporate Governance Report 28 Remuneration Report 39 Independent Auditors Report Group Accounts 40 Consolidated Income Statement 40 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 41 Consolidated Balance Sheet 42 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 42 Reconciliation of Operating Profit to Net Cash from Operating Activities 43 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 44 Notes to the Group Accounts 68 Independent Auditors Report Company Accounts 69 Company Balance Sheet 70 Notes to the Company Accounts IBC Shareholder Information N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 17
