Directors Report The directors present their annual report Dividends and reserves to members by way of separate circular and accounts for the 52 weeks ended An interim dividend of 5.04p per share together with full explanatory notes on each 26 February 2011.
2010, 4.38p was paid on the ordinary resolution to be proposed at the meeting.
shares of the company on 7 January 2011.
Activities and results Directors The principal activity of the group is The net cost of this dividend was 13.8m The biographies of the directors, all of retailing through direct home shopping.
whom served throughout the year are The activities are more fully explained and shown on page 16.
With regard to the reviewed in the Chief Executives Review The directors recommend a final dividend appointment and replacement of directors, on pages 10 to 13.
Group profit before of 7.37p per share 2010, 6.41p for the the company is governed by its Articles taxation from continuing operations for 52 weeks ended 26 February 2011, the of Association, the Combined Code the 52 weeks ended 26 February 2011 net cost of which will be 20.6m 2010, and the Companies Act.
The board has amounted to 94.5m 2010, 85.7m.
The dividend will be paid on 29 resolved to adopt with immediate effect No geographical segmentation is provided July 2011. the requirement in the UK Corporate as, apart from small operations in the Governance Code that all directors retire Republic of Ireland, Germany and the Movements in reserves are shown in and submit themselves for re-election United States of America, all activities the Statement of Changes in Equity annually.
Therefore each of the directors take place in the United Kingdom.
on page 43. will retire at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for Enhanced business review Acquisitions and disposals re-appointment at that meeting.
The company is required by the As announced in June 2010 the group Companies Act 2006 Companies Act acquired the entire issued share capital of Details of directors interests beneficial to set out in this report a fair review of Figleaves Global Trading Limited for a total and non-beneficial in shares of the the business of the group during the 52 cash consideration of 11.9m.
Its principal company are given in the Remuneration weeks ended 26 February 2011 and the activity is that of an online lingerie retailer.
Report on page 38 and are deemed to position of the group at the end of that be incorporated into this report by period.
The company is also required Share capital cross-reference.
to set out a description of the principal Details of the companys authorised and risks and uncertainties facing the group.
issued share capital are shown in note 22 The powers of directors are described The information fulfilling the above on page 61.
The company has one class in the board terms of reference and the requirements can be found within this of ordinary shares which carry no fixed Corporate Governance Report on page 24. report, within the Chairmans Statement, income.
Each share carries the right to one the Chief Executives Review and the vote at general meetings of the company.
Directors and officers liabilities Financial Review pages 8 to 15 all of There are no specific restrictions on the The group maintains insurance for directors which information is deemed to be size of a holding nor on the transfer of and officers of the group, indemnifying incorporated in this report by this shares which are both governed by the them against certain liabilities incurred by cross-reference.
general provisions of the Articles them whilst acting on behalf of the group.
of Association and prevailing legislation The board continuously identifies and except as set out below in the section Major shareholders reviews key business risks and monitors entitled Voting Rights and Restrictions In addition to the directors shareholdings a number of financial and non-financial on Transfers.
No person has any special shown in the Remuneration Report on Key Performance Indicators.
The financial rights over the companys share capital page 38 and in accordance with Chapter KPIs are detailed on page 14 and nonand all issued shares are fully paid.
5 of the Disclosure and Transparency financial KPIs are discussed further below.
Rules, the following notifications had been The board oversees the development of Details of outstanding employee share received from holders of notifiable interests processes to ensure risks are managed options and the operation of the relevant in the companys issued share capital at appropriately.
Executive directors and schemes are shown in note 28 on page 63.
30 April 2011: operational directors implement and oversee these processes and report on Annual general meeting them to the board.
The annual general meeting is to be held on Tuesday, 5 July 2011.
The notice convening the annual general meeting is being sent Holding % of issued share capital Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd 18,461,603 6.58 INVESCO Asset Management Ltd Europe 10,998,930 3.92 18 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Directors Report Environmental, social and that they may have regarding the way the Planned further investment into the governance issues group operates in its day-to-day activities.
next wave of our energy efficiency No whistleblowing events were reported programme: Governance and risk management in the year.
Installation of automated energy The board is committed to maintaining monitoring: high standards of corporate governance.
Environment Planning to join the British Retail The company monitors and evaluates The group recognises the continuous Consortiums Climate Change risk on an ongoing basis as part of its improvement of our environmental Commitment: commitment to sustainable business.
performance as an integral component to Wherever practicable, packaging Further details are contained in the the success and future sustainability of our components are made from materials Corporate Governance Report on business operation.
As a result the group and processes causing minimum pages 24 to 27. is highly committed to minimising any harm to the environment when either damage which its activities may cause to manufactured, processed, recycled or Ethics the environment and has delegated specific eventually disposed of: The board regards the maintenance of the responsibility for environmental matters to The groups paper packaging is highest ethical standards in business as an Keith Risk, director of logistics, who sits made from a minimum of 70% recycled essential characteristic of the way in which on the operational board of J. D. Williams paper and all other paper used by the the group conducts all of its business.
business is sourced from 100% recycled A code of ethical conduct covering paper: and commercial standards, conflicts of interest, Since 2007, the group has been actively Wherever possible, paper used in the gifts and hospitality has been circulated working alongside Envantage Limited and printing of our catalogues is derived to all employees.
All senior managers and Storm Waste Limited to reduce energy from managed and renewable sources employees of the group are required to and water consumption, minimise waste, accredited by the Forest Stewardship comply with both the letter and the spirit reduce carbon dioxide emissions and Council.
of the code in all their dealings for and on boost environmental responsibility and behalf of the group.
Significant achievements since Employees 2007-2008 figures have been realised due In their dealings with each other, other to the introduction of a robust energy, - Employee involvement.
Continuing group companies, and their shareholders, water and waste management strategy and success can only be achieved by an customers, suppliers, competitors, investment into energy efficiency and water engaged, enthusiastic, motivated and wellregulatory authorities and the wider minimisation technologies.
Considerable resources community, employees are required to: are devoted to employee training.
Frequent The following environmental improvements departmental team briefings are held conduct all dealings with each other and have been achieved: and an employee engagement survey externally with honesty, integrity, respect is conducted regularly, the most recent and fairness: A reduction in CO2 emissions gas, being in 2010.
A Consultative Forum comply with all relevant laws, regulations electricity and diesel by 292 tonnes operates within the logistics division where and internal company policy: or 2.4% since 2008: employees from all levels contribute and encourage and support a business A reduction in electricity consumption share ideas that help shape the culture of culture which exhibits and promotes by 1,013,869 kWh: the business.
The logistics and customer ethical conduct at all levels within the A reduction in diesel fuel for logistics service divisions have also achieved organisation: of 35,056 litres: Investors in People accreditation and it is avoid any situation or action, which 100% of waste is now recycled planned that the whole group will in due could cause damage to the groups in all group owned properties: and course achieve this standard.
Over 500 reputation: and A reduction in water consumption group employees either hold shares in foster a teamworking environment in which by over 46%.
the company or have options awards to praise and recognition play key roles.
acquire them through the groups various In addition to the outlined quantitative share option and long-term incentive Directors of all group companies are achievements above, the group has also schemes.
required to disclose details of related party been working on several other key areas transactions for review and authorisation to set standards for our environmental A large proportion of the groups training by the audit committee and by the board.
responsibility and reputation, including and development work is delivered by the the following: HR learning and development team, which A register of gifts and benefits offered is supplemented by external training in by suppliers and other parties whether The promotion and facilitation of green specialist technical and IT training areas accepted or declined is maintained under commuting among staff, with a target where necessary.
the control of the group head of internal to reduce commuting related CO2 audit.
All employees, managers and emissions by 5% over the next 12 As well as individually tailored training, directors are required, each month, months: there is also a suite of self-training to declare any offer of gifts or hospitality Annual voluntary reporting to the Carbon tools available, and an online database with a value of 25 or more, offered, Disclosure Project, where the group has simplydevelopment which enables accepted or declined.
been again ranked in the top 3 FTSE 350 employees to access a wide range of companies in our sector: self-development activities, tools and The group has drawn up and issued a Considering options for renewable information.
comprehensive whistleblowing policy energy installations, including Solar providing employees with a confidential PV Voltage Optimisation and Liquid means of reporting any ethical concerns Pressure Amplification: N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 19 Directors Report As mentioned above, in 2010 the group Each year the group rewards and customers.
Regular customer satisfaction repeated its business-wide Employee recognises significant contribution from surveys are conducted, both directly Engagement Survey and over 2,300 its customer contact centre employees by and through third parties.
The results have inviting them to compete for a nomination enquiry and complaint calls received from been collated and reviewed and the board to receive an award for outstanding customers are analysed and remedial are working on an action plan to address customer service.
action taken to improve the levels of the surveys findings.
The groups In early 2011, the companys senior policy is to ensure compliance with all Suppliers management completed a pioneering relevant legislation to ensure, as far as is The group is aware of the potential social e-learning course designed to strengthen reasonably practicable, the health, safety impact of its business dealings wherever knowledge and understanding of various and welfare at work of its employees, the goods are manufactured, particularly processes by which the business is using contractors and visitors.
The group is also in developing countries.
Now forming part the internet and social media to better committed to best practice initiatives.
of our standard conditions of contract for engage our customers and understand Benchmarking against OHSAS 18001 the purchase of products for resale, we their needs.
standards has taken place throughout require all suppliers to agree to adopt the the year and have helped define the principles of our Code of Conduct.
Constructive relationships groups strategy in progressing H&S as Code of Conduct is based on the ETI with the trade unions that represent the a senior level issue over the coming year Ethical Trade Initiative www.
groups employees principally USDAW including behavioral safety initiatives org Base Code.
This includes sections on: and SATA exist.
Elements of the group which will continuously improve the are covered by a collective bargaining groups H&S culture.
Freedom of employment: arrangement with USDAW.
Freedom of association and collective membership is encouraged and regular The groups accident statistics for 2010 bargaining: communication with the union is facilitated are the lowest on group record to date.
No recruitment of child labour: through partnership forums established Cumulative group accidents statistics 4.
A living wage is paid for the country of on the principle of shared commitment to show that in the year in review, reportable manufacture: business success, employment security accident ratios per 100,000 hours worked 5.
Excessive working hours are not worked: and development with a particular under Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and 6.
No discrimination is practised: emphasis on quality of life, openness and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 1995 7.
No harsh or inhumane treatment: adding value.
RIDDOR were 0.93 in the warehousing 8.
Regular employment is provided: and division.
Safe and hygienic working conditions.
The group Ratio per 100,000 employees was 1,027, supports the principle of equal opportunities which compared favourably with the UK In addition, we require that all suppliers in employment and is opposed to all forms HSE figure of 1,181 for the transport logistic adhere to all relevant local and national of discrimination, including those on the sectors.
Benchmarking studies with our labour and health and safety laws in the grounds of colour, race, nationality, ethnic or close competitors has also shown that country of manufacture.
All new suppliers national origin, religion, gender, age, sexual we out-perform them against this and to the group are required to agree to this orientation, marital status or disability.
Code of Conduct before any business is placed with them.
Supplier Self Assessment Our selection processes for recruitment, Accident statistics for the group show forms are used to assess how our promotion, training and development are a reduction of 10%, at 163 accidents, suppliers integrate the principles outlined non-discriminatory.
We believe it is in the with most significant reductions being in the Code of Conduct into their day-tobest interests of employees and the group evident across all accident types, with day operations.
This detailed questionnaire to provide these opportunities to the most the exception of manual handling.
This contains several questions based on the suitable candidates, and to achieve a area provides some of the focus for the above sections of the Code of Conduct.
balanced working population spread across coming years objectives and will be Once completed by the supplier for each a diverse range of ethnic origins, gender supported through a forum approach factory that manufactures goods for the and age groups.
with Occupational Health, H&S, company group, the results are compiled and physiotherapy and emphasis on suppliers are given an initial rating.
Applications for employment by disabled rehabilitation through case management This is based on a traffic light system persons are thoroughly and sympathetically with HR and operational management.
enabling the group to assess common considered, with the aptitude of the applicant patterns of working depending on the being regarded as foremost.
In the event of As a responsible retailer and employer sector and country or region of manufacture.
any employee becoming disabled during we endeavour to ensure that all products their employment, every effort is made and services sold by us or used in the If a supplier does not reach the required to ensure that their employment with the workplace are designed so that they are standard and further work or evidence of group continues.
It is the policy of the group safe and without risk to employees and working processes is required, a detailed that the training, career development and customers in proper use.
Corrective Action Plan is compiled which promotion of disabled persons should, will include any remedial action that is as far as possible, be identical to that of Customers required from the supplier.
A key factor of the groups success is the timescale is then agreed with the supplier quality of its relationship with its to adopt these proposals and improve the working conditions within the factory.
20 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Directors Report At the time of writing over 1,375 suppliers areas of work for the forthcoming year.
The group assisted Comic Relief this year have been issued with a Code of Conduct The group is also currently undertaking an when 120 of our employees gave up six and Self Assessment Form.
audit of factory locations and countries of hours of their own time to take donation manufacture as an additional method of calls during the live Comic Relief TV This year the group has undertaken a mapping the supply chain and prioritising broadcast.
comprehensive in-house training course resources where the greatest impact will for all Buying and Merchandise staff be felt in the future.
Charitable and political donations that visit our supply base.
The training During the year, the group made charitable course covers all aspects of the Code Trade creditors of the group at 26 February donations of 70,960 2010, 70,569. of Conduct and what this means on a 2011 represented 40 days 2010, 38 days No political donations have been made practical basis.
The course also covers of purchases.
the working practices that staff are likely to encounter when they visit suppliers, Community relations Pension fund with some examples of best practice and The group actively supports, the communities The group continues to ensure that the questioning techniques that can be used.
The family, health and N Brown Group Pension Fund is managed The course also highlights a process well-being programme, now in its seventh in accordance with best practice and for Buying and Merchandise to highlight year, continues to provide additional current legislation.
A trustee company, concerns they may have when visiting benefits for all our employees.
which is controlled by a board of directors, suppliers.
Continued non-compliance by administers the funds assets.
One of these a supplier will lead to fide-listing from all The group maintains its close links with is an independent professional trustee group companies.
the Christie Hospital in Manchester and the and the rest have a vested interest in the Retail Trust.
It also regularly encourages performance of the fund, representing The group is also in the process of employees to participate in fundraising the interests of pension fund members, appointing an audit partner to ensure activities for these, and other worthwhile pensioners and N Brown Group plc.
compliance and document any further causes.
These events can be anything The funds investments are managed by work needed within the supply base to from national support such as Children Aberdeen Asset Management Limited and improve working conditions.
It is hoped in Need and the Alzheimers Society Legal and General Assurance Pensions that the audit process will highlight areas to very local causes for hospices and Management Limited and the actuarial of best practice that can be applied across childrens hospitals in and around Greater and administration services are provided all sectors and other group suppliers.
The group maximises the by Mercer Human Resource Consulting Suppliers have been prioritised by the potential donation by matching the level of Limited.
value of business placed with them, the money raised by employees to double the country of manufacture and the results size of the donation.
N Brown Group plc and some of its of the initial Supplier Self Assessment associated companies are required to forms.
The audit process will begin rolling In the last financial year, money was raised indemnify the trustee company and its out across the group later in the year with for a number of noteworthy causes, such officers in respect of certain liabilities all factories being audited at least once as 21,000 for Access and 180 employees incurred by them in the performance every two years.
Most of the audits will be taking part in the Manchester Bupa 10k of their obligations relating to the N Brown carried out on a semi-announced basis run.
The group once again supported Group Pension Fund or in administration with some being carried out unannounced.
the Canal Boat adventure charity where of the Fund.
This amounts to a qualifying employees paid for more than 100 deprived indemnity provision as defined in section The group has further confirmed its and disabled children to enjoy a holiday.
commitment to improving the working conditions of people within our supply In addition the groups employees have The N Brown Group Pension Fund was chain by joining the Ethical Trading organised fund-raising activities to assist closed to new entrants with effect from Initiative ETI as a foundation member.
the following good causes: 31 January 2002.
New employees joining ETI is an alliance of companies, the group after 31 January 2002 and trade unions and non-governmental Barnardos: existing employees who had not joined organisations NGO which seeks to Christies: the N Brown Group Pension Fund as at work together to improve workers lives.
Help for Heroes: that date, are entitled to join a stakeholder The group will be taking an active part in Crossroads care association: pension scheme providing a defined membership of ETI by partaking in relevant MacMillan cancer care: contribution pension arrangement, working groups, sharing and learning Beechwood Cancer Care: administered by Prudential Stakeholder best practice from other members.
As a Children in Need: Pensions.
requisite of membership of ETI the group FACT families for autistic children : will also be compiling a detailed annual When you wish upon a star: and Further to the arrangement agreed with report which will outline the progress of Chethams School of Music.
the Pensions Regulator in January 2007 ethical trade work already completed as as part of the companys B share return well as helping to focus and prioritise areas Once again in 2010 11 a record number of value scheme, the company paid an of work for the forthcoming year.
of employees were involved in charitable extra 4m into the pension fund during the events.
Numerous separate charitable relevant year in continued reduction of the This report is in turn audited by an external fundraising events were held by employees funding deficit.
agency as well as a relevant NGO to help and sponsored, or participated in, by the benchmark the groups progress against group, raising more than 60,000. other members of ETI and to highlight N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 21 Directors Report Financial risk management, The company is not aware of any Directors responsibilities statement objectives and policies arrangements between shareholders that The directors are responsible for preparing The group is exposed to certain financial may result in restrictions on the transfer of the Annual Report and the financial risks, namely interest rate risk, currency securities or voting rights.
The rights and statements in accordance with applicable risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
obligations attaching to the companys law and regulations.
Information regarding such financial risks is ordinary shares are set out in the Articles detailed in note 19 on page 67.
Company law requires the directors risk management policies and procedures to prepare financial statements for are also discussed in the Financial Review Employee share schemes each financial year.
Under that law the on page 14. rights of control directors are required to prepare the The trustees of the N Brown Group plc group financial statements in accordance Change of control Employee Share Ownership Trust and with International Financial Reporting There are a number of agreements that the trustees of the N Brown Group plc Standards IFRSs as adopted by the take effect, alter or terminate upon a No.
2 Employee Share Ownership Trust European Union and Article 4 of the IAS change of control of the company such hold shares on trust for the benefit of the Regulation and have elected to prepare as commercial contracts, bank loan executive directors and employees of the the parent company financial statements agreements, property lease arrangements group, which are used in connection with in accordance with United Kingdom and employee share plans.
None of these the companys various share incentive Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are considered to be significant in terms plans.
The trustees currently abstain United Kingdom Accounting Standards of their likely impact on the business of from voting but have the power to vote for and applicable law.
Under company the group as a whole.
Directors service or against, or not at all, at their discretion law the directors must not approve the contracts are terminable by the company in respect of any shares in the company accounts unless they are satisfied that on giving 12 months notice.
There are no held in the relevant trust.
The trustees they give a true and fair view of the state agreements between the company and may, upon the recommendation of the of affairs of the company and of the profit its directors or employees that provide for company, accept or reject any offer relating or loss of the company for that period.
additional compensation for loss of office to the shares in any way it sees fit, without or employment that occurs because of a incurring any liability and without being In preparing the parent company financial takeover bid.
No events were reported in required to give reasons for their decision.
statements, the directors are required to: the year.
In exercising their trustee powers the trustees may take all of the following Select suitable accounting policies Tax status matters into account: and then apply them consistently: The company is not a close company Make judgments and accounting within the meaning of the Corporation The long-term interests of beneficiaries: estimates that are reasonable and Tax Act 2010.
The interests of beneficiaries other than prudent: financial interests: Ensure applicable UK Accounting Auditor The interests of beneficiaries in their Standards have been followed: and A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as capacity as employees or former Prepare the financial statements on auditor to the company and to authorise employees or their dependants: the going concern basis unless it is the directors to fix their remuneration will The interests of persons whether or not inappropriate to presume that the be proposed at the annual general meeting identified who may become beneficiaries company will continue in business.
on 5 July 2011. in the future: and Consideration of a local, moral, ethical, In preparing the group financial Voting rights and restrictions on environmental or social nature.
statements, International Accounting transfer of shares Standard 1 requires that directors: None of the ordinary shares carry any Going concern special rights with regard to control of The directors have adopted the going properly select and apply accounting the company.
concern basis in the financial statements policies: and their opinion is explained in the present information, including accounting There are no restrictions on transfers of Financial Review on page 14. policies, in a manner that provides shares other than: relevant, reliable, comparable and Liability understandable information: Certain restrictions which may from time All the information supplied in the provide additional disclosures to time be imposed by laws or regulations Chairmans Statement on pages 8 to 9, when compliance with the specific such as those relating to insider dealing: the Chief Executives Review on pages 10 requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to Pursuant to the companys code for to 13, Financial Review on pages 14 to 15, enable users to understand the impact securities transactions whereby the Remuneration Report on pages 28 to 38 of particular transactions, other events directors and designated employees and the Corporate Governance Report on and conditions on the entitys financial require approval to deal in the companys pages 24 to 27 form part of this Directors position and financial performance: and shares: and Report.
Any liability for the information is make an assessment of the companys Where a person with an interest in the restricted to the extent prescribed in the ability to continue as a going concern.
companys shares has been served with Companies Act 2006. a disclosure notice and has failed to provide the company with information concerning interests in those shares.
22 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Directors Report The directors are responsible for keeping Responsibility statement adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the We confirm that to the best of our companys transactions and disclose knowledge: with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and the financial statements, prepared in enable them to ensure that the financial accordance with the relevant financial statements comply with the Companies reporting framework, give a true and fair Act.
They are also responsible for view of the assets, liabilities, financial safeguarding the assets of the company position and profit or loss of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for and the undertakings included in the the prevention and detection of fraud and consolidation taken as a whole: and other irregularities.
the management report, which is incorporated into the directors report, The directors are responsible for the includes a fair review of the development maintenance and integrity of the corporate and performance of the business and financial information included on the and the position of the company companys website.
Legislation in the and the undertakings included in the United Kingdom governing the preparation consolidation taken as a whole, together and dissemination of financial statements with a description of the principal risks may differ from legislation in other and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the board Each person who is a director at the date of the approval of this report confirms that: so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Alan White groups auditor is unaware: and Chief Executive the director has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any information to establish that the groups auditor is aware of that information.
Dean Moore Finance Director This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the 17 May 2011 provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
By order of the board Philip F Harland LL.
B Hons Solicitor Secretary 17 May 2011 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 23
