Living our values 40 Corporate responsibility at National Express Group National Express is fortunate as there is a coincidence of benefit in what we do.
What is good for our customers is good for our business and good for society.
We are a private sector company that provides public services.
The better the services we provide, the more people use them, benefiting the environment and our economies as well as our shareholders.
Living our values Corporate responsibility at National Express 41 Our Vision and Values are fundamental Driving Out Harm is a major culture change to who we are as a business and as an programme, and for any such initiative active corporate citizen.
We know that a to succeed requires visible commitment safe business is a better business, as it from the top.
Driving Out Harm is being will be run more effectively than an unsafe led by our Chief Executive, and during one.
Reducing greenhouse gas emissions 2011 the frequency of site safety visits makes sense commercially as well as by senior managers tripled from four a environmentally.
Investing in people builds year to one a month.
Furthermore, all line stability and loyalty.
Customer service managers throughout the Group have excellence is both right and helps grow now completed formal training designed to our business.
equip them to manage the improvements in our safety performance.
We have defined our values to focus on four areas: ensuring the safety of our At the end of the year our new safety Edward Dacey, driver customers, our employees and the public management arrangements were National Express generally: trying harder than anyone else independently reviewed by the leading for our customers: enabling our people to safety consultancy company, Arthur D. At the start of every shift, and reach their full potential and give their best: Little.
They found that the programme had after every break, coach driver and advancing the social, environmental achieved all that was expected so far and Edward Dacey blows in to his and economic conditions of the that commitment to and strong leadership Alcolock system to enable him communities in which we operate.
of safety is evident, and awareness of to start his coach.
The system Driving Out Harm among the workforce gives me and my customers Corporate responsibility for National is high.
the assurance that I am safe to Express is living these values.
The Alcolock Overall performance against most of our Safety system, which is centrally key indicators was better in 2011 than in Nothing matters more than safety.
It is monitored, is now fitted to all 2010 across all divisions and geographies.
our number one priority, and our ambition National Express coaches and Particularly marked improvements were is to have the best safety record in the performs thousands of breath seen in the second half as the impact of transport sector.
the safety programme still in its first year began to be felt.
In 2010 we developed a five-year, Groupwide safety improvement programme The programme is intended to deliver a called Driving Out Harm.
The approach we 50% improvement in safety performance are taking is rigorous and the standards in the five years to 2016.
Each of our we are setting are high for example, the businesses has annual targets and safety introduction of Alcolocks on our coaches.
plans which provide both short-term focus These breathalyser devices prevent the and a strategic mechanism for achieving vehicle from starting until the driver has our longer term goal.
The limit we are using is exceptionally low more than four times lower than the legal drink-driving limit and, during 2011, we completed more than 50,000 tests a month in UK Coach alone.
Lost time employee injuries per Signals passed at danger Preventable vehicle Safety KPIs 1,000 full-time equivalent employees per million train miles accidents per million miles 2011 Spain North America UK Bus UK Coach UK Rail NXEA c2c 10 0.44 11 0.96 10 0.25 11 0.48 49.0 10 11 42.8 10 22.9 11 16.7 42.6 10 41.4 11 10 48.3 35.3 11 10 17.0 11 12.7 10 19.9 11 17.0 10 11.1 11 8.4 10 24.1 11 21.3 10 12.8 11 13.6 Living our values 42 Corporate responsibility at National Express Group continued Customers People Service is at the core of our business.
The 2011 saw the launch of the Groups vision UK greenhouse gas better the service we provide, the more for its people: emissions tCO e likely people are to switch to us either from 2 enabling them to reach their full potential our competitors or from their cars.
Our and to give their best as individuals and in vision is to create real customer loyalty.
We teams: and want people to travel with us as often as possible.
Increasing customer satisfaction behave towards each other with the will increase our revenue.
same respect and dignity that we expect for ourselves.
So, by the end of 2014 we aim to be the customer service leader in the transport We launched five standards and supporting sector, as part of a longer term plan to be a programmes relating to recruitment, provider of world-class service by the end induction, performance and talent of 2017. management and to workplace rights.
tCO e: Tonnes of carbon 2 dioxide equivalent These are designed to modernise the While this is an ambitious target we are management culture of the Group and starting from a fairly high base.
Recent ensure that at every level of the organisation research from the Institute of Customer we get the right people in the right jobs Services indicates that National Express doing the right things in the right ways.
in the UK is already considered to be a We conduct regular surveys of employee top quartile service provider across all opinion to keep in touch with the views industries, with UK Coach second only and feelings of our people.
to Virgin Atlantic in the transport sector.
As part of the talent management Even world-class service is not rocket programme, each of our top 100 managers science.
It is about delivering the basics well has been given an individual development but doing it every single time.
It is about plan, with over half of this cadre also receiving politeness as well as punctuality: making highly tailored one-to-one coaching.
sure that toilets are clean: that our staff are Site energy usage: UK Bus knowledgeable and helpful: that they smile Emergency and scheduled succession and mean it.
We aim to provide service plans have been established for all of 55% of great consistency so that customers feel our senior positions.
In addition we now reduction in gas consumption they are getting exceptional value for money have around 100 people generally when weighing the price that they pay with frontline managers on our high potential the experience that they have.
programme as a means of growing our 19% own senior managers of the future.
During 2011 we put in place the tools to reduction in electricity consumption help deliver excellence.
Group-wide service During 2011, we also developed a rigorous Recycling: c2c standards have been launched and action performance management process and a plans developed for staff at all levels of management blueprint which defined what each of our businesses.
We have begun we want managers to do and not to do.
87% a rolling audit programme at our coach The intention is to encourage a specific set On-train waste stations, assessing behaviour as well as of behaviours that, in turn, will improve levels infrastructure.
Progress against our KPIs of workforce engagement.
will be reported to the Group Executive 96% In 2012 we will be extending our talent every month.
Station waste management training to include all managers, from frontline supervisors upwards.
10 516,700 11 502,000 Living our values Corporate responsibility at National Express Raj Bhutta, 43 driving training instructor National Express Raj Bhutta is a driving training instructor for National Express in Walsall.
Last April he swapped the West Midlands for Tanzania to work with the charity Transaid, training local bus drivers to be driving instructors.
Some Tanzanian bus drivers dont even have a licence!
But the quality of our trainees was high and they really embraced our efforts.
Community Gas consumption has fallen even more The range of activities varies greatly, from Our 2011 environmental performance is steeply.
Installing automated gas control collecting food, clothing and toys for something we are proud of.
systems at our bus garages saved almost needy families to taking part in reading 2,200 tonnes of CO and cut gas usage programmes.
But they are all based on 2 Our new Birmingham coach station, for by 55%.
We are now looking to roll this finding ways to build strong relationships example, is the only one in the country to out to our coach and rail operations.
with our communities and our customers.
be accredited to the BREEAM Excellent standard.
BREEAM is the worlds leading As well as emitting significantly less carbon In the UK, our Employee Charity Panel design and assessment method for than other modes of transport, our buses, continues to encourage staff to get sustainable building.
We are aiming coaches and trains significantly reduce involved in the community, with a total to achieve the same rating for all new congestion and its economic cost.
of 20,000 donated during the year.
developments, which will include two new For example, a third of all commuters in Overall, we made real progress across bus garages and a coach garage in the Birmingham travel on National Express our community agenda during 2011, next two years.
Our intention is that these operated buses.
If they were to drive and have the structures in place to do new developments will have zero net CO instead, that would add a traffic jam 2 even better in 2012. emissions and will therefore be carbon equivalent to the distance between neutral.
This will be achieved by investment Birmingham and Moscow.
in energy efficiency measures including National Express is an international smart meters, building insulation, and business, and takes its community on-site renewable energy regeneration.
responsibilities seriously wherever it Across the Group, more We are also working with the Chartered operates.
Across the Group, more than than 100 community Institution of Building Services Engineers and 100 community organisations and charities Liverpool John Moores University to create were supported, either through a donation organisations and a system for the rail industry to benchmark or support in kind.
A total of 228,000 charities were property efficiency and sustainability.
No was donated to charities during the year.
supported, either such system currently exists.
In Morocco, for example, we are through a donation Investment in our c2c rail business has supporting a UNICEF project which already seen us become the industry focuses on improving the care offered or support in kind.
leader in energy efficiency and in waste to mothers and newborn children with recycling and coaches are the greenest the aim of reducing neonatal mortality.
We have medium-term In the USA, 14 of our school bus fleets targets for reducing our carbon emissions have achieved Green School Bus Fleet and deliberately so.
We believe mediumCertification from the National School term targets are more meaningful than Transportation Association.
This is the only targets set many years hence, and make programme of its kind to recognise school us more accountable.
During 2011 we transportation companies for providing installed voltage optimisation equipment at environmentally responsible transportation all of our bus garages, which has resulted through the use of new technologies.
in a saving of 1 million kWh or 19% of the electricity used at these sites, and almost Throughout our North American 550 tonnes of CO a year.
operations we launched an Adopt-a- 2 School programme in 2011.
This has seen our employees volunteering to help schools in their communities from New York to New Mexico, California to South Carolina, and Oklahoma to Ontario.
