Business review 28 UK Rail Revenue 688.3m Normalised operating profit 43.4m Andrew Chivers Managing Director, UK Rail: We are focused on continuing the success of c2c as the best run franchise in the UK, together with securing additional rail franchises, provided the terms are right.
Divisional KPIs We measure our progress against our strategy and goals using the following KPIs: Non-financial KPIs Financial KPIs Revenue growth Margin Passenger Signals passed at Public performance measure % % numbers danger per million Moving annual average m miles % NXEA c2c Year to 7 January 2012.
In 2011 the UK Rail division reported Revenue in UK Rail rose to 688.3 million strong revenue growth and a significant in 2011, an increase of 8.0% over the prior increase in profitability.
National Express rail operator in the sector, the divisional East Anglia NXEA successfully extended profit margin was 6.3% and operational its franchise from the Department for performance exceptional c2c is the UKs Transport DfT from October 2011 to top performing rail franchise with a recordFebruary 2012, whilst c2c secured a two breaking annual punctuality figure of year extension to May 2013 on a profit 96.9%, in the year to 4 February 2012.
Strong revenue growth saw the handover of the East Anglia franchise operating profit increase by 28% to 43.4 successfully completed in February 2012, million 2010: 33.8m.
Operating margin we are focused on delivering further increased by 100 basis points to 6.3% improvements at c2c and establishing the 2010: 5.3%.
future potential value that rail may offer in the next franchising round.
Market overview Market size Market share Market trends Two franchises reducing to 1 in Growth over the past decade driven by February 2012 NXEA and c2c passenger volumes and fare increases 6bn These represent 10% of the UK Dependent on employment and GDP of UK franchise revenues franchise market Fares will increase by 1 to 3% in real over next five years based terms over the next three years on likely pipeline Market features Regulatory environment expected to change to longer franchises and increased operator autonomy Highly regulated qualification and National Express operational processes Other franchises Customers Market composition Steady growth in passenger volume Top four players have around 70% over time of the market Competition Increased international competition in UK franchise bidding Labour Relationships are managed within each franchise, with high union representation Top four operators Other operators 19 UK franchises in total Business review 30 UK Rail continued Marion Bridge, Achieving margin improvement and Customer Service Assistant delivering organic growth c2c With their exposure to the relatively robust economies of London and the South East, Thousands of ship passengers both franchises saw good passenger arriving at the London Cruise growth throughout the year of 5%.
Terminal in Tilbury often have just Extension of the London-based Oystercard a few hours to see London.
So system drove strong passenger growth, c2cs Marion Bridge, who works through ease-of-use, albeit at lower yield.
at Tilbury station, has made it part Elsewhere, growth in suburban travel more of her job to give them a good than offset weak volumes on the Stansted experience, and for the past Express service, which reflected reduced seven years has given out goodyvolume in low-cost air travel.
bags filled with timetables, maps and discount vouchers which help NXEA successfully completed boost tourism.
implementation of its 185 million DfTfunded capacity upgrade programme.
Adding 11,000 peak-time seats into Liverpool Street and delivering 30 new 379 Electrostar trains to the network on time and on budget, the business received all its project milestone payments, whilst significantly improving the customer experience.
c2c successfully implemented a new timetable, providing additional stops at West Ham to provide greater transport connectivity.
c2c has won or been shortlisted for eight awards in 2011, underlining its industry-leading position.
Business review UK Rail Paul Thomas, 31 Customer Service Assistant c2c For the past 16 years Paul Thomas has sold tickets at Londons Fenchurch Street station.
He dispatches the c2c trains too.
And he makes station announcements, as well helping to train and mentor new colleagues.
Not all at the same time of course.
But Pauls versatility and enthusiasm have earned the respect of his colleagues.
Varietys the spice of life, he says.
Outlook for the future The Group has also invested in additional Operation of the NXEA franchise came resource to evaluate, bid and operate to an end on 5 February 2012, with the future UK rail franchises.
Retaining a core franchise successfully handed over to the team of experienced rail experts, National c2c is the UKs top new operator.
As is usual for commuterExpress has submitted pre-qualification orientated franchises, a cash outflow of bids for the future Essex Thameside c2c, performing rail franchise approximately 80 million will occur in Great Western and Thameslink services.
with a record-breaking 2012, primarily related to prepaid customer This has been supported by c2c recently season ticket monies that are transferred being awarded four stars in the British annual punctuality figure to the new operator.
Quality Foundations Recognised for of 96.9%.
Excellence R4E programme assessed The business is focused on the continued against the European Foundation successful operation of the c2c franchise for Quality Management model.
and on securing future rail franchises if the terms of the new bidding process prove Whilst National Express has a successful platform for future value creation built attractive for the Group over the long-term.
on its four international bus and coach c2c has recently announced an innovative businesses, we believe that the potential alliance with Network Rail, which builds earnings and cash generation from future on its existing joint signalling and operating rail franchises could be a valuable addition control partnership.
The alliance will to our portfolio, whilst supporting access to deliver cost savings to government and other global rail opportunities.
Participation ultimately passengers through better will, however, depend on the potential planning and implementation of projects, returns and risks of the future franchises better managed stations and further being acceptable.
For more information on our UK Rail business, please go to c2c-online.
