Business review 16 16 North America Revenue 481.0m Normalised operating profit 47.9m David Duke CEO National Express Corporation: The North American school bus contract market represents an attractive opportunity.
Further margin improvement remains a continued focus, but the exciting challenge is delivering value-enhancing growth.
I base our approach on the ABC of the industry Acquisitions, Bidding and Conversion whilst ensuring that we remain proactive and responsive to our customers and employees.
Divisional KPIs We measure our progress against our strategy and goals by using the following KPIs: Financial KPIs Non-financial KPIs Revenue growth Margin Return on net Routes operated Retention rate Spares ratio tangible assets % % % % % Local currency.
In local currency, revenue was US$772.2 million 2010: US$712.1m and normalised operating profit was US$76.9 million 2010: US$57.1m.
In 2011, the North American operations Jersey, which was acquired at the end delivered strong revenue growth and of 2010.
The North American business achieved a 10% operating margin.
The secured both new conversion contracts, Business Recovery programme was from school board customers outsourcing completed, with annualised savings of for the first time, and share shift wins US$40 million delivered over the last two of contracts in the already-outsourced years.
The division is now the industry market, which added over 700 buses leader in delivering profitability and growth for the 2010 11 school year.
Growth from in school bus, and is well placed to secure new conversion contracts won in 2011 further revenue and margin growth.
It was approximately twice that of our is established as a platform for further biggest competitor.
consolidation in the school bus market Operating profit increased significantly, by with its lower risk, highly contracted 35%, to US$76.9 million 2010: US$57.1m.
nature and expansion into adjacent Operating margin has improved to 10.0%, capital-light markets.
an increase from 8.0% in 2010 and 5.7% in Revenue in local currency grew by 8% 2009.
This rapid turnaround was executed to US$772.2 million 2010: US$712.1m.
by a new management team through This was driven by annualisation of bid growth, cost reduction and investment wins in the successful 2010 11 season, in customer-facing personnel to ensure supplemented by further success in the that local delivery and relationships have 2011 12 season, improved charter income been enhanced.
This margin makes the and the bolt-on acquisition of Vogel in New operation best-in-class in the industry.
Market overview Market size Market share Market trends 10% of outsourced school bus market Growth is traditionally inflation and population driven.
The recent increase in US$24bn outsourced conversion is due to public funding pressures Total school bus market in North America, represented by 531,000 routes Market features Local relationship and service delivery 32% is outsourced: 68% in-house important Customers National Express Group Local school boards, funded largely Others by local property taxation National Express operates 15,292 Transport is a significant part of local regular routes education spending Market composition Competition Outsourced Top five players operate approximately Bigger players have access to capital, In-house 90,000 routes geographical reach and some scale advantages Potential for some market consolidation Labour Traditionally part-time workforce 30% of National Express staff unionised Top five players Other operators 40 companies operate 200 buses: rest of outsourced market split between 4,000 operators Business review 18 North America continued Achieving margin improvement Delivering organic growth The margin improvement has resulted from Excellent revenue growth in 2011 was decisive action to reduce overhead and achieved through our ABC plan: back office costs.
In 2011, an annualised acquisition included a 200 bus boltsaving of US$15 million was delivered, on in New Jersey, leveraging existing completing the target of US$40 million over depot scale and synergy completed two years.
Key savings in 2011 included 31December 2010 : streamlining of administration through greater efficiency in use of our Oracle bids secured over 400 new routes systems investment, reduced maintenance from competitors through better service costs through better planning and warranty and pricing: and work, and facility procurement savings.
conversions saw over 600 new routes Operator wage costs were maintained outsourced to us by 10 school boards in line with the prior year improvement.
New conversion Towards the end of the year, the initial opportunities are a key target for us as benefits of equipping every bus in the we grow our school bus business.
fleet with GPS began to be realised: lower fuel consumption, optimised route Our expanded business development scheduling and improved invoicing benefits team has developed a compelling case are all targeted.
This will help drive further based upon a superior service offering improvements in margin.
and successful mobilisation model which offers customers significant cost savings, Alongside the improved operating margin, often including the removal of the need we also made significant progress in for upfront capital investment.
improving the divisions operating profit return on net tangible assets to 16.0% Overall we added over 600 new buses 2010: 13.1% in what is a traditionally to our routes for the 2011 12 school year, capital intensive business.
This whilst protecting margins and achieving Mark Perry, driver improvement was achieved by working an industry-leading 98% retention rate on Durham School Services with customers to cascade existing buses existing contracts.
In addition, our initiative Staff at Durham School Services both to new contracts and to replace to drive higher margin charter revenues in Dallas have lost the equivalent end-of-life vehicles, whilst evaluating was successful, delivering a 30% increase of an entire person since they possible fleet life extension.
During 2011, in this revenue in 2011, with scope for started a fitness challenge last over 900 buses were cascaded within further increases in the future.
One driver alone, the fleet.
Additionally, the spare bus Mark Perry, has shed 45lbs ratio continued to improve, to 12.2% 20kg and aims to run the New 2010: 18.4%.
Overall, this programme York Marathon.
The 30 people is estimated to have reduced capital who have been taking part in investment in 2011 by US$66 million.
the challenge have lost a total of 149lbs or 67kg 10.5 stones between them.
Business review North America Kathy Hagerman, driver 19 Durham School Services Kathy appreciates the benefits of the Zonar system.
The pre-trip and tracking information it provides not only helps reduce costs to the customer, but also helps our supervisors to know where our buses are and how fast they are going.
This means they can tell parents when their bus is due.
If a bus breaks down in service, our technician can log into it and check the diagnostics on the bus before going to the scene.
The system also identifies trends in defects, improving our reliability.
Securing targeted expansion populations, coupled with low capital The North America mass transport market investment requirements and extensive offers considerable scope for expansion.
previous experience of the market by our In September 2011 we announced the management, makes this an attractive Growth from new acquisition of Petermann Partners Inc. opportunity to leverage our existing for US$200 million, consolidating our capabilities in North America.
conversion contracts number two position in the school bus Outlook for the future won in 2011 was market.
In its fiscal year ending 30 June With a forward revenue order book of 2011, Petermann generated revenue of approximately twice US$1.3 billion and improved capital US$149.9 million, EBITDA of US$29.3 disciplines evident in the school bus that of our biggest million and operating profit of US$13.5 market, we will continue selectively to million.
We are in advanced discussions competitor.
target market share addition and a strong with regulators regarding competition pipeline of conversion opportunities, approval and we expect to be in a position whilst achieving high contract retention.
to close this transaction in the first half We expect funding pressures on school of 2012.
Petermann has an excellent boards to continue to drive the conversion portfolio of customers and an experienced market, reflected in the growing number management team, adding new of conversion contracts we have won in geographic reach to National Express the last three years: one in 2009, three in to deliver further growth from a quality 2010 and ten in 2011.
The business will earnings base.
The acquisition is expected focus on improving contract management to be earnings enhancing in its first full year, and operational efficiency, driving further with annual synergies of US$7 million by improvements in margin and capital return.
We also expect to expand our presence in the para-transit market over the coming The Petermann acquisition provides years, building a second leg to our entry into the para-transit and transit successful North American operation.
markets in North America through an existing contract presence.
This market provides free and subsidised transport to senior citizens and disabled people and For more information on our North is estimated to be worth US$5 billion per American business, please go to annum.
Rapid growth in these eligible nationalexpresscorp.
