Business review 24 UK Coach Revenue 259.1m Normalised operating profit 34.9m Andrew Cleaves Managing Director, UK Coach: My vision is to be the number one in passenger transport for quality and value for our customers.
We will differentiate through excellence of customer service and safety.
We are investing in technology to enhance the customer offer and improve operational efficiency.
We can grow passenger numbers through competitive pricing, leveraging the brand, the network and our multiple routes to market.
Divisional KPIs We measure progress against our strategy and goals using the following KPIs: Non-financial KPIs Financial KPIs Revenue growth Margin Passenger Mileage Customer % % numbers m satisfaction m % Core network.
In 2011 the UK Coach business reported Underlying revenue in the core National a record profit, with its new management Express network grew by over 5%.
Overall team re-establishing the National Express UK Coach revenue increased 3.5% to coach service as the pre-eminent value 259.1 million 2010: 250.3m.
Core leader in long distance travel.
These network yield rose 4% as pricing shifted strong results were delivered through an away from heavily discounted promotional overhaul of the core network and with a fares to offering simple, consistent, focus on delivering great customer service, everyday value.
Revenue in each of the four implementing network investments in National Express coach segments Long 160 new coaches, a 24 7 contact centre haul, Short haul, Regional and Airports and the new Coachway station at Milton grew during the year.
The brand continues to see further Operating profit increased to 34.9 million, opportunity in austerity, meeting the needs an increase of 9.1% 2010: 32.0m.
of cash-strapped consumers against a Operating margin was 13.5%, a 70 basis background of increasing rail fares.
This reflected both revenue growth and the flexibility of the business model, where 80% of coach service operation is outsourced, providing the opportunity to adjust to changes in demand.
We continue to see strong interest from private operators to partner in our service delivery.
Market overview Market size Market share Customers Around 1,000 destinations served Customer satisfaction important in driving longer term loyalty National Express is the UK 300m scheduled coach market leader Ongoing rail fare increases make of contested revenues in coach increasingly attractive Market composition the scheduled coach market National Express has the only Competition almost all privatised nationwide network of services Selective competition from large bus operators and localised services Other competitors tend to focus on specific regions or corridors Labour Outsourced model: 80% operated Market trends by third-party partners on long-term Revenue growth through the contract recession, reflecting value and convenience of coach National Express Other operators Selected price competition from rail through advance purchase discounted fares Market features Highly deregulated market Third-party partners Owned operations Customer safety and disability access supported by regulation Consistent service and behaviour standards across all operators Operators able to compete flexibly on selected routes Business review 26 UK Coach continued Achieving margin improvement Delivering organic growth The business maintained a rigorous focus Our growth strategy is focused on on cost efficiency.
Mileage operated improving customer service and simplifying increased by 1% in 2011, flexing supply to fares: this has already delivered growth meet demand.
Group-wide procurement in each of the core coach segments.
The initiatives added further savings, including move away from heavily discounted fare leveraging our scale in fleet sourcing for promotions has improved overall yield and partner operators which saw 160 new attracted passengers who value a stable, coaches introduced to the network.
Use of competitive fare available even on the day technology continues to drive down cost: of travel.
Overall passenger journeys in the our fleet is equipped with both Traffilog core business increased by 1% in 2011 monitoring and real-time positioning with airports and regional routes showing systems.
This is already being used to the highest rates of growth.
monitor driving style, route timings and We have also expanded our network, scheduling: like-for-like fuel consumption adding services and frequencies to reflect was reduced by 3% in the year, passenger improved passenger demand data by comfort was improved and trials are segment and route.
New routes from underway to deliver up-to-the-minute London and the South Coast direct to schedule updates to customers via station Gatwick Airport, and also Ipswich to information and mobile applications.
Added frequencies from Norwich, Glasgow and Cardiff to London have seen market growth.
Recent additions have included new Liverpool Manchester Leeds services Mark Hollis, Accessibility and we continue to see a growth in daily and Inclusion Manager commuter traffic diverting from high-priced National Express rail services.
Our new Accessibility and Building on our investment, customer Inclusion Manager, Mark Hollis, satisfaction rose to 84% 2010: 76%.
90% is looking at all aspects of our of our passengers would recommend the service for disabled travellers brand.
Our contact centre is now open 24 from our booking process to the hours a day, selling tickets and supporting attitude of drivers.
By the end customers whenever they are travelling.
of 2012 almost all of our coaches An extensive programme of training and will be wheelchair accessible, management tools will continue to improve and all staff will have been on the customer experience.
a disability awareness course for which Mark was recently Both Eurolines and The Kings Ferry grew recognised with an invitation in 2011.
Eurolines added nearly 60,000 to No 10 Downing Street.
passengers, with growth on the London Paris and Amsterdam routes, and the introduction of a Brussels service.
Contract For more information on our business fell year-on-year, following one-off UK Coach business, please go to work in 2010 for Airlinks and reduced rail nationalexpress.
Business review UK Coach Marjorie Wild, 27 Senior Customer Advisor National Express As a Senior Customer Advisor at our busy Manchester coach station, Marjorie Wild uses the counselling skills shes gained outside of the business to support her work colleagues listening to their problems and being there for them.
As well as doing her full time job, Marjorie is completing a counselling diploma, and also works as a volunteer for ChildLine and AgeConcern.
Securing targeted expansion Outlook for the future We see the progressive liberalisation of We will continue to make underlying Continental Europe as exciting for coach progress in the UK Coach business travel, which is generally under-penetrated.
during 2012 but we face a significant Our strategy is focused Eurolines highlights the opportunities headwind from the withdrawal from offered by the value of international coach November 2011 of the 15 million annual on improving customer services in difficult economic times for senior citizen concession.
This will be service and simplifying consumers.
Leveraging our position partly mitigated through our new Senior as Europes largest scheduled coach Citizens Coach card.
This has already operator, we will seek to develop new improvement, flexible pricing, leveraging delivered growth.
opportunities in Europe and are investing of technology and improvements in our in business development to deliver third-party operator partnerships to drive future growth.
better customer service will help grow revenue and drive cost efficiency.
The London Olympics will also present specific opportunities: for example, The Kings Ferry has secured the contract to provide transportation for the Metropolitan Police during the Games.
The outlook for longer term growth remains encouraging.
We expect the coach business to benefit from above-inflation increases in rail fares and higher costs of private motoring.
The divisions strong market position, iconic brand and value proposition make the business uniquely placed to grow in the medium term, in the UK and elsewhere.
