Governance Directors report Governance Directors report 69 Principal activities Directors Directors Liability Insurance National Express Group PLC is the holding The Directors of the Company who served The Company maintains Directors and company of the National Express Group during the year were: Officers Liability Insurance in respect of of companies.
Its subsidiary companies legal action that might be brought against John Devaney provide mass passenger transport its Directors.
Pursuant to the Companys Joaqun Ayuso appointed 1 June 2011 services in the UK and overseas.
Articles of Association the Company Miranda Curtis has indemnified its Directors and Officers Business review Jorge Cosmen in accordance with the provisions of Reviews of the business, likely future Roger Devlin resigned 28 June 2011 Section 233 of the Companies Act 2006. developments and details of principal risks Dean Finch A copy of the Articles of Association is and uncertainties can be found in the Sir Andrew Foster available for inspection at the Companys following pages and are incorporated by Jez Maiden registered office.
Chris Muntwyler appointed 11 May 2011 Lee Sander appointed 1 June 2011 Events after the balance sheet date Group Chief Executives review on Tim Score On 5 February 2012, the Group passed pages 3 to 7. over the running of the East Anglia rail Directors are appointed by ordinary Financial Review on pages 32 to 36. franchise to Abellio Greater Anglia Limited.
resolution at a general meeting of ordinary Branches outside the UK shareholders.
The Directors have the Employment policies The Company has branches in Spain.
power to appoint a Director during the The Group strives to meet its business year but any person so appointed must be objectives by motivating and encouraging Results and dividends put up for appointment at the next AGM.
its employees to be responsive to the The profit on ordinary activities before In accordance with the provisions of the needs of its customers and continually tax from continuing operations for the Articles of Association of the Company improve operational performance.
The year ended 31 December 2011 was and the relevant corporate governance Group is committed to providing equality 129.4 million 2010: 40.2m and a codes Directors will retire at the upcoming of opportunity to employees and potential profit attributable to equity shareholders AGM.
Details concerning their re-election employees.
This applies to appropriate of 101.2 million 2010: 61.4m was will be set out in the Notice of AGM.
Details training, career development and transferred to reserves.
of the remuneration of the Directors, their promotion for all employees, regardless of The Directors recommend a final dividend interests in shares of the Company and physical ability, gender, sexual orientation, for the year of 6.5 pence per ordinary service contracts are contained in the religion, age or ethnic origin.
All businesses share 2010: 6p which, together with the Directors Remuneration Report on in the Group report diversity data.
interim dividend of 3 pence per ordinary pages 59 to 68.
Full and fair consideration is given to share 2010:0p, paid on 23 September Corporate governance applications for employment received 2011, gives a total dividend for the year of A full report on corporate governance can from disabled persons, according to their 9.5 pence per share 2010: 6p.
Subject be found in the Governance section of this skills and capabilities.
The services of to shareholder approval, the final dividend document and the Companys corporate any existing employee disabled during will be paid on 18 May 2012 to ordinary governance statement is on page 72. their period of employment are retained shareholders on the register of members Both are incorporated by reference into wherever possible.
at the close of business on 27April 2012. this report.
Employee involvement Directors interests in contracts The Group encourages employee Except as stated in note 36 on involvement in its affairs.
Subsidiary page 134, no contract existed during companies produce a range of internal the year in relation to the Companys newsletters and circulars which keep business in which any Director was employees abreast of developments.
Senior management within the Group meet regularly to review strategic developments and management conferences are held at Group and business levels to bring our senior managers together to share ideas and develop policy.
Dialogue takes place regularly with trade unions and other employee representatives on a wide range of issues.
Employees are able to share in the Groups results through various employee share schemes.
Governance 70 Directors report continued Employee views are also sought or cash flow risk of the Company in that notice.
The Board may also decide through regular employee satisfaction connection with such financial instruments that no dividend is payable in respect of questionnaires, both within business units can be found in the Notes to the those default shares and that no transfer and across the Group.
Following such Consolidated Accounts on pages 81 of any default shares shall be registered.
surveys, results are shared with employees to 136 and are incorporated by reference These restrictions end seven days after and action plans are put in place to deal into this report.
receipt by the Company of a notice of an with issues arising.
The Groups Innovation approved transfer of the shares or all the Major shareholdings programme gives high priority to employee information required by the relevant Section Disclosures of major shareholdings engagement as well as seeking the 793 notice, whichever is earlier.
notified to the Company pursuant to opinions of our customers.
DTR5 are shown on page 53 and these The Directors may refuse to register The Group places considerable emphasis disclosures are incorporated by reference any transfer of any share which is not a on the development of its employees into this report.
fully-paid share, although such discretion through individual development plans.
may not be exercised in a way which the Share capital and rights attaching Financial Services Authority regards as to the Companys shares A scheme to focus on the identification preventing dealings in shares of that class Under the Companys Articles of and development of our high potential staff from taking place on an open or proper Association, any share in the Company was launched in 2010.
The Directors may likewise refuse may be issued with such rights or are in place in each business and these any transfer of a share in favour of more restrictions, whether in regard to dividend, are monitored by the Board.
voting, return of capital or otherwise as Environmental policy the Company may from time to time by The Company is not aware of any other Information on the Groups environmental ordinary resolution determine or, in the restrictions on the transfer of ordinary initiatives can be found in the Corporate absence of any such determination, as shares in the Company other than: Responsibility Review on page 40 the Directors may determine.
and in the Corporate Responsibility certain restrictions that may from section of the Companys website, At 31 December 2011, the Companys time to time be imposed by laws and nationalexpressgroup.
com, where you issued share capital consisted of a single regulations for example, insider trading will find Corporate Responsibility reports, class of ordinary shares with a nominal laws : and policies and other information.
At a general meeting of pursuant to the Listing Rules of the the Company every member has one vote Financial Services Authority whereby Charitable and political contributions on a show of hands and on a poll one vote certain employees of the Company Charitable donations made during the for each share held.
The Notice of AGM require approval of the Company to year totalled 228,000 2010: 151,000. accompanying this document, specifies deal in the Companys shares.
It is the Groups policy not to make political deadlines for exercising voting rights either donations and accordingly none were The Company is not aware of any by proxy or by being present in person in made in the year.
However, the Company agreements between shareholders that relation to resolutions to be passed at a did attend party political conferences may result in restrictions on the transfer general meeting.
Details of the authorised during the year for which total expenditure of securities or voting rights.
and issued share capital of the Company was 6,000 2010: 14,000. and details of shares issued during the year Resolutions will be proposed at the 2012 can be found in note 32 on page 124.
Creditors payment policy and AGM to authorise the Directors to exercise practice all powers to allot shares, or grant rights As at 29 February 2012, the Company It is the Companys policy to agree terms for, or to convert any security into, shares, held a total of 1,668,688 ordinary 5 pence of payment prior to commencing trade and approve a limited disapplication of shares nominal value 83,434 in treasury with any supplier and to abide by those statutory pre-emption rights.
Details are set equal to 0.33% of the issued share capital.
terms based on the timely submission out in the Notice of AGM accompanying of satisfactory invoices.
No shareholder is, unless the Board this document.
decides otherwise, entitled to attend or Trade creditor days of the Company for the The Company was granted authority at the vote either personally or by proxy at a year ended 31 December 2011 were 17 AGM in 2011 to purchase its own shares general meeting or to exercise any other days 2010: 23 days based on the ratio up to an aggregate value of 10% of the right conferred by being a shareholder if he of Company trade creditors at the end of issued nominal capital.
The authority was or she or any person with an interest in his the year to the amounts invoiced during not used during the year.
The authority or her shares has been sent a notice under the year by trade creditors.
is renewed annually and approval will be Section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 sought at the AGM in 2012 for its renewal.
which confers upon public companies the Financial instruments Further details are set out in the Notice of power to require information with respect Details of the use by the Company and its AGM accompanying this document.
to interests in their voting shares and he subsidiaries of financial instruments and or she or any interested person failed to any related risk management objectives supply the Company with the information and policies including hedging policy and requested within 14 days after delivery of exposure including price, credit, liquidity Governance Directors report 71 Share schemes Under the terms of the 1,000,000,000 Disclosure of information to auditor The IFG Trust Jersey Limited, as Trustee Euro Medium Term Note Programme The Directors confirm that, so far as of the National Express Group Employee under which the Company issued Medium they are aware, there is no relevant audit Benefit Trust, as at 29 February 2012 held Term Notes MTNs to various institutions information of which the Companys 314,528 shares 0.06% of the share capital on 13 January 2010, there is a change auditor is unaware and that each Director of the Company for employee share of control put option such that, upon a has taken all the steps that they ought schemes.
Further details of the Companys change of control event, any holder of any to have taken as a Director in order to employee share schemes can be found in MTN may require the Company to redeem make themselves aware of any relevant note 7 on page 95 and are incorporated or purchase that MTN.
audit information and to establish that by reference into this report.
The Trustee the Companys auditor is aware of The Group currently runs one DfT may vote the shares held by the Trust at that information.
The National Express East its discretion.
Anglia franchise was transferred to Abellio Risks Articles of Association Greater Anglia Limited on 6 February 2012.
A summary of the Companys risk Any amendments to the Companys The rail franchise agreement with DfT management framework and an overview Articles of Association may be made in contains termination rights for the benefit of of its principal risks are detailed on pages accordance with the provisions of the DfT which would be triggered by a change 37 to 39 and are incorporated by reference Companies Act 2006. of control in National Express Group PLC.
The Groups rail franchisee, c2c, leases Going concern Annual General Meeting its rolling stock and its leases with The Groups business activities, together The Annual General Meeting AGM will Porterbrook Leasing Company Limited with the factors likely to affect its future be held at 2.00pm on 10 May 2012 at contain termination rights for the benefit development, performance and position Kings Place, 90 York Way, London, of the lessor which would be triggered by are set out in the Business Review.
At the meeting, special resolutions a change of control in National Express financial position of the Group, its cash will be proposed to authorise the Directors Group PLC.
flows, liquidity position and borrowing to issue shares without applying statutory facilities are described in the Group Chief pre-emption rights, to authorise the The Groups North American business Executives review on pages 3 to 7 and Company to make market purchases operates school bus services under the Financial Review on pages 32 to 37.
In of its own shares and to authorise the contracts with school boards.
Those addition, note 30 to the financial statements calling of general meetings other than contracts invariably contain a change of includes the Groups objectives, policies Annual General Meetings on 14 clear control clause for the benefit of the board and processes for managing its capital: days notice.
Full details are provided in which would be triggered by a change of its financial risk management objectives: the Notice of Meeting.
If you would like control in National Express Group PLC.
details of its financial instruments and to register any question you may have in While no one single school bus contract hedging activities: and its exposure to advance of the AGM you can do so at could be considered significant in credit risk and liquidityrisk.
com or you can the context of the Group turnover, write to the Company Secretary at National the impact on that turnover in the The Group has a formalised process of Express Group PLC, National Express event that each school board exercised budgeting, reporting and review, which House, Birmingham Coach Station, Mill its termination right on a change of provides information to the Directors Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham B5 6DD.
which is used to ensure the adequacy Powers of the Directors of resources available for the Group Directors and employees service Subject to its Articles of Association and to meet its business objectives.
contracts relevant statutory law and to any direction There are no agreements between the The Directors have a reasonable that may be given by the Company in Company and its Directors or employees expectation that the Company and the general meeting by special resolution, providing for compensation for loss of Group have adequate resources to the business of the Company shall be office or employment whether through continue in operational existence for a managed by the Directors, who may resignation, purported redundancy or period of at least 12 months from the date exercise all powers of the Company which otherwise that occurs because of a of signing the accounts.
Accordingly they are not required to be exercised by the takeover bid.
continue to adopt the going concern basis Company in general meeting.
of accounting in preparing the annual Auditor Material contracts and change financial statements.
Following a competitive tender process of control agreements during the year, Ernst & Young LLP The Company is party to a number of resigned as auditor of the Company banking agreements which allow for on 10June 2011 and Deloitte LLP was notification of change of control within appointed in their place on 14 June 2011. five days of becoming aware of the event Resolutions to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as following which repayment of outstanding auditor of the Company and to authorise commitments is to be made within the Directors to fix their remuneration will 30days.
