Business review 12 Spain Revenue 551.1m Operating profit 90.1m Javier Carbajo CEO ALSA My key objective over the next two years is to renew the intercity concessions due for retendering.
Given market trends, in our existing intercity and urban businesses we can deliver robust growth, whilst developing exciting growth opportunities in Morocco and new territories.
Divisional KPIs We measure our progress against our strategy and goals using the following KPIs: Non-financial KPIs Financial KPIs Passengers Mileage Revenue per km Revenue growth Margin numbers m % % m Local currency.
In local currency, revenue was 635.4 million 2010: 612.7m and normalised operating profit was 103.9million 2010: 100.5m.
2011 was another successful year for kilometres were operated than in 2010 as ALSA, delivering both revenue and profit ALSA increased supply to meet passenger growth.
The excellent value offered by our demand.
Growth remained consistent urban bus and intercity coach services throughout the year, supported by the continues to meet the growing needs new Agadir contract in Morocco.
of customers, providing a high quality Operating profit increased by 3.4% to transport service with fares that suit the 103.9 million 2010: 100.5m.
Growth term concessions, ALSAs market-leading and efficiency in the transport business, position and a flexible cost base provide including a strong performance in both a resilient platform and opportunities Morocco, event services and international, for expansion.
Reflecting our confidence offset reduced profitability in the peripheral in the future, we continue to invest in non-transport businesses primarily the fleet renewal and growth in both Spain fuel distribution and motorway service and Morocco.
businesses, which represent only 8% Overall revenue growth for the division in of ALSAs total revenue.
local currency was 3.7%, 4.9% in Sterling terms, delivering 635.4 million 2010: 612.7m in total revenue.
3.5% more Market overview Market size Market composition Customers ALSA has the leading position in a highly Urban: all ages, work and study, multiple fragmented market trips per week 3.5bn Intercity: mostly young people, few trips Market trends regulated bus and intercity per year: for leisure, visiting family: on Modest passenger growth in coach, coach market regional services also work and study reversing recent trends in public transport.
Resilient urban bus demand Concessions Competition Intercity competition from state-backed Market features rail now operating under reduced Regulated and highly segmented 185 subsidy and low cost airlines.
Bus and market, with three levels of government coach concessions are awarded through ALSA has 162 intercity coach regulation: central long distance coach, competitive public tender, typically every concessions, 22 urban bus contracts regional regional coach and city urban ten years and one other concession bus.
Each concession is exclusive to the operator, based on compliance with Labour the public service obligation.
Flexibility Traditionally less flexible labour market required to meet changing demand reflecting domestic practice Intercity coach concessions Urban bus contracts Other concession Business review 14 Spain continued Cash management continued to be Delivering organic growth strong.
A planned increase in working The ALSA business provides a stable capital reflected repayment of deferred platform of long-term contracts and For more information on our Spanish social security.
In addition, in light of public concessions, together with opportunities business, please go to alsa.
es funding issues, ALSA has also managed for growth within both Spain and outstanding receivables balances carefully Morocco.
Both intercity coach and urban to ensure timely collection.
A key part of bus operations delivered revenue and our business is the provision of contracts passenger growth in 2011.
Revenue with various public bodies, primarily urban growth of 6% in intercity services bus operations where we do not take reflected gains in both scheduled and demand risk in the operation of routes.
tourist services, driven by an increase in At the end of 2011, ALSAs receivable passenger numbers of 1% and increased balance from public bodies was 57.5 regulated prices.
This increase reflecting increased domestic vacationing, primarily related to a single customer, with was followed by continued robust growth which a new legally enforceable payment through the remainder of the year.
Growth plan was agreed in December 2011.
In was strong across all geographic areas, addition, the national governing party has with particularly strong trends on Madrid confirmed that all public debts will be paid, routes and in Northern Spain.
with the state now providing credit funding The intercity coach business is becoming to public bodies.
the preferred option for passengers in the current economic climate, where public subsidies to state-owned rail operators have decreased and where airline activity on competing routes has reduced.
Consequently, ALSA has continued its investment in new coaches ahead of concession renewal later in 2012 and 2013, Ivn Gozalo, driver with an average coach fleet age of three ALSA years on the core network.
The business is also adding more high quality Supra Since 2007, Ivn Gozalo has services, with better yields, and is investing worked as a bus driver in the in web-based and mobile technology to Madrid suburb of Torrejn attract new customers to the network.
He is good with passengers and he knows that The urban bus business grew strongly in the addition of new hybrid buses 2011, driven by expansion in Morocco, to the fleet will improve Torrejns with a full year benefit from the Agadir environment.
He thinks this is contract, which started in September good for the community, good for 2010.
Moroccan annual revenue now the city and its good for Ivn too, exceeds 25 million and further growth because that is where he lives.
Urban kilometres operated in Spain remained steady in 2011.
Bus travel remains fundamental to mobility in Spanish cities and ALSA is well positioned in its concessional contracts.
Business review Spain Adela Lupascu, stewardess 15 ALSA No two customers are the same, especially on the Madrid City Tour bus where Adela Lupascu is a stewardess.
Every day I get to meet people from all over the world who are visiting Spain.
They all have different needs, Adela says, but making sure they are comfortable and satisfied is what her job is about.
ALSA continues to adjust costs and Outlook for the future Additional opportunities for growth, utilising improve operational efficiencies to offset Future prospects for the ALSA coach and ALSAs expertise, scale and reputation, inflation.
The coach operation is highly bus operations remain robust as the value will be developed.
Morocco will remain flexible and increases in demand were and quality in the nature of the services a focus, with potential for additional city met in 2011 by increasing contracting we provide are well positioned for times of contracts, and ALSA will seek to continue with partner operators, allowing resources economic uncertainty.
We are focused on to build on recent success in tourist to be optimised.
revenue growth, contract retention and new and new intercity services.
In February opportunities, including in Morocco.
2012, ALSA and Iberia launched an Securing targeted expansion integrated Bus & Fly programme to New contracts and bolt on acquisitions We are targeting growth in the intercity create intermodal transport from five cities business, on existing routes and through also contributed towards divisional growth.
connecting through Madrid, a first for the new tourist services.
Coach performance In September, ALSA started operating the international travel industry.
Leveraging the is expected to benefit from increased Madrid City Tour sightseeing bus contract, Groups international experience, ALSA occupancy at current fares, arising from replacing the Madrid Barajas airport will also support the UK in expanding reduced capacity in low cost airlines on contract.
Other bolt-on additions included coach operations as markets open across overlapping routes and ongoing reduction an extension of the Agadir concession, Continental Europe, including building on of public funding in rail.
We will continue an investment that allows the business the existing successful Eurolines operation.
to work closely with our urban customers to reinforce its position in Navarre and to adapt to changing bus needs whilst the Basque country, and an additional retaining the economic value of our concession in Southern Spain.
ALSA has the proven capability to manage change and new opportunities.
ALSA is focused on securing its concession renewals.
With a forward revenue order book of 3.1 billion, during 2012 currently operated intercity concessions representing 9% of annual revenue are due for tender, alongside other operators concessions.
The framework for national tenders was agreed by the Ministry of Transport in 2011, favouring operators who have delivered an excellent performance and compliance with concession conditions.
