Governance 72 Statutory information 37 35 Statement of Compliance with Directors conflicts of interest the UK Corporate Governance Code The Board has a procedure in place to For more information please go In the opinion of the Directors, the deal with a situation where a Director to nationalexpressgroup.
com Company has complied with the provisions has a conflict of interest, as required by of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Companies Act 2006.
As part of issued by the Financial Reporting this process, the members of the Board Council in 2010 save in respect of the prepare a list of other positions held following provisions: and all other conflict situations that may need authorising either in relation to the B.
2.1 The Composition of the Director concerned or his her connected Nomination Committee persons.
The Board considers each Jorge Cosmen, who is a member of the Directors situation and decides whether to Nomination Committee, is not considered approve any conflict situations, taking into to be independent.
However, as Deputy consideration what is in the best interests Chairman and the representative of one of the Company and whether the Directors of the Companys largest shareholders, ability to act in accordance with his or her the Board considers Mr Cosmen should be wider duties is affected.
Each Director is a member of the Nomination Committee required to notify the Company Secretary in order to be involved in the recruitment of any potential or actual conflict situations process for Board appointments.
that will need authorising by the Board.
Authorisations given by the Board are C. 3.1 The Composition of the Audit reviewed annually.
Committee and D. 2.1 The Composition of the Remuneration Committee Accountability and audit Following the resignation of Roger Statements of the respective Devlin the Audit Committee and the responsibilities of the Directors and Remuneration Committee consisted of two auditors are set out on pages 74 and 75.
Non-Executive Directors for a short period Directors and Officers Liability until the appointment of Chris Muntwyler Insurance to the Audit Committee and Lee Sander The Company purchases Directors to the Remuneration Committee in and Officers Liability Insurance for the November2011.
Company and its subsidiaries, which gives 36 Re-election of Directors appropriate cover for any legal action In accordance with the Companys brought against its Directors.
Articles of Association, and the principles 38 of the UK Corporate Governance Code Internal control statement published by the Financial Reporting The Boards responsibilities Council in 2010, Directors of the Company The Board has overall responsibility for will offer themselves for re-election at this the Groups system of internal control and years AGM.
Non-Executive Directors are for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board appointed for specific terms, subject to remaintains full control and direction over election.
Non-Executive Directors will only appropriate strategic, financial, operational be put forward for re-election if, following and compliance issues and has put in performance evaluation, the Board believes place an organisational structure with the Directors performance continues to be formally defined lines of responsibility, effective and demonstrates commitment delegated authorities and clear operating to the role.
The systems that the Board has established are designed to safeguard Remuneration and service contracts both the shareholders investment and of Directors the assets of the Group, and are The Directors Remuneration Report, described as follows.
including details of remuneration policy and service contracts, is set out on pages 58 to 68.
Governance Statutory information 73 39 Key elements of the control framework Risk management reporting process Whistle blowing policy Financial reporting process each division and operating company Whistle blowing policies are in place in management and specialists within the evaluates its internal control environment each of the Groups businesses and are Finance Department are responsible for and key risks, and the results are reviewed also available on the Groups website ensuring the appropriate maintenance of at management level and passed to www.
The financial records and processes to ensure the Audit Committee before being Board supports the highest standards of that all information is relevant, reliable and presented to the Board.
This process corporate governance and ethical practices in accordance with the applicable laws is reviewed on a regular basis to ensure within all its operations and continues to and regulations, and distributed both the validity and relevance of the key review its policies on an ongoing basis.
internally and externally in a timely manner.
The review The Board has endorsed a set of principles A review of the consolidation and financial covers strategic, financial, compliance which establish the framework for how statements is completed by management and risk management controls.
Key to these is to ensure that the financial position and procedures are mandated and designed working in an open and honest manner.
results of the Group are appropriately to manage the risk in order to ensure The Group is committed to the highest reflected.
All financial information published that the operations achieve their standards of quality, honesty, openness by the Group is subject to the approval business objectives.
Employees are of the Audit Committee.
encouraged to raise genuine concerns Internal audit the internal control under the policy either by contacting their system is independently monitored and Performance management the line manager or telephoning a dedicated supported by a Group internal audit performance of each division and external helpline.
The internal audit function reports operating company against its plan is are investigated carefully and thoroughly to management and the Audit Committee closely monitored by a formal monthly to assess what action, if any, should on the Groups financial and operational reporting process and by the attendance be taken and confidential records are controls, and monitors and reviews the of the relevant Executive Directors at maintained.
The Company Secretary extent to which its recommendations have monthly divisional executive meetings.
reports any matters of significance to the been implemented.
Annual fitness check process internal appropriate committee.
In 2011 no issues Board-level reporting on internal audit undertake an annual review at each of significance were raised.
control during the year the Audit operating company to assess the integrity Anti-bribery policy Committee reviews regular reports from of the balance sheet and to check the A Group Anti-Bribery policy has been the internal audit function, the external effective operation of key financial reporting established and issued to all Group auditors and executive management on and information systems controls.
The companies and is also available matters relating to internal control, financial results of the reviews are presented to on the Groups website at reporting and risk management.
The Audit both divisional and Group finance with any nationalexpressgroup.
The policy Committee provides the Board with an required actions agreed with the relevant prohibits any inducement which results independent assessment of the Groups divisional Finance Director.
in a personal gain or advantage to the financial position, accounting affairs and Strategic and financial planning recipient or any person or body associated control systems.
In addition, the Board an annual budgeting and strategic planning with them, and which is intended to receives regular reports on how specific process has been established whereby influence them to take action which may risks that are assessed as material to the each division and constituent operating not be solely in the interests of the Group Group are being managed.
company assesses its competitive position or of the person or body employing them and goals, taking account of the strategic Review of internal control effectiveness or which they represent.
This strategy is translated into The system of internal control and risk detection and reporting of bribery is a financial plan with clear milestones and management, described above, has been the responsibility of all employees performance indicators.
in place for the year under review and throughout the Group.
Employees up to the date of approval of this Annual can report confidentially any suspicion Capital investment a clear process Report and Accounts.
Such a system of bribery via an externally facilitated is in place for the approval of capital is designed to manage, rather than to whistleblower hotline.
expenditure, which includes detailed eliminate, the risks inherent in achieving 40 appraisal of the benefits of the proposed Share capital the Groups business objectives, and can investment and any associated key risks.
Information about the share capital of the therefore provide only reasonable and Material capital expenditure requires Company is included in the Directors not absolute assurance against material Board approval.
report on page 70. misstatement or loss.
The effectiveness Health and safety health and safety of this system has been regularly reviewed standards and benchmarks have by the Directors in line with the Guidance been established in all our businesses on Audit Committees, published by the and the performance of operating Financial Reporting Council in December companies in meeting these standards 2010.
Where significant control failings is closely monitored.
or weaknesses have been identified, appropriate corrective action has been taken.
