Business model 10 A strategic roadmap Our portfolio of businesses provides an excellent platform for future value generation.
Spain North America UK Bus UK Coach UK Rail Urban bus, intercity coach School bus Urban bus Intercity coach Commuter rail Mode Concession, long-term Contract, medium-term Perpetuity, owned business Perpetuity, owned business Franchise, long-term Operating model Lightly regulated Largely unregulated Unregulated Unregulated Highly regulated Market regulation Market share 20% 10% 80% 60% 10% of the intercity, regional and outsourced of the outsourced school bus market of the West Midlands bus market of the UK scheduled coach market of the UK rail franchise market urban contract market Strong Acceptable, improving Strong Strong capital light Strong capital light Return on capital Current opportunities Continued growth in both Revenue, margin and return Passenger volume and further Organic revenue growth Manage franchises.
businesses on capital growth margin growth Participate in franchise bids ALSA is the largest private operator of buses The Groups operations are carried out by National Express West Midlands is the National Express is the national coach National Express has a strong operational Business model and coaches in Spain where public transport our subsidiaries, Durham School Services market leader in the largest single urban network operator in the UK, offering skills base in UK rail, one of the only is seen as an essential public service.
Its US and Stock Transportation Canada.
network in the UK deregulated market.
The great value and accessible travel to all.
It privatised systems in Europe.
The UK rail markets are regulated and supported by We are the second largest private operator.
deregulated model allows for total flexibility operates the only scheduled national UK industry comprises franchises awarded long-term concession agreements provided The outsourced private operator market in both fares and service.
The business coach network and the largest in Europe, on an exclusive operation basis to private in exchange for public service obligations.
is only around one third of the total, with has a high regional market share, with running 500 coaches a day serving over operators.
Prices are predominantly Concessions are operated exclusively, with the remainder being insourced: that is, strong competition from multiple operators 1,000 domestic destinations.
Built on a regulated and costs are substantially fixed competition at point of tender.
Concessions owned and run by the school boards on specific routes.
Modal competition flexible, outsourced business model, where around track access, rolling stock and typically run for 10 to 15 years.
Contracts typically run for is principally from private cars.
Revenue third party providers supply 80% of the franchise payments.
The Group ran two portfolio provides a balance between: five years and contract retention is high.
and profitability are driven by the scale coaches and responsibility for sales lies franchises in 2011, operating as National Once secured, contracts have very low of operations delivering frequent, reliable with the company.
With 70% unprompted Express East Anglia and c2c, running until long distance coach operations, which revenue risk over the contract life.
Scale is and affordable services across a broad brand recognition, the business benefits February 2012 and May 2013 respectively.
receive no subsidy and take revenue risk beneficial economies can be achieved network, utilising a high quality fleet.
from its integrated network and scale, in return for flexibility over the number through procurement, centralisation of offering breadth and interconnectivity, of services operated and a regulated administration and business development.
where competitors offer only point-to-point maximum fare: Access to capital is key: most new services with limited infrastructure.
contracts require investment in new buses regional coach operations which may and asset utilisation is low, due to the part be subsidised by the autonomous time usage of these specialised vehicles.
governments: and urban bus operations operated under programme contracts with city councils and transport consortia.
Day-to-day competition is primarily intermodal: ie rail, low cost airlines and the car.
Concession re-bidding School board funding UK Government funding BSOG UK Government funding CSOG Franchise terms and bidding Risks to manage in 2012 Business review Business model 11 For more information on our performance, please go to nationalexpressgroup.
com investors Spain North America UK Bus UK Coach UK Rail Urban bus, intercity coach School bus Urban bus Intercity coach Commuter rail Mode Concession, long-term Contract, medium-term Perpetuity, owned business Perpetuity, owned business Franchise, long-term Operating model Lightly regulated Largely unregulated Unregulated Unregulated Highly regulated Market regulation Market share 20% 10% 80% 60% 10% of the intercity, regional and outsourced of the outsourced school bus market of the West Midlands bus market of the UK scheduled coach market of the UK rail franchise market urban contract market Strong Acceptable, improving Strong Strong capital light Strong capital light Return on capital Current opportunities Continued growth in both Revenue, margin and return Passenger volume and further Organic revenue growth Manage franchises.
Concession re-bidding School board funding UK Government funding BSOG UK Government funding CSOG Franchise terms and bidding Risks to manage in 2012
