Business review 20 UK Bus Revenue 263.5m Normalised operating profit 32.7m Peter Coates Managing Director, UK Bus: Our turnaround has been achieved, with improved financial progress and a strong safety culture.
There is still work to be done: I want to grow revenue and maximise network efficiency, whilst modernising aspects of our service and cost base.
We are attracting customers by investing in new vehicles, improving marketing, using technology and raising customer service levels.
Divisional KPIs We measure our progress against our strategy and goals using the following KPIs: Financial KPIs Non-financial KPIs Revenue growth Margin Passenger yield Passenger Mileage % % numbers m m 10 0.0 11 2.2 10 11.0 11 12.4 11.0% 10 0.82 11 0.91 -7.0% 10 294.3 11 273.6 -2.4% 10 71.5 11 69.8 Business review UK Bus Revenue for UK Bus was 263.5 million 2010: 257.8m 21 and normalised operating profit was 32.7 million 2010: 28.3m.
UK Bus delivered its second successful Improvement year of margin recovery, moving ahead Commercial revenue 4% of industry average margin performance.
Revenue growth was robust, with a return Mileage reduction 2% to passenger growth in the final weeks Like-for-like revenue 6% of 2011.
With its focus on operational control, improved marketing, new services Operating profit increased to 32.7 and investment for customers, UK Bus million 2010: 28.3m.
Operating margin delivered a 15% increase in profit year-onincreased by 140 basis points to 12.4% for year and is well placed to continue the division, with the core West Midlands to grow returns as an efficient, effective bus operations achieving over 13% bus operator.
Our Dundee operation also increased its margin and there was Total revenue for the UK Bus business further good progress at the Midland Metro grew by 2.2% to 263.5 million from 257.8 tram service, which was profitable in the million in 2010.
Like-for-like passenger year, having broken even for the first time revenue at constant mileage grew 6%, in 2010. driven by a strong increase in passenger revenue of 4.3%, above the industry average.
This was achieved despite the West Midlands economy remaining weak.
Concession income for senior citizen travel was slightly lower year-on-year, as austerity measures impacted public funding.
Market overview Market size Market share Market features 1,650 buses operated in the fleet Primarily deregulated market: vehicle regulatory oversight Focused on the West Midlands and 4.8bn Dundee markets Low barriers to entry flexibility and UK excluding London scale of operations is key Market composition 97% is privatised Largest five operators represent around Customers 70% of the UK market Over 90% of West Midlands network is commercial: remainder mostly public service tenders Around 75% of revenue from passengers, balance concessionary Privatised Non-privatised Largest five operators Other private operators Remainder made up of a large number of private operators Passenger fares Market trends Concessions Short-term economic pressures from austerity and local unemployment Competition Active competition from national Longer term economic regeneration and and local operators  public transport growth opportunities over the car Labour Primarily unionised with strong industrial relations Business review 22 UK Bus continued Delivering organic growth We increased our investment in promoting Growth of over 4% in commercial revenue the benefits of bus travel in the West was driven by an 11% rise in passenger Midlands and Dundee.
We are rolling yield as fares were restructured.
National out 250 new vehicles across a 12 month Express continues to offer some of the period, which is expected to boost most competitive fares of the major ridership.
18 green hybrid buses were UK conurbations.
Passenger volumes introduced onto core city centre routes decreased by 7%, partly reflecting an in Birmingham in December, with early overall mileage reduction of 2%.
Anti-social have targeted reductions in some offbehaviour is being targeted through new peak services, but increased services to cleaning, anti-window etching and revenue meet additional demand elsewhere: for protection measures.
An increase in example, re-timetabling on the inner circle targeted marketing campaigns included a in Birmingham has driven 15% passenger Love Your Bus promotion, partnerships growth year on year, along with a 50% with local schools and colleges to reduction in waiting times.
Revenue promote student travelcards, grandkids protection teams have successfully for a quid and new short hop 1 fares in supported revenue uplift and we will be Birmingham and Coventry city centres.
doubling the size of that team in 2012.
Smarter marketing is raising awareness Encouragingly, the last few weeks of 2011 and increased demand is being generated showed overall passenger journey growth.
through online and telesales teams, including providing free tickets to home movers and discounted family tickets.
We are embedding operational excellence Jayne Blower, across the UK Bus business.
The focus Travel Shop Manager is to deliver an efficient, on-time bus National Express West Midlands operation at lowest cost to passengers.
We have introduced improvements to Travel Shops are the human our ongoing driver training programme, face of the business, says Jayne with industry-leading accreditation and Blower, manager of the busy partnerships based at our in-house Dudley shop.
As well as selling college in Walsall.
This is improving driving bus and coach tickets, they give standards and customer service.
Our change and information, plan engineering operations have adopted lean routes and sort out problems.
principles, which have reduced off-road The Dudley team has built up time and increased fleet reliability.
a strong relationship with many local residents and one regular customer recently wrote of the staff that nothings too much trouble.
For more information on our UK Bus business, please go to nxbus.
co. uk Business review UK Bus Carl Gauntlett, 23 Schools Liaison Officer and Special Constable National Express West Midlands Last year, Schools Liaison Officer Carl Gauntlett talked to more than 9,000 children in spreading the Safer Travel message to 150 schools.
Talking to Year 6 10-11 year-olds is particularly important giving them reassurance before they start travelling to secondary school by bus.
We explain what they need to do to keep safe and that they should trust the driver to help them.
Achieving margin improvement Outlook for the future Supporting revenue growth initiatives, 2011 Whilst the turnaround of the UK Bus saw completion of our two-year turnaround business is complete, improving programme, driving margin recovery to operational excellence is an ongoing With its focus on above current industry average levels.
In 2012 we will continue to focus on driving revenue growth and cost operational control, Cost efficiencies were delivered across efficiency.
This will partially mitigate the engineering, procurement and the improved marketing, new withdrawal by the UK Government of 5 overhead cost base.
We are leveraging million of annual fuel duty rebate from April.
services and investment the Groups procurement scale, with Thereafter, we will seek to improve the 1.5million of savings delivered in for customers, UK Bus margin towards industry leading levels.
On-board telemetry delivered a 15% increase monitors driving style and is improving Alongside new vehicles, we are also fuel consumption.
In addition, in 2011 investing in on-bus technology.
our Driving Out Harm safety programme readers have been installed across our entire fleet which will be used to make bus combined with telemetry and CCTV video travel easier for all passengers and grow to reduce insurance claims by 1.9 million.
revenue through more targeted marketing.
Following publication of the Competition We aim to have 100% of our buses Commissions final report into the bus equipped with real-time service information industry in December 2011, we do not in 2012.
We are investing in advanced anticipate any significant impacts on our driver accreditation alongside customer business but will look at bus contract service development, to make National opportunities to access further growth.
Express the preferred operator for our passengers.
