30 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2010 11 Directors Report for the year ended 31 March 2011 Financial instruments The information in this Directors Report does not comprise a Directors Report within the meaning of the Companies Acts Details on the use of financial instruments and financial risk and UK Listing Authoritys Listing, Disclosure and Transparency management are included on pages 21 to 23 in the Operating Rules.
Such a report for the Company is included in its annual and Financial Review.
Future developments As the DN businesses reported on within these regulatory Details of future developments are contained in the Operating accounting statements do not comprise a legal entity, the and Financial Review.
following information is provided for the Company as a whole.
Employee involvement Further details of matters required to be included in a Directors As a part of National Grid, we have well established and Report are incorporated by reference into this report, as effective arrangements through electronic mail, intranet and indetailed below.
house publications and briefing meetings, at each business location and company wide, for communication and Directors consultation with both employees and trade union The Directors serving during the year or subsequently were: representatives, and for communication of performance, Malcolm Cooper Appointed June 2007 strategy and operating model, together with significant business Mark Fairbairn Resigned March 2011 issues.
We recognise the importance of aligning employee and Stuart Humphreys Appointed July 2008 shareholder interests, and are committed to employee share John Pettigrew Appointed April 2011 ownership through the National Grid plc Share Incentive Plan Paul Whittaker Appointed June 2007 and Sharesave scheme, which are open to all employees.
Adam Wiltshire Appointed June 2006 Policy and practice on payment of creditors Nick Winser Appointed July 2003 It is our policy to include in contracts or other agreements, terms of payment with suppliers.
Once agreed, we aim to abide Directors and Officers liability insurance cover is arranged and by these terms of payment.
The average creditor payment qualifying third party indemnities are in place for each Director.
period at 31 March 2011 was 20 days 17 days at 31 March Principal activities and business review 2010.
A full description of the Companys principal activities, Audit information businesses and principal risks and uncertainties is contained in Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the Directors in the Operating and Financial Review on pages 2 to 26, which office at the date of the signing of this report are aware, there is are incorporated by reference into this report.
no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware Material interests in shares and each Director has taken all reasonable steps to make National Grid Gas plc is a wholly owned subsidiary undertaking themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to of National Grid Gas Holdings Limited.
The ultimate parent establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
company of National Grid Gas plc is National Grid plc.
Annual General Meeting Dividends Notice of the National Grid Gass Annual General Meeting for During the year, interim dividends totalling 400 million were 2011 will be issued separately to shareholders.
The Directors On behalf of the Board have not proposed a final dividend.
Donations During 2010 11, some 0.1million 2009 10: 2.6 million was invested in support of community initiatives and relationships in the UK.
There were no direct charitable donations for 2010 11 2009 10: nil.
Adam Wiltshire Director No political donations were made in the UK and EU, including 27 July 2011 donations as defined for the purposes of the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
National Grid Gas plc, 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH Research and development Registered in England and Wales Number 2006000 Expenditure on research and development was 9 million during the year 2009 10: 10 million.
