24 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 Directors Report for the year ended 31 March 2011 Financial instruments In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and UK Listing Authoritys Listing, Disclosure and Details on the use of financial instruments and financial risk Transparency Rules, the following sections describe the matters management are included on pages 18 to 20 in the Operating that are required for inclusion in the Directors Report and were and Financial Review.
Further details of matters required to be Future developments included in the Directors Report are incorporated by reference Details of future developments are contained in the Operating into this report, as detailed below.
Directors Employee involvement The Directors serving during the year or subsequently were: As a part of National Grid, we have well established and Malcolm Cooper Appointed June 2007 effective arrangements through electronic mail, intranet and inMark Fairbairn Resigned March 2011 house publications and briefing meetings, at each business Stuart Humphreys Appointed July 2008 location and company wide, for communication and John Pettigrew Appointed April 2011 consultation with both employees and trade union Paul Whittaker Appointed June 2007 representatives, and for communication of performance, Adam Wiltshire Appointed June 2006 strategy and operating model, together with significant business Nick Winser Appointed July 2003 issues.
We recognise the importance of aligning employee and shareholder interests, and are committed to employee share Directors and Officers liability insurance cover is arranged and ownership through the National Grid plc Share Incentive Plan qualifying third party indemnities are in place for each Director.
and Sharesave scheme, which are open to all employees.
Principal activities and business review Policy and practice on payment of creditors A full description of the Companys principal activities, It is our policy to include in contracts or other agreements, businesses and principal risks and uncertainties is contained in terms of payment with suppliers.
Once agreed, we aim to abide the Operating and Financial Review on pages 1 to 23, which by these terms of payment.
The average creditor payment are incorporated by reference into this report.
Material interests in shares National Grid Gas plc is a wholly owned subsidiary undertaking Audit information of National Grid Gas Holdings Limited.
The ultimate parent Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the Directors in company of National Grid Gas plc is National Grid plc.
office at the date of the signing of this report are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware Dividends and each Director has taken all reasonable steps to make During the year, interim dividends totalling 400 million were themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to paid 2009 10: 300 million interim dividend.
The Directors establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
have not proposed a final dividend.
Annual General Meeting Donations Notice of the National Grid Gass Annual General Meeting for During 2010 11, some 0.1million 2009 10: 2.6 million was 2011 will be issued separately to shareholders.
invested in support of community initiatives and relationships in the UK.
There were no direct charitable donations for 2010 11 On behalf of the Board 2009 10: nil.
No political donations were made in the UK and EU, including donations as defined for the purposes of the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
Research and development Jonathan Munsey Expenditure on research and development was 9 million Company Secretary during the year 2009 10: 10 million.
20 July 2011 National Grid Gas plc, 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH Registered in England and Wales Number 2006000
