77 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information debt position and compliance with bank Meetings during 2011 were also regularly Peter Kadas Chairman covenants and also took a number of attended by Jn Fabin, Chief Operating Zdenk Bakala decisions regarding financial and operating Officer of NWR who is responsible for the Mike Salamon matters of NWRs subsidiaries.
The FIC operations of NWR KARBONIA and OKK, Marek Jelnek reviewed, on a regular basis, market and by two external experts, Stan Suboleski analysis, analyst and investor feedback and Karl Friedrich Jakob, who are also Main responsibilities and the performance of NWRs shares as members of the OKD Board of Directors.
The main functions of the FIC are: well as the shareholder register.
The FIC Stan Suboleski is currently senior vicealso prepared the 2012 budget.
president of Evan Energy Investments reviewing and presenting the Groups and also serves on the board of Interannual budget to the Board: The FIC is of the view that its composition American Coal Company.
He was previously reviewing, approving and recommending is appropriate and that its members have a commissioner with the US Federal Mine to the Board all major strategic or carried out all duties and responsibilities Safety and Health Review Commission.
Karl financial investments and divestments set out in the charter.
Friedrich Jakob held numerous prominent and other major capital decisions: managerial positions in Germany as well as reviewing the adequacy of the Groups Safety, Health and Sustainability with international mining companies and capital structure: Committee Report also worked for the German State Mining advising on relationships with On 15 November 2011, the Board Authority.
In connection with the new banks, rating agencies and financial substantially changed the Committees corporate and social responsibilities, the institutions: charter and specifically included in the SHSC meetings in the second half of the providing oversight and guidance on Committees scope corporate and social year were also attended by Petra Manov, funding and treasury management: and responsibilities with an emphasis on Head of Corporate Communications at NWR making decisions on all matters related health, safety and environmental risks.
who manages CSR matters for the whole to NWR subsidiaries.
The Committee was renamed the Safety, NWR Group.
Health and Sustainability Committee Activities undertaken during the year SHSC with the SHSC members and Main responsibilities In 2011, the FIC met five times.
According to its new charter, the SHSC times of which in January and March assists the Board in its oversight of corporate as a committee of NWR NV and three In connection with the successful UK and social responsibilities with a special times as the Companys committee in redomiciliation of NWR NV, the SHSC emphasis on health, safety and environment May, September and November.
Among at that moment still as the Health, Safety risk within NWR and its subsidiaries as well the main items discussed by the FIC was and Environment Committee of NWR NV as the Groups compliance with applicable the Group budget for 2011, which was was abolished, and following the resolution legal and regulatory requirements associated recommended for the Boards approval.
of the Board on 8 April 2011, the SHSC of with CSR and HSE matters.
Throughout 2011, the FIC followed up on NWR was established, as of 6 May 2011, the progress of the UK redomiciliation as a committee of the Company.
On 8 April The SHSCs main duties in the CSR area are to: and the subsequent squeeze out process.
2011, the Board also adopted the SHSC Following the UK redomiciliation, the FIC charter and appointed its members and monitor and review the internal attended to issuing new shares for the chairman.
policies and systems within the Group purpose of the employees stock option for implementing the sustainability plan.
In the light of the volatile market SHSC members programs, frameworks and objectives: situation, the FIC analysed the Companys The SHSC consists of two Executive monitor and review the Groups risks and opportunities to identify suitable Directors including the Executive performance in relation to sustainability measures in response.
As regards the Chairman and two Independent Directors matters and follow up on the financing arrangements, the FIC discussed appointed by the Board: achievement of the respective key the new Revolving Credit Facility and performance indicators and targets: accession of the Company to the Group Paul Everard Chairman advise the Board on the CSR aspects of Pooling Agreement.
The FIC also regularly Mike Salamon the proposed strategic transactions: reviewed financial and operational results Klaus-Dieter Beck prepare sustainability reports including and the financing and cash position of Steven Schuit the stand-alone CSR section and submit the Group including cash investments, them to the Board for review: and cash pooling and hedging arrangements.
support stakeholder dialogue and The FIC continued to monitor the Groups engagement on sustainability performance.
