78 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information Corporate Governance The SHSCs main duties in the HSE area At its meetings, the SHSC reviewed the The charter of the SHSC is available continue to be to: health, safety and environmental reports on NWRs website at of NWRs core operations and also received www.
oversee the Groups performance on detailed reports on extraordinary events health, safety and environmental matters: that occurred at the operations.
These Real Estate Committee Report review reports and meet with senior included fatalities caused by seismic events In connection with the successful management of Group subsidiaries to rock bounces as well as a fatal locomotive reincorporation of NWR NV in the UK discuss the effectiveness of the Groups accident.
The SHSC closely followed and in accordance with a resolution of policies and systems for identifying and investigations of these fatalities, the post the Board adopted on 8 April 2011, the managing material HSE risks: accident response, and the safety and other Real Estate Committee of NWR REC monitor the impact of operations on the measures that were adopted thereafter.
In was established as a committee of the Groups reputation: and this context, the Committee was informed Company as of 6 May 2011.
On 8 April prepare the HSE section of NWRs in detail about the recommendations of 2011, the Board also adopted the REC Annual Report.
the international Czech, German and charter and appointed the REC members Polish panel of experts convened by OKD and chairman.
For both CSR and HSE matters, the SHSC to propose new measures for bounce risk is responsible for: prevention and mitigation and how these The Real Estate Committee of NWR NV recommendations were implemented in continues to exist in parallel to the REC reviewing the policies and systems practice.
The SHSC also received regular of NWR.
within the Group for ensuring reports on site visits by the local mining compliance with applicable social, authorities, the citations issued and Real Estate Committee members health, safety, environment legal and other HSE-related regulatory matters.
The REC is wholly composed of regulatory requirements as well as for The SHSC was informed about the 2011 Independent Non-Executive Directors effective and positive employee and Safety Campaign at OKD, promoting a safer appointed by the Board: community relations: workplace which is a part of the Continuous liaising with the ARMC to ensure adequate Improvement Programme, and similar Barry Rourke Chairman oversight of the Groups systems for initiatives at OKK.
Steven Schuit managing the CSR and HSE risks: Paul Everard reviewing and, if appropriate, making The SHSC also exercised its role in the recommendations to the Board relating area of CSR for the Group, as described Main responsibilities to issues of CSR and HSE: and in greater detail in the SHSCs charter The role of the REC is to oversee the assets monitoring of CSR and HSE issues and after its amendment in November 2011. and liabilities of the Real Estate Division and trends, and regularly reporting to the The SHSC reviewed the progress made in the interaction between the Mining Division Board on connected major concerns the rehabilitation and restorations project and the Real Estate Division of NWR.
concerning the landscape affected by advice the REC endeavours to ensure that the Groups mining activities the interests of NWR and its shareholders For the responsibilities of the Health, e. g. redevelopment to support golf and as a whole have been identified and Safety and Environment Committee of water-based leisure activities.
NWR NV prior to the UK redomiciliation and the committees transformation into A Sustainability section which describes The REC supports and advises the Board in the SHSC, please refer to page 57 of the NWRs approach in the area of corporate its work by: 2010 Annual Report of NWR NV.
and social responsibility as well as the health, safety and environment at NWRs advising the Board on matters regarding Activities undertaken during the year operations may be found on pages [5259] the Real Estate Division of NWR except In 2011, the SHSC met four times, once in of this Annual Report.
In addition, NWR will in relation to audit, accounting and January, while still a committee of NWR NV also issue a separate Sustainability Report financial disclosure matters, which fall and thereafter three times as a committee for 2011 detailing the strategy, trends and within the remit of the ARMC : of the Company in May, September and achievements in the area of corporate and monitoring interactions between the November.
The SHSC also conducted one social responsibility.
Mining Division and the Real Estate site visit to the OKD mines in the Czech Division and all transactions affecting Republic.
The SHSC believes that it has successfully the assets of the Real Estate Division fulfilled its duties and responsibilities set with third parties and advising the Board out in its charter.
