24 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information Risk management at NWR impact and likelihood and the status Risk management Principal risks and of mitigation measures.
At a subsidiary approach uncertainties level, all relevant detailed information related to the specific risks is collated and maintained to ensure appropriate NWRs system of risk management ensures Set out below are the principal risks monitoring and mitigating action, where an effective approach to identifying and uncertainties relating to the Group required.
risks and mitigating their impact on the together with the primary source, the achievement of company objectives.
Risks potential impact on the business and Risk evaluation are controlled and managed within the the mitigation measures.
We evaluate annually identified risks based relevant operational areas in which they on possible economic and non-economic occur.
It is the responsibility of every NWR Market risks impact and likelihood.
The adequacy and entity to actively manage its own risks.
effectiveness of internal controls are Local management is responsible for Economic environment uncertainty assessed as part of each evaluation.
identifying, assessing and mitigating risks Source with the support of risk managers, The global economic situation remains Risk response and to report to NWRs Audit and Risk subject to significantly abnormal levels Based on the risk evaluation, the Groups Management Committee on decisions of volatility based on historic performance risk managers, in cooperation with relevant made and actions taken.
The Groups and the economies of the CEE region regional management teams formulate Risk Management function is responsible are exposed to this unstable situation.
required responses and ensure that for supervising this process, monitoring The main factor directly influencing the right risk owners within the Group the key risks and managing them NWR is the Groups exposure to the steel are involved in the development and directly where relevant.
implementation of necessary response management function is responsible measures.
Examples of these responses for the implementation of appropriate Impact are set out in detail below.
structures and the co-ordination of risk Worsening economic conditions globally management activities across the Group.
and in the CEE region in which we operate Risk reporting have a significant negative impact on the All progress on risk identification, Risk management approach steel industry, and thus may affect the evaluation and response is documented demand for coal and coke products.
and monitored by the Group Risk Manager This may in turn have a negative impact on in cooperation with the Entity Risk NWRs revenues.
Identify Evaluate Managers, and is supervised by the Board risks risks with the assistance of the Audit and Risk Mitigation Management Committee composed of We closely follow all economic Bessel Kok Chairman, Hans-Jrg Rudloff, developments, both worldwide and in the Steven Schuit and Barry Rourke.
region, to ensure that we are prepared to Monitor take any necessary steps.
NWR cooperates risks Risk management update closely with its suppliers and customers to On an ongoing basis, current activities ensure flexibility and to minimise impact.
and processes in the area of risk management are evaluated to identify Report Respond Throughout and after the economic any necessary implementation of new downturn of 2008 09, NWR developed on risks to risks risk analysis and management measures.
increased structural efficiencies which All implemented responses are regularly resulted in greater operational flexibility monitored and action is taken as to manage its investment schedule, necessary.
Risk identification costs and cash flow in order to improve A consistent approach to risk identification resilience to challenging economic Further information on NWRs approach is key to effective management.
We have a prudent gearing to risk management can be found in the risks are documented by the Group Risk policy, strong liquidity and a sound Corporate Governance section on page 60 Manager in the Group Risk Register.
funding profile whereby there is no onwards of this report and in the Group Updated regularly, this information short-term need for refinancing given Risk Management Policy on our corporate includes the factors influencing the risks, that the first maturing part of current website www.
the respective risk owners, potential financing occurs in 2015.
25 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information Pricing risks Specific risk areas in 2011 Source Volatility in the regional steel and energy In 2011, specific areas of risk that we focused on included: markets affects both prices of our inputs as well as selling prices of our products.
Health and safety risks Impact NWR operates in some of the most demanding geological conditions for mining A decrease in coal and coke prices may coal in the world, and thus safety remains a key priority.
The tragic loss of five of have a significant negative impact on our employees in 2011 again highlighted the importance of further understanding NWRs revenues.
An increase in input and mitigating challenging conditions in line with NWRs long-term goal of prices can cause a significant increase in minimising the risk of safety incidents.
Following the two fatal accidents caused input costs.
Both factors could adversely by rock bounces in July, NWR assessed the increased risk of rock bursts and affect NWRs financial performance.
implemented additional and stricter safety procedures to identify such risks at an early stage.
Amongst these measures are the extension of protected zones, Mitigation installation of new equipment to better identify increasing stress areas, and We have long-term framework agreements providing special and more specific personal protective gear for the workers in place with respect to sales volumes mining in the more bounce-prone areas.
In addition, we are working together with with customers and suppliers.
These other international experts to analyse appropriate bounce prevention initiatives.
agreements, as well as the annual and quarterly price supply agreements, Economic environment uncertainty are reviewed periodically, ensuring We closely monitored the various European sovereign debt crises and the macro medium-term stability in sales levels economic climate throughout 2011.
As part of the business plan for 2012, NWR of our products.
conducted scenario analysis, working on identifying and actively reducing its exposure to a possible severe crisis in the Eurozone and its potential knock-on On the input side, the benefits of the effect on our business.
Through identifying potential cost cutting and cash investments in efficiency and safety have preserving measures as well as ensuring a strong balance sheet and debt increased, to a certain extent, our flexibility optimisation, NWR is well prepared to take additional necessary steps forward in operating costs and production.
Customer concentration risk Pricing risks Source Coal and coke prices have been affected by various factors recently, among which A substantial proportion of NWRs coal and are the changes in pricing dynamics, volatility in the world markets and the global coke is sold to a small number of customers.
Importantly, in 2011, NWR moved to quarterly coking coal pricing to align the business with international coal trends and move the risk Impact exposure away from regional coking coal price development towards global price Volatility in the steel and energy markets development.
could cause a significant decrease in demand for coal and coke or even a loss of specific customers for NWR.
The loss Licensing risks of one or more significant customers, or It is crucial for NWR to have a clear view of all the factors related to obtaining the inability to collect payments from such and keeping the required licences and permits for its operations.
Our development customers, could have a disproportionate project in Dbiesko, where we broke ground in 2011, has increased adherence to effect on our financial results and international regulatory dynamics representing numerous licensing and regulatory performance.
Mitigation Our long-term framework contracts ensure a reasonable level of predictability and security on our future ability to sell the produced coal and coke.
Renegotiation of quarterly and annual contracts ensures that we continue to have mutually convenient sales agreements in place in
