76 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information Corporate Governance Remuneration Committee members terms, including share-based incentive of equity incentives for executive The RC consists of Non-Executive Directors plan payments, pensions rights and performance in 2010, the RC proposed appointed by the Board.
Two of the RCs compensation payments: that the Board adopt the approach of members are Independent Directors: producing an annual summary for the providing ad hoc grants of NWR NV A Board of the Companys remuneration shares to a group of eligible NWR NV Zdenk Bakala Chairman policy and remuneration practices, employees.
The RC also approved the Bessel Kok which will form the basis of the participation of certain Group employees Hans-Jrg Rudloff Remuneration Report of the Board, in the Deferred Bonus Plan in the bonus which itself forms part the Companys year 2011.
It further recommended to Provision D. 2.1 of the UK Corporate Annual Report and is put to shareholders the Board the Group-wide performance Governance Code recommends that for approval at the AGM: and criteria for 2011 and those for an the remuneration committee should be preparation of proposals to the Board on: Executive Director participating in the comprised entirely of independent nonthe remuneration policy no member Deferred Bonus Plan.
The Company does of the RC may participate in any not comply with this provision as the discussions or make proposals in In line with the Stock Option Plan rules, Remuneration Committee is chaired by respect of his own remuneration : the RC also considered and approved Zdenk Bakala, who is not considered to be the individual salary levels, bonuses vesting of certain stock options to good independent.
However the Board regards and other benefits of the Groups senior leavers, these being employees who leave Mr. Bakalas membership of the Committee managers, as the case may be: NWR due to death, retirement at normal as critical to the further alignment of contractual terms for the Non-Executive retirement age, redundancy or retirement directors remuneration with shareholder Directors of the Board: and through illness or injury, maternity leave, interests.
The Executive Directors of the preparation and implementation of leave of absence, illness or personal the Board attend meetings of the RC by share-based incentive plans.
Following the UK redomiciliation, invitation only and assist the RC in its all stock options and grants of A shares of discussions, except in matters associated Activities undertaken during the year NWR NV have been rolled over into stock with their own respective remuneration.
The RC met four times during 2011, twice options and grants of A Shares of the in January and March as a committee of Company.
Further details may be found in Main responsibilities NWR NV and twice as a committee of NWR the Remuneration Report on page 97.
Following the reincorporation of NWR NV in May and November.
in the UK the main responsibilities of the The RC is of the opinion that it has carried RC have been brought into line with the The Committee applies the principles of out all the responsibilities set out in the principles of the UK Corporate Governance the Companys Compensation Manual Committees charter.
In particular, the RC now sets the and also fulfills the role given to it by the remuneration of the Executive Directors of Deferred Bonus Plan.
For more details Finance and Investment the Board, the Chairman of the Board and on the Compensation Manual and the Committee Report the Groups senior managers and advises Deferred Bonus Plan, please refer to the In connection with the successful the Board in relation to its responsibilities Remuneration Report on page 94. reincorporation of NWR NV in the UK, the with respect to the remuneration of Finance and Investment Committee of the Non-Executive Directors.
This is in The Committee performed the annual NWR NV was abolished and following the accordance with provision D. 2.2 of the UK review of the remuneration of the resolution of the Board adopted on Corporate Governance Code.
Executive Directors and the fee levels 8 April 2011, the Finance and Investment of the Non-Executive Directors in 2010 Committee of NWR FIC was established, For the responsibilities of the Remuneration and found them appropriate also for as of 6 May 2011, as a committee of the Committee of NWR NV prior to the UK 2011.
Further details may be found in the Company.
On 8 April 2011, the Board also redomiciliation, please refer to page 56 of Remuneration Report on pages 98 to 101. adopted the FIC charter and appointed the 2010 Annual Report of NWR NV.
the FIC members and chairman.
The RC also determined that the Following the UK redomiciliation, the RC is performance conditions set for options Finance and Investment responsible for granted on 17 March 2010 were met.
Committee members Furthermore, in light of the termination The members are appointed by the Board setting the remuneration of the of NWR NVs Stock Option Plan from and include Executive and Non-Executive Executive Directors and the Chairman 31 December 2010 and there being no Directors and NWRs Chief Financial of the Board and their contractual transitional arrangements in respect Officer:
