26 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information Risk management at NWR terms of pricing and quality.
This is Mitigation Operational risks crucial for good long-term relationships NWR has entered into various financial with our customers, to whom we provide instruments such as interest rate swaps Geological conditions a complete and reliable service including to decrease the exposure to interest Source product blending and transportation.
The time horizon of these NWRs mining operations are among the In addition, we regularly monitor our instruments matches the maturities deepest coal mines in the world with an markets for potential new customers of the Groups debt and thus offers an average depth of around 1,000 meters.
appropriate mix of exposure to fixed The geological conditions are subject to floating interest rates in the short-term.
unpredictable events that can significantly Currency fluctuation risk In the longer term, the Group is fully impact these operations.
Source hedged against interest rate risk.
Our activities take place in different Impact countries, resulting in sales and costs Strategic risks Geological conditions at these depths in various currencies, mainly the may lead to increased operational risks Euro, Czech Koruna and Polish Zloty.
Managing our future growth profile and potential disruptions to production Fluctuations in the respective exchange Source due to unforeseen occurrences, resulting rates of these currencies can affect the While NWR has a significant reserves base, in a need to change mine plans in order Group in a variety of ways.
it requires new reserves and development to access other less hazardous strata.
opportunities in order to maintain and Impact develop its future growth profile.
As part Mitigation As our costs are largely in Czech Korunas, of these long-term development projects, We have invested significantly in while revenues are a mixture of Czech NWR also needs to develop hard coal state-of-the-art mining technology, and Korunas and Euros, our financial results can reserves in its existing mining areas.
continuously monitor its performance and be significantly affected by the appreciation analyse the geological conditions in and of the Czech Koruna versus the Euro.
Impact around our mining areas.
Changes in the exchange rate of the Polish If NWR is not able to acquire and develop Zloty may also have a significant effect on growth opportunities, it is limited Health and safety risks our development projects in Poland.
in creating long-term value for its Source shareholders.
The industry within which NWR operates Mitigation is both hazardous and exceptionally NWR actively manages exposure to Mitigation challenging in terms of the underground currency fluctuations by applying various NWR currently has three organic growth conditions, leading to a physically financial instruments such as FX forwards projects, Dbiesko, Morcinek and demanding working environment for our and structured FX collars.
The time horizon Frentt, with Dbiesko being the most employees.
of these instruments matches the prominent.
Reference: Growth page 22: forecasted and contracted exposure as Development projects page 48 onwards.
Reference: Financial Failure to ensure effective health Review page 30 onwards.
NWR applies stringent policies in the and safety procedures as well as the preparation and management of all its inability to properly respond to health Interest rate volatility development projects, conducting detailed and safety issues can result in fatal Source feasibility studies and hiring world-class accidents, injuries, production disruption, Our activities are financed by a mixture experts and contractors for mine reputational damage and fines.
of floating rate debt and fixed rate bonds development projects.
Volatility in Mitigation interest rates can affect the Company NWR has built a solid and stable foundation NWR regards health and safety as in a variety of ways.
for its business, from which it is well a priority and is committed to long-term positioned to take advantage of regional continuous improvement of its safety Impact acquisition opportunities to strengthen performance, ensuring that appropriate Increases in mainly Euribor interest rates its position.
NWR continues to see the and proactive measures are taken may have a significant effect on the cost long-term rationale of consolidation in the on safety issues.
We have significant of our existing floating rate debt finance.
region with Poland as its primary target, experience of preventing and dealing and continues to monitor the market for with mining accidents and have mining potential investment opportunities.
rescue units on standby at all mining
