68 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information Corporate Governance The Corporate Governance Policy of NWR authority to act and speak for the Board use an external search agency nor open is based primarily on the UK Corporate between meetings, and, together with the advertising for the Board appointments Governance Code and also complies with Chief Financial Officer, acts as the main contrary to provision B.
2.4 of the UK the spirit of the broad requirements of point of contact between Non-Executive Corporate Governance Code.
For the corporate goverance codes in the Czech Directors and senior management of the same reason, no job specification for the Republic and Poland.
The Chairman also decides on appointment of the Chairman was prepared the standards of governance that NWRs certain executive matters once the Board B.
3.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Board of Directors intends to uphold and has granted him authority.
However such specification will be prepared ensures the maintainance of a coherent and by the Nomination Committee as a part of its effective system of governance.
The policy Contrary to provisions of A.
3.1 of succession planning work in the year ahead.
the UK Corporate Governance Code, Mike Salamon has been appointed by the Company Role of the Board The Companys policy is to achieve best to act as Executive Chairman who upon his The Board sets the Groups strategy practice in our standards of business appointment did not meet the independence and reviews management and financial integrity in all our activities around the criteria set out in the UK Corporate performance.
Its role is to create and world.
This includes a commitment to Governance Code.
NWR believes that the deliver strong, sustainable financial follow the highest standards of corporate presence of Mr. Salamon as Executive performance and long-term shareholder governance throughout the Group.
This Chairman is required to provide leadership value whilst protecting the interests of section of the annual financial report at Group level in a holding structure in which NWR Group and representing NWR, holders describes how the company has applied the leadership of operations is exercised of A and B Shares for definition of A and the Main Principles set out in the Corporate at operating company level.
The presence B Shares, please refer to the Articles of Governance Code.
of majority shareholder representatives on Association of the Company and other the Board, who were consulted prior to this stakeholders.
Matters specifically reserved Directors appointment, alongside Independent Nonfor the Boards decision-making include: Composition of the Board Executive Directors, guarantees that there are NWR has a one-tier Board comprising both appropriate checks and balances in place.
Approval of the overall strategy and Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
annual budgets of the business: The Board is presided over by its Executive The Chief Financial Officer of NWR, Marek Determination of the nature and extent Chairman, Mike Salamon.
As at 31 December Jelnek, has delegated authority to achieve of significant risks to be undertaken in 2011, the Board had 13 members in total.
the corporate objectives of the NWR Group.
achieving the strategic objectives: Of these, three were Executive Directors He is responsible for the Groups finance and Appointment of the Boards Chairman: 1 and five were Independent Non-Executive administration, and reports to the NWR Board Approval of internal policies such Directors.
Non-Executive Directors assist in and its Executive Chairman.
He oversees as the Corporate Governance Policy, developing NWRs strategy and also monitor planning, financial control, accounting, Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, the performance of Executive Directors restructuring, mergers and acquisitions, Business Integrity Policy, Divisional Policy and Group management.
Non-Executive strategic expansion, and investor relations Statements, Share Dealing Code, the terms Directors are entrusted with such duties as functions throughout the Group.
He is also of reference of the Boards committees : are or will be determined by or pursuant to responsible for ensuring that financial and Review of the financial and annual the Articles of Association or a resolution other information disclosed publicly is reports: and of the Board.
In December 2011, Mr. Mende, timely, complete and accurate.
Approval of major transactions, a Non-Executive Director, announced his including acquisitions, by NWR and its resignation from the Board with effect from Klaus-Dieter Beck, CEO of OKD, and subsidiaries: 31 January 2012. chairman of OKDs board of directors is Determination of the annual responsible for the operation of OKD.
Jn remuneration of Non-Executive Directors The Chairman facilitates the work of Fabin, NWRs Chief Operating Officer has within the scope of the Articles of the Board and ensures its effectiveness overall responsibility for OKK and NWR Association and the remuneration policy.
in all aspects of its role.
They both report to NWRs Board.
1 As regards the payment of creditors, the policy the Company Secretary, the Chairman applied by NWR as well as the Group is to agree is responsible for setting the Boards In the process of the UK redomiciliation, credit terms prior to commencement of trading.
agendas, ensuring that Directors receive all the directors of NWR NV have been Subject to any items of genuine dispute, it is Group policy to pay creditors within the terms all the information and support necessary appointed Directors of the Company to agreed.
Trade creditors of the Company as at to carry out their role, including adequate effectively replicate the previous board 31 December 2011 were equivalent to 49 days induction and training.
As a result, the Company did not purchases, compared to 51 days in 2010.
