49 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information Our decision to proceed with various projects reflects our confidence in the quality of our reserves and the long-term strength of demand across both coking and thermal coal markets in the area.
Our approach to development projects In 2010 we applied for an amendment to Outlook for 2012 Development projects are a key part of this licence to enable us to mine additional We will complete the technological planning our strategy as they serve to underpin the coal reserves in Dbiesko and we for the underground elements of the long-term future of our operations.
Our expect to secure the amended licence construction by June 2012 and begin work decision to proceed with various projects during 2012, following completion of the on the mine construction, which will include reflects our confidence in the quality environmental review.
the excavation of Slope 1 and the surface of our reserves and the long-term strength infrastructure of the mine.
We expect work of demand across coking coal markets in Total coal reserves at Dbiesko amount on Slope 2 to begin by the end of 2012. the area.
Our development projects are to 190 million tonnes, of which seven located in the Upper Silesian Coal Basin, eighths is expected to be coking coal Additionally, we will start work on the both in the Czech Republic and Poland, and the remainder thermal coal.
Two existing shaft modernisation, which giving us the added advantage of using thirds of the coking coal is expected to be we plan to complete by the end of 2013. our regional mining expertise.
hard coking coal and one third semi-soft This shaft will supply fresh air into the coking coal.
Initial coal production is mine, as well as being used to transport Our approach is to address regional scheduled for 2017 and full production employees and materials.
issues that affect our license to operate.
of roughly 2 million tonnes per annum We adhere to strict EU legislation will be achieved shortly after.
Importantly, we expect to receive further governing mining and environmental environmental permits and an amended practices and look to action the concerns We are investing a total of EUR 544 million licence, which will allow us to mine of local communities.
We therefore in the project of which EUR 411 million is additional seams.
approach development projects with the development CAPEX and EUR 133 million will view that they must be viable from both cover pre-production operating costs.
These Near-term projects: the business and the social responsibility operating costs include maintenance of the development of current mines perspective.
Our adherence to best existing shafts and mine workings, and the We use the phase near-term projects practice social responsibility is described operation and maintenance of the electrical projects to describe growth options in detail in our Sustainability Report 2011. and water-pumping infrastructure, as well opportunities, which relate to our existing as the ventilation system.
These deposits are included in We divide our development projects into the mine will employ around 2,000 people, our current JORC reserve base and help three major groups strategic, near-term including contractors.
We plan to finance the to sustain production volumes and quality, and long-term reflecting the respective project using a combination of our own cash as well as improving overall returns by stages of the projects, their timelines and and debt.
extending the life of our mines.
Progress during 2011 We are currently working on the expansion Strategic projects: We made good progress at Dbiesko of the Karvin Mine to access adjacent Dbiesko our largest growth project during 2011.
We began work on the portal coal reserves, a project that we aim to NWRs Board of Directors gave its final opening technically referred to as a box complete by 2016.
This venture will allow approval for the Dbiesko project in June cut for one of the two planned slopes.
us to access hard coking coal deposits 2011 following the completion of a Detailed We also signed the contracts necessary through horizontal development of Feasibility Study.
Dbiesko, located in to start work on the excavation of Slope 1 the Karvin Mine, and consists of two southern Poland, will be the first new mine scheduled to start in June 2012. principal projects: Project Karvin and to have been built in the Upper Silesian Project Orlov-Vhoda.
Coal Basin for twenty years.
A number of the senior operational management positions were filled during During the year, OKD representatives Project overview 2011 and we have employed a strong met with all relevant parties who would NWR holds a 50-year mining license, team of international consultants to work be affected by this activity to explain granted in 2008, to extract coal from alongside us on this landmark project.
the rationale behind the plans, and to Dbiesko.
We started preparing the Furthermore, we commenced detailed come to a common agreement.
We are site and putting together a team of both technological planning for the consecutive currently in the process of submitting international and regional experts during elements of the entire underground access the necessary paperwork for the projects 2011 and reached a key milestone in project, and are undertaking on going to the Czech Ministry of Environment the process with the ground-breaking engineering studies using both global in line with the Environmental Impacts in early December 2011. and local experts.
