50 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information Development projects Project Karvin Morcinek In autumn 2011, we entered into Morcinek, another development project negotiations with the City of Karvin in southern Poland, is a mothballed mine, regarding an extension to our mining which was last mined in the late 1990s activities in the area.
We aim to extract and is a longer-term project for NWR.
We more than 20 million tonnes of coking were granted a 12-year exploration licence coal from the area via the existing in 2003 for Morcinek 1, the mine, which has Karvin Mine.
since been closed and an additional six- -year licence for a second area, Morcinek 2, Project Orlov-Vhoda in 2008 in order to document the reserves.
In 2011, we announced our intention to We drilled one borehole in 2011 and are extract hard coal from the Orlov-Vhoda now drilling the second of four exploration district, a town in the Karvin region.
boreholes designed to delineate the area.
We are currently waiting on the conclusion of the submitted EIA as well as other Following completion of the drilling and regulatory approvals, which will allow us geological work we will apply to have the to extract approximately 10 million tonnes reserves included in Polands official list of coking coal from the site.
If this application is successful we will look to undertake an Shaft deepening projects environmental impact assessment with In December 2011 we began work on the a view to applying for a mining licence in deepening of one of the shafts at the SA the area.
section of the Karvin Mine.
Estimated to be completed by 2015, a further Frentt 312 metres will be excavated to bring the In September 2011 we announced our total depth of the shaft to approximately intention to further explore the hard 1,270 metres below the surface.
coal deposit at the Frentt Mine site.
This resource is not part of our current Additionally, preparations and tenders JORC reserve base and is estimated to be for the deepening of two shafts at the Lazy approximately 1.6 billion tonnes of coal.
section of the Karvin Mine are underway.
The exploration process is expected to We expect to reach a further 475 metres take four years to complete, after which underground, bringing the total depth to we will have a clear understanding of the approximately 1,346 metres.
The shaft mine and will decide on the feasibility deepening project is expected to take five of developing the resource.
years to complete from the start of the excavations.
The Frentt Mine site is located in the northeast of the Czech Republic.
The two Long-term projects: shafts at Frentt were built in the 1980s exploring new resources Morcinek but were never brought into operation.
and Frentt Under the Czech Mining Act, NWR is Our long-term projects are at the obliged to maintain and look after the preparation stage or are undergoing mine in order to prevent degradation, geological surveys.
This means that in particular of the technical conditions, resources in those locations are not dewatering and safety.
included in our JORC classification, and by surveying the resources we will be able to prepare more detailed Jn Fabin information on future activity.
