91 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information from the pledged shares before and after maturity of the date falling 102 months v compliance with material obligations the occurrence of a default under certain after the Starting Point of Credit as defined under the supply contract for the five finance documents: and iii the rights of in the ECA Facility.
The proceeds of the ECA longwall sets acquired: vi receipt, the Security Agent to enforce the pledge.
Facility are used to finance up to 85 per cent compliance and maintenance of necessary The proceeds of any such enforcement of the net purchase price of five longwall authorisations: vii compliance with laws must be applied in accordance with the sets acquired pursuant to POP 2010. including environmental laws : Intercreditor Agreement.
viii taxation: ix pari passu ranking of The interest rate on each advance under certain unsecured and unsubordinated OKD Share Pledge Agreement the ECA Facility for each interest period is claims: x maintenance of insurance: On 27 April 2010, NWR NV entered into EURIBOR and an applicable margin.
and xi access to the premises and records a share pledge agreement the OKD Share of NWR NV and OKD.
Pledge Agreement in order to create The ECA Facility is an unsecured obligation a Czech law pledge over the shares it owns of NWR NV and OKD as a co-obligor and The ECA Facility contains financial in OKD in favour of the Security Agent as is not guaranteed by any of NWR NVs covenants requiring NWR NV and OKD security for the Secured Obligations.
The ECA Facility is covered by ensure that at the end of any calculation a guarantee issued by the Federal Republic period: The OKD Share Pledge Agreement contains of Germany, represented by a consortium similar terms to the OKK Share Pledge led by Euler Hermes  ratio of total net debt of NWR Group Agreement, but in relation to a pledge over AG, for which NWR NV has paid a premium.
to EBITDA of the Group will not exceed the shares held by NWR NV in OKD.
an agreed multiple: and The ECA Facility contains certain negative the ratio of EBITDA of the Group to the NWR Karbonia Share Pledge Agreement undertakings that, subject to certain net interest payable by the Group will On 27 April 2010, NWR NV entered into customary and other agreed exceptions not exceed an agreed multiple.
a share pledge agreement the NWR and other than as specifically provided for Karbonia Share Pledge Agreement in under the ECA Facility, limit the ability of Amounts outstanding under the ECA order to create a Polish law pledge over the NWR NV, OKD and certain subsidiaries of Facility may be prepaid at any time after shares it owns in NWR Karbonia in favour NWR NV to, among other things: 29 June 2010 or, if earlier, the day on of the Security Agent as security for the which the amounts available under the Secured Obligations.
create or permit to subsist any ECA Facility to NWR NV and OKD is zero encumbrance or security interest over in whole or in part on 30 business days The NWR Karbonia Share Pledge Agreement any of its assets: notice subject to payment of a minimum contains identical terms to the OKK Share make any asset disposals: amount of EUR 5 million.
Pledge Agreement and OKD Share Pledge make any substantial change to the Agreement, but in relation to a pledge over general nature of its business: Subject to certain exceptions, there are the shares held by NWR NV in NWR Karbonia.
enter into transactions other than on an mandatory prepayments required to be arms length basis: made upon the occurrence of certain Export Credit Agency Facility amalgamate or merge: customary events such as a change of On 29 June 2009, NWR NV and OKD, as incur other additional debt: and control and the ECA Facility will also be a co-obligor, entered into the Export dispose of the five longwall sets automatically cancelled where the ECA Credit Agency Facility ECA Facility with, acquired or create any security over the guarantee is terminated or cancelled.
among others, Natixis, as facility agent five longwall sets acquired.
and documentation agent, KBC Bank The ECA Facility sets out certain events Deutschland AG, as ECA Agent, and esk The ECA Facility also contains certain of default, including non-payment, spoitelna, a. s. eskoslovensk obchodn affirmative undertakings, subject to breach of financial covenants, crossbanka, a. s. KBC Bank Deutschland AG, and certain qualifications, and including, default above certain agreed amounts, Natixis, as mandated lead arrangers, as but not limited to, undertakings related to insolvency events, certain insolvency amended on 3 August 2009.
The ECA Facility proceedings and the occurrence of provides for a term loan of approximately i supplying financial statements: events which, in the reasonable opinion EUR 141.5 million, which, following an ii notification of default: iii compliance of the Majority Lenders as defined in the amendment dated 21 June 2010, was with know your customer or similar ECA Facility, is reasonably likely to have available to be drawn until 30 November regulations: iv supplying information on a Material Adverse Effect as defined in 2010 and which is repayable in seventeen the performance of the supply contract for the ECA Facility.
semi-annual equal instalments, with a final the five longwall sets acquired:
