90 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information Material contracts Restricted Subsidiary: sell assets: engage than on an arms length basis: amalgamate the relative ranking of certain debts in transactions with affiliates: guarantee or merge: incur other additional debt or of NWR NV, OKD and certain of their any debt of NWR NV or any of its Restricted become a creditor itself.
NWR NV is also affiliates: Subsidiaries: consolidate, merge or sell all required to comply with certain financial the relevant ranking of security granted or substantially all of its assets.
ratios including the ratio of total net debt by NWR NV, OKD and certain of their to EBITDA, and the ratio of EBITDA to net affiliates: In connection with the issuance of the interest.
If the Group breaches any of its when payments can be made in respect Notes, NWR NV is redeeming all of the 2015 covenants or is unable to comply with the of that debt: Notes.
See the Offering Memorandum for ratios, it may be in default under its debt when enforcement action can be taken the 2015 Notes, section Use of Proceeds.
Amounts due under the RCF may in respect of that debt: then become immediately due and payable.
the effects of certain insolvency events: Revolving Credit Facility turnover provisions: and On 7 February 2011, NWR NV entered into The RCF also contains certain affirmative when security and guarantees will be a Revolving Credit Facility RCF with, undertakings, subject to certain released to permit an enforcement sale.
among others, esk spoitelna, a. s. qualifications, and including, but not facility agent, Citigroup Global Markets limited to, undertakings related to: The 2015 Notes are secured on a second Limited as documentation agent, esk i supplying financial statements: ranking basis by pledges over the shares of spoitelna, a. s. eskoslovensk obchodn ii notification of default: iii compliance OKD, OKK and NWR Karbonia.
banka, a. s. Citigroup Global Markets with know your customer or similar Limited, Komern banka, a. s. and ING regulations: iv receipt, compliance and OKK Share Pledge Agreement Bank N. V. Prague branch, as arrangers and maintenance of necessary authorisations: On 27 April 2010, NWR NV entered into original lenders.
The lenders under the RCF v compliance with laws including a share pledge agreement the OKK Share acceded to the Intercreditor Agreement by environmental laws : vi taxation: Pledge Agreement in order to create signing the RCF.
vii pari passu ranking of certain claims: a Czech law pledge over the shares it owns viii maintenance of insurance and in OKK in favour of Citibank N. A. London The RCF provides for a bank loan facility ix maintenance of books of NWR NV Branch, as security agent the Security of EUR 100 million, which will be available and its subsidiaries.
for three years after the date of signing.
Subject to certain The proceeds of the RCF will be used for exceptions, there are mandatory The pledge was granted as security for the general corporate purposes.
At any point prepayments required to be made upon payment of all obligations the Secured in time, a maximum of 12 loans can be the occurrence of certain customary Obligations of each of NWR NV, OKK, outstanding in any of the eligible funding events such as a change of control.
OKD and or NWR Karbonia towards the currencies, being Euro, Polish Zloty and Security Agent, including, in particular, Czech Koruna.
The RCF also provides for The RCF was fully drawn down in December liabilities under the 2018 Notes and NWR NV to pay certain fees including 2011. related guarantees, the 2015 Notes and a commitment fee, arrangement fees and the RCF.
Intercreditor agreement To establish the relative rights of certain The OKK Share Pledge Agreement provides The RCF is a secured obligation of NWR of the Groups creditors under its financing that the pledged shares are being kept in NV and benefits from the share pledges arrangements, NWR NV and OKD, OKK and the deposit of Citibank Europe Plc during over the shares in NWR NVs subsidiaries NWR Karbonia, as subsidiaries guarantors the tenure of the pledge in accordance and is guaranteed by them.
The RCF under certain of NWR NVs financing with Czech law and pursuant to a separate contains certain negative undertakings arrangements, entered into an intercreditor deposit agreement.
that, subject to certain customary and agreement the Intercreditor Agreement other agreed exceptions and other than with, among others, the Trustee for the NWR NV provides certain customary as specifically provided for under the 2015 Notes, the Trustee for the 2018 Notes, covenants that it shall not grant any other RCF, limit the ability of NWR NV and its certain hedging counter parties and the security over, or in any other way dispose subsidiaries to, among other things: create security agent under the Intercreditor of, the pledged shares.
or permit to subsist any encumbrance or Agreement.
security interest over any of its assets: The OKK Share Pledge Agreement also sets make any asset disposals: make any The Intercreditor Agreement sets out out: i restrictions on NWR NVs ability to substantial change to the general nature of amongst other things, the following exercise its rights in respect of the pledged its business: enter into transactions other provisions: shares: ii the application of proceeds
