27 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information locations at all times.
To ensure the Monthly targets such as the amount potential social or economic impact that best possible safety environment for extracted and the progress of development results from our actions.
employees, we continue to invest in works determine performance-related safety improvements each year by way remuneration.
Mining employees are Impact of mining equipment, protective gear compensated periodically according Inadequate response to local and regional renewal, investment and regular training.
to their performance: miners receive stakeholders needs and initiatives may Additionally, NWR utilises modern mining their performance bonuses monthly: adversely impact the Companys corporate techniques and rigorous processes to whilst management receive yearly bonus reputation.
Such an impact may influence prevent and manage those safety risks payments.
our ability to further develop our operations.
Mitigation Social and environmental Lack of qualified workforce NWR maintains meaningful and open risks Source relationships with local governments, NWR needs to attract and retain sufficient organisations and its trade unions.
skilled employees to meet its operational Environment-related risks We contribute to the development of the needs.
Source communities near our operations at all NWRs operations affect the environment levels and aim to minimise any possible Impact in many ways.
Inadequate preventative negative impact our operations may have If NWR is unable to attract and retain and remedial actions could lead to on these communities.
new skilled employees, as well as environmental damage being caused by maintaining appropriately trained current our activities and fossil fuels contribute Legal and regulation risks employees, operational inefficiencies and to greenhouse gas emissions during both a potential inability to fully capture the extraction and end use.
Licensing risks Companys growth potential could arise.
Source Impact The ability to obtain, prolong and renew Mitigation NWRs activities can cause material damage licenses and permits is a vital issue for us NWR aims to attract and retain a younger to communities near its operations, the and qualification for appropriate permits workforce through a number of initiatives surrounding environment and the broader may become more onerous in the future including liaison with local education ecology, as well as adversely impacting our depending on any regulatory changes.
institutes and programmes, apprentice corporate reputation.
Cross-border Czech Republic-Poland schemes and the hiring of college developments may increase the regulatory graduates.
The importance of training Mitigation burden upon the Company.
and developing its current employees Management of the environmental impact plays an integral part in NWRs operations, of operations and activities is critical to Impact with continuous training forming minimising damage to the environment.
Domestic and international laws and an embedded part of our corporate We apply best-practice operating and regulations and possible changes may culture.
Comprehensive training is also mining processes that reduce the therefore limit NWR in its activities or provided in conjunction with equipment effect on the environment.
where the Company cannot avoid some environmental impact, we continue to Mitigation In addition, employees are entitled focus on the reclamation of land affected We are in close contact with local, regional to receive a number of above-standard by our work, coordinating activities with and national government bodies in the benefits pursuant to the Collective local organisations and governments Czech Republic and Poland, and actively Agreement, signed by OKDs senior to ensure appropriate rehabilitation.
cooperate in developing a sustainable management, and the relevant trade Reference: Sustainability Report 2011. business model that takes into account the unions for the period 20102012. needs and requirements of the regions in The main benefits provided to mining Impact on communities which we operate.
NWR monitors political, employees include contributions to Source regulatory and social developments closely supplementary pensions, insurance NWR is the third largest private employer and maintains regular dialogue with schemes, contributions to life insurance in the Czech Republic and interacts local, regional and national governments and rehabilitation care, as well as a range directly with local stakeholders on to ensure compliance with all relevant of performance and loyalty-related bonus a number of levels.
Consequently, there current and future laws and regulations arrangements.
is a heightened sensitivity locally to any in the industry.
New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Earnings per share EUR per A share Dividend per share EUR per A share Financial 2008 2009 2010 2011 2008 2009 2010 2011 2 0.5 Review 0.47 1.5 0.4 0.43 1.33 1 0.3 EBITDA margin 0.86 0.5 0.2 0.23 0.47 0 0.1 0.25 0.00 -0.5 0 Highlights Revenues of EUR 1.6 billion EBITDA of EUR 454 million Net profit of EUR 130 million Basic EPS of EUR 0.47 Proposed final dividend of EUR 0.07 per A share, bringing full year dividend to EUR 0.23 Strong balance sheet: EUR 537 million of cash and net debt of EUR 391 million with no significant short-term debt maturities Photo: The coal has passed through the preparation plant process, and the cargo is ready for distribution to our customers, who are in close proximity to our operations.
