74 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information Corporate Governance The ARMC receives regular reports from the year 2011 focused on the evaluation reviewing the scope of the external the Real Estate Committee and the of financial reporting risks and their auditors work: Safety, Health and Sustainability impact, accounting issues and other assessing the process for the interim Committee formerly the Health, Safety areas specific to the Group, including review: and and Environment Committee on their the UK redomiciliation, Group financing reviewing and approving the annual activities to ensure adequate oversight structure, impairments for property, audit plan.
by the ARMC of all key Group risks.
plant and equipment, inventories, tax, The ARMC also regularly receives restoration, mining damages and closure The ARMC also monitors the provision of performance updates, treasury reports provisions, hedge accounting, employee non-audit services by the external auditor and information on the Companys legal benefits and share-based payments.
In to NWR and its subsidiaries and the related affairs, M&A transactions, Group tax addition, every year the external auditor fees, in order to preserve the independence position and insurance policies as well conducts a preliminary assessment of of the external auditor.
In 2011, the external as the Annual Report.
risks impacting the financial statements, auditor provided transaction advice in including fraud risks, for the purposes of connection with the UK redomiciliation, The ARMC reports to the Board on planning and scoping audit procedures general accounting advice including initial its discussions and submits its and financial reporting.
accounts of NWR and certain valuation recommendations to the Board for services required by statute in the UK.
As of November 2011, the The ARMC is also responsible for reviewing the Czech Republic, the external auditor ARMC is also authorised to approve the related party transactions against internal assisted with sustainability reporting and Companys quarterly and half yearly policies and procedures.
Related party training relating to employee benefits.
transactions are audited by the external Being informed of these services, the auditor.
These typically include transactions ARMC concluded that the independence of Financial policies between the Real Estate Division and the the external auditor was safe-guarded and At NWR level, on a consolidated basis, Mining Division, transactions between Group the external auditor is taking measures to the financial statements are produced entities and related party transactions of preserve this independance.
under IFRS as adopted by the EU whilst the Board members of the individual Group the subsidiaries of NWR produce their entities.
The external auditor did not identify Management responses to issues raised stand-alone accounts in accordance any significant issues.
are discussed with the Chief Financial with the relevant applicable accounting Officer.
The reviews of the ARMC confirmed standards.
Further to a recommendation The ARMC assesses the effectiveness, that all significant matters had been of the ARMC, Group financial policies objectivity and independence of the satisfactorily resolved in 2011. and procedures have been consolidated external auditor, taking into consideration to enable adequate oversight of internal UK professional regulatory requirements, Following this process, the ARMC control over financial reporting and the and has primary responsibility for making recommended to that the Board that it budgeting process.
recommendations to the Board, for it to puts to the shareholders for their approval put to the shareholders for their approval at the AGM of the Company on 26 April External audit at the AGM, relating to the appointment, 2012 the appointment of KPMG Audit Plc NWR is a company incorporated in England reappointment and removal of the external as the external auditor.
and Wales, but its headquarters are in the auditor.
The ARMC is responsible for Netherlands and its largest operations ensuring that the rotation of the external Provision of information to auditors: are located in the Czech Republic and audit engagement partner is carried out Each Director in office at the date the increasingly also Poland, therefore the in compliance with best practice and Annual Report is approved, confirm that: English, Dutch, Czech and Polish offices applicable regulation.
Following the UK of the external auditor, as at 31 December redomiciliation, in May 2011 a rotation of a so far as the Director is aware, there is 2011 KPMG Audit Plc, must be highly the partners within the external auditor no relevant audit information of which involved in the auditing process.
the Companys auditors are unaware: for two meetings held in March, the and representatives of the external auditor The ARMCs assessment of the external b he has taken all the steps that he ought attended all meetings of the ARMC.
auditor includes: to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant The external auditor provides the ARMC reviewing and approving the terms of audit information and to establish that with regular status reports on its audit engagement and remuneration of the the Companys auditors are aware of work based on the audit plan which for external auditor: that information.
