79 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information developing and interpreting the The REC further reviewed, on a regular Compliance is monitored by the REC Divisional Policy Statements, proposing basis, profit and loss accounts of the Real through monthly reports received from amendments, providing guidance Estate Division.
the Company Secretary who has been on provisions and overseeing its designated to act as an intermediary implementation: and The REC regularly reported to the Board between the REC, NWR and its overseeing the compliance of NWRs and the ARMC on its activities and subsidiaries.
subsidiaries with the Divisional Policy findings.
The REC is of the opinion that it has carried Divisional Policy Statements out all the responsibilities set out in the For the responsibilities of the Real The Divisional Policy Statements were RECs charter.
Estate Committee of NWR NV, please refer adopted by the Board on 8 April 2011 with to page 58 of the 2010 Annual Report of effect from 6 May 2011 and are intended The Divisional Policy Statements NWR NV.
to mirror Divisional Policy Statements are available on NWRs website at adopted by the board of NWR NV.
Activities undertaken during the year refer to the Mining Division and the Real During 2011, the REC met a total of five Estate Division that were created within Nomination Committee Report times.
NWRs Chief Financial Officer the Group on 31 December 2007.
In connection with the successful UK attended all meetings.
The REC met twice redomiciliation of NWR NV and to comply in January and February as a committee The Divisional Policy Statements have with the UK Corporate Governance Code of NWR NV and three times in May, August been prepared and adopted on the basis requirements and market practice, the and November as a committee of the that the Mining Division has the right to Board resolved on 8 April 2011, with Company, in a joint meeting with the Real maintain: i the undisturbed continuation effect as of 6 May 2011, to establish Estate Committee of NWR NV.
of its mining, coking and related a Nomination Committee the NC.
operations that are conducted on certain On 8 April 2011, the Board also adopted In line with its responsibility for of the assets of the Real Estate Division: the NC charter and appointed the NC supervising transactions between the and ii unrestricted access to such assets members and chairman.
Mining Division and the Real Estate of the Real Estate Division in connection Division, the REC continued to monitor with such mining, coking and related Nomination Committee members real estate transactions of NWRs core operations.
The members are appointed by the Board operations, including transactions with and include Executive and Non-Executive third parties for example the swap of the The Divisions operate separately for Directors: real estate assets with local municipality accounting and reporting purposes.
or sale of real estate to third parties.
Under the Divisional Policy Statements, Bessel Kok Chairman In 2011, all proposed transfers were OKD and the other subsidiaries of NWR Mike Salamon approved by the Board as well as by the carry out the day-to-day operations of the Barry Rourke holder of the B Shares.
To assist the Real Estate Division.
In carrying out such REC, the core operations submit monthly day-to-day operations, they are required Main responsibilities reports, which provide details on any such to seek the prior approval of the Board, The main functions of the NC are: transactions.
after the REC has provided its advice to the Board, when proposing to enter into reviewing the structure, size The REC is notified of all transactions transactions which: i are not considered and composition including the internal or with third parties in which by the Board to be in the ordinary course skills, knowledge, experience and qualified valuers are involved, in order of business of the Real Estate Division: diversity of the Board and making to facilitate oversight by the REC of such or ii relate to assets of the Real Estate recommendations to the Board with transactions.
Division, which have a book value of regard to any changes: 5 per cent or more of the total book value making recommendations to the Board In a response to transfers reviewed by the of the assets of the Real Estate Division.
concerning succession planning for REC in the first half of 2011, the REC decided both Executive and Non-Executive to clarify the approval process so that the The Divisional Policy Statements as Directors and in particular for the key impact on both the Mining and Real Estate well as the Book of Procedures dealing roles of the Chairman of the Board and Divisions is more thoroughly explained and with the accounting aspects of the the chief executive officer and senior transactions are approved in advance by the Divisional Policy Statements, have been managers of the Group: CEO of the relevant core operation.
implemented by NWRs core operations.
