14 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information Business model: how NWR creates value Opel Volkswagen Wroclaw Dresden Volkswagen Opel Krakw Bosch Man Prague Ostrava Bosch U. S. Steel Nrnberg Koice EZ Group KIA Audi BMW PSA Peugeot Citron Bratislava Verbund Linz Vienna Mnich voestalpline Gyr Budapest Opel Salzburg Audi All displayed logos are protected by copyright and are used by NWR with specific consent of the owners.
NWR does not necessarily have a contractual relationship with the mentioned companies.
Some of the companies are end users of coal related products.
The locations of the logos and company names displayed on the map above do not represent the exact location of the companies involved.
We operate in a landlocked region Regional GDP CAGR for 20022011 with a strong manufacturing base.
5 per cent compared to 1.1 per cent 1 1 in the Eurozone.
Strong regional dynamics and Regional leadership above-average industrial growth in the Car production in the Czech Republic to capitalise on the region is coupled with a shortage of rose by 12 per cent in 2011 2 locally produced coking and thermal and 13 per cent in Slovakia.
location of our mines coal.
Reference: Strategic context in and product demand which NWR operates page 18 onwards.
Steel use per capita in Poland reached 253 kg in 2010 which is 14 per cent 3 The proximity to our customers means below EU-27 average.
that we offer low landed costs compared to both Polish and overseas producers.
Over 90 per cent of electricity in Poland 4 is from coal.
145 million consumers in the CEE region.
8.9 million vehicles produced 1 in Germany, Czech Republic, Poland, Source: Bloomberg 2 5 Source: Czech Statistical Office Slovakia and Austria in 2011.
3 Source: World Steel Association 4 Source: IEA 5 Source: NWR estimate 15 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information Early investment in the latest technology current mines, and through organic has meant that NWR is now producing expansion options reference: Growth 2 coal from areas and at depths that were pages 2223: Development projects page previously considered very difficult to 48 onwards, Case Study Access to the Competitive mine, all whilst maintaining a strong Dbiesko Mine page 51. advantage safety record and keeping costs under control.
Our decision to pursue POP 2010 We are committed to improving efficiency differentiates us from other regional at our operations on an ongoing basis producers.
through our Continuous Improvement Programme, which provides employees NWR is a trusted supplier to the local with the opportunity to volunteer their steel plants and energy producers, with ideas for increasing safety at work and long-term stable relationships.
delivering operational savings in return for financial reward reference: Coal page Understanding of and support for our 36 onwards.
commercial aspirations are fundamental to our licence to operate.
Therefore, We see strong corporate governance and we systematically build and cultivate transparent communication of financial relationships with municipal authorities, and operational metrics as essential to our relevant trade unions, regulatory agencies, long-term success.
As the first publicly and other governing bodies in the region.
owned coal miner in the Upper Silesian Coal Basin NWR aims to set a regional standard Our focus on maintaining a strong health reference: Corporate Governance page 60: and safety record is underpinned by Sustainability page 54 onwards.
1, a long-term positive trend in our LTIFR 1 setting the standard amongst our Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate represents the number of reportable injuries causing at regional peers reference: KPIs page 17: least three days of absence per million hours Sustainability page 54 onwards.
2 Full name: Joint Ore Reserves Committee.
The Group currently uses the JORC system to NWR currently has 385 million tonnes of report reserves.
The Group employs a certified 2 JORC reserves.
We aim to develop our geologist who prepares the reserve numbers reserve base from our existing footprint and is the designated Competent Person' as defined by the JORC code.
by accessing deeper coal seams at our We see the ability to consolidate, studies are conducted for all organic modernise and simplify our operations projects.
3 as fundamental to long-term value creation.
We have successfully We identify the principal risks and A competitively streamlined the business by investing uncertainties, that could have run business in our core assets, enhancing our a financial, operational or reputational capital structure, as well as working impact on NWR, and take necessary practices, and overall corporate culture.
steps to mitigate these risks reference: Risk management at NWR We closely monitor the competitive page 24 onwards.
regional environment in order to ensure our business remains attractive in terms NWR has a strong financial position of product specification and pricing which enables it to invest in its throughout the cycle.
operations through the economic cycle and align returns with the long-term We apply a disciplined approach to all reward profile of developing new mines growth opportunities both organic and reference: Financial Review page 30 by acquisition.
