38 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information Coal for the 2011 calendar year was EUR 70 per Coal Basin underpins the long-term Outlook tonne, an 11 per cent increase excluding prospects of our mining operations in the The principal challenges for our mining the impact of reclassification of PCI coking region.
Our total JORC reserves was operations in the coming year and beyond coal.
385 million tonnes as at 1 January 2012. are the market environment in which we operate, and the nature of our The average price agreed for thermal coal Efficiency enhancement deposits.
As a result, our priority remains sales for the 2012 calendar year is A number of further steps have been safety first, coupled with productivity EUR 74 per tonne, an 11 per cent increase taken to continue to improve efficiency improvements.
compared to the 2011 average realised during the year.
The Continuous price and reflects strong regional demand Improvement Programme and the In relation to productivity improvements, for thermal coal as a source of power PERSPective 2015 PERSP 2015 initiative further exploration of our existing generation.
This average price is based have been central to improving production mining areas is central to sustaining our on expected calender year 2012 mix of performance and cost control.
production volumes and quality mix over 82 per cent thermal coal and 18 per cent PERSP 2015 refers to a range of measures time as the reserves are depleted.
to maximise the utilisation of the POP The principal projects we are currently 2010 mining technology acquired in working on include the expansion of Costs & revenues 20082009, in turn improving productivity the Karvin Mine to access adjacent Revenues for the coal segment increased whilst still replacing older production coal reserves.
Another ongoing project by 11 per cent to EUR 1,509 million mainly equipment as part of a regular is the gateroad development between due to higher realised prices for both replacement cycle.
Throughout 2011 the Karvin and Darkov Mines, which is coking and thermal coal, and increased we allocated financial and management designed to facilitate the transportation thermal coal sales volumes.
resources to the Continuous Improvement of coal and other materials underground.
Programme, the aim of which is to In addition to the installation of new Main operating expenses for the coal encourage the submission by employees central air conditioning equipment at the segment increased by 13 per cent of innovative ideas and suggestions Karvin Mine, we also continue to replace excluding the impact of currency which help promote efficiency and safety out-dated gateroad equipment with movements to EUR 1,017 million.
measures, as well as achieving additional modern technology as part of the standard This increase was mainly driven by cost savings which in 2011 amounted replacement cycle.
continuing mine development, as well to approximately EUR 12 million.
as higher input prices of energy and The programme also exemplifies the During the second half of the year, we steel, scheduled maintenance of mining co-operation between the Company and announced our intention to explore the equipment and increased costs for its employees.
This process will take contractors and personnel.
four years to complete, after which we will Further enhancement to our be in a stronger position to outline Mining costs per tonne, which do not infrastructure is the focus of the next the nature and quality of this reserve base, include the cost of transportation, rose stage of improvements.
This activity and thereafter, we will decide on the by 12 per cent excluding FX fluctuations relates to the mining operations as well feasibility of developing the resource to EUR 82 tonne mainly due to the cash as to areas including the supply and safely.
cost inflation detailed above, as well as handling of material at both the surface 2 per cent decrease in production.
At the end of 2011 NWR announced the official ground breaking at the Dbiesko The coal segment generated EBITDA of Gate road development between the Mine in southern Poland: we expect to first EUR 483 million, a 10 per cent increase on Darkov and Karvin Mines coal out of the deposit by 2017.
The EBITDA margin remained flat A connecting gate road development details on our growth projects please refer at 32 per cent and EBITDA per tonne of was initiated between the Darkov Mine to pages 22 and 23. production was EUR 43, up 12 per cent from and the Karvin Mine during spring 2011.
The total coal production per coal Completion of the project, including the segment employee including contractors installation of belt haulage systems Klaus-Dieter Beck reached 666 tonnes of coal in 2011. to facilitate the transportation of coal Executive Director of NWR, Chief Executive and other materials underground is Officer of OKD and Chairman of the Board Reserves scheduled for the second half of 2013 of Directors of OKD One of the largest, richest sources of hard and will lead to the optimisation of OKDs coal in Central Europe, the Upper Silesian preparation plant capability.
