94 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information Remuneration Report This Remuneration Report has been drawn up in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and the UK Financial Services Authority Listing Rules.
The Remuneration Report, prepared by the Remuneration Committee, explains the main principles and rules regarding the remuneration of the Directors of the Company and also provides details of Directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2011.
This report will be subject to a shareholder vote at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Information not subject to audit Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Zdenk Bakala and the other members are Hans-Jrg Rudloff and Bessel Kok, all of whom are Non-Executive Directors.
Provision D. 2.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code recommends that the Remuneration Committee should be comprised entirely of independent non-executive directors.
The Company does not comply with this provision as the Remuneration Committee is chaired by Zdenk Bakala, who the Board does not consider to be independent.
However, the Board regards Mr. Bakalas membership of the Remuneration Committee as critical to the further alignment of directors remuneration with shareholder interests.
Following the UK redomiciliation, the Remuneration Committee sets the remuneration for the Executive Directors, the Chairman of the Board and the Groups senior managers and advises the Board in relation to its responsibilities with respect to the remuneration of the Non-Executives Directors.
For more information please see the Remuneration Committee Report on page 7576.
During the year, the Remuneration Committee was not advised by any independent counsel.
Remuneration Policy The Board of Directors adopted the compensation manual on 8 April 2011 with effect from 6 May 2011.
The compensation manual records the remuneration policy of the Company, outlines principles regarding remuneration at senior and key positions within the NWR Group and provides the framework for the Board and the Remuneration Committee in this area.
Due to the UK redomiciliation, the compensation manual has been amended so that it reflects the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, in particular the new responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee.
The objective of the remuneration policy is to attract, retain and motivate talented executives by providing a well-balanced and appropriate remuneration package.
The remuneration policy aims to ensure that a competitive remuneration package for the Executive Directors is maintained and benchmarked against other multinational companies based in Europe and operating in global markets.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the remuneration policy remains appropriate for 2012.
In order to align executive performance with shareholder value, a significant part of the remuneration of Executive Directors is linked not only to individual performance but also to the Groups performance.
The Remuneration Committee sets their contractual terms, salary, bonuses and other benefits of the Executive Directors.
The remuneration policy also sets out the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors, as described further below.
The Board has delegated its powers and responsibilities to certain authorised officers with respect to the remuneration of senior managers and key employees of the Group, who shall decide on salary, bonuses and other benefits of such managers and key employees.
Remuneration of Executive Directors In 2011 as in previous years, the remuneration package for Executive Directors included a significant variable element in the form of a cash bonus incentive and a long-term incentive in the form of share grants and stock option grants.
The Remuneration Committee ensured that an appropriate balance between the fixed and performance-related elements of executive remuneration was maintained.
The Remuneration Committee is also sensitive to pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group when determining the remuneration of the Executive Directors.
As a part of its remuneration policy for Executive Directors, the Company is using the Deferred Bonus Plan implemented throughout the Group and fully effective since January 2011, as described in more detail below.
Base salary To ensure remuneration remains effective in supporting the Groups business objectives, the Remuneration Committee annually reviews 95 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information base salary levels for Executive Directors, taking into account external benchmarks.
When setting salary levels, the Remuneration Committee takes into consideration individual performance, Group performance and changes in individual responsibilities.
Bonus Executive Directors may be awarded cash bonuses upon the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
The value of the cash bonus is determined by the Remuneration Committee following evaluation of stretching financial and non-financial benchmarks, such as achievement of the approved budget in particular KPIs, such as EBITDA, production thresholds and revenues and individual contribution and achievement of each Executive Director.
Stock option plan for the Chairman of the Board On 1 September 2008, Mr. Salamon was awarded share options equal to 0.5 per cent of NWR NVs A share capital as per the date of grant.
Each share option gave Mr. Salamon the right to acquire one NWR NV A share on the vesting date.
Following the UK redomiciliation, NWR and Mr. Salamon have amended the options granted to Mr. Salamon so that they now relate to the A Shares of the Company.
The exercise price per option is EUR 0.01.
The option award will enable Mr. Salamon to ultimately acquire up to 0.5 per cent of NWRs share capital by 1 September 2012, provided that: i he remains an executive member of the Board: and ii any other conditions for vesting have been met.
The options vest over a period of five years so that 20 per cent of the total awarded options vest annually on each anniversary of 1 September 2008, when the initial 263,800 options over NWR NVs A shares vested.
The number of options vesting depends on NWRs share capital on 1 September of that year.
Mr. Salamon shall be compensated, in options, for any shortfall on each anniversary.
Share awards plan for the Chief Executive Officer of OKD Mr. Beck received from OKD and its affiliates, at the cost of OKD, 250,045 A shares of NWR NV, or cash in lieu of shares, for each full year of his three-year term ending on 30 June 2010.
Since Mr. Beck and OKD have agreed to extend Mr. Becks employment term beyond the initial three years, his new employment agreement provides that he is entitled to receive 250,045 A Shares of NWR for each full year of the term beyond the initial three years up to a maximum of 1,250,225 A Shares of NWR.
Deferred Bonus Plan The Group operates a deferred bonus plan the Deferred Bonus Plan as a long-term incentive and motivation instrument for Executive Directors as well as for senior managers and key employees of the Group.
The Deferred Bonus Plan was adopted by the Board on 8 April 2011 with effect from 6 May 2011 and its terms are substantially similar to the terms of a deferred bonus plan operated by NWR NV before the UK redomiciliation.
The deferred bonus plan operated by NWR NV was modified so that all outstanding awards over the A shares of NWR NV became awards of NWR A Shares and the board of NWR NV also resolved that no new awards will be granted under that plan.
Eligibility Executive Directors, senior managers and key employees of the Group are eligible to participate in the Deferred Bonus Plan subject to approval of their participation by the Remuneration Committee.
Annual Bonus and Deferred Bonus Award An annual bonus opportunity will be set as a percentage of base salary.
In line with standard practice, Executive Directors would need to oversee the Companys achievement of at least 80 per cent of the annual EBITDA target for a bonus to be payable.
This condition aims to provide a strong connection between business imperative and performance.
If this condition is met the annual bonus for Executive Directors may be up to 250 per cent of their annual salary on the basis of performance evaluation based on the certain performance criteria.
The EBITDA target does not apply to participants who are not Executive Directors or Board members of any Group company.
For other participants the maximum bonus amount is set at either 200 or 300 per cent of the individuals annual salary depending on the position held.
Performance will be measured against a balanced scorecard, providing a shared framework within which specific performance criteria shall be set relevant to the participant and his or her area of responsibility, which may include one or more of EBITDA, CAPEX, cost control, production and or safety record.
Performance criteria for the Executive Directors are set by the Remuneration Committee and for other participants these criteria are set by the respective authorised officers.
The Remuneration Committee also sets the Groupwide performance criteria for all participants.
Bonus eligibility will be determined using annual results and the Remuneration Committee shall decide on the actual amount of bonus payable to the Executive Directors.
50 per cent of the annual bonus award will be payable in cash and 50 per cent will be deferred into A Shares for a period of three years.
The maximum number of A Shares offered under the Deferred Bonus Plan to an Executive Director 96 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information Remuneration Report in one bonus year may not exceed 250,000 A Shares.
In relation to other participants the percentage split is 70 per cent cash and 30 per cent deferred into A Shares for a period of three years, with the actual amount of the bonus being decided by the authorised officers with the Remuneration Committee approving only the total volume of the deferred A Shares.
The number of A Shares granted will be derived using the average of opening prices of an A Share as reported by the London Stock Exchange on each of the five business days preceding and including the date of grant.
Ad hoc grants The Deferred Bonus Plan allows ad hoc grants of A Shares, although the use of such grants should be minimised.
The value of any ad hoc grant shall not exceed 250 per cent of annual salary in each case in each financial year.
Vesting After a period of three years from the date of deferral, the deferred bonus award will vest.
The A Shares will be released to the participant provided that the participant is still employed by the Group or on the condition that the participant is a good leaver, where such person left NWR due to death, retirement at contractual retirement age, early retirement, maternity leave, authorised interim leave, leave of absence due to illness or personal reasons, transfers to an associated company or such other reasons as the Remuneration Committee may approve.
No dividend will be paid out on the deferred shares during the deferral period.
Put option Each participant will have a put option, which will give the participant a put at market price at the time the A Shares are released to enable such individual to benefit from future price increase, but protect such individual from any potential reduction in value that has already been earned.
The period to exercise the put option will be limited to three years and the put option will cease to exist if the participant leaves the Group.
Adjustment and clawback provisions If the Remuneration Committee believes that extraordinary circumstances have occurred during the period in which the predetermined performance criteria have been or should have been achieved, which lead to an unfair result with respect to the deferred bonus amounts awarded, the Remuneration Committee retains the discretionary power to adjust the value of the deferred bonus amounts as appropriate.
If any variable remuneration, be it in the form of cash or A Shares, has been awarded on the basis of incorrect financial or other data, the Board is entitled to recover such remuneration from the participant.
This right of recovery exists irrespective of whether the participant has been responsible for the incorrect financial or other data or was aware or should have been aware of the inaccuracy.
The right of recovery expires upon vesting.
Termination If a participant ceases to be employed within the NWR Group before vesting, in particular due to death, retirement at contractual retirement age, early retirement, maternity leave, authorised interim leave, leave of absence, due to illness or personal reasons, transfers to an associated company or such other reason the Remuneration Committee may approve a good leaver, such person will be entitled to receive the deferred A Shares, unless the Remuneration Committee decides otherwise.
Participants leaving employment by the Group for other reasons such persons being bad leavers will lose their entitlement to the deferred A Shares.
Changes in share capital In the event of any capitalisation, consolidation, sub-division or reduction of the share capital and in respect of any discount element in any rights issue or any other variation in the share capital of NWR, the deferred A Shares may be varied in such manner as the Remuneration Committee shall determine.
Change in control Upon a change in control of the Group, deferred shares will vest on a time pro-rated basis unless the Remuneration Committee decides that this is inappropriate given the individuals overall performance.
Vested A Shares shall be issued or delivered, as the case may be, as soon as is practicable.
Amendments The Board may at any time at its sole discretion alter the Deferred Bonus Plan or propose to discontinue it.
Otherwise, the Remuneration Committee may, at its sole discretion, determine the vesting or cancellation of the deferred bonus award in accordance with principles of reasonableness and fairness and in exceptional circumstances.
97 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information Stock option plan for Executive Directors, senior management and key employees Due to the implementation of the Deferred Bonus Plan, the stock option plan of NWR NV the Stock Option Plan was discontinued as of 31 December 2010 and hence no options were granted in 2011.
The Stock Option Plan continues only in relation to options already granted.
In connection with the UK redomiciliation, NWR has granted equivalent rollover options over NWR A Shares to the Executive Directors, senior managers and key employees who participated in the Stock Option Plan.
These rollover options continue on the same terms and conditions as applied to the options granted originally under the Stock Option Plan, with appropriate adjustments.
Eligibility Executive Directors, senior managers and key employees of the Group were eligible to participate in the Stock Option Plan.
Individual eligibility was determined by the Board of NWR NV upon the recommendation of its remuneration committee.
Grant of options The maximum number of NWR NV A shares over which options might have been granted under the Stock Option Plan could not exceed three per cent of the issued A share capital of NWR NV at the time of its initial public offer the IPO.
Option holders were not required to pay for the grant of an option.
Individual limits were dependent on the proportion of annual salary of the participants applied to the grant of options for more details please see page 73 of 2010 Annual Report of NWR NV.
As at 31 December 2011, the total number of options granted over NWR A Shares excluding options of holders who had left the Group and who have not obtained a good leaver exemption was 5,512,468 and their total monetary value was GBP 11,152,796 approx.
EUR 13,043,610, calculated on the Black-Scholes model.
Exercise price The exercise price of options granted upon completion of the IPO in May 2008 is GBP 13.25.
The exercise price of options granted in 2009 is GBP 2.8285 and the exercise price of options granted in 2010 is GBP 7.128.
Exercise of options Subject to certain conditions, the options vest over a three year period.
For each year during the vesting period, one third of the granted options become eligible for vesting.
50 per cent of the stock options vest if the threshold performance is achieved, and 100 per cent of the stock options vest if the target performance is achieved.
Vesting between threshold and target is on a straight-line basis.
For Executive Directors and certain members of senior management and key employees, EBITDA threshold and target performance were used for vesting purposes.
For other senior management and key employees of the Group, production and cost control thresholds and targets were set, as relevant to the participant and such participants area of responsibility.
Options can be exercised after three years from the vesting date.
Options which have not been exercised will normally lapse on the eighth anniversary of their grant.
Options may, however, be exercised early under certain circumstances, including certain terminations of employment and in the event of a takeover change of control, scheme of arrangement or winding up.
Options are not transferable and may only be exercised by the persons to whom they are granted.
No options were exercised under the Stock Option Plan during 2011.
Issues of A Shares and variation in share capital A Shares issued in a single year of options will rank equally with A Shares in issue at that time, except in respect of rights arising by reference to a prior record date.
Options may be adjusted following certain variations in the share capital of the Group, including a capitalisation or rights issue, subdivision or consolidation of share capital.
For more details about the Stock Option Plan and its terms and conditions, please see pages 72 and 73 of the 2010 Annual Report of NWR NV.
Other benefits In addition to the salary, bonus and share-based incentives, additional non-cash benefits may be provided by the Group to Executive Directors, such as relocation allowances, accommodation allowances, school fees, medical insurance and company car arrangements.
The total annual value of the non-cash benefits provided may not exceed EUR 300,000 for each individual Executive Director.
These do not include pension benefits as the Group does not operate any pension schemes on behalf of, or for the benefit of, its Directors.
