71 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information a cross-directorship or has any significant terminated on the occurrence of any of the Board their know-how in relation to links with other Directors through events listed in Article 81 of the Articles of the international mining industry, its involvement in other companies or Association.
The Company, by an ordinary trends including safety and health and bodies where these cross-directorships resolution, may, in accordance with its developments.
They were supported by or links would materially interfere with Articles of Association, remove any Director the COO and wide range of international the Directors objective, unfettered or from office and elect another person in experts whose advice they regularly independent judgment or ability to act in place of the Director so removed.
On top of their technical and the best interests of NWR, holds directly operational knowledge, both gentlemen or indirectly more than 10 per cent of the In accordance with the UK Corporate continuously proved to be excellent and A Shares or B Shares, or is a member of Governance Code, Directors are intend to respected leaders in all other areas of the the management or supervisory board or be subject to annual re-elections.
In any Groups and OKDs business respectively.
senior management of an entity, which holds case, all Directors except for Mr. Mende directly or indirectly at least 10 per cent of who resigned effective from 31 January Mr. Jelnek, as CFO, continued to be on the A Shares or B Shares.
2012 will retire at the forthcoming Annual top of the financing of the Group and General Meeting on 26 April 2012 and will has contributed his extensive working Contrary to provision B.
1.2 of the UK offer themselves for re-election.
knowledge of and experience within the Corporate Governance Code, less than international financial and capital markets half the Board, excluding the Chairman, To assist with the Directors appointment and knowledge of their practical impact qualify as Independent Non-Executive and re-appointment, NWR established on the business of the Group.
However, the Board believes that a Nomination Committee, which is regular involvement with the broad range of the current proportion of the Independent responsible for identifying suitable investors, he delivered to the Board market Non-Executive Directors is adequate candidates for appointments to the feedback on the Groups performance.
given the ownership structure of the position of Director and evaluating the Group.
Moreover, the quality, expertise balance of skills, knowledge, experience As experienced investors and shareholders and deployment of these Directors ensure and diversity of members of the Board.
representatives, Messrs. Bakala and Kadas Board effectiveness.
The Independent Following evaluation by the Nomination provided the Board with their mergers Non-Executive Directors are entrusted with Committee, the Board was satisfied and acquisitions know-how and valuable the key tasks that require independence: that throughout 2011 each Directors insights into shareholders requirements, staffing of the Audit and Risk Management performance continued to be effective in particular on further development Committee, which ensures the integrity of and that each Director continued to projects, strategy and remuneration, financial reporting and monitors the audit demonstrate commitment to the role, allowing alignment of the Board with the functions as well as potential conflicts of and recommends the re-election of the shareholders interests.
interest, and staffing of the Real Estate Directors standing for re-election at the Committee, which protects the interests of forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
To cover the cross-border nature of the holders of A Shares and B Shares.
For more details on the expertise and Groups business and potential future experience of the Directors, please see growth opportunities, Mr. Telika has Director appointment and re-appointment Board expertise below.
provided his knowledge of EU affairs and Both the Company by ordinary resolution the international political scene and Mr. and the Directors have the power at any Board expertise Zhevago contributed with comparative time to elect any person to be a Director, The Board has the appropriate skills and knowledge of the Ukrainian coal market.
but the number of Directors shall not experience necessary to discharge its exceed the maximum number fixed by the functions.
Executive and Non-Executive As Senior Independent Director, Articles of Association of the Company.
Any Directors have the experience required Mr. Kok capitalized on his top managerial person so appointed by the Directors shall to contribute meaningfully to the Boards experience and knowledge of the CEE retire at the next Annual General Meeting deliberations and resolutions, including market, and brought to the Board an and shall then be eligible for election by international operational and financial independent view on the situation in the shareholders.
Under the Articles of experience, knowledge of the mining sector the region in which the Group operates.
Association each Director shall retire at and capital markets, as well as a command As Chairman of the Audit and Risk the Annual General Meeting held in the of health, safety and sustainability issues.
Management Committee, together with fourth calendar year following the year in the other Independent Directors, Messrs. which he was elected or at such earlier Messrs. Salamon and Beck, as widely Rudloff, Schuit and Rourke, they brought Annual General Meeting as the Directors recognised and experienced professionals to the Board strong independent control of may decide.
The office of a director shall be in the mining sector brought to the financial reporting and risk management.
