69 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information Decisions of the Board regarding a major well as the board of NWR NV and was its commitment to combat corruption, change in the identity or character of the approved by both.
In connection with the bribery and fraud.
The Business Integrity Company shall be subject to the approval of UK redomiciliation, NWR has replicated Policy has been implemented across the the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders.
to the extent possible the corporate Group and is being followed by a set of governance principles as well as the measures, such as changes to contract The Board manages the Mining Division committees charters of NWR NV.
Changes documentation, due diligence, trainings and the Real Estate Division.
Day-to-day corresponding to the UK Corporate and practical guidelines.
operational decisions relating to these Governance Code and best practice in the divisions are taken by NWRs employees UK have been made, affecting in particular Following the UK reincorporation, the and overseen by the Board as described in the Compensation Manual including the Board decided to initiate a squeeze out more detail in the report of the Real Estate Remuneration Policy and the charter process with respect to the minority Committee on page 78. of the Remuneration Committee and shareholdings in NWR NV.
At the date prompting the establishment of the of this Annual Report, the squeeze out Main activities of the Board in 2011 new Nomination Committee.
Following the Companys incorporation NWR NV, the Company did not establish in March 2011, the Board held scheduled a sponsorship and donation committee.
At its strategy meeting, the Board discussed meetings regularly during the year and the strategy, business development also met on an ad hoc basis as required.
In In line with UK practice, the Board set up and critical issues of the Group.
Topics 2011, the Board of NWR met seven times a new Nomination Committee to advise for discussion included the global and and also held a special two-day strategic on the composition of the Board and new regional coal markets and OKDs future.
meeting, which included a visit to the appointments and also to consider the The Board also considered the strategic Dbiesko development site.
The board succession planning for key executives opportunities open to the Group to pursue of NWR NV met six times prior to the UK of the Group.
For more details on the future growth, in particular in Poland and redomiciliation.
The four meetings of NWR Nomination Committee please see page 79.
Directors visited the Dbiesko NVs board after the UK redomiciliation development site.
The strategy for and were held jointly with the meetings of the The UK redomiciliation also triggered timing of the Dbiesko project were Board of NWR.
changes to the existing share-based discussed in detail, as it is fundamental incentive plans of for the Executive to the growth of the Group and the Board The main activities of the Board during the Directors and senior and key employees approved it.
The Board carefully considered year are described below and cover both of the Group the legacy Stock Option the appropriate project management the activities of NWR and NWR NV.
Plan and the Deferred Bonus Plan.
The structure and its supervision, so that timely Board has decided to grant equivalent execution of the project is not hampered.
The activity dominating most of 2011 was rollover options over NWR A Shares to the The Board also addressed the challenges the redomiciliation of NWR NV in the UK participants of the Stock Option Plan which and importance of maintaining good public by means of a share-for-share exchange continue on the same terms and conditions relations in Poland.
of shares issued by NWR NV for shares as applied to the options granted originally issued by NWR.
In a public share-forunder the Stock Option Plan.
Also, NWR The Sponsorship and Donation Committee share exchange, the shareholders had has put in place a Deferred Bonus Plan of NWR NV was abolished with effect from the opportunity to obtain one A Share of with terms substantially similar to the 15 September 2011.
NWR for each A share of NWR NV they terms of the deferred bonus plan operated held.
At the same time, the B shareholders by NWR NV before the UK redomiciliation.
In November 2011, the Board approved exchanged 100 per cent of the B shares in The original deferred bonus plan of NWR an amendment to the charter of the NWR NV for the newly issued B Shares of NV was modified so that it now grants Health, Safety and Environment NWR, so that the shareholding structure awards of NWR A Shares.
A full description Committee, broadening the committees of NWR NV with A and B Shares is of the changes in remuneration and other role in terms of the area of corporate replicated by NWR.
The redomiciliation relevant information can be found in the and social responsibilities and renaming was undertaken to allow FTSE Index Remuneration Report on page 94. the committee the Safety, Health and Series eligibility, to raise the profile of the Sustainability Committee.
Group with international investors and to In addition to setting the corporate demonstrate the Groups commitment to governance standards at the level of Attendance at Board and committee high governance and control standards.
the Company in connection with the UK meetings The UK redomiciliation was carefully reincorporation, the Board adopted a new There are six committees of the Board: the considered by the Board of NWR as Business Integrity Policy to fully reflect Audit and Risk Management Committee:
