81 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information have reported any control weaknesses and acquisitions further details in the team meet with shareholders and other to the Audit and Risk Management Financial Review on page 30. market participants in the UK, US, Committee.
the Czech Republic, Poland and other Insider trading European countries on a regular basis The internal control framework has been In compliance with relevant laws, rules to discuss the Groups performance, in operation throughout 2011 and and regulations of the UK, the Czech strategy and governance.
Additionally, continues to operate up to the date of Republic and Poland, the Company presentations to investors and analysts the approval of this Annual Report.
The has a Share Dealing Code, amended in take place at the time of quarterly, interim Directors believe that the Group maintains connection with the UK reincorporation and final results as well as at sector and an effective, embedded system of internal that covers dealings in NWRs shares broker conferences that the Company controls and complies with the Turnbull and other securities, disposals of inside participates in throughout the year.
Report guidance and, in the view of the information and disclosure of information Directors, no significant deficiencies have relating to securities by the Directors and The Board receives regular reports from been identified in the system.
certain employees of the Group.
The Share the Investor Relations department on Dealing Code restricts dealings during changes to the shareholding structure, Further information about the ways in designated prohibited periods and at any analyst coverage of the stock, feedback which we manage our business risks is set time that the Directors and employees from investors including market out in the Risk management section from are in possession of unpublished priceperception studies, share trading page 24, which also contains a list of the sensitive information.
The Share Dealing statistics and other information about the principal risks and uncertainties that we Code has been implemented throughout views of the capital markets.
the Group and is monitored by NWRs Compliance Officer.
A copy of the Share Petra Manov, Head of Corporate Internal audit Dealing Code can be found on NWRs Communications, is responsible for The Groups Internal Auditor oversees website at www.
both external and internal corporate the work of internal audit functions in communications as well as the corporate NWRs subsidiaries.
He is responsible Articles of Association social responsibility policy of NWR.
for developing and overseeing the The Articles of Association of the Company Financial reports, press releases, implementation of consistent internal have been adopted by a special resolution regulatory announcements, investor auditing policies within the Group, passed on 8 April 2011 and may be amended presentations and other information on delivering the audit plans and audit by the passing of a special resolution at the matters of interest to investors can be assignments, preparing internal audit general meeting of shareholders.
found on the Companys website at charters and reporting on Group risk www.
The NWRs Articles of Association are available Groups internal auditor reports to the on NWRs website at Senior Independent Director Audit and Risk Management Committee www.
The Senior Independent Director, Bessel and the Chief Financial Officer of NWR.
Kok, is available to shareholders if they Relations with shareholders have concerns, which the Boards Chairman, Going concern Market disclosure and relations the Vice-Chairmen or the Chief Financial The Directors consider that the Group with shareholders Officer have not resolved, or if they have has adequate financial resources to The Board regards effective concerns related to Board independence.
continue operating for the foreseeable communication with shareholders as No such meetings or discussions were held future and that it is, therefore, appropriate a priority.
or requested during 2011. to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Radek Nmeek, Head of Investor Share capital, controlling shareholder The Directors have satisfied themselves Relations, is responsible for the external BXR Mining B. V. BXRM remains the that NWR Group is in a sound financial financial communications of NWR.
majority shareholder of NWR, with its position and that it has access to Together with his team, he manages ultimate parent company being BXR Group sufficient borrowing facilities and can the ongoing dialogue with equity and Limited BXRG.
As at 31 December 2011, reasonably expect those facilities to credit analysts and NWRs shareholders, BXRM held 63.65 per cent of NWR A Shares.
be available to meet the NWR Groups bondholders and potential new investors.
foreseeable cash requirements, As part of this process, the Boards Full details on the changes in the particularly those relating to major Chairman, Chief Financial Officer, Chief shareholding structure of NWR occurring in investments, including capital projects Operating Officer and Investor Relations 2011 and details of the Directors powers in
