84 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information Related party transactions The following are significant related party Agreements with the BXR Group organization of board meetings.
Based transactions being contracts entered into Master Advisory and Services Agreement on an amendment entered into on by, on the one hand, Group entities and, On 28 March 2007, NWR NV entered into 17 February 2010, BXR RE agreed to pay on the other, entities affiliated with them, a master advisory and services agreement, NWR NV a flat monthly service fee in the in effect on 31 December 2011. as amended on 27 July 2007 and on amount of EUR 2,400.
19 August 2010, with BXR Partners, a. s. Agreement related to the restructuring BXRP, a member of the BXR Group, in Lease agreements Cross guarantee respect of the provision of certain NWR NV has rented office space to AWT, The former OKD was a  advisory services by BXRP to Green Gas International B. V. GGI and controlled enterprise, and as a result NWR NV.
effective as of 1 September 2006, BXR RE with effect from 1 January 2009. it owned and operated a large range of including services in connection with the The total size of the leased offices is 2 businesses including mining businesses, acquisition and divestiture of assets, entry 405.3m.
AWT, GGI and BXR RE received businesses ancillary to mining and into joint venture arrangements, corporate a total credit for rent of EUR 309,000, unrelated businesses.
A restructuring finance matters and market research which will be offset against the rent was undertaken, concerned primarily initiatives within Central Europe, including until the credit is fully utilised.
The rent with disposing of certain of such ancillary the Czech Republic the Master Advisory including utilities is approximately and unrelated businesses in order and Services Agreement.
The fees paid EUR 164,400 per year.
The lease to focus upon coal mining and coke to BXRP are based generally on a cost plus agreements have an indefinite term and production businesses.
In addition, steps formula, but specific arrangements may may be terminated, with or without cause, were taken to streamline the corporate be made in respect of individual projects.
by either party upon two months prior structure of the BXR Group removing NWR NV must reimburse BXRP for all written notice to the other party.
certain intermediary holding companies expenses incurred by BXRP in connection from the structure.
In connection with with the provision of advisory services.
Donation agreements the restructuring, and pursuant to Czech The Master Advisory and Services In 2011, NWR NV donated EUR 250,000, law, OKD, DPB, Advanced World Transport Agreement may be terminated, with or and OKD donated CZK 71.04 million CZK a. s. AWT, RPG Trading, s. r. o. defunct without cause, by either party giving prior to the OKD Foundation.
The OKD since January 2010, RPG RE Land s. r. o. written notice to the other party, provided Foundation supports projects in the field RPG RE Commercial s. r. o. and RPG Byty, that, if the Master Advisory and Services of social responsibility, such as the support s. r. o. the successor entities of the former Agreement is terminated for any reason of health and social care, the public OKD, are subject to a statutory cross other than a material breach, the notice sector, environmental protection and guarantee.
The statutory cross guarantee period is one month.
The Master Advisory regional development.
The donations may was given by each successor entity in and Services Agreement includes a also be used to cover the organisational relation to the liabilities of the demerged one-year post-termination confidentiality and administrative costs of the OKD entity formerly OKD that were assumed clause.
NWR NV further donated EUR by each successor entity on the date of 20,000 to the St. Barbara Civic Association the demerger.
The cross guarantee of each In addition, from time to time, BXRP in 2011. successor entity is limited to the value of may provide services to NWR and be the net assets of the guarantor as at the remunerated for such services on terms Relationship Agreement effective date of the demerger.
NWR NV, RPGI, Crossroads Capital Investment Inc. CCII and Zdenk Bakala Similar statutory cross guarantees BXR RE Services Agreement entered into a relationship agreement on have arisen as a result of the spin-off On 26 May 2008, NWR NV entered into 22 April 2008, which regulates, in part, of OKK into NWR Coking a. s. NWR a services agreement with BXR Real the degree of control that RPGI and its Coking, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Estate Investments B. V. previously affiliates exercise over the management NWR NV.
NWR Coking merged with OKK RPG Real Estate B. V. BXR RE for the of NWR NV as amended and or restated, in April 2008, with OKK remaining as provision of certain services by NWR NV the Relationship Agreement.
OKK thus became to BXR RE with effect from October 2006 RPGIs transfer to BXR Mining of the a direct subsidiary of NWR NV and also the BXR RE Services Agreement.
NWR NV A-shares held by it, BXR Mining became subject to the statutory cross Under the BXR RE Services Agreement, assumed RPGIs rights and obligations guarantee.
NWR NV provides BXR RE with accounting under the Relationship Agreement by and controlling services, advice on way of a Deed of Novation dated treasury and financing, secretarial, 1 February 2010.
NWR is also party to this administration and IT services and agreement after NWR signed the amended
