72 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information Corporate Governance Mr. Rudloff is a renown and experienced Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary duties is assured.
Executive Directors banker having detailed and accurate is responsible for advising the Board on may not be members of the board of information about the global financial all governance matters and ensuring that more than two listed companies unrelated market, its developments and sentiments, Board procedures and functions comply with to the Group, nor can they be chairmen which he shared with the Board throughout relevant laws and regulations, and as such, of the board of a listed company.
the whole of 2011. the Company Secretary administers, attends The acceptance by an Executive Director and drafts minutes of Board meetings, of a board membership in a listed company With his extensive legal background, its Committees and the general meetings requires the approval of the Board.
Other Mr. Schuit contributed in particular in the of shareholders, and discharges other important non-executive positions held by areas of corporate governance, ethics responsibilities assigned by the Board.
an executive director shall be notified to and the Company's whistleblower the Board.
procedure and compliance, where he Board effectiveness and evaluation focused on combating fraud and bribery.
In 2011, the Board conducted an internal Directors indemnity and insurance evaluation of its own performance and The Articles of Association provide for Further to his numerous executive posts the performance of individual Directors the relevant officers Directors, Company with BHP Billiton, Mr. Everard provided his and Chairman through an evalution Secretary, and directors and company independent opinion on the health and questionnaire completed by all Directors.
secretaries of associated companies to safety risks the Group is facing as well as The results were collected by the Company be indemnified, to the extent permitted by other challenges of its mining business.
Secretary who collated the results into law and subject to certain exempetions, a report which was discussed at the against any liability incurred in connection Mr. Rourke, as a former audit partner, brought Nomination Committee and the Board.
The with any negligence, default, breach of to the Board his considerable expertise in questionnaire covered the areas of strategic duty or breach of trust by him in relation the area of financial review and integrity.
oversight, risk including, among other to the Company or any associated He has overseen the Real Estate Divisions, things, safety, health and environmental company of the Company.
No amount has making sure that interests of both A and B risks to the Company management, human been paid under any of these indemnities Shareholders are adequately protected.
resources, including sucession planning, during the year.
remuneration and the secretarial support Full biographical details of each Director and organisation of the Board.
The evaluation The Company has purchased Directors and are given on pages 63 to 67. concluded that the Board and Committees Officers insurance during the year.
In broad performed well and are effective in terms, the D&O insurance policy protects, Information and professional development meeting their objectives and fulfilling their inter alia, private assets of directors and Directors receive a tailored induction upon responsibilities.
In addition, it was concluded officers against financial losses from legal joining the Board.
They have full access to that the vast majority of the Directors liability claims filed against such directors a regular supply of financial, operational, concerns raised in 2009 during the external or officers arising out of alleged wrongful strategic and regulatory information to evaluation conducted at NWR NV had been acts or omissions, either committed or help them discharge their responsibilities.
addressed, namely through the two-day attempted in the capacity as a director Much of this information is provided in strategy meetings held both in 2010 and or officer of the company.
D&O insurance presentations by senior management 2011, implementation of the Deferred typically does not cover claims relating and the normal management reporting Bonus Plan and the Compensation Manual.
to IPO or other securities claims, arising process.
They also have access to training The issue of succession planning for key out if or in connection with public offer of and seminars in respect of their duties as executives is now the point of focus of the securities, and there for the Company Board members.
An external and NWR NV concludes the stand alone evaluation of the Boards effectiveness will policies for Public Offer of Securities Directors are also entitled to seek, at be performed again in 2012.
NWRs expense, independent professional advice where they judge it necessary.
To Competing Engagements Audit and Risk Management this effect, the Board and its committees According to the Corporate Governance Committee Report retained legal, compensation, mining, Policy, a Non-Executive Director should In connection with the successful UK internal audit and general advisors in 2011. have no more than five board memberships redomiciliation of NWR NV, the Audit and in other companies with chairmanship of Risk Management Committee of NWR NV Company Secretary a publicly listed company board counts was abolished and following the resolution The Board has appointed Ivona Rorkov double not related between themselves, of the Board on 8 April 2011, the Audit and and Lucie Vvrov to act independantly as so that the proper performance of his her Risk Management Committee ARMC
