85 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information and restated Relationship Agreement OKD agreements the initiation of development projects on 11 April 2011 and after the listing of BXRP-OKD Advisory and Service at OKDs current mining sites and the NWR on the LSE, at the same time Agreement identification and preparation of possible NWR NV ceased to be subject to the On 29 September 2006, OKD entered into development projects.
an advisory and service agreement with fees paid by OKD to RPGREM should BXRP for the provision of certain advisory cover costs and expenditure incurred The principal purposes of the Relationship services by BXRP to OKD with effect from by RPGREM together with a specified Agreement is to ensure that NWR is 1 October 2006 the BXRP-OKD Advisory margin.
The RPGREM-OKD Advisory and capable at all times of carrying on its and Service Agreement.
Under the BXRPService Agreement includes a one-year business independently of the RPG Group: OKD Advisory and Service Agreement, post-termination confidentiality clause.
and that all of the NWRs transactions and BXRP or any subcontractors engaged Currently, no services are being provided relationships with the RPG Group are on by BXRP with the consent of OKD is to under the RPGREM-OKD Advisory and arms length terms.
provide OKD with certain non-exclusive Service Agreement.
The notice period for advisory services, including in connection termination is set at six months.
Pursuant to the Relationship Agreement, with the realisation of strategic projects, BXR Mining, on the one hand, and any initial public offering, financing and Cooperation Agreement on NWR on the other, undertake that they refinancing, services in connection with apartment lease shall and shall procure that their the Groups restructuring, acquisition and On 29 May 2009, OKD entered into relevant subsidiaries shall conduct divestiture of OKD assets and corporate a cooperation agreement with RPG any transactions and relationships finance and business matters.
The Byty, s. r. o. RPG Byty which owns and whether contractual or otherwise, advisory fees being paid by OKD to BXRP operates a large apartment portfolio including any subsequent amendment cover costs and expenses incurred by in the OKD region the Cooperation thereof or variation thereto, including BXRP together with a specified margin.
Under the Cooperation the implementation or enforcement The costs and expenses of BXRP include Agreement, RPG Byty has an obligation thereof between BXR Mining or any of its remuneration for third-party costs such to initially offer its apartments for lease subsidiaries, on the one hand, and NWR as subcontractors and all relevant to the employees of OKD.
The lease or any of its subsidiaries, on the other, on expenses incurred by BXRP in connection agreements may be concluded only with arms length terms.
NWR undertakes that with the advisory services calculated employees qualifying under certain nonit shall treat all holders of the same class on a pro rata basis according to the discriminatory criteria, e. g. not already of shares that are in the sameposition time spent.
The BXRP-OKD Advisory and being a tenant of another RPG Byty equally in respect of the rights attaching Service Agreement may be terminated, apartment with state-regulated rent or to such shares.
with or without cause, by either party not being subject to any criminal or other upon one months prior written notice to proceeding that could affect common CCII and Zdenk Bakala undertake that the other party.
The BXRP-OKD Advisory tenants obligations.
they shall give notice to NWR of any and Service Agreement include a one-year opportunities involving the potential post-termination confidentiality clause.
Each lease is provided for a period acquisition of a controlling stake in a of one year and the rent is set at the business primarily focused on coal RPGREM-OKD advisory and service relevant market price with a reduction mining or coking facilities in Central and agreement of 15 per cent.
Employees shall bear no Eastern Europe.
NWR shall have first right, On 20 December 2006, OKD entered into administrative costs in relation to such for a period of 30 days from notification, an advisory and service agreement with leases.
The Cooperation Agreement to pursue the opportunity and neither RPG RE Management, s. r. o. RPGREM will expire on 31 May 2012 and may be CCII nor Zdenk Bakala may pursue the for the provision of certain advisory rescinded by either party in the case opportunity within those 30 days unless services by RPGREM to OKD with effect of a material breach.
The Cooperation NWR decides not to pursue it.
from 1 December 2006 the RPGREMAgreement replaces a similar cooperation OKD Advisory and Service Agreement.
The Relationship Agreement shall Under the RPGREM-OKD Advisory and continue until the earlier of, in each case Service Agreement, RPGREM or any Factory Railway Agreements in relation to the Group: i NWRs shares subcontractors engaged by RPGREM with OKD entered into several factory railway ceasing to be admitted to the Official the consent of OKD is to provide OKD with agreements with AWT to provide factory List and to trading on the London Stock certain non-exclusive advisory services, railway transport at OKD mines for an Exchange: or ii in case of change of including services in connection with the indefinite period of time the Factory control concerning NWR.
acquisition and divestiture of fixtures, Railway Agreements and each a Factory 86 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information Related party transactions Railway Agreement.
The fees to be paid Under the AWT Transport Agreements, 14 February 2006.
AWT, as a legal by OKD to AWT were either set out in AWT shall provide OKD with non-exclusive successor of Doprava, undertook to return accordance with each respective Factory transport services.
The transport fees to to OKD part of the guarantee fee in the Railway Agreement or in a separate be paid by OKD to AWT are set out in the amount of CZK 27,905,432 out of total fee pricing agreement for each calendar year respective AWT Transport Agreement or of CZK 42,976,720 due to the premature which amended the particular Factory in a price agreement for each calendar termination of the guarantee.
Railway Agreement s. Either party giving year amending the relevant AWT Transport 18 months prior written notice to the Agreement s based on the weight of Master Agreements on the Sale other party may terminate the Factory transported goods.
The AWT Transport of Methane Railway Agreements, with or without Agreements may be terminated in the On 20 December 2006, OKD entered cause.
The Factory Railway Agreements event of a material breach or, with or into a master agreement on the sale of have been replaced by a single master without cause, by either party giving methane with Green Gas DPB, a. s. agreement between OKD and AWT with one month prior written notice to DPB, as amended on 26 September effect from 1 January 2011 for the the other party.
In 2010, agreements 2007, which envisages the conclusion period from 2011 to 2020 which will were concluded pursuant to public of individual purchase agreements with automatically be extended for another procurement tenders to transport coal respect to each OKD mine the Master five years, i. e. until 31 December 2025, and coke with a group of AWT group Agreement on the Sale of Methane.
provided that neither contracting party companies.
These contracts duration Under the Master Agreement on the Sale terminates the agreement by giving six ranges from 1 January 2011 to 31 of Methane, the minimum total annual months notice of termination to the other December 2014. volume of methane to be delivered 3 the OKD Master Agreement.
The OKD amounts to 19,000m while the specific Master Agreement covers all activities to The agreements deal with railway annual volume delivered by the mines be provided by AWT to OKD at particular transportation of coal and coke in: shall be stipulated by the individual business units, including: agreements.
The Master Agreement on a The Czech Republic, where the coal the Sale of Methane was concluded for a railway services and assurance of and coke is destined for export.
In the life of the OKD mines and, in the railway transport on factory railways: these agreements, the carrier is an case of a change in the mine owner or b road transport and non-railway association of AWT echofracht a. s. operator, OKD shall ensure assignment technological transport and and AWT: of all OKDs obligations arising under the transportation of raw and washed b The Federal Republic of Germany agreement.
The price was set at a fixed coal, sludge, etc.
including related and the French Republic.
In these amount for 2007 and then calculated manipulations: agreements, the carrier is an for each calendar year thereafter using c railway technological transport association of AWT echofracht a. s. the formula in the agreement.
DPB including related activities: and and AWT: is entitled to purchase all available d manipulation activities with coal and c The Republic of Poland.
In these methane production not used by OKD other materials.
agreements the carrier is AWT.
Either party may rescind has an agreement with Metalimex a. s. the agreement if the production of All of the above activities are dealt who has an agreement with Express methane stops due to a decrease in coal with in subcontracts, which concern Slovakia a. s. who has an agreement mining activities or if circumstances specific conditions for particular time with the carrier, AWT: and of a technical nature preventing periods.
Please note that the OKD d The Czech Republic.
In these performance of this agreement arise Master Agreement does not deal with agreements, the carrier is AWT a. s. of which neither party was aware when transportation of coal to customers.
Settlement agreement between AWT Transport Agreements AWT and OKD On 27 November 2008, DPB and OKD OKD has entered into transport On 8 February 2011 AWT and OKD entered into a framework agreement for agreements with AWT relating to the concluded a settlement agreement on the supplies of methane for heat operations in transport of coal and other materials return of part of a guarantee fee paid by connection with: i the provisions of from NWR NV to its largest customers OKD to OKD, Doprava, akciov spolenost the Master Agreement on the Sale of the AWT Transport Agreements and Doprava for the provision of a guarantee Methane under which DPB is entitled each an AWT Transport Agreement.
The by Doprava under the facility agreement to purchase all available methane not AWT Transport Agreements are umbrella concluded among others between OKD, used by OKD for its own use: and ii the agreements covering periods of 4 years.
Citibank, N. A. and Citibank, a. s. on transfer of OKDs energy equipment to 87 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information NWR Energy, a. s. NWR Energy as part Master Services Agreement Related to were transferred to NWR Energy a. s. of the spin-off of the Groups energy Mine Safety NWR Energy which was a direct assets in 2008 the Framework On 13 March 2007, OKD and DPB entered subsidiary of NWR NV.
The spin-off Agreement for Supplies of Methane into a master services agreement related became legally effective as of 1 July 2008. for Heat Operations.
Pursuant to the to mine safety, covering a number of Consequently, a framework agreement preamble, DPB shall deliver the processed different services related to mine security on supplies and services and some other methane to NWR Energy.
The price was the Master Services Agreement Related related agreements were entered into by set at a fixed amount for 2008 and 2009 to Mine Safety.
The Master Services OKD, NWR Energy and CZECH-KARBON and for the following years according to Agreement Related to Mine Safety was the Framework Agreement on Supplies the formula in this agreement.
The volume concluded for a fixed period of time and Services.
The main purpose of these of delivered methane was stipulated for ending on 31 December 2015.
The fee to agreements was to ensure the supply of 2008.
The agreement has been entered be paid by OKD for 2007 was set at CZK electricity, heat and compressed air and into until 31 December 2028, subject to 1,670,000 per month, later increased to related services to OKD.
The Framework the prior termination of mining activities.
CZK 1,734,693 per month for the years Agreement on Supplies and Services has 2009 and 2010 in each case excluding been amended in a complex manner in OKD trading agreements VAT.
The fees to be paid by OKD for connection with the divestiture of OKD has entered into several agreements 2011 were set at CZK 1.717.693 per NWR NVs energy assets.
See Material with AWT in relation to the delivery of month in each case excluding VAT, in Contracts - Sale of Energy Business on coal, coking coal, coke, sludge and other conclusion of individual agreements with page X for further information.
In 2000, OKD entered into respect to each particular OKD mine are name of NWR Energy is Dalkia Industry purchase agreements with AWT under contemplated by this agreement.
CZ, a. s. and the current name of CZECHwhich AWT sells granulated sediments KARBON is Dalkia Commodities CZ, s. r. o. to OKD.
The agreements were originally Master Services Agreements for Drilling made for a fixed period of time and later On 13 March 2009, OKD and DPB entered OKD lease agreements extended for an indefinite period of time.
into two master services agreements OKD is a party to several real estate The prices are adjusted annually.
for work whereby DPB shall provide leases, including in relation to OKDs The agreements further mention that the OKD with drills for degasation and headquarters building in Ostrava, which granulated sediments are resold to power geological surveying the Master Services is leased from RPG RE Commercial, s. r. o. and heating plants operated by Dalkia and Agreements for Drilling.
Amendments a Czech-based indirect subsidiary of 2 EZ, a. s. to these Master Services Agreements for RPGI.
The total rented space is 4,656m Drilling shall stipulate the drilling works and the annual rent including utilities Agreements on Gaseous and Liquid and price list for the respective calendar is approximately CZK 19.1 million Nitrogen Delivery year.
Individual agreements envisaged excluding VAT in the year 2011.
OKD has entered into four agreements by these Master Services Agreements The lease may be terminated, with or on gaseous and liquid nitrogen delivery for Drilling shall stipulate the amount of without cause, by either party upon with DPB in relation to the delivery of work in detail.
In 2010, the total amount of three months prior written notice to the gaseous and liquid nitrogen to OKD mines, footage for degasation drills was agreed other party, or by agreement between namely Darkov, SA, SM and Lazy the at 31,050m and for geological survey the the parties.
The total annual rent for the SA and Lazy Mines are now consolidated total amount of footage was agreed at remaining lease agreements concluded in the business unit Karvin Mine the 13,930m.
In 2011, the total amount of between RPG RE Commercial, s. r. o. and Agreements on Gaseous and Liquid footage for degasation drills was agreed OKD amounts to approximately CZK 3.84 Nitrogen Delivery.
The price to be paid by at 40.800 m and for geological survey million excluding VAT.
OKD to DPB shall be set out in accordance the total amount of footage was agreed with each respective Agreement on at 14.570 m. Both these Master Services Data Processing Agreement Gaseous and Liquid Nitrogen Delivery or Agreements for Drilling expire on 31 On 21 January 2002, OKD entered into amendments to it.
In addition, OKD shall December 2015. an agreement on conduct of work pay a fixed monthly fee for the lease, and services relation to automatic maintenance and control of the gas tubing Framework Agreement on Supplies data processing with AWT in respect and surface equipment.
The majority of and Services of providing certain services relating the Agreements on Gaseous and Liquid In connection with the reorganisation of to automatic data processing for an Nitrogen Delivery terminate on the energy assets of the Group, energy indefinite period of time with effect as 31 December 2015. assets of OKD, including its stake in of 1 January 2002 the Data Processing CZECH-KARBON s. r. o. CZECH-KARBON, Agreement.
