Key performance The focus of the Group is to maintain utilisation indicators in excess of 90%, improve operating efficiency to reduce costs and concentrate on increasing the return on capital employed above levels previously achieved.
Performance Target Utilisation UK The minimum target for both segments is to maintain utilisation Utilisation needs to be maintained Average utilisation has been above 90%, which is currently at a high level in order to maximise maintained at the target rate of 90%.
return on capital employed whilst Spain holding enough vehicles to meet the The new IT system implemented in exible demands of our customers.
Average utilisation has successfully the UK is providing improved and improved to 91% from 88% in the more timely information about prior year, exceeding the targeted utilisations, therefore a revised target rate of 90%.
of 91% has been set going forward.
Hire rate UK Minimum hire rate thresholds have been set for new vehicles.
Further rate The hire rate achieved is a key Hire rates have improved by 2% across increases are targeted in the UK and contributor to return on capital the year, with an underlying increase Spain through improved sales analysis employed.
Hire rates need to reect of 4% adjusted for the lightening of to eliminate low margin customers, the level of exibility and service fleet mix in the year.
and improved recovery on recharging offered to our customers.
Spain of costs such as collection, delivery and damage recovery.
Average rates have improved by 2% across the year, which has been achieved through a combination of strong pricing controls on new vehicles and targeted price increases with existing customers.
Fleet management The level of vehicle purchases and The overall fleet size in the UK sales is controlled in order to manage and Spain is expected to remain The size and age of the fleet needs fleet size and ageing.
Overall relatively stable in the short term to be managed in order to maximise holding costs are minimised through with focus remaining on maximising utilisations and minimise the overall managing the mix and volume of utilisations and hire rates.
Further holding cost of vehicles.
purchases from each manufacturer holding cost savings are targeted and by improving the effectiveness through managing the mix of of vehicle sales channels.
vehicles purchased through each manufacturer and maximising The Group had a closing fleet of disposals through higher margin 61,200 vehicles in the UK and 43,500 retail and semi-retail channels.
Return on capital ROCE is maximised through a Each KPI has been targeted for employed ROCE combination of managing utilisation, improvement to contribute to an hire rates, vehicle holding and overall increase in ROCE of the Group.
In a capital intensive business, other costs.
Group ROCE is targeted to increase ROCE is a more important measure of above levels previously achieved.
7 performance than profitability alone, Group ROCE was 11.9% in 2011 as low margin business returns low compared to 8.4% in the prior year.
3 Earnings per share EPS Basic EPS increased to 29.0p from The target is to maximise shareholder 26.8p in the prior year.
value by increasing EPS in the Basic EPS is considered to be a key short term alongside longer term short term measure of performance Earnings of 38.5m were 36% return on equity.
higher than in the previous year.
The weighted average number of shares was 133m, 28m higher than the previous year which reects the full year impact of the equity raising and rights issue in the prior year.
For footnote references see page 17.
5 Key performance indicators Northgate plc annual report and accounts 2011
