One Northgate 6 One Northgate Northgate plc annual report and accounts 2011 The restructure of the UK and Spanish business puts us in a better position to take advantage of opportunities for future growth, operate more efficiently and deliver high levels of customer service.
7 One Northgate Northgate plc annual report and accounts 2011 UK Delivering on better opportunities A restructured and nationally managed sales force has been established.
Taken together with a more detailed analysis of our marketplace, we are better positioned to take advantage of profitable opportunities in 2012.
Emphasis will be placed on key growth industries Centres of excellence such as telecoms, and public sector where our relative penetration Leveraging from the new IT is low but the propensity for our platform, we will centralise vehicle product is high.
administration and create a financial shared services centre, which will Improving shareholder value simplify operations, reduce costs remains central to everything we do and improve the overall operational and the best way of achieving this efficiency of the business.
Reduced is to position our product where it paperwork and more focused and is aligned to need rather than price.
timely information will improve Identifying and developing new business decision making.
markets, targeting SMEs and marketing our complete fleet solutions will enable us to deliver whole-life cost benets to customers rather than simply offering them the cheapest rate, which will create a more sustainable and profitable portfolio going forward.
Enhanced customer experience In 2011, we conducted 4,200 training days for over 700 colleagues.
Investment will continue in this area to ensure that we maintain our position as a best in class support services provider.
The IT and business blueprint training, which has already rolled out across the UK, will be Training days provided in 2011 enhanced in 2012.
Our long standing commercial apprenticeship scheme and customer experience development project will ensure that we deliver service efficiently and effectively 4,200 to all who engage with us.
8 One Northgate Northgate plc annual report and accounts 2011 The awareness of the Northgate brand is now well established as the most recognisable commercial vehicle hire brand in the UK.
This provides a platform for the Company to continue to make progress in achieving its objectives.
The power of the dial We will continue to promote and develop our branding strategy in 2012 through investment in web and other communications, and have a target of 33,000 vehicles to be liveried by 30 April 2012.
The increased awareness of the Northgate dial is enhancing our position as the market leader and will help us to deliver our efficient and effective commercial strategy going forward.
fleet management Having vehicles in the right place at the right time is critical.
In 2012, sales and operational planning will be fully integrated.
Through the implementation of a new Customer Relationship Management system, we will be able to effectively measure the forward pipeline of our UK Technology driving improvement business in order to strategically plan In 2012 we will maintain our acquisition and disposal of our fleet.
commitment to improve the We will plan and schedule where customer experience through further best to place our non-utilised assets, investment in infrastructure and creating greater vehicle availability facilities.
These improvements will and managing our customers build on initiatives already undertaken requirements more efficiently and in 2011 following consolidation effectively.
In 2011 we completed of the regions.
With the help of the redistribution of 6,500 vehicles new eld technologies such as with a further 8,000 to 10,000 PDAs and workshop touch screens, vehicles planned for 2012. delivery mileage will be minimised and workshop productivity will be improved.
Vehicles to be liveried by Vehicles redistributed to better April 2012 meet customer requirements 33,000 6,500 9 One Northgate Northgate plc annual report and accounts 2011 From January 2011 the Spanish business was merged, with the former Fualsa and Record businesses now trading under the Northgate brand.
Spain Improving the customer experience Prior to the merger there was significant customer overlap between Fualsa and Record.
Consolidating the two businesses has enabled hire rates to be harmonised and customer service to be standardised.
Customers now receive a consistent and high level of service associated efficient and effective with the Northgate brand.
Feedback operations has been positive, with many The merger has enabled further customers citing the improved centralisation of administrative and geographical coverage of a combined support functions, which commenced business as the key to this success.
in 2009 when a single head ofce was established.
The existing ERP system has enabled information from the former businesses to be consolidated Better network coverage into one single IT platform, which The previous customers of Fualsa has facilitated the roll out of and Record were serviced separately standardised policies and procedures by 15 and 17 branches respectively.
The consolidation of the network This shared information has also from 32 to 25 sites has enabled us to been leveraged upon by the maximise operational efficiency whilst A highly visible fleet commercial sales team to identify delivering improved geographical further opportunities going forward.
significant progress has been coverage to our customers.
made in rebranding Northgate The improved network coverage Espaas fleet of 43,500 vehicles and has enabled 1,000 vehicles to be promoting the new brand in the redeployed across the country, market.
Our new website is delivering creating greater vehicle availability sales opportunities and targeted and enabling us to manage customer advertising is creating visibility requirements more efficiently of the brand to a wide audience.
A common branding and commercial sales operation is enabling us to Vehicles redeployed, creating pursue our strategy of diversifying greater vehicle availability for the customer base away from customers construction and targeting SMEs.
This approach will create a more stable platform for the business going 1,000 forward and generate improved returns from our fleet.
10 One Northgate Northgate plc annual report and accounts 2011
