Report of the Directors The Directors present their report and the audited legislation.
The Articles themselves may be amended by special accounts for the year ended 30 April 2011. resolution of the shareholders.
The powers of Directors are set out in the Articles.
Results The Directors are not aware of any agreements between the Profit for the year after taxation was 29,393,000 2010 Company and its Directors or employees that provide for 24,356,000. compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
No interim dividend was paid on the Ordinary shares.
The Directors do not recommend the payment of a final dividend on Interests in shares the Ordinary shares.
The following interests in the issued Ordinary share capital of the Company have been notified to the Company in accordance with the Principal activities and business review provisions of Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: The Company is an investment holding company.
30 April 2011 29 June 2011 The principal subsidiaries are listed in Note 18 to the accounts.
Standard Life The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business Review, Investments Limited 17,261,848 12.96% 15,954,460 11.97% together with a description of the principal activities of the business, Blackrock Inc 6,730,413 5.05% 6,730,413 5.05% can be found in the Operational Review and Financial Review on Legal & General pages 11 to 19, which are incorporated in this report by reference.
Group plc 6,571,010 4.93% 6,571,010 4.93% A description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Aviva plc 6,705,837 5.03% 6,557,699 4.92% Company and the Group is set out on pages 18 and 19 which are Artemis Investment incorporated into this report by reference.
Management Ltd 6,452,112 4.84% 6,452,112 4.84% Close company status In addition to the above, Capital Group notified an indirect interest So far as the Directors are aware the close company provisions of in 4,149,068 Ordinary shares of 5p each in January 2008, then the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 do not apply to the representing 5.9% of the issued Ordinary share capital.
notification, post rights and consolidation has been received, it is assumed that Capital Group, as investment managers, still retains Capital structure an interest of between 5% and 10% of the current issued Ordinary Details of the issued share capital, together with details of any share capital.
movements during the year are shown in Note 26.
The Company has one class of Ordinary share which carries no right to fixed Directors income.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings Details of the present Directors are listed on pages 20 and 21. of the Company.
All have served throughout the year except Chris Muir who was The cumulative Preference shares of 50p each entitle the holder to appointed on 19 May 2011.
Paul Tallentire resigned from the Board receive a cumulative preferential dividend at the rate of 5% on the with effect from 4 June 2010. paid up capital and the right to a return of capital at either winding Last year the Board adopted the provision in the new UK Corporate up or a repayment of capital.
The cumulative Preference shares do Governance Code which replaces the Combined Code with effect not entitle the holders to any further or other participation in the from accounting periods beginning on or after 29 June 2010 which profits or assets of the Company.
requires all directors of FTSE 350 companies to be subject to annual The percentage of the issued nominal value of the Ordinary shares is election.
Accordingly, in addition to Chris Muir, appointed after the 99.255% of the total issued nominal value of all share capital.
year end, resolutions to re-appoint all the other Directors in office at the date of this report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general The termination provisions in respect of executive Directors contracts provisions of the Articles of Association the Articles and prevailing are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 25 to 29. legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in the Remuneration Report.
Shares held by the Capita Trust are voted on the instructions of the employees on whose behalf they are held.
Shares in the Guernsey Trust are voted at the discretion of the Trustees.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
With regards to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Act and related 22 Report of the Directors Northgate plc annual report and accounts 2011 The following are the interests of the Directors who were in office at employment.
It is Group policy that the training, career development the end of the financial year in the share capital of the Company.
All and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be the interests are beneficial.
same as that of other employees.
The Groups equal opportunity policy is available on the Companys website.
Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares of 50p each of 50p each 30 April 2011 1 May 2010 Remuneration report AJ Allner 13,090 13,090 As required by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations JG Astrand 51,920 51,920 2002, the Remuneration Report, set out on pages 25 to 29, will be put to shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting.
THP Brown 52,634 52,634 RL Contreras 115,048 105,000 Power to allot shares RD Mackenzie 100,000 The present authority of the Directors to allot shares was granted at the Annual General Meeting held in September 2010 and expires at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
A resolution to renew No Director has an interest in the Preference shares of the Company.
that authority for a period expiring at the conclusion of the Annual No changes in the above interests have occurred between 30 April General Meeting to be held in 2012 will be proposed at the Annual 2011 and the date of this report.
Chris Muir held 12,657 Ordinary General Meeting.
The authority will permit the Directors to allot shares on his appointment to the Board on 19 May 2011. up to an aggregate nominal amount of 22m of share capital which represents less than 33% of the present issued Ordinary Details of options held by the Directors under the Companys various share capital and is within the limits approved by the Investment share schemes are given in the Remuneration Report on pages 25 Committees of the Association of British Insurers and the National to 29.
Directors indemnities The Directors have no present intention of exercising such authority and no issue of shares which would effectively alter the control As permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, qualifying of the Company will be made without the prior approval of third party indemnities for each Director of the Company were in shareholders in general meeting.
place throughout the year and remained in force as at the date of A special resolution will be proposed to renew the authority of the signing of this report.
The Companys Articles of Association are Directors to allot Ordinary shares for cash other than to existing available on the Companys website.
The authority will be limited to an aggregate nominal amount of 3,330,000 representing Donations approximately 5% of the current issued Ordinary share capital.
During the year the Group made charitable donations of The Directors have no present intention of exercising this authority 5,000 2010 13,000 principally to local charities serving the and confirm their intention to follow the provisions of the Precommunities in which the Group operates.
emption Groups Statement of Principles regarding cumulative No political donations were made.
use of such authorities within a rolling three year period.
The Principles provide that companies should not issue shares for cash Payment of suppliers representing more than 7.5% of the Companys issued share capital The Groups policy is to pay suppliers within normal trading terms in any rolling three year period, other than to existing shareholders, agreed with that supplier.
The policy is made known to the staff without prior consultation with shareholders.
who handle payments to suppliers.
At 30 April 2011 the Groups Length of notice of general meetings creditor days were as shown in Note 21 to the accounts.
The minimum notice period permitted by the Companies Act 2006 Employee consultation for general meetings of listed companies is 21 days, but the Act provides that companies may reduce this period to 14 days other Employees are kept informed on matters affecting them as than for AGMs provided that two conditions are met.
The first employees and on various issues affecting the performance of the condition is that the Company offers a facility for shareholders to Group through announcements on the Groups intranet, to which vote by electronic means.
This condition is met if the Company all employees have access, formal and informal meetings at local offers a facility, accessible to all shareholders, to appoint a proxy level and direct written communications.
All employees are eligible by means of a website.
Please refer to Note 5 to the Notice of to participate on an equal basis in the Groups share incentive plan, Annual General Meeting on page 87 for details of the Companys which has been running successfully since its inception in 2000. arrangements for electronic proxy appointment.
The second condition is that there is an annual resolution of shareholders Disabled employees approving the reduction of the minimum notice period from 21 days Applications for employment by disabled persons are given full to 14 days.
consideration, taking into account the aptitudes of the applicant A resolution to approve 14 days as the minimum period of notice concerned.
Every effort is made to try to ensure that employees who for all general meetings of the Company other than AGMs will become disabled whilst already employed are able to continue in be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The approval will be employment by making reasonable adjustments in the workplace, arranging appropriate training or providing suitable alternative 23 Report of the Directors Northgate plc annual report and accounts 2011 Report of the Directors continued effective until the Companys next AGM, when it is intended that Financial instruments the approval be renewed.
Details of the Groups use of financial instruments are given in the Financial Review on pages 16 and 17 and in Notes 23 and 39 to Deferred annual bonus plan the accounts.
The Deferred Annual Bonus Plan 'the Plan' was introduced in 2003 for executive Directors and senior and middle management.
Under Auditor the Plan, part of any annual bonus is delivered in cash and part in In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the the form of a deferred share award which normally vests after three Company at the date when this report was approved: years.
The Plan is currently restricted to using existing shares sourced U so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant via the Companys employee benefit trust to satisfy the deferred audit information of which the Companys auditor share awards.
The Company would like the flexibility to also use is unaware: and newly issued and treasury shares in connection with the operation U each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he ought of the Plan within standard shareholder dilution limits.
Resolution to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any 14 being put to shareholders at the 2011 AGM seeks shareholder relevant audit information as defined and to establish that the approval of the Plan to provide for such flexibility.
A full summary of Companys auditor is aware of that information.
the principal terms of the Plan is set out in the first Appendix to the notice of AGM.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s418 Companies Act 2006.
Management performance share plan A resolution for the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as auditor The Management Performance Share Plan MPSP was adopted of the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual by the Board in 2006.
Participants in the MPSP receive contingent General Meeting.
This proposal is supported by the Audit and share awards which ordinarily vest after three years subject to the Risk Committee.
achievement of performance conditions and continued employment.
The MPSP operates only for executives below Board level.
The By order of the Board MPSP is currently restricted to using existing shares sourced via the Companys employee benefit trust.
The Company would like the D Henderson flexibility to also use newly issued and treasury shares in connection Secretary with the operation of the MPSP within standard shareholder 29 June 2011 dilution limits.
Resolution 15 being put to shareholders at the 2011 AGM seeks shareholder approval of the MPSP to provide for such flexibility.
A full summary of the principal terms of the MPSP is set out in the second Appendix to the notice of AGM.
24 Report of the Directors Northgate plc annual report and accounts 2011
