Board of Directors We enter the new financial year with a clear programme for operational improvement.
Our focus will remain on improving returns and further progress is planned in the coming year through hire rate improvement, efficient fleet management, further cost reductions and cash generation.
1 Bob Mackenzie ACA 1 4 Chairman 2 Bob Contreras ACA Chief Executive 3 Chris Muir ACA Group Finance Director 4 Andrew Allner FCA Non-executive Director 5 Jan Astrand MBA Non-executive Director 2 5 6 Tom Brown MBA Non-executive Director and Senior Independent Director 3 6 20 Board of Directors Northgate plc annual report and accounts 2011 Bob Mackenzie ACA Andrew Allner FCA Board Committees Appointed to the Board as Chairman in Appointed to the Board as a Audit and Risk February 2010.
Prior to his appointment, non-executive Director and to the Chair Andrew Allner Chairman he was Chief Executive of Sea Containers of the Audit and Risk Committee in Jan Astrand Ltd, including the Chairmanship of its September 2007.
Andrew is currently Tom Brown subsidiary GNER.
He was until recently Chairman of Marshalls plc and also serves Remuneration Chairman of Dometic Holdings AB, a as non-executive Director and Chairman Tom Brown Chairman Swedish based manufacturing company.
of the Audit Committee at AZ Electronic Andrew Allner He was previously Chairman of PHS Group Materials SA, the Go-Ahead Group plc Jan Astrand plc and held senior executive board and CSR plc.
He was Group Finance Bob Mackenzie appointments with National Parking Director of RHM plc, taking a lead role in Corporation, BET plc, Storehouse plc and its otation in July 2005 on the London Nominations Hanson plc.
He has also acted as a senior Stock Exchange.
Prior to joining RHM plc, Bob Mackenzie Chairman adviser to a number of private equity funds.
Andrew was CEO of Enodis plc and has Andrew Allner Jan Astrand He qualied as a Chartered Accountant served in senior executive positions with with KPMG in 1978.
Tom Brown Dalgety plc, Amersham International plc and Guinness plc.
He was also a Bob Contreras ACA non-executive director of Moss Bros Group plc from 2001 to 2005.
A graduate Appointed Chief Executive on 7 June of Oxford University, he is a former 2010 having been Group Finance Director partner of Price Waterhouse and is a since June 2008 when he joined the Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Group.
A Chartered Accountant, Bob Accountants in England and Wales.
has held senior positions with Azlan Age 57.
Group plc, Damovo Group SA and most recently with Mlnlycke Healthcare Jan Astrand MBA Group.
Appointed to the Board as a Chris Muir ACA non-executive Director in February 2001.
Jan is also currently a non-executive Appointed to the Board as Group Finance Director of Lavendon Group plc.
Chris originally Swedish national based in London, Jan joined Northgate as Group Accountant in was Chairman of CRC Group plc until 2003, being appointed Group Financial January 2007.
Prior to this, he was Controller in March 2004 and UK Finance Chairman of Car Park Group AB in Director in May 2006.
Qualifying as a Stockholm and also Senior Independent Chartered Accountant in 1999, Chris Director of PHS Group Plc.
From 1994 worked for Deloitte LLP from 1997 until to 1999 he was President and 2003, leaving as a manager.
Chris has a Chief Executive of Axus International Inc. first class honours degree in Economics previously known as Hertz Leasing and Accountancy from the University International.
From 1989 to 1994 he of Newcastle upon Tyne.
Age 35. was Vice President, Finance and Administration and Chief Financial officer of Hertz Europe Ltd. Age 64.
Tom Brown MBA Appointed to the Board as a non-executive Director in April 2005 and appointed Senior Independent Director in June 2007.
Tom is Chairman of Chamberlin plc, a Director of a number of private companies, and a member of the Economics Committee of the EEF.
He was previously Group Chief Executive of United Industries plc and before that Group Managing Director of Fenner plc.
21 Board of Directors Northgate plc annual report and accounts 2011
