12 Directors report business review Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Our performance measures The Group monitors performance using a range of financial and non-financial KPIs.
Performance against these indicators is reported within the our financial performance and our operating performance sections later in this report.
Looking forward, the financial KPIs remain unchanged for 2011 12.
However, in order to measure delivery of the Company business plan and goals, a balanced scorecard of KPIs has been introduced, which replaces the existing non-financial KPIs.
These indicators are spread across the themes of customer, competitiveness, people, environment and communities and targets have been set on a trajectory to deliver the company vision of being the national leader in water and waste water services.
In order to ensure alignment of the management team, this balanced scorecard now represents 80% of the criteria contributing to their annual bonus, with a further 20% available for the achievement of bespoke personal targets.
The table below details those KPIs and the targets that have been set for 2011 12.
A full explanation of each target follows.
% Contribution to Strategic theme Scorecard measure Target 2011 12 available bonus Customer Customer satisfaction SIM quantitative score 174 2 SIM qualitative score 4.4 2 Unplanned interruptions 6 hours north 900 4 south 600 Coliform incidents no.
15 4 Competitiveness Profit before tax Set by Board 36 Capital efficiency Set by Board 4 People Engagement and satisfaction index % 81 4 Lost time reportable accidents no.
11 4 Environment Leakage Mld north 147 4 south 66 Sewage treatment works compliance % 100 4 Pollution incidents categories 1 & 2 3 4 Communities FTSE4Good accreditation Retain 4 BITC Platinum Plus accreditation Retain 4 Personal targets Bespoke Bespoke 20 13 Directors report business review Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Measure Definition of measure Customer Customer satisfaction SIM quantitative measure, based on customer contacts.
Contacts are normalised per thousand SIM quantitative score connected properties and multiplied by a weighting factor for each unwanted category.
Categories include unwanted customer calls, abandoned calls, first stage written complaints, second stage written complaints and CCWater investigations.
The lower the score the higher the customer satisfaction.
Customer satisfaction SIM qualitative measure, assessing satisfaction of consumers across their experience from first SIM qualitative score correspondence to final resolution, through independent surveys.
Surveys are carried out four times a year for water, waste water and billing contacts and the average score taken.
A score of 5 indicates maximum satisfaction.
Unplanned interruptions A weighted scoring of the number of properties affected by interruptions to supply of more than 6 hours six hours duration which are unplanned, unwarned excluding overruns of planned and warned interruptions except for those caused directly by third parties.
It includes interruptions for which customers are notified less than 48 hours in advance.
The scoring weights interruptions which exceed 12 hours, and heavily weights those which exceed 24 hours.
Coliform incidents Total number of coliform failures in regulatory samples at water treatment works and service reservoirs.
One coliform or more is a failing sample.
Competition Profit before tax Actual profit before tax compared to the budget approved by the Board, adjusted for the impact of variances related to indexation on index linked bonds, which depends on the July RPI in the year.
Profit before tax has been chosen because it is a primary financial measure for the Group for which the executive directors are accountable.
Capital efficiency An annual assessment of the efficiency of the NWL capital investment programme is undertaken by the Board.
People Engagement and The Engagement and Satisfaction Index is calculated from scores for 13 items selected from the satisfaction index % annual employee survey.
These items align to the Sunday Times Best Companies survey and give a measure of employee satisfaction.
Lost time reportable Accidents reportable to the Health and Safety Executive resulting in more than three days lost accidents no.
Environment Leakage Mld Water network leakage for the financial year, as reported to Ofwat.
Sewage treatment works Percentage of population equivalent served by sewage treatment works compliant with compliance % Environment Agency EA look-up table consents.
Pollution incidents Number of category 1 and 2 pollution incidents in the calendar year, as defined by the EA.
Category categories 1 & 2 1 is a major water pollution incident and category 2 is a significant water pollution incident.
Communities FTSE4Good accreditation Accreditation by FTSE4Good index series, which has been designed to objectively measure the performance of companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
BITC Platinum Plus Accreditation by BITC at Platinum Plus level, the highest level in their corporate responsibility index.
accreditation BITC is a national business-led charity which advises, challenges and supports its members to create a sustainable future for people and the planet and to improve business performance.
