56 Directors report governance Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Statutory disclosures Directors report business review and governance In accordance with s417 of the Companies Act 2006, the directors report business review, on pages 1 to 53, contains a review of the performance of the Groups business during the year and the position at the end of the year with analysis using KPIs.
A description of the Groups future prospects, research and development, the principal risks and uncertainties facing the business and details of the Groups use of financial instruments are also contained within the business review.
Pages 54 to 70 of this section of the directors report contain the Board of directors biographies, together with such other statutory disclosures, as required by s416 and s418 of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 7 to the Large and Medium sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, as are not already referred to in the business review section of the report.
The corporate governance statement explains how the Company has applied the principles of the Combined Code during the year and also complies with the requirements of Disclosure & Transparency Rule 7.2.
Principal activities The principal activities of the Group during the year were the provision of water and waste water services.
Political During the year, the Group has worked with politicians of all major parties, officials and opinion formers.
This work has included making representations on issues which NWL feels are important to our customers and communities such as competition, the review of regulators, the Water White Paper, adoption of private sewers, Water for health, climate change, the Water Framework Directive and other legislative issues which could affect our customers.
We do not support any political party and we do not, directly or through any subsidiary, make what are commonly regarded as donations to any political party or other political organisation.
However, the wide definition of donations in the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 covers activities which form part of the necessary relationship between the Group and political parties and political organisations.
These activities include attending party conferences, as these provide the best opportunity to meet a range of stakeholders, both national and local, to explain our activities, as well as local meetings with MPs, MEPs and their agents.
The costs associated with these activities during 2010 11 were as follows: Name of political party Conservative 6,845 Labour 8,208 Liberal Democrats 3,312 Total 18,365 Shareholder authority to permit the Company to continue with these activities until the 2012 AGM will be sought at this years AGM.
57 Directors report governance Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Creditors The Companys policy is to agree payment terms with suppliers and to pay on time according to those agreed terms.
The Companys policy is to make payment not more than 30 days after receipt of a valid invoice, except as otherwise agreed.
The ratio, expressed in days, between the amount invoiced by its suppliers during the year and the amount owed to its trade creditors at 31 March 2011, was 30 days 2010: 21 days.
Directors remuneration and interests Information about directors remuneration and their interests in the shares of the Company is contained in the directors remuneration report.
Indemnification of directors The Company has in place directors and officers insurance and, on 28 November 2005, entered into a deed of indemnity to grant the directors further protection against liability to third parties, subject to the conditions set out in the Companies Act.
Such qualifying third party indemnity provision remains in force as at the date of approving the directors report.
Auditors Ernst & Young LLP has indicated its willingness to continue in office and a resolution proposing its re-appointment as auditors will be put to shareholders at the AGM.
Directors declaration As required under s418 of the Companies Act 2006, so far as each current director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and each director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Going concern The Group has sufficient funding and facilities in place to meet its requirements to March 2014.
The directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully and, accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and financial statements.
