54 Directors report governance Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Board directors biographies 1 2 3 4 5 1.
Claude Lamoureux  LLP Water & Power Opportunities Wildlife Fund WWF for nine Non-executive Director PwC from 1987 until March plc, Hansen Transmissions years, where he was responsible Claude Lamoureux was appointed 2010 and was lead partner for WWFs global policy work on International NV, Bolux Utilities to the boards of NWG and NWL for a diverse range of FTSE Sicav Luxembourg, Mercurius international conventions.
Claude 100 clients and for PwCs UK Utilities Liechtenstein, EFMI is a Trustee of Conservation was, until 1 December 2007, energy, utilities and mining sector Funds plc and Ecofin Global International UK, the World President and CEO of the Ontario practice.
Most recently, he was Land Trust and the Kilverstone Long Short Fund.
All the above Teachers Pension Plan Board PwCs sustainability and climate funds are focused on utilities.
Previously, he spent 25 change assurance leader and 2005, he became a Director of years as a financial executive with renewables leader.
He is a NonPromethean plc, an AIM-listed 5.
Margaret Fay CBE Metropolitan Life in Canada and executive Director of both the from 1 June 2010 investment company and sits on the US.
He is a Director of Xstrata Met Office and the Sustainable the supervisory board of Banque Independent Non-executive ie plc, Industrial Alliance Insurance Development Commission and Jean-Philippe Hottinguer & C. Director and Financial Services Inc.
Maple chairs their Audit Committees.
Margaret Fay was appointed to Leaf Foods Inc. Atrium Innovations 4.
Simon Lyster from the boards of NWG and NWL on Inc.
Martin Ngre 1 April 2011 1 June 2010 and is a member of the York University Foundation.
Independent Non-executive Independent Non-executive the Remuneration and Nomination OTPP holds 27% of the issued Director Director Committees.
She is also a member share capital of NWG and Claude Simon Lyster was appointed to of NWLs Corporate Responsibility Martin Ngre was appointed to is, therefore, not regarded as an the Board in May 2003 and to the the Board of NWG on 1 April 2011, Committee.
Margaret was formerly independent Director.
Claude will board of NWL in January 2006 having joined the board of NWL Managing Director of Tyne Tees retire from the boards of NWG and is a member of the Audit, in September 2006, is a member Television until she took early and NWL on 28 July 2011. of the Nomination Committee retirement in December 2003 Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
He was, between and chairs NWLs Corporate to become Chairman of One 2.
Paul Rew from April 2000 and April 2001, the Responsibility Committee.
Simon North East, a position she held 1 October 2010 CEO of the former Northumbrian is a lawyer by training, qualified until August 2010.
She is Deputy Independent Non-executive in both the UK and the USA and Chairman of The Sage Gateshead, Water Group plc and the chief Director corporate representative of its has been Chief Executive of LEAD a Governor of the University of Paul Rew was appointed to parent company, Suez, in the UK.
Before Sunderland, Patron of Tees Valley the boards of NWG and NWL He currently chairs Ecofin Global joining LEAD which he will leave Community Foundation and the on 1 October 2010.
Paul is during July 2011, Simon was Utilities Hedge Fund Limited, Prince of Wales Ambassador a member of the Audit and Ecofin Special Situations Utilities Director General of The Wildlife for the north east of England.
Nomination Committees and of Fund, Ecofin North American Trusts, one of the largest nature Margaret was awarded an OBE NWLs Corporate Responsibility Hedge Fund and Ecofin China conservation organisations in for services to broadcasting in Committee.
Paul, a chartered the UK, for seven years.
His 2004 and, in 2010, a CBE for accountant, was a partner in other directorships include Ecofin that, Simon worked for World services to regional development.
55 Directors report governance Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
Heidi Mottram OBE Chairman of Legal and General of the Audit and Nomination the Department of Transport from Chief Executive Officer plcs Longevity Science Advisory Committees.
Sir Patrick became Heidi Mottram was appointed to Panel and a member of the Board a chartered accountant in 1981 a Non-executive Director of the the boards of NWG and NWL on for Actuarial Standards at the and joined Cazenove, a city Go-Ahead Group plc in 1999 1 March 2010 and became CEO Financial Reporting Council.
corporate stockbroker, in 1982. and its Chairman in 2002.
Heidi is a member He worked initially as an analyst also Chairman of the Advisory of the Nomination Committee and 8.
Chris Green and transferred to the corporate Committee of Alexander Proudfoot NWLs Corporate Responsibility Finance Director finance department in 1986, UK and a Non-executive Director Committee.
Heidi was Commercial Chris Green was appointed becoming a partner in 1988. of Camelot UK Lotteries Limited.
Director for Arriva Trains Northern to the boards of NWL in April In 1996, he became a director from January 2004, before joining 2000 and NWG in May 2003. of the firms fund management 11.
Martin Parker not pictured Serco-NedRailways in November Chris qualified as a chartered division and, from 2000 to General Counsel and 2004 as Managing Director, accountant and after ten years 2003, was the Chief Operating Company Secretary Northern Rail Limited.
She was in the accounting profession he Officer of that division.
Alex left Martin Parker was appointed named Rail Business Manager joined the former Northumbrian Cazenove in 2003.
He is a Nonas Company Secretary of NWG of the Year in 2009 and was Water Group plc in January executive Director of Lighthouse in May 2003.
Martin joined the awarded an OBE for services 1990.
He was initially involved in Group plc and is a Trustee of former Northumbrian Water Group to the rail industry in 2010. the Groups diversified business LArche and Help for Heroes.
plc in 1990, concentrating on activities before being appointed acquisitions, overseas projects 7.
Sir Derek Wanless as Group Finance Director in 10.
Sir Patrick Brown and contracts with industrial Chairman 1997.
Chris is Chair of Trustees Senior Independent customers, before being appointed Sir Derek Wanless was appointed for the Northumbria Calvert Trust, Non-executive Director Head of Group Legal Services to the Board as an Independent a charity devoted to providing Sir Patrick Brown was appointed in 1998 and General Counsel Non-executive Director in outdoor activities for the disabled, to the Board in May 2003 and and Company Secretary of NWL December 2003.
He joined the and is Deputy Chair of Governors to the board of NWL in January in 2000.
Martin is Secretary of board of NWL in January 2006 at the University of Sunderland.
Sir Patrick chairs the Audit all the Board committees.
and, in July 2006, became Committee and is a member of Chairman of NWG and NWL.
Alex Scott-Barrett the Nomination and Remuneration Sir Derek chairs the Nomination Independent Non-executive Committees.
He held various Committee and is a member of Director positions in the Department of the Remuneration Committee.
Alex Scott-Barrett was appointed Transport and the Department He became a director of National to the Board of NWG in September of the Environment, becoming Westminster Bank in 1991 and its 2006, having joined the board Second Permanent Secretary and Group Chief Executive in 1992. of NWL in November 2005.
Chief Executive of the Property He retired from that position He chairs the Remuneration Services Agency in 1990.
Sir Derek is currently Committee and is a member was Permanent Secretary for
