14 Directors report business review Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Our market The largest of NWGs businesses, Our external environment In the north east, there has been a gradual fall in NWL, operates in the north east and overall water demand in recent decades as a south east of England.
The two consequence of a reduction in industrial demand for water.
This trend is expected to continue but the areas have very different economic, pace of decline has now stabilised after some demographic and water resource industrial closures during the economic recession.
The north east compares well to the rest of the country as far as water resources are concerned and our major regional rivers can all be supported by Kielder Water.
This provides very high security of supply for our customers.
We also provide the highest levels of compliance for waste water across this area ensuring that we can return the water and sewage sludge to the environment satisfactorily whilst meeting the demands of all customers.
Bran Sands is particularly important in this respect as it supports the heavily industrialised area within Teesside by treating its waste.
The advanced anaerobic digestion plant there is now operating effectively and helping us to build our use of renewable energy.
NWLs southern operating area is in a water scarce region that is forecast to experience further economic and population growth in the medium term.
While this area has also seen a reduction in demand from heavy industry, and the recession is likely to dampen housing growth in the near future, we have a current deficit, meaning supplies are not secure in a severe drought.
Future growth will intensify the pressure on the balance between supply and demand.
NWL is implementing long term plans to ensure the availability of water supplies to meet both current and future demand in the region.
After approval from the EA, the project to increase the capacity of Abberton reservoir, near Colchester, coupled with ongoing demand management measures, will secure supplies to the Essex area for the foreseeable future.
15 Directors report business review Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Abberton reservoir The current pressures within financial markets have been well documented and the credit crunch has resulted in reduced availability of certain types of finance.
It is highly unlikely there will be a return to the exceptionally low cost of debt experienced from late 2005 to early 2007.
Although market conditions have improved in recent months, some uncertainty remains.
With the financing we have already put in place, we are sheltered from this uncertainty in the short term as we will not need to raise any new debt before March 2014.
Regulatory and legislative framework As a monopoly supplier of an essential public service, the UK water industry operates within a demanding regulatory environment.
Ofwat regulates prices and levels of customer service, while the Drinking Water Inspectorate DWI monitors drinking water quality and the EA covers environmental protection.
Customers interests are represented by CCWater.
NWL aims to maintain good working relationships with its regulators and with regional organisations, such as local authorities, which have an interest in the services it provides and can influence the companys business.
This is particularly important following Government reviews of the regulators, changes in regulatory reporting and proposals to legislate in the sector following the publication of a White Paper later in the year.
