14 Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2011 Strategy: addressing the market, preparing for the we continuously focus on improving the service we offer our customers.
in doing this we focus on three key elements: product, price and service.
Combined efficiently, these elements are drawing new customers to Ocado.
activity in 2011 priorities Key achievements Kpis Key initiatives effect on Kpis execution risks rolled out own label range at year end stocked c. 20,000 further develop own label range significantly increase the number of expected capacity increases from range, price and sKus, including over 600 Ocado introduce more specialty food lines sKus stocked by end of 2012 new mhe may come on line more introduced specialist ranges freshness own label sKus increase promotional activity slowly than anticipated launched Ocado saving pass expand non-food lines disruptive price moves by we aim to provide a wider range tesco price match c. 7,000 sKus competition could impact margin than traditional store-based channels, at end of 2011 with a price competitive offer and significant work with suppliers superior freshness with product life and substantially increased guarantee.
number of promotions Completed roll out of the latest faster shopping times Continued use of technology improvement in % of orders unforeseen operational challenges service and usability version of our webshop and innovation to improve the delivered as ordered occur as we increase capacity at 18% of check outs on a mobile we aim to provide market-leading customer offer and service levels improvement in % of CfC1 launched apps on blackberry, app by year end 20% by January levels of service, availability, accuracy deliveries on time or early windows phone 7 2012 and ease of use for our customers.
Orders delivered as ordered 98.3% introduced a number of new deliveries on time or customer features early 92.3% added significant mhe CfC1 efficiency at 111 units start operation of new mhe improvements to CfC efficiency, mhe implementation is delayed CfC1 per hour, vs long-term target installed in 2011 and together with other CfC added c. 5km of conveyor and unforeseen operational challenges we continue to invest in greater of 180 remove the remaining inefficient improvements, will drive Kpi new smart control software occur as we increase capacity at capacity at our existing hatfield CfC.
trolley pick operation efficiencies, order and delivery average orders per week over CfC1 introduced new ambient zone we implemented a series of changes service levels 110,000, peaking at over 131,000 pick with latest generation in 2011 to enhance the future conveyor capacity and efficiency of CfC1, while impacting on short-term operations.
significant progress at Complete all work with testing testing and commissioning CfC2 dordon with building, services and commissioning commencing schedule delayed Our new CfC development in and ancillary infrastructure largely mid 2012, ready to go live dordon, warwickshire planned to complete and mhe installation Q1 2013 open in early 2013. started bristol and wimbledon spokes london area capacity increased maximise throughput at each delivery Kpis improve Current spokes become capacity spokes opened during period, Oxford by 17,000 orders per week spoke with increased CfC constrained the majority of orders are relayed spoke opened in Q1 2012 with wimbledon spoke opening capacity from CfC1 to spoke sites for onward delivery to customers.
tracking and routing technology deliveries per van per week expand van fleet as capacity delivery Kpis improve legislative and environmental van fleet upgraded increased to 145 peaking at 165, increases factors impact on the mode of Our customer service team members vs long-term target of 175 operations deliver direct to customers kitchens unforeseen impact of Olympic using our fleet of bespoke vans.
games 21066-04 08 02 2012 Proof 1 strategy: addressing the market Operational & Capacity Customer Offer Stock code: OCDO www.
com 15 future and driving efficiency simultaneously, we are investing in our infrastructure to service this growth and driving efficiency throughout the delivery cycle.
we have set out the key initiatives from the past year, and the key priorities for the year ahead.
we would also refer you to the risks section on pages 18 to 23 in looking at these initiatives.
Our priorities for 2012 priorities Key achievements Kpis Key initiatives effect on Kpis execution risks rolled out own label range at year end stocked c. 20,000 further develop own label range significantly increase the number of expected capacity increases from range, price and sKus, including over 600 Ocado introduce more specialty food lines sKus stocked by end of 2012 new mhe may come on line more introduced specialist ranges freshness own label sKus increase promotional activity slowly than anticipated launched Ocado saving pass expand non-food lines disruptive price moves by we aim to provide a wider range tesco price match c. 7,000 sKus competition could impact margin than traditional store-based channels, at end of 2011 with a price competitive offer and significant work with suppliers superior freshness with product life and substantially increased guarantee.
games 21066-04 08 02 2012 Proof 1 Operational & Capacity Customer Offer strategy: addressing the market Our finanCialS Our reSpOnSibilitieS abOut OCaDO Our perfOrmanCe Governance
