28 Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2011 Board of Directors Lord Grade of Yarmouth Tim Steiner Neill Abrams Chairman Chief executive Officer legal and business affairs director lord grade joined the board as tim is a founding director.
he has Chairman in 2006. he has had a long responsibility for keeping a general neill has been a director since and distinguished career in broadcasting, oversight of the business and strategy.
september 2000, having previously encompassing itv, bbC and over nine prior to Ocado, tim spent eight years advised Ocado since its founding.
he is years as Chief executive of Channel as a banker at goldman sachs.
during responsible for Ocados business support, 4 television.
he is currently a nonhis time there, he was based in london, including legal, insurance, risk management, executive director at wrg worldwide hong Kong and new york in the fixed and human resources divisions.
prior to limited, the Chairman of pinewood income division.
tim graduated from Ocado, neill was a barrister in practice shepperton plc and also Chairman manchester university with an honours at One essex Court and an executive of James grant group limited.
he degree in economics, finance and director and counsel at goldman sachs was appointed a member of the press accountancy in 1992. in london.
neill graduated from sidney Complaints Commission limited in sussex College, Cambridge with a april 2011. in november 2010 a masters degree in law in 1989, having peerage of the united Kingdom for life previously obtained ba and llb degrees was conferred upon michael.
from the university of the witwatersrand in Johannesburg.
he is also admitted as a member of the new york bar and as a south african advocate.
David Grigson Ruth Anderson Robert Gorrie non-executive director and non-executive director non-executive director senior independent director ruth joined the board in march 2010. robert joined the board in 2000, as she is chairman of the audit Committee.
in may 2006 he david joined the board in march until april 2009 she was a vice-Chairman became a non-executive director.
prior 2010. he is the boards senior of Kpmg in the uK.
she joined Kpmg in to Ocado, he was group director of independent director and chairman of 1976 and became a partner in 1989. she information t echnology at t ranspor t the nomination Committee.
he has has worked extensively as an adviser with development group plC where he held a number of posts, including Chief uK and international businesses.
ruth is a spent ten years in a variety of commercial financial Officer at reuters group plC, non-executive director of travis perkins and operational roles.
prior to that he group finance director at emap plC, plc and the royal parks, an executive spent ten years in north america with Chairman of emap digital limited and agency of the department of Culture, the logistics service business Christian non-executive director of Carphone media and sport.
ruth is a fellow of salvesen plC, where he reached warehouse plC.
he is currently a nonthe institute of Chartered accountants the position of director of business executive director at standard life plC of england and wales and a member of development.
robert graduated from and trinity mirror plc and is Chairman the Chartered institute of taxation.
ruth Corpus Christi College, Oxford with an of Creston plC.
david is a member of graduated from bradford university with honours degree in modern history and the Chartered accountants of england an honours degree in french and spanish.
and wales and studied economics at the university of manchester.
21066-04 08 02 2012 Proof 1 board of directors Stock code: OCDO www.
com 29 Andrew Bracey Jason Gissing Mark Richardson Chief financial Officer Commercial director Operations director andrew joined the board as Chief Jason is a founding director.
he has mark joined the board in January financial Officer in november 2009, board responsibility for Ocados retail 2012, having been Ocados head having previously advised Ocado since activities, including buyer, supplier and of technology since 2001. he is its commencement.
prior to Ocado customer relationships, marketing and responsible for the day-to-day running he had an 18-year career in investment brand development.
in addition, Jason of the Ocado operation, including banking: at Jefferies international, at leads Ocados green initiatives.
prior Customer fulfilment Centres, logistics barclays Capital as managing director to Ocado, Jason spent eight years as a developments, business planning, of principal investments where he banker at goldman sachs.
he graduated engineering and it.
prior to Ocado, undertook a number of consumer and from worcester College, Oxford with an mark was at the John lewis partnership, retail investments, including somerfield, as honours degree in jurisprudence in 1992. where he held a number of it positions, managing director in investment banking including head of selling systems at Credit suisse and at ubs.
mark graduated from history of architecture at magdalene university College london with a College, Cambridge, having previously physics degree.
obtained a ba from the university of east anglia.
andrew notified the Company in January 2012 that he intended to resign from the board, will be leaving after the publication of this annual report.
David Y oung CBE Jrn Rausing Douglas McCallum non-executive director non-executive director non-executive director david joined the board in 2000 with Jrn joined the board in 2003 with douglas mcCallum joined the board the initial investment in Ocado by the initial investment by apple trust in October 2011. doug has been a John lewis.
he is the chairman of now the apple ii trust, of which he pioneer of the internet industry for the remuneration Committee.
david is a beneficiary in Ocado.
he is a 17 years: for the last ten years at ebay was a member of the board at John non-executive member of the tetra where he led the uK business and lewis between 1982 and 2002, where laval group board, and a member then turned around the pan-european he was finance director and later of the boards of alfa laval ab and business.
prior to ebay he was founder appointed as deputy Chairman.
Jrn is also and general manager of a number of held a number of senior positions, he tetra laval groups head of mergers businesses in the internet, broadcasting, is currently the treasurer of sheffield and acquisitions.
he holds a degree software and hardware industries.
david read ppe at Corpus in business administration from lund douglas read ppe at the university of Christi College, Oxford.
david will be university, sweden.
Oxford, and has an mba from harvard leaving the board after the agm on 23 business school.
may 2012. audit Committee remuneration Committee nomination Committee 21066-04 08 02 2012 Proof 1 board of directors Our finanCialS Our reSpOnSibilitieS abOut OCaDO Our perfOrmanCe Governance
