56 Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2011 Directors report Directors report and business review Corporate governance the business review sets out a comprehensive review of the the statement of corporate governance as required by the performance of the business of the group for the 52 weeks disclosure and transparency rule 7.2.
1 is set out on pages ended 27 november 2011 and of future developments.
30 to 45 and is incorporated by reference into this directors report.
the Companies act requires the Company to set out in this annual report a fair review of the business of the group Risk management during the 52 weeks ended 27 november 2011, including the groups procedures for managing risk are described on an analysis of the position of the group at the end of the page 44 and the groups principal risks and uncertainties period, analysis of the groups performance using key are described on pages 18 to 23 and those descriptions are performance indicators and a description of the principal risks incorporated by reference into this directors report.
and uncertainties facing the group known as the business review.
the information that fulfils the business review the groups policies and strategies for managing financial risk, requirements is set out in the our performance section on to the extent material to assessing the financial performance pages 2 to 9, the about Ocado section on pages 10 to 17, or position of the group, are summarised in note 4.5 to the the principal risks and uncertainties description on pages 18 consolidated financial statements, in the principal risks and to 23, the corporate social responsibility report on pages uncertainties description as set out on page 21, and in the 24 to 27 and the directors report set out below of this statement of corporate governance as set out on page 44, annual report.
the business review and the directors report as required by disclosure and transparency rules 4.1.
8 and or parts thereof are the management report for the 4.1.
11. purposes of the disclosure and transparency rule 4.1.
8. this information together with the sections of the annual report Employee involvement, equal opportunities and incorporated by reference consist of a directors report disabled employees that has been drawn up and presented in accordance with the corporate social responsibility section on pages 25 to 26 and in reliance upon applicable english company law and the sets out the groups policies on employee engagement and liabilities of the directors in connection with that report shall disabled employees.
they are incorporated by reference into be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such this directors report.
Charitable and political contributions Principal activities the particulars of the groups charitable and political Ocado group plc the Company is a public limited contributions made during the period are set out in the company incorporated and registered in england and wales corporate social responsibility section on pages 26 to 27. under the Companies act with registered number 07098618. they are incorporated by reference into this directors its registered office is titan Court, 3 bishops square, hatfield report.
Board of Directors the Company is the holding company of the Ocado group the membership of the board and biographical details of of subsidiary companies the group.
the principal activity the directors are given in the board of directors section of the Company is that of a holding company.
the Company on pages 28 to 29 and are incorporated into this directors owns directly the entire issued share capital of Ocado report by reference.
the changes to the membership of the holdings limited which holds the entire issued share capital board during the period are described in the statement of of Ocado limited.
the principal activities of Ocado limited corporate governance on pages 36 to 37. are the retailing and distribution of grocery and consumer goods.
further information in relation to the principal Appointment and replacement of Directors activities of the subsidiary undertakings can be found in note the articles set out the rules applicable to the appointment, 5.1 to the consolidated financial statements.
retirement and removal of a director of the Company, described below.
the group currently operates out of a dedicated CfC based at a site in hatfield, hertfordshire, together with ten operational spokes based in bristol, Coventry, dartford, leeds, manchester, Oxfordshire which started operating after the end of the period southampton, weybridge, white City and wimbledon.
21066-04 08 02 2012 Proof 1 directors report Stock code: OCDO www.
com 57 Appointment of Directors: a director may be appointed by the Share capital Company by ordinary resolution of the shareholders or by pursuant to the disclosure and transparency rules, the listing the board.
a director appointed by the board holds office rules, the Companies act and the large and medium-sized only until the next annual general meeting of the Company Companies and groups accounts and reports regulations and is then eligible for reappointment.
410, the directors report must contain certain committee authorised by the board may from time-to-time disclosures regarding the Companys share capital and the appoint one or more directors to hold any employment or rights and restrictions attaching to the Companys shares, executive office for such period and on such terms as they as set out in the following sections.
these statements are may determine and may also revoke or terminate any such included so as to comply with disclosure and transparency appointment.
6 regarding the statement of corporate governance.
Retirement of Directors: at every annual general meeting of the Companys authorised and issued ordinary share capital the Company, each director shall retire from office and may as at 27 november 2011 comprised a single class of ordinary offer himself for reappointment by the members.
the shares have a nominal value of 2 pence each.
the isin of the shares is gb00b3mbs747.
Removal of Directors by special resolution: the Company may by special resolution remove any director before the details of movements in the Companys issued share capital expiration of his period of office.
1 to the consolidated financial statements.
during the period, shares in the Company were Vacation of office: the office of a director shall be vacated issued as set out in note 4.6.
1 to the consolidated financial if: i he resigns or offers to resign and the board resolve to statements disclosed in accordance with listing rule accept such offer: ii his resignation is requested by all of the 9.8.
4 7. other directors and all of the other directors are not less than three in number: iii he is or has been suffering from Rights attaching to shares mental or physical ill-health and the board resolves that his the Companys shares when issued are credited as fully paid office be vacated: iv he is absent without the permission and free from all liens, equities, charges, encumbrances and of the board from meetings of the board whether or not other interests.
all shares have the same rights including an alternate director appointed by him attends for six voting and dividend rights and rights on a return of capital consecutive months and the board resolves that his office is and restrictions as set out in the articles, described below.
vacated: v he becomes bankrupt or compounds with his creditors generally: vi he is prohibited by law from being except in relation to dividends which have been declared and a director: vii he ceases to be a director by virtue of the rights on a liquidation of the Company, the shareholders have Companies act: or viii he is removed from office pursuant no rights to share in the profits of the Company.
if the office of a director is vacated for any reason, he must cease to be a member of any committee of the Companys shares are not redeemable.
Company may purchase or contract to purchase any of the shares on or off-market, subject to the Companies act and Directors interests the requirements of the listing rules, as described below.
the directors beneficial interests in the shares of the Company are shown in the directors remuneration report no shareholder holds shares in the Company which carry as set out on pages 51 to 52. special rights with regard to control of the Company.
there are no shares relating to an employee share scheme which Directors indemnity have rights with regard to control of the Company that are the directors indemnity arrangements are described in the not exercisable directly and solely by the employees, other statement of corporate governance as set out on page 34. than in the case of the groups joint share ownership scheme the JsOs where interests can be transferred to a spouse, Amendment of the Articles civil partner or lineal descendant of a participant in the the Companys articles may be amended by a special JsOs or certain trusts under the rules of the JsOs as noted resolution of its shareholders.
21066-04 08 02 2012 Proof 1 directors report Our finanCialS Our reSpOnSibilitieS abOut OCaDO Our perfOrmanCe Governance 58 Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2011 Directors report continued Share rights: subject to the Companies act, any resolution Restrictions on voting rights: no shareholder shall be entitled passed by the Company under the Companies act and other to vote at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of shareholders rights, shares may be issued with such rights any share held by him if any call or other sum then payable by and restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution him in respect of that share remains unpaid or if a member decide, or if there is no such resolution or so far as it does has been served with a restriction notice as defined in the not make specific provision as the board may decide.
rights and restrictions will apply as if they were set out in the articles.
redeemable shares may be issued.
the directors JSOS voting rights: disclosed in accordance with the listing can decide on the terms and conditions and the manner rules 9.8.
4 13 and the relevant company of redemption of any redeemable shares.
such terms and regulation, appleby trust Jersey limited, the independent conditions will apply as if they were set out in the articles.
company which is the trustee of the Companys employee subject to the articles, the Companies act and other benefit trust the ebt trustee will not normally exercise shareholders rights, the unissued shares in the Company are the voting rights of unvested shares held under the JsOs at the disposal of the board.
but may exercise such rights on vested shares at the request of the relevant participants of the JsOs.
Of the Companys issued shares, 36,305,099 ordinary shares are held by Voting rights greenwood nominees limited on behalf of the ebt trustee, shareholders will be entitled to vote at a general meeting or at period end.
in respect of 7,957,000 ordinary shares which class meeting of the Company whether on a show of hands have vested under the JsOs and remain in the trust at period or a poll, as provided in the Companies act.
the Companies end, the ebt trustee may vote in respect of such ordinary act provides that: a on a show of hands every member shares at the request of a participant.
the total of 36,305,099 present in person has one vote and every proxy present ordinary shares held by greenwood nominees limited on who has been duly appointed by one or more members behalf of the ebt trustee are treated as treasury shares will have one vote, except that a proxy has one vote for and in the groups consolidated balance sheet in accordance one vote against if the proxy has been duly appointed by with ias 32 financial instruments: presentation.
as such, more than one member and the proxy has been instructed calculations of earnings per share for the Company exclude by one or more members to vote for and by one or more the 36,305,099 ordinary shares held by the ebt trustee.
other members to vote against.
for this purpose the articles however, the Company does not hold any shares in treasury provide that, where a proxy is given discretion as to how to vote on a show of hands, this will be treated as an instruction Dividends and other distributions by the relevant shareholder to vote in the way that the the Company may by ordinary resolution from time-to-time proxy decides to exercise that discretion: and b on a poll declare dividends not exceeding the amount recommended every member has one vote per share held by him and he by the board.
subject to the Companies act, the board may vote in person or by one or more proxies.
where he may pay interim dividends, and also any fixed rate dividend, appoints more than one proxy, the proxies appointed by him whenever the financial position of the Company, in the taken together shall not have more extensive voting rights opinion of the board, justifies its payment.
if the board acts in than he could exercise in person.
this is subject to any rights good faith, it is not liable to holders of shares with preferred or restrictions which are given to any shares or on which or pari passu rights for losses arising from the payment of shares are held.
if more than one joint shareholder votes interim or fixed dividends on other shares.
except insofar including voting by proxy, the only vote which will count is as the rights attaching to, or the terms of issue of, any share the vote of the person whose name is listed before the other otherwise provide, all dividends shall be apportioned and voters on the register for the share.
paid pro rata according to the amounts paid up on the share during any portion of the period in respect of which the Deadlines for exercising voting rights: the articles provide a dividend is paid.
except as set out above, dividends may be deadline for submission of proxy forms of not than less than declared or paid in any currency.
48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
com 59 the board may, if authorised by an ordinary resolution of the the transferor of a share is deemed to remain the holder Company, offer shareholders excluding any member holding until the transferees name is entered in the register.
the shares as treasury shares in respect of any dividend the right board can decline to register any transfer of any share which to elect to receive shares by way of scrip dividend instead of is not a fully paid share.
the Company does not currently cash.
have any partially paid shares.
the board may also decline to register a transfer of a certificated share unless the instrument any dividend unclaimed after a period of 12 years from the of transfer in any usual form or in any other form which date when it was declared or became due for payment shall the board may approve : a is duly stamped or certified be forfeited and revert to the Company.
the Company may or otherwise shown to the satisfaction of the board to be stop sending cheques, warrants or similar financial instruments exempt from stamp duty and is accompanied by the relevant in payment of dividends by post in respect of any shares or share certificate or such other evidence of the right to may cease to employ any other means of payment, including transfer as the board may reasonably require: b is in respect payment by means of a relevant system, for dividends if of only one class of share: and C if to joint transferees, is in either i at least two consecutive payments have remained favour of not more than four such transferees.
registration uncashed or are returned undelivered or that means of of a transfer of an uncertificated share may be refused in the payment has failed or ii one payment remains uncashed or circumstances set out in the uncertificated securities rules as is returned undelivered or that means of payment has failed defined in the articles and where, in the case of a transfer and reasonable enquiries have failed to establish any new to joint holders, the number of joint holders to whom the postal address or account of the holder.
the Company may uncertificated share is to be transferred exceeds four.
resume sending dividend cheques, warrants or similar financial instruments or employing that means of payment if the JSOS: participants interests under the JsOs are generally nonholder requests such resumption in writing.
transferable during the period beginning on acquisition of the interest and ending at the expiry of the relevant restricted Restriction on dividends: the board may withhold payment period as set out in the JsOs rules.
however, interests can of all or any part of any dividends or other monies payable be transferred to a spouse, civil partner or lineal descendant in respect of the Companys shares from a person with a of a participant: a trust under which no person other than the 0.25 per cent.
interest as defined in the articles if such a participant or their spouse, civil partner or lineal descendant person has been served with a restriction notice as defined has a vested beneficial interest or any other person approved in the articles after failure to provide the Company with by the ebt trustee.
if a participant purports to transfer, information concerning interests in those shares required to assign or charge his interest other than as set out above, the be provided under the Companies act.
ebt trustee may acquire the participants interest for a total price of 1.
JSOS dividend rights: disclosed in accordance with the listing rules 9.8.
4 13 and the relevant company Other than as described above, the Company is not aware regulation, shares held under the JsOs will not receive of any agreements existing at the end of the period between any dividends paid if any, but the hurdles of the JsOs holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the would be reduced proportionally by the amount of the transfer of securities or that may result in restrictions on dividend payment so as not to distort the value of the JsOs voting rights.
participants interests in the shares.
Variation of rights Restrictions on transfer of securities subject to the Companies act, rights attached to any class of the Companys shares are freely transferable, save as set out shares may be varied with the written consent of the holders below.
of not less than three-fourths in nominal value of the issued shares of that class calculated excluding any shares held as the Company may, under the Companies act, send out treasury shares, or with the sanction of a special resolution statutory notices to those it knows or has reasonable cause passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of those to believe have an interest in its shares, asking for details of shares.
at every such separate general meeting except an those who have an interest and the extent of their interest adjourned meeting the quorum shall be two persons holding in a particular holding of shares.
when a person receives a or representing by proxy not less than one-third in nominal statutory notice and fails to provide any information required value of the issued shares of the class calculated excluding by the notice within the time specified in it, the Company any shares held as treasury shares.
can apply to the court for an order directing, among other things, that any transfer of shares which are the subject of the the rights conferred upon the holders of any shares shall not, statutory notice is void.
unless otherwise expressly provided in the rights attaching to those shares, be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them.
21066-04 08 02 2012 Proof 1 directors report Our finanCialS Our reSpOnSibilitieS abOut OCaDO Our perfOrmanCe Governance 60 Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2011 Directors report continued a to the allotment of equity securities and sale of treasury Powers for the Company issuing shares shares for cash in connection with an offer of, or invitation subject to the provisions of the Companies act, any equity to apply for, equity securities but in the case of the securities issued by the Company for cash must first be authority granted under paragraph b of resolution 1, by offered to shareholders in proportion to their holdings of way of a rights issue only : i to ordinary shareholders shares.
the Companies act and the listing rules allow for in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their the disapplication of pre-emption rights which may be waived existing holdings: and ii to holders of other equity by a special resolution of the shareholders, either generally or securities, as required by the rights of those securities, or specifically, for a maximum period not exceeding five years.
as the board otherwise considers necessary, by written resolutions of the Companys shareholders passed on 11 may 2011, it was resolved that: and so that the board may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which it considers necessary 1 the board be authorised to allot shares in the Company or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional and to grant rights to subscribe for or convert any entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical security into shares in the Company: problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter: and a up to a nominal amount of 3,693,429 such amount to be reduced by the nominal amount allotted or granted b in the case of the authority granted under paragraph a under paragraph b below in excess of such sum : and of resolution 1 and or in the case of any sale of treasury shares for cash, to the allotment otherwise than under b comprising equity securities as defined in section paragraph a above of equity securities or sale of 560 1 of the Companies act up to a nominal amount treasury shares up to a nominal amount of 554,014, of 7,386,858 such amount to be reduced by any allotments or grants made under paragraph a above such power to apply until the end of the agm or, if earlier, in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue: i to until the close of business on 11 august 2012 but, in each ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be case, during this period the Company may make offers, and practicable to their existing holdings: and ii to holders of enter into agreements, which would, or might, require equity other equity securities as required by the rights of those securities to be allotted and treasury shares to be sold after securities or as the board otherwise considers necessary, the power ends and the board may allot equity securities and sell treasury shares under any such offer or agreement and so that the board may impose any limits or as if the power had not ended.
restrictions and make any arrangements which it considers necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury these standard authorities for issuing shares on a nonshares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, pre-emptive basis for cash may be renewed annually.
regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, the directors will seek to renew these authorities at the any territory or any other matter, Companys agm as set out in the notice of meeting.
such authorities to apply until the end of the agm or, if Powers for the Company buying back its earlier, until the close of business on 11 august 2012 but, in each case, during this period the Company may make offers own shares and enter into agreements which would, or might, require the description below concerning the Company acquiring its shares to be allotted or rights to subscribe for or convert own shares is made in accordance with the disclosure and securities into shares to be granted after the authority ends transparency rule 4.1.
6 4 and the and the board may allot shares or grant rights to subscribe relevant company regulation.
the Company may purchase its for or convert securities into shares under any such offer or shares only out of distributable reserves or the proceeds of a agreement as if the authority had not ended.
new issue of the Companys shares made for the purpose of funding the repurchase.
2 the board be given power to allot equity securities for cash under the authority given by that resolution and or by resolutions of the Companys shareholders passed on 11 to sell ordinary shares held by the Company as treasury may 2011, it was resolved that the Company be authorised shares for cash as if section 561 of the Companies act for the purposes of section 701 of the Companies act to did not apply to any such allotment or sale, such power make one or more market purchases as defined in section to be limited: 693 4 of the Companies act of its ordinary shares of 2 pence each, such power to be limited: 21066-04 08 02 2012 Proof 1 directors report Stock code: OCDO www.
com 61 a to a maximum number of 55,401,437 ordinary shares: this standard authority for the Company to purchase its shares may be renewed annually.
the directors will seek to b b y the condition that the minimum price which may be renew this authority at the Companys agm on the terms set paid for an ordinary share is 2 pence and the maximum out in the notice of meeting.
price which may be paid for an ordinary share is the highest of: the Company has not acquired its shares during the period i an amount equal to 5% above the average market or a previous period.
the Company did not hold or dispose value of an ordinary share for the five business days of any shares in the Company that were acquired by it in immediately preceding the day on which that ordinary a previous period.
it is the Companys present intention to share is contracted to be purchased: and cancel any shares it buys back in future, rather than hold them ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade in treasury.
the Companys shares were not made the subject and the highest current independent bid on the of a lien or other charge taken by the Company.
trading venues where the purchase is carried out, in each case, exclusive of expenses, Significant shareholders as required under listing rule 9.8.
6 2 and relevant company such power to apply until the end of the agm or, if earlier, regulations, the table below sets out the notifications that the 11 august 2012 but in each case so that the Company may Company had received from its shareholders of the significant enter into a contract to purchase ordinary shares which will direct or indirect holdings being 3 per cent.
or more in the or may be completed or executed wholly or partly after the Companys shares, pursuant to disclosure and transparency power ends and the Company may purchase ordinary shares rule 5 which were also published on a regulatory information pursuant to any such contract as if the power had not ended.
service and on the Companys Corporate website, during the period up to 27 november 2011 : percentage of issued share number of capital at ordinary notification nature of shares date holding the london and amsterdam trust Company limited 61,512,060 11.11 direct & indirect hamilton trust Company limited as trustee for the apple ii trust 61,880,100 11.08 direct fmr llC 54,761,301 9.88 indirect the nomad investment partnership l. p. 28,423,655 5.09 not stated the steiner 2008 millennium trust 27,687,600 5.00 direct & indirect fil limited 27,287,909 4.93 indirect the goldman sachs group, inc below 3% below 3% not stated ubs investment bank below 3% below 3% direct & indirect tempest Capital limited below 3% below 3% not stated walker fund services limited nil nil n a John lewis partnership pensions trust nil nil n a these figures represent the number of shares and percentage shareholders of the significant direct or indirect holdings held as at the date of notification to the Company.
or more in the Companys shares, period end the Companys issued share capital consisted of pursuant to disclosure and transparency rule 5 which were 558,362,139 issued ordinary shares.
also published on a regulatory information service and on the Companys Corporate website from 28 november 2011 as required under listing rule 9.8.
6 2 a and relevant to 16 march 2012 being not more than one month prior to company regulations, the table below sets out the the likely date of the notice of meeting : notifications that the Company had received from its 21066-04 08 02 2012 Proof 1 directors report Our finanCialS Our reSpOnSibilitieS abOut OCaDO Our perfOrmanCe Governance 62 Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2011 Directors report continued percentage of issued share number of capital at ordinary notification nature of shares date holding the nomad investment partnership l. p. 33,742,828 6.04 direct & indirect fil limited 28,520,881 5.1 indirect manning and napier advisers llC 26,914,371 5.00 direct ubs investment bank below 3% below 3% direct & indirect these figures represent the number of shares and percentage held as at the date of notification to the Company.
as at 16 march 2012 the Companys issued share capital consisted of 558,702,597 issued ordinary shares.
the principal risks and uncertainties section on pages 18 Important contracts or arrangements to 23 describes these risks and the other principal risks and under section 417 5 c of the Companies act, the Company uncertainties facing the group that may have an adverse is required to disclose information about persons with whom impact on the groups operations, performance or future the Company has contractual or other arrangements which prospects.
are essential to the business of the Company.
Contracts of significance whilst the loss of or disruption to certain of the groups for the purposes of listing rule 9.8.
4 10, there were no supply, financing or manufacturing arrangements for example contracts of significance subsisting during the period to vans and CfC machinery or other key contracts could affect which the Company or any group subsidiary were a party the operations or growth of the group until a replacement and in which a director of the Company were materially solution is found, none are considered to be essential to the interested, other than to note that the directors were party business of the Company.
to certain lock-up agreements with the Company that were entered into in July 2010 in connection with the Companys however, as noted in the principal risks and uncertainties, admission, whereby the directors agreed to certain lockOcados sourcing arrangements, reputation and brand are up arrangements that prevented the transfer of their shares based, at least in part, on its relationship with waitrose.
if in the Company subject to certain exceptions.
these the sourcing agreement with waitrose were to end or if lock-up agreements ended during the period.
there were no waitrose were unable to source products for the group, contracts of significance subsisting during the period between Ocado would need to engage additional personnel to: i the Company or any group subsidiary and a controlling find or create replacement own-label products: and ii find shareholder of the Company.
appropriate suppliers and negotiate equivalent prices itself.
waitrose, through whom Ocado sources the vast majority of products it sells and whose own-label products it sells, is a Change of control under significant agreements uK supermarket chain and the food division of the privately there are a number of agreements to which the group is owned retailer John lewis partnership.
waitrose has over a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of 270 branches across the uK, sells high quality food and places control of the Company following a takeover bid.
details of an emphasis on the provenance and traceability of the food the significant agreements of this kind are as follows: that it sells.
in its last financial year ended 29 January 2011 it had gross sales of 4.97 billion and made an operating profit Sourcing Agreement: if the parties terminate the sourcing of 274.9 million source: www.
agreement after certain competitors of waitrose or John lewis acquire 50 per cent.
or more of the shares or control the groups 100 million credit facility with barclays bank of the Companys board, Ocado is obliged to pay waitrose plc, hsbC bank plc and lloyds tsb bank plc, described the lower of 40 million and 4 per cent.
of the market below, may be terminated in certain circumstances, including capitalisation of the Company.
this change of control provision if the group were to breach one or more of the covenants will cease to bind the parties if, prior to the change of control, under this facility which would put the group in default of any party has already given a valid notice of termination.
this would jeopardise the groups expansion plans and threaten the groups ability to continue as a going Credit facility agreement: as noted above, the group has concern.
details concerning each of the lenders under a 100 million credit facility with barclays bank plc, hsbC the facility can be found on, in the case of barclays bank, its bank plc and lloyds tsb bank plc for the acquisition of land, website http: group.
com, in the case of hsbC building materials, plant, machinery and equipment, for CfC1 bank, its website www.
com and in the case of lloyds and or CfC2 and or the spokes.
if Ocado or waitrose gives tsb bank, its website www.
notice to terminate the sourcing agreement it will be an event of default under this facility.
com 63 HSBC Equipment Finance UK Limited: On 22 July 2004 Market value of properties Ocado as lessee and hsbC equipment finance uK the directors are of the opinion that the aggregate market limited as lessor entered into a master sale and leaseback value of the groups interests in land as at 27 november agreement.
since then, there have been 24 sale and 2011 is in line with the net book value as set out in note leaseback agreements covering the majority of the conveyor 3.2.
systems and associated capital goods that have been added to CfC1 since august 2004.
Of these agreements, 18 remain Creditor payment policy at period end with total amounts outstanding of 19.5 it is the groups policy for all trade payables to agree payment million.
the agreement may be terminated on one months terms in advance of the supply of goods with the supplier, to notice by either party, but without prejudice to rights accrued make the supplier aware of the terms of payment and to adhere under any leasing agreements made thereunder.
pursuant to to those payment terms.
the Company is a holding company side letters between Ocado and hsbC varying the original and therefore has little trade payables.
the group did not follow agreement, hsbC is able to terminate the agreement if there any code or standard on payment practice in the period.
the is a change of control of the Company or if the sourcing average trade payables payment period of the groups main agreement is terminated for any reason.
trading company, Ocado limited, for the 52 weeks ended 27 november 2011 was 26 days 2010: 26 days, based on the Change of control for Director and employee ratio of its average trade payables relating to resale goods for the agreements period to the amounts invoiced during the year by those trade the Company does not have any agreements with any payables.
director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover except Research and development and future that it should be noted that: i provisions of the Companys developments share schemes may cause options and shares granted to the group has dedicated in-house software, logistics and employees under such schemes to vest on a takeover: and ii engineering design and development teams with primary certain members of senior management not including the focus on it and improvements to the CfCs and the material directors are entitled to a payment contingent on a change handling equipment.
Costs relating to the development of of control of the Company or merger of the Company computer software are capitalised if they relate to internal irrespective of loss of employment as set out in his or her capital projects.
the groups likely future developments including its strategy are Results and dividends described in the about Ocado section on pages 10 to 17. the groups results for the period are set out in the consolidated income statement on page 67. the groups loss Business model and strategy before tax for the period amounted to 2.4 million 2010: as required by the 2010 Code, the about Ocado section on 12.2 million.
pages 10 to 17 describes the Companys business model for sustainable growth.
this provides an explanation of the basis the directors do not propose to pay a dividend for the on which the group generates value and preserves it over period 2010: nil.
the long-term and its strategy for delivering its objectives.
Interest capitalised the amount of the interest capitalised by the group is set out in note 4.3.
1 to the consolidated financial statements on page 93.
Cumulative capitalised borrowing costs were 699,000 2010: 147,000. there is no immediately available tax relief related to the capitalised borrowing costs.
Post balance sheet events important events occurring after the balance sheet date that affect the group are disclosed in note 5.5 to the consolidated financial statements.
21066-04 08 02 2012 Proof 1 directors report Our finanCialS Our reSpOnSibilitieS abOut OCaDO Our perfOrmanCe Governance 64 Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2011 Directors report continued ebitda in respect of a test period refers to ebitda for the Going concern relevant prior 12 month period.
all covenant tests which in adopting the going concern basis for preparing the financial exist under the terms of the facility are tested quarterly.
statements, the directors have made appropriate enquiries and have considered the groups cash flows, liquidity position the table below outlines the relevant covenant tests and the and borrowing facilities and business activities as set out on actual position of the group at the end of the period: page 56 and the groups principal risks and uncertainties as set on pages 18 to 23. based on the groups rolling forecasts, Covenant Actual the directors are satisfied that the Company, and the group as a whole, have adequate resources to continue in net debt ebitda 3:1 0.74:1 operational existence for the foreseeable future.
accordingly, fixed interest cover 4:1 5.76:1 the financial statements have been prepared on the going gross debt ebitda 5.5:1 4.04:1 concern basis in accordance with going Concern and liquidity risk: guidance for directors of uK Companies 2009, at the date of entering the facility agreement on 5 July 2010, published by the financial reporting Council in October the net debt covenant applicable to the life of the facility 2009. was not in excess of 3:1. during the period the group agreed with the lenders under the facility that the net debt the principal risks and uncertainties section on pages 18 to ratio financial covenant be amended such that the ratio be 23 describes the principal risks and uncertainties facing the increased from 3:1 to the new net debt ratios outlined above.
group including those that may have an adverse impact on the groups operations, performance or future prospects Statement of Directors responsibilities and the going concern basis noted above.
the groups cash the directors are responsible for preparing the annual flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities and business report, the directors remuneration report and the financial activities are described on page 56 and set out in the groups statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
financial statements on pages 67 to 114. further information on going concern is set out in section 1 to the consolidated Company law requires the directors to prepare financial financial statements on page 73. statements for each financial year.
under that law the directors have prepared the group and parent company the Companys going concern statement has been reviewed financial statements in accordance with international financial by the Companys auditors,  llp, as reporting standards ifrss as adopted by the european required by listing rule 9.8.
under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they Borrowings and covenants give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group the most material of the groups borrowing facilities is its and the Company and of the result of the Company and 100 million credit facility with barclays bank plc, hsbC bank the group for that period.
in preparing these financial plc and lloyds tsb bank plc.
the facility contains customary statements, the directors are required to: covenant provisions in respect of net debt, gross debt and interest cover.
the financial covenants are as follows: z select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: z net debt ratio the net debt financial covenant requires z make judgements and accounting estimates that are that the ratio of net debt to adjusted ebitda at the end reasonable and prudent: of each quarter period must not exceed 3:1 for each z state whether applicable ifrss as adopted by the test period until the test period falling in november european union have been followed, subject to any 2011, must not exceed 3.25:1 for the test period falling material departures disclosed and explained in the in february 2012, must not exceed 3.5:1 for each test financial statements: and period thereafter until the test date falling in august z prepare the financial statements on the going concern 2013, and must not exceed 3.25:1 thereafter: and basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the z interest cover ratio the interest cover financial Company will continue in business.
covenant requires that the ratio of ebitda to net interest at the end of each quarter period be not less than 3:1 until the test date falling in may 2011, not less than 3.5:1 thereafter until the test date falling in august 2011 and not less than 4:1 thereafter: and z gross debt ratio the gross debt financial covenant requires that the ratio of gross debt to adjusted ebitda must not exceed 5.5:1 for any test period in respect of which ebitda is less than 35 million.
com 65 the directors are responsible for keeping adequate Forward-looking statements accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain Certain statements made in this report are forwardthe Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable looking statements.
such statements are based on current accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company expectations and assumptions and are subject to a number and the group and enable them to ensure that the financial of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or statements and the directors remuneration report comply results to differ materially from any expected future events with the Companies act and, as regards the group financial or results expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements, article 4 of the ias regulation.
they appear in a number of places throughout responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and this report and include statements regarding the intentions, the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the beliefs or current expectations of the directors concerning, prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
amongst other things, the groups results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies the directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity and the business.
persons receiving this report should not of the Companys website.
legislation in the united Kingdom place undue reliance on forward-looking statements.
unless governing the preparation and dissemination of financial otherwise required by applicable law, regulation or accounting statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
standard, Ocado does not undertake to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new each of the directors, who held office at the date of the information, future developments or otherwise.
approval of this annual report, confirms, to the best of their knowledge that: approved by the board z the group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with ifrss as adopted by the eu, Neill Abrams give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial Company secretary and legal and business affairs director position and profit and loss of the group: and z the directors report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Disclosure of information to auditors in accordance with the Companies act, each director who held office at the date of the approval of this directors report confirms that, so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the groups auditors are unaware, and that each director has taken all of the steps that they ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the groups auditors are aware of that information.
Independent auditors the Companys auditors,  llp, have indicated their willingness to continue their role as the Companys auditors.
resolutions concerning the reappointment of  llp as auditors of the Company and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the agm and set out in the notice of meeting.
21066-04 08 02 2012 Proof 1 directors report Our finanCialS Our reSpOnSibilitieS abOut OCaDO Our perfOrmanCe Governance
