10 Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2011 Marketplace Ocado represents the market-leading model in the expanding online grocery market.
we are focused solely on the sale of groceries and nonfood online and are committed to growing the online channel without the distraction of legacy bricks and mortar operations.
Jason Gissing Commercial director Substantial underlying grocery market in UK Online grocery market growth the uK food and grocery market now exceeds 150 billion: the uK has seen continued internet penetration and it represents approximately 50p of every 1 spent on retail e-commerce activity, with online retail activities developing in the uK.
the marketplace remains highly competitive and beyond the original early adopters to a more mainstream dominated by the big four grocers: asda, morrisons, sainsbury customer set.
grocery has been slower to develop into an and tesco.
this intensity drives competition for market share online category.
however, the uK has the most advanced with retailers constantly striving to find new ways to strengthen online grocery market globally, which has continued to grow customer engagement and relationships, and increase spend.
rapidly from a small base currently approaching 4% of the total grocery market.
the economic downturn has added to pressure on consumers and on retailers seeking to attract their spend.
Customers are Online grocery is widely expected to become an increasingly looking to shop smarter, with factors such as fuel costs and significant channel, with all leading grocery retailers carefully value for money becoming increasingly important.
against the considering their online strategies.
backdrop of this difficult trading environment, which is likely to continue in the near term, parts of the market continue to grow strongly including online, discount and convenience.
Improved range and price drives channel shift 3 4 1 2 Out Of tOwn Online pre 1950s high street supermarKet lOCal stOre Chain Wider range Wider range Limited range Wide range Competitive pricing Lower prices High prices Lower prices Improved convenience Counter service Self service Drive to location and service Best location - your home!
21066-04 08 02 2012 Proof 1 marketplace Stock code: OCDO www.
com 11 mOre than 40% Of the UK Online Grocery pOpula tiOn intend tO Spend bn 11.2 use the Online Channel 10.2 9.1 fOr at least part Of their 1.9 8.0 1.8 grOCery shOpping within 6.8 1.6 9.3 1.5 5.9 five tO ten years 8.4 4.9 non-food 1.2 source: igd 7.5 1.0 6.5 grocery 5.6 0.7 4.9 4.2 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 source: igd Structural drivers fuel growth Technology and innovation significant channel shift has taken place in the uK grocery technology and innovation influence market over the last 60 years.
a movement from local stores many aspects of online grocery to high street supermarket chains was followed by the shift to retailing.
it serves as a driver for larger out of town superstores and hypermarkets.
in each case underlying demand with increased the channel shift has been driven by a wider range of product internet penetration and faster and lower prices.
however, with each channel shift service broadband speeds.
it also deepens levels and location have become increasingly less attractive to customer engagement through, the customer.
for example, the increase in using mobile devices and tablets as a the key driver to shifting consumers online is to improve the shopping tool.
technology and innovation are key to addressing customer offer and experience in shopping for their groceries.
many of the challenges in providing a superior online grocery as the online grocery proposition becomes increasingly proposition, both for the customer easy to use websites, attractive to the customer, the market will continue to grow mobile device apps for checkout and to drive operational significantly into a mainstream grocery shopping channel.
efficiency in the supply chain and fulfilment.
developing this customer proposition involves providing the Different online strategies widest range of product across food and non-food categories there is no single strategy for online retailing.
in the grocery at a price that is at least as competitive as can be found in sector, different approaches are being adopted, with traditional physical stores.
Customers also place great importance on store-based retailers largely using existing stores or store-based reliable and accurate delivery, product quality and freshness, and systems.
by contrast, Ocado uses a centralised picking model, overall ease of use.
this pioneering approach has been developed by Ocado over several years using its Online grocery retail presents own bespoke systems, know-how and software, making such a unique challenges model difficult to replicate.
the online channel in grocery has been slower to develop than other segments of the retail market partly due to the 2012 and beyond unique challenges associated with providing this service, with further growth in online grocery retailing is set to continue.
the logistical challenges involved providing one of the biggest significant development of the customer proposition within the barriers to entry.
channel will hasten this growth and transform such a channel migration from a niche activity to fulfilment of a customer order through an online service is a full market shift representing complicated: picking an average of over 50 items per order a sizeable part of the from over 20,000 sKus across three temperature zones with uK grocery market.
UK grocery different product life ambient, chilled and frozen for onward delivery to customers in narrow time slots presents many market value challenges.
we seek to overcome these challenges with our unique business model and use of our proprietary knowledge 151bn and technology.
Online 5bn 21066-04 08 02 2012 Proof 1 faCt marketplace Our finanCialS Our reSpOnSibilitieS abOut OCaDO Our perfOrmanCe Governance
