16 Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2011 Questions and Answers tim steiner, Chief executive Officer, addresses some of the most frequently asked questions about our company.
Q. you are sometimes referred to as waitrose tim steiner on wheels but they are now offering their own Chief executive Officer online grocery service.
how does this impact on the Ocado business?
a. we enjoy a long-term relationship with waitrose.
we are Q. what are the main trends driving your two independent retail groups, and as such it is only natural that waitrose should continue to develop their own online marketplace, in particular, how are you affected offer, which pre-dates our business.
we believe their business by key competitors investing more in their model is quite different to ours, centred on their store assets.
we see any investment into online grocery retailing that they a. a number of factors, including fast growing internet and make as positive in converting shoppers from store-based to smartphone penetration, an increase in available product online, and we further believe that our customer proposition range, lower prices, convenience, time and fuel savings are driven by our unique business model positions us well to driving a sharp increase in online shopping.
in particular, subsequently attract disproportionately high numbers of the advantage of shorter time slots for delivery are starting these online shoppers to shopping with Ocado.
to influence customers decisions to buy groceries online.
investment in online by competitors is good for us as it Q. how does the broader economic acknowledges online as an increasingly significant channel.
the key driver to shifting consumers online is to improve the a.
Customers become ever more discerning about price customer offer and experience in shopping for their groceries.
Our efforts to continually improve as the online grocery proposition becomes increasingly the customer offer with a broader range, offering different attractive to the customer, the market will continue to grow price points and more choice, together with the multitude significantly into a mainstream grocery shopping channel.
of initiatives we have to lower prices for customers which include tesco price match and the Ocado saving pass, are Q. are you concerned about reports that key to continue attracting and retaining customers.
while competitors are opening their own automated customers may put an item or two less in their shopping dark stores?
baskets, this is generally offset in value terms by inflation.
fuel a. it is interesting to hear about our competitors dark costs have continued to rise and customers are increasingly stores.
we see reports of bigger warehouses and increased attracted to the convenience, cost and time saving that automation as a further validation of our model, which we have shopping online brings in difficult economic times.
been operating and building knowledge of over the last ten years.
we believe our centralised picking model is significantly Q. what do you see as key to driving your more efficient than the online operations of our peers.
we will proposition to customers?
continue to build our offer to our customers, to continue to a. we seek to provide and have available the widest range attract those converting to the online model.
of any grocery store, offer competitive pricing and sufficient price points in each category without compromising on quality or freshness.
we use our innovative approaches and advanced technological knowledge to make our service the easiest to use for customers and to drive efficiencies through the entire process to give the best customer service and maximise long-term financial returns.
21066-04 08 02 2012 Proof 1 Questions and answers Stock code: OCDO www.
com 17 Q. how does expansion into own-label and Q. how important is technology to non-food complement your strategy?
Offering a broader range and different price points a. technology and innovation is at the heart of Ocados are both critical in attracting and retaining customers.
we develop our own software, which gives us a own-label strategy forms part of our initiative to address both proprietary knowledge base that acts as a natural protection of these key drivers of customer demand.
products now feature in 70% of our customers baskets.
we are able to utilise our technology platform and innovative we already sell non-food products which are adjacent to approach to better engage with the customer through easy our grocery offer.
we intend to further expand the number to use interfaces.
we were the first in the market to develop of non-food lines this year, which will offer more choice, and a fully transactional app for the iphone and now have apps allow customers the ease of also having their non-food items across all major operating systems for mobile devices, and delivered in dedicated one-hour timeslots rather than having to are constantly improving our webshop.
at the same time, seek alternative destinations to complete their weekly shop.
we deploy our technology to drive the efficiency of our operations in order to fulfil our customers orders with market leading service levels.
Q. will you be expanding your service into other parts of the uK?
view our online video at http: ocadogroup.
com about-us a. we currently cover over 70% of the uK population.
aspx to see the impact of technology in Our immediate strategy is to consolidate in existing delivery our business.
coverage areas by improving the drop density for each of our delivery vans, hence driving efficiency, returns and the Q. there was a lot of talk of capacity constraints investment we can put back into the customer proposition.
which caused some disruption last year and at the same time we constantly consider the viability of which had an impact on growth.
have these introducing our service to parts of the uK currently not now been resolved and can we expect service covered by Ocado.
levels to return to previous highs?
Q. do you intend to further broaden your a. we were naturally disappointed with the levels of customer service that we delivered during the latter part of appeal beyond your more traditional higher 2011, which while still market leading, fell below levels that we, income customers?
and more importantly our customers, have come to expect.
a. Ocado is a shop for everyone.
we want to be seen as the grocery retailer of choice for the ordinary shopper who we are however confident that the operational challenges seeks quality products at competitive prices.
Our customers in CfC1 which gave rise to the above are now largely come from a cross-section of income and age demographics.
these related to a variety of capacity expansion Our focus on extending our product range to one that will projects and additional maintenance or improvement work.
exceed even the largest store-based supermarkets, coupled this had an impact on short-term capacity and efficiency with our pricing initiatives are further driving our growth and while we continued to fulfil customer orders from hatfield.
reach to a broader cross section of the uK population.
the majority of this work has now been completed, and as the capital investment projects have gone live we have seen Q. how do you ensure that your employees are capacity build.
moreover, we now have a much more robust engaged with the business?
operational infrastructure to service and drive expected future growth.
a. we run an annual employee survey across the whole business to measure levels of employee engagement and to identify areas that need improvement.
employees are kept informed of the Q. how are you working towards reducing business performance and key events that may affect performance Ocados environmental impact?
through regular business briefings and electronic communications, a. the way the business operates using an automated CfC which also make our employees aware of the various factors that means that our product waste is very low, at only 0.70% of can affect the business performance.
we have also introduced a revenue in the period.
most of our product waste is within management development programme, which gives employees the use by date and is sold, at a discount, to a specialist the opportunity to progress their career within Ocado.
we help our customers reduce their own wastage, by showing guaranteed product life on the webshop and including use-by dates on order receipts.
we use a number of initiatives to reduce the impact that the business has on the environment, including closed loop carrier bag recycling, green van deliveries and ongoing energy efficiency projects in CfC1.
we also use electric vans as part of the delivery fleet at our london spokes.
21066-04 08 02 2012 Proof 1 Questions and answers Our finanCialS Our reSpOnSibilitieS abOut OCaDO Our perfOrmanCe Governance
