Ophir Energy plc Annual Report 2011 06 Our strategy BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ophir Energy plc Annual Report 2011 07 Establish relationships in Africa Ophirs overarching strategy has been to establish itself as a pre-eminent independent African energy company.
The Company has access to an extensive network of relationships in Africa.
In combination with these and the geoscience and commercial expertise of its management, the Company has acquired and developed an extensive portfolio of oil and gas interests in Africa.
Experienced and motivated management team Ophir has recruited and retained an experienced and motivated group of senior staff with a view to identifying attractive investment opportunities, decreasing exploration risk and adding value to its portfolio through the application of advanced geoscience technology.
Control over the pace and direction of exploration The Company has, wherever practical, sought to accelerate its exploration activities, while maintaining high professional and corporate responsibility standards, demonstrating its commitment to realising value from its assets in a timely fashion on behalf of its shareholders and partners.
The Company believes that continuation of this approach will enhance its ability to win new business in the future.
Active portfolio management The Companys preference is to take significant initial interests in core projects whilst retaining the flexibility to divest by way of farm out or exchange of interests as the project matures if deemed appropriate.
The Company intends to expand its portfolio through investing in new ventures, particularly where the application of advanced geoscience technology can add significant value through the reduction of exploration risk.
In keeping with the Directors intentions to establish Ophir as a pre-eminent independent African energy company, Ophir expects to participate to the extent considered appropriate in the development of its petroleum discoveries with a view to establishing itself as a major oil and or gas producer in the region.
The Company also periodically evaluates opportunities to acquire producing or near-producing assets that would complement its exploration portfolio.
