BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ophir Energy plc Annual Report 2011 31 Directors Report The Directors present their report for the year ended The Directors did not declare any interim dividend during 31 December 2011. the year and do not recommend a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2011.
The Directors do Principal Activities and Business Review not anticipate that the Company will pay dividends in Ophir is an independent oil and gas exploration business the near future.
The Directors envisage that, as the with a focus on Africa.
The principal activities of Ophir Company advances the development of its operations, are currently the exploration for oil and gas, predominantly a dividend policy will be determined based on, and in deepwater acreage in eight jurisdictions in East and dependent on, the results of the Companys operations, West Africa.
Ophir Energy plc is the Parent Company of financial condition, cash requirements, prospects, the Group and is incorporated in the United Kingdom.
profits available for distribution and other factors Ophirs headquarters are located in London with deemed to be relevant at the time.
operational offices in Perth Australia, Dar es Salaam Tanzania and Malabo Equatorial Guinea.
Share Capital and Treasury Shares The called-up share capital of the Company, together Through this Annual Report, including the Chairmans with details of shares allotted during the year, is shown and Chief Executive Officers Review, the Review of in Note 20 to the Group financial statements.
The Operations, the Financial Review, the Corporate Social Company does not hold any shares in treasury.
Responsibility Report and the Principal Risks and Uncertainties Report together pages 2 to 27 and the At a general meeting held in June 2011, the Directors Corporate Governance and Remuneration Reports on were given authority by shareholders to purchase just pages 35 to 52, the Board seeks to present a balanced over 30 million of its own ordinary shares, representing and clear assessment of the Companys activities, approximately 9.4% of its issued share capital as at position and prospects.
Each of these sections is 13 July 2011.
However the Board did not subsequently incorporated by reference into this Directors Report.
seek to undertake a buyback programme during the year ended 31 December 2011.
The Board intends to The Principal Risks and Uncertainties Report on pages 26 seek renewal of this authority at the 2012 AGM and to 27 sets out the key risks and uncertainties facing the while they have no current intention of exercising the Group, including those relating to financial risk authority, will keep the matter under review taking management and financial instruments.
into account other investment opportunities.
Directors Shareholders Rights The names and biographical details of the Directors of The following section summarises the rights and the Company during the year ended 31 December 2011 obligations in the Companys Articles of Association and any changes since the end of the financial year are the Articles relating to the ordinary shares of the set out on pages 28 to 30.
The full Articles can be found on the Companys website www.
The remuneration of the Directors for the year ended 31 December 2011 is set out in the Remuneration Voting: At a general meeting, subject to any special Report on pages 45 to 52, and summarised in Note 6 to rights or restrictions attached to any class of shares: the financial statements.
The interests of the Directors a on a show of hands, every member present in person and their connected persons in the shares of the and every duly appointed proxy present shall have one Company, along with details of any share awards, vote: b on a show of hands, a proxy has one vote for are contained in pages 51 to 52 of the Remuneration and one vote against the resolution if the proxy has been Report.
No Director had a material interest in any duly appointed by more than one member entitled significant contract with the Company or any of its to vote on the resolution and the proxy has been so subsidiaries during the year.
instructed: and c on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy has one vote for every share held The Company has granted indemnities in favour of its by him.
Unless the Directors resolve otherwise, no Directors against personal financial exposure that they member shall be entitled to vote either personally or may incur in the course of their professional duties by proxy or to exercise any other right in relation to as Directors of the Company and or subsidiaries as general meetings if any call or other sum due from him applicable.
These indemnities, which were granted to the Company in respect of that share remains unpaid.
on appointment, are qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006.
Transfer of shares: Transfers of certificated shares must be effected in writing, and signed by or on behalf of the Results and Dividend Policy transferor and, except in the case of fully paid shares, by The Companys results for the financial year are shown or on behalf of the transferee.
The transferor shall remain in the consolidated financial statement on page 56. the holder of the shares concerned until the name of the transferee is entered in the register of members in respect Ophir Energy plc Annual Report 2011 32 Directors Report continued of those shares.
The Directors may decline to register any Borrowing powers: The Board may exercise all the transfer of a certificated share, unless a the instrument powers of the Company to borrow money, to guarantee, of transfer is in respect of only one class of share, b the to indemnify, to mortgage or charge its undertaking, instrument of transfer is lodged at the transfer office, property, assets present and future and uncalled duly stamped if required, accompanied by the relevant capital, and to issue debentures and other securities share certificate s or other evidence reasonably whether outright or as collateral security for any debt, required by the Directors to show the transferors right liability or obligation of the Company or of any third party.
to make the transfer or, if the instrument of transfer is executed by some other person on the transferors Companys shareholders behalf, the authority of that person to do so, and c As at 19 April 2012 the Company had been notified of the certificated share is fully paid up.
The Directors the following substantial holdings of voting rights in may refuse to register an allotment or transfer of the issued share capital of the Company in accordance shares in favour of more than four persons jointly.
with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, or other information: Directors powers: The Directors shall manage the business and affairs of the Company and may exercise No.
of all powers of the Company other than those that are Ordinary Name Shares held % Holding required by the Act or by the Articles to be exercised by the Company at the general meeting.
The Directors Capital Research may delegate any of their powers or discretions, including and Management those involving the payment of remuneration or the Company Holdings 46,192,788 11.65 conferring of any other benefit to the Directors, to Mittal Investments S. a. r. l. 41,163,790 10.36 such person or committee and in such manner as they Kulczyk Group 40,433,833 10.17 think fit.
Any such person or committee shall, unless Och Ziff 36,114,367 9.09 the Directors otherwise resolve, have the power to Fidelity 26,565,741 6.68 sub-delegate any of the powers or discretions delegated to them.
Annual General Meeting The Companys first AGM as a listed public company will Dividends: The Company may, by ordinary resolution, be held at 2.30 pm on Tuesday 19 June 2012 at the declare final dividends to be paid to its shareholders.
offices of Linklaters LLP, One Silk Street, London, EC2Y However, no dividend shall be declared unless it has 8HQ.
Details of the resolutions which will be proposed been recommended by the Directors and does not at the AGM will be set out in the Notice of Meeting.
exceed the amount recommended by the Directors.
If the Directors believe that the profits of the Company Auditor justify such payment, they may pay dividends on any The Companys external auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, class of share where the dividend is payable on fixed had indicated its willingness to continue in office.
They may also pay interim dividends on shares Resolutions to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as the of any class in amounts and on dates and periods as Companys external auditor and to authorise the they think fit.
Unless the share rights otherwise provide, Directors to set the auditors remuneration will all dividends shall be declared and paid according to therefore be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
the amounts paid up on the shares on which the dividend is paid, and apportioned and paid pro rata according to So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant the amounts paid on the shares during any portion or audit information as defined in Section 418 3 of the portions of the period in respect of which the dividend 2006 Act of which the auditors are unaware and the is paid.
Any unclaimed dividends may be invested or Directors have taken all the steps that they ought to otherwise applied for the benefit of the Company until have taken as Directors in order to make themselves they are claimed.
Any dividend unclaimed for 12 years aware of any relevant audit information and to establish from the date on which it was declared or became due that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
for payment shall be forfeited and shall revert to the Company.
The Directors may, if authorised by ordinary Business Conduct and Ethics resolution, offer to ordinary shareholders the right to The Company is committed to sound business conduct elect to receive, in lieu of a dividend, an allotment of in its relationships with stakeholders shareholders, new ordinary shares credited as fully paid.
employees, customers, business partners and suppliers, governments and regulators, communities and the environment.
The Group seeks to conduct its operations with honesty, integrity and openness, and with respect for the human rights and interests of our employees.
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ophir Energy plc Annual Report 2011 33 During the year, the Directors undertook a thorough Significant Relationships review of the Groups anti-bribery policy and the resulting Shareholders: The Board is in regular communication updated policy and procedures have been disseminated with shareholders and institutional investors, and gives to all employees and other key stakeholders.
general presentations to analysts at various times throughout the year.
Charitable and political donations The Group did not make any charitable donations during Press releases have been issued throughout the year and the year 2010: Nil, however as part of its commitments the Company maintains a website www.
to the various countries where Ophir operates, it com on which all press releases are posted and which participates in social and community-related as well also contains major corporate presentations and the as economic programmes.
Further information on reports and accounts.
Shareholders and other interested these activities is set out on pages 22 to 25. parties can subscribe to receive news updates by email by registering online on the website.
The Company does not make political donations and has no intention of making donations to what are generally Shareholders are also encouraged to attend the Annual regarded as political parties, either within the European General Meeting AGM to discuss the progress of the Union or worldwide.
As a precautionary measure and in Group and are encouraged to make their views known the light of the wide definitions of European Union to us and to raise directly any matters of concern.
In political organisations for the purposes of the 2006 Act, addition, the Company employs an investor relations a resolution permitting the Company to make political manager to ensure the investor relations programme is donations and incur political expenditure will be in place for the Company.
This ensures the Company proposed at the 2012 AGM.
has the ability to meet major shareholders and analysts.
Environmental Matters The Company held a capital markets day on 19 October The Board believe that good environmental practices 2011, where Executive Directors and senior management support the Boards strategy by enhancing the reputation from both London and Perth presented the Companys of the Group.
Details of the ways in which the Company Operations and Strategy.
The presentation was controls, reviews and mitigates environmental risks subsequently posted to the website mentioned above.
are given in the HSE Report on page 22.
Employees: Other than shareholders, the Groups Supplier payment policy performance and value are influenced primarily through The Companys policy, which is also applied by the our employees and key stakeholders.
The Groups Group, is to settle terms of payment with suppliers when approach is to maintain the principles of honesty and agreeing the terms of each transaction, to ensure that the integrity and open and clear communication.
supplier is aware of the terms and to abide by the terms of the payment.
At 31 December 2011, the Group had an Regulatory Authorities: Ophirs assets are subject to average of 29 days purchases outstanding in creditors government licences in the territories within which 2010: 32 days.
Compliance with licence terms and conditions is taken seriously and monitored carefully.
Employees The Company has a policy of actively communicating Contractors: Contractors are key to the successful with employees in many ways, including regular briefings implementation of Ophirs strategy, particularly those on financial performance.
Communication is seen as a involved in drilling campaigns and associated way to encourage employee involvement at all levels activities.
The focus on relationships with contractors of the Group.
in 2011 has been to ensure that there is full compliance with Ophirs ethical standards and procedures and The Group has a diverse workforce comprising both local robust processes for monitoring performance.
employees and expatriates at all sites.
The Group is an equal opportunities employer and where existing Change of control employees become disabled, it is the Companys policy The Group has entered into a number of commercial to provide continuing employment under similar terms contracts which might take effect, alter or terminate on and conditions, wherever practicable, and to provide a change of control of the Company.
However, none of training and career development.
these is considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
As at 31 December 2011, the Group employed 42 people 2010: 44 people.
Ophir Energy plc Annual Report 2011 34 Directors Report continued Details of change of control clauses contained in the Post Balance Sheet Events contracts of employment of the Executive Directors A summary of the key Post Balance Sheet Events is set are set out on page 48 of the Directors Remuneration out in Note 29 to the financial statements.
Certain members of the Groups Senior Management team have agreements providing for By order of the Board compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a change of control.
Dr Nicholas Cooper Chief Executive Officer All of the Companys share incentive plans contain provisions relating to a change of control and details of Ophir Energy plc these plans are provided in the Directors Remuneration Company No.
Generally, outstanding 55 Grosvenor Street awards under the Foundation Incentive Plan and the London W1K 3HY 2006 Plan will vest in full and become exercisable on a change of control.
The Remuneration Committee may allow outstanding awards under the Long-term Incentive Plan LTIP to vest to the extent that any performance condition is satisfied at the date of that event and, unless the Remuneration Committee decides otherwise, such level of vesting to be reduced to take account of the fact that the award is vesting early.
LTIP awards may instead be exchanged for equivalent awards over shares in the acquiring company.
Going Concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business Review on pages 2 to 27.
The financial position of the Group, consisting of cash resources of US$396.6 million, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 20 to 21.
In addition, Note 27 to the financial statements include the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
In making their going concern assessment, the Directors have considered Group budgets and cash flow forecasts for a period of at least the next 12 months.
Following the successful capital raising in April 2012 the Group has increased its cash resources available to complete its planned exploration programmes.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is now well placed to meet its exploration and appraisal expenditure commitments for at least the next 12 months.
As a result of this review the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
