Ophir Energy plc Annual Report 2011 28 Board of Directors companys sale in December 2003.
Dennis McShane Directors at year end Dr Stein is non-executive chairman Senior Independent Director of Neon Energy Limited, an Mr McShane age 56 was appointed Nicholas Smith ASX-listed petroleum exploration to the Board as a Non-Executive Non-Executive Chairman and production company Director in October 2007 and as Mr Smith age 60 was appointed headquartered in Perth, Australia.
Senior Independent Director in to the Board of the Company as a November 2009.
Mr McShane is Non-Executive Director in October Dr Stein has notified the Board that, Chairman of the Nomination 2007 and served as Chairman while continuing to make himself Committee and a member of of the Audit and Nomination available for advice and guidance, the Audit and Remuneration Committees until September he will not be seeking re-election Committees, having also served 2009 when he was appointed as at the Companys AGM in 2012. as Chairman of the Audit Chairman of the Board.
Mr Smith is Committee from September a member of the Remuneration and Nicholas Cooper 2009 to 18 August 2011.
Nomination Committees and was a Chief Executive Officer member of the Audit Committee Dr Cooper age 44 was appointed Mr McShane is a founding principal until 7 July 2011. to the Board as Managing Director of Midas Resource Partners.
From on 1 June 2011 and has formally September 2004 to November 2008 Mr Smith trained as a chartered assumed the role of Chief Executive Mr McShane was a senior executive accountant with Ernst & Young.
Officer in December 2011. of the Ferrexpo group of companies He joined the Jardine Fleming Group serving as executive director of in 1986 serving, from 2003, as chief Dr Cooper began his career as a finance and business strategy.
financial officer and as a member of geophysicist with BG and Amoco in He led the successful initial public the Executive Committee.
Mr Smith the UK and various international offering of Ferrexpo plc on the became a director of Robert Fleming locations.
He spent two years with Official List of the London Stock International Ltd in 1998 and the the energy team at Booz-Allen & Exchange in June 2007.
Prior to Director of Origination Investment Hamilton, advising on upstream joining Ferrexpo, Mr McShane was an Banking serving until 2000. oil and gas development projects.
investment banker with JPMorgan Mr Smith currently serves as a In 1999, Dr Cooper completed an Chase & Co JPM emerging markets non-executive director for Asian MBA at INSEAD and went on to join investment banking and mining and Citrus Holdings Ltd, PLUS Markets the oil and gas team at Goldman metals practices in London.
In 2002, Group plc, Sorbic International Ltd. Sachs where he held the position he became head of mining and Japan Opportunities Fund II Limited of Vice President.
In early 2005 he metals in JPMs Asia-Pacific practice, and Schroder Asia Pacific Fund plc.
co-founded and became CFO of based in Sydney.
He attended Salamander Energy plc, the Harvard Business School and Alan Stein Asia-focused exploration and the State University of New York.
Executive Deputy Chairman production company, which has & Founder grown from start-up to FTSE 250 Ronald Blakely Dr Stein age 47 was one of the constituent.
Independent Companys founding Directors Non-Executive Director in 2004.
Jonathan Taylor Mr Blakely age 63 was appointed Executive Director & Founder as a Non-Executive Director of the Dr Stein began his career in the UK In 2004, Mr Taylor age 46 was one Company on 7 July 2011 and as as a geologist with oil consultants of the founding Directors of Ophir, Chairman of the Audit Committee Dolan & Associates where he worked serving initially as its Technical in September 2011. on projects in Europe, Australia and Director and is a member of the the Far East.
In 1992, he established HSE Committee.
Mr Blakely is a retired former Dolan & Associates first executive whose career spanned international office in Australia and Mr Taylor has over 20 years of more than 38 years with Royal in 1994 was one of the founding experience in a range of technical Dutch Shell companies.
At time of partners of the IKODA consultancy and asset management roles in retirement in October 2008 he was group which had offices in London Africa, Europe, the Far East and the Executive Vice President Global and Perth.
In 1996 he was one of Middle East, for Amerada Hess Ltd, Downstream Finance.
In previous the founding directors of FIL which Clyde Petroleum plc and Gulf roles he has been CFO of Shell Oil acquired interests in offshore Canada Resources Ltd. Mr Taylor Products in the USA and CFO of Mauritania.
These interests were was appointed as Exploration Shell Canada, a then Canadian sold to Fusion Oil & Gas plc Fusion Director of Fusion in November public integrated oil and gas and Dr Stein was appointed 1998, resigning in March 2004 company.
He is a graduate of the managing director of Fusion in to found Ophir.
University of Guelph with a major 1998 and remained until that BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ophir Energy plc Annual Report 2011 29 in Economics and a member of Forces at the Allied Rapid Reaction member of the Corporate Finance the Society of Management Corps, and was an advisor to Team and served as Treasurer Accountants of Alberta.
Mr Blakely the Sierra Leone Armed Forces for LNM Holdings NV until its is currently the non-executive in Freetown.
In 2007 he was merger with Ispat International chairman of the Board of Oil Sands appointed as deputy director of in December 2004.
With a 20- Quest, a Calgary based company.
Security Operations with Infinity year career within the Mittal SDC Ltd, and in 2008 moved to Steel Group, he has held various John Lander start his own company, Barbican positions in Finance and Independent Global Ltd, which specialises in Accounting within the Group.
Non-Executive Director independent security advice to Mr Tandon is an Honours Graduate Mr Lander age 68 was appointed the corporate sector.
in Accounting and Commerce from as a Non-Executive Director of St Xaviers College, Kolkata and a the Company in November 2008.
Patrick Spink Fellow of The Institute of Chartered He is Chairman of the Remuneration Independent Accountants of India and Member Committee and a member of Non-Executive Director of The Institute of Internal Auditors.
the Audit, Nominations and Mr Spink age 59 was appointed as He also serves on the boards of HSE Committees.
a Non-Executive Director of the various companies.
Company on 7 July 2011 and is a Mr Lander started his career with member of the HSE Committee.
Alternate Director Shell as a geophysicist in their international division and has more Mr Spink spent over 20 years with Jaroslaw Paczek than 40 years experience in the Perenco, joining the company shortly Alternate Director to Rajan Tandon international oil and gas industry, before the start of its rapid growth Mr Paczek age 43 was appointed holding executive boardroom into one of the worlds largest private as alternate Director for Rajan positions at RTZ Oil and Gas Limited, upstream oil and gas companies.
Pict Petroleum plc, Premier Oil plc, He performed a number of roles British-Borneo Petroleum Syndicate including head of exploration, Mr Paczek trained as a barrister in plc and Tullow Oil plc, the latter general manager of one of its largest Poland, having graduated from the until his retirement from full-time subsidiaries, and executive board Jagiellonian University in Cracow, employment.
He is chairman of member before the company and subsequently attended Alkane Energy plc and Canadian was privatised.
For 15 years until Harvard Business School and North Sea Energy Limited as well 2010, he was head of business DePaul University in Chicago.
He as being a non-executive director development, including during the began his career as a lawyer with of Neon Energy Limited.
companys most rapid period of Hogan & Hartson working in their growth.
Prior to joining Perenco, Mr office in Warsaw and also practised Lyndon Powell Spink held positions in exploration with Feuguer et Associs in Paris.
Independent and operations departments of a In 1997 Mr Paczek joined ERA GSM, Non-Executive Director number of E&P companies.
He has the Polish mobile telephone Mr Powell age 60 was appointed a degree in Environmental Sciences operator, as a Deputy General as a Non-Executive Director of the from the University of Lancaster Director.
For the last 10 years, Company in November 2008.
He and currently runs a consulting Mr Paczek has worked with the serves as Chairman of the HSE business providing upstream Kulczyk Group, the largest private Committee and is a member of the investment advice to a number equity fund in Poland, where Remuneration Committee.
he was involved in various transactions in Eastern Europe, Mr Powell retired from a career in Rajan Tandon in particular in the telecom, the Royal Military Police and Non-Executive Director electricity and insurance sectors, Special Forces in 2006.
During his Mr Tandon age 48 was appointed and represented the Kulczyk Group time with HM Forces, he served in as a Shareholder Representative on the Board of the Company diverse locations throughout the Non-Executive Director in prior to Admission.
Since 2006, world on a variety of appointments, September 2009.
Mr Paczek has lived in London, gaining a wide spectrum of developing a portfolio of oil, gas experience in operational and Mr Tandon is Vice President-inand mineral investments.
strategic security management Charge of Finance and Accounts at including work with the Foreign & Mittal Investments and has over Commonwealth Office to provide 25 years of industrial experience.
protection for HM Ambassadors Prior to this he was Director-inand commanding four major units.
Charge of Finance and Accounts at Mr Powell was Chief of Special Mittal Steel.
