26 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Penguin Penguin is one of the most famous brands in book publishing, known around the world for the quality Watch an interview with of its publishing and John Makinson, Chairman and chief executive, Penguin Group its consistent record www.
Penguin is one of the most famous brands in book publishing, known around the world for the quality of its publishing and its consistent record of KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS innovation.
Market conditions in 2011 were tough Headline CER Underlying following the collapse of two major customers: millions 2011 2010 growth growth growth Borders in the US and the REDGroup in Australia Sales 1,045 1,053 1 % 1% 1% andNew Zealand.
Despite this, Penguin achieved robust sales and profits and gained market share Adjusted 111 106 5%8%8% ineach of its major markets the US, the UK operating profit andAustralia.
US BESTSELLERS Global highlights in 2011 include: A strong and consistent publishing performance Bestsellers no.
across imprints and territories produced market share 11 254 gains in the US, UK and Australia, our three largest markets in a very challenging retail environment with 10 253 the closure of more than 750 stores.
The number of Penguin books entering the Top Ten bestseller lists in the US New York Times.
Growth in developing markets was boosted by the strength of the direct marketing channel and strong UK BESTSELLERS publishing in India, including its first 100,000 copy bestseller Ravinder Singhs Can Love Happen Twice?.
In China, Penguin launched a new English language 11 78 publishing programme.
10 66 Global publishing properties such as LEGO, Wimpy Kid, Jamie Oliver and Kathryn Stocketts The Help sold The number of Penguin books entering the Top Ten bestseller lists in the UK Nielsen BookScan Top Ten.
in significant numbers in multiple markets.
In January 2012, we acquired 45% of Companhia E-BOOK SALES dasLetras, a leading trade book publisher in Brazil, Sales % with whom we have an existing Classics 11 .
12% 10 6% Penguin global e-book sales as a percentage of Penguin Group net sales.
OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 2 Our performance 27 Digital highlights in 2011 include: Publishing performance highlights in 2011 include: eBook revenues doubled on the previous year and In the US Penguin published a record 254 New York accounted for 12% of Penguin revenues worldwide, Times bestsellers including some of its repeat and more than 20% in the US, in 2011.
Since the bestselling authors such as Tom Clancy, Patricia beginning of 2008, digital downloads of apps and Cornwell, Ken Follett, Nora Roberts and Clive ebooks across the Group have totalled approximately Cussler, as well as new talent such as Deborah 50 million.
Harkness, Amor Towles and Eleanor Brown.
Kathryn Stocketts The Help was the bestselling title across the Penguin continued to invest in digital innovation, US industry selling five million copies in print and launching more than 100 apps and enhanced eBooks, digital in its third year since publication.
The Young including Wreck this App, On the Road and Moshi Readers division had another strong year achieving Monsters, and a new global digital-only publishing ahigh of 41 New York Times bestsellers.
Penguin UK published 78 top ten bestsellers, an DK launched its first non-travel apps including the increase of 15 on 2010, including two of the top five award-winning DK Human Body.
In January 2012 DK industry titles with Jamie Olivers 30-Minute Meals became the first consumer publisher to publish four andDawn Frenchs A Tiny Bit Marvellous, and a robust iBooks2 titles using Apples new authoring tool.
performance by Penguin Childrens who were named Penguin continued to invest in direct-to-consumer Childrens Publisher of the Year in 2011.
For a second initiatives including new digital platforms for readers, consecutive year, Jamie Oliver secured the coveted specifically aNobii in the UK and Bookish in the US.
Christmas number one slot with Jamies Great Britain.
InAustralia Penguin acquired the REDGroups online Jeff Kinneys new Wimpy Kid title Cabin Fever sold business.
Penguin also signed its first author through 300,000 copies and was the fastest selling book its new self-publishing platform BookCountry.
websites and social media channels around the world now have a global following of more than 11 million.
Penguin continued to leverage Pearson-wide digital platforms to transform its internal publishing processes, enabling faster product development andgreater re-use of content.
Penguin takes off Penguin saw eBook revenues in 2011 double on the PENGUIN: US EBOOK VOLUMES MILLIONS previous year.
In 2011 they accounted for 12% of Penguin revenues worldwide and more than 20% in 20 the US.
Since 2008, digital downloads of apps and ebooks across Penguin havetotalled approximately 15 50 million.
com ar2011 digital 28 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Consumer Publishing: Penguin continued DKs bestseller success continued in 2011 with Penguin has a strong publishing list for 2012 with major itsLEGO titles dominating the bestseller charts new books from authors including Tom Clancy, including The LEGO Ideas Book, LEGO Star Wars KenFollett, Charlaine Harris, Nora Roberts, Deborah Character Encyclopaedia and LEGO Star Wars Visual Harkness, Junot Diaz, Kofi Annan, John Grisham and Dictionary.
Titles from authors such as Annabel Richelle Mead in the US, and Jamie Oliver, David Karmel, Karl Pilkington and Mary Berry and the Walliams, Pippa Middleton, Dawn French, Marian MasterChef titles also performed strongly.
Keyes, Clare Balding, Zadie Smith, NeilMacGregor, Michelle Paver, Philip Pullman and Jacqueline Wilson In Australia, Penguin had the two top-selling titles inthe UK.
DK will launch more LEGO titles including across the industry with Jamies 30-Minute Meals and the Ninjago Character Encyclopaedia, LEGO Batman: Jeff Kinneys Cabin Fever and hit number one 24 times The Visual Dictionary and LEGO Friends Brickmaster, through the course of the year.
as well as titles from bestselling authors such as Mary Berry and a new MasterChef title.
Newdigital properties for 2012 include Skylanders andglobal gaming franchise, Risen.
Pick of the year In 2011, Penguin enjoyed bestseller success around the world, including publishing 254 New York Times bestsellers and 78 top ten bestsellers in the UK.
Heres a taste of the highlights:
