OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 2 Our performance 15 Outlook: 2012 The external environment is likely to remain Professional challenging in 2012 in the face of turbulent We expect our Professional education business to macroeconomic conditions and rapid structural grow again, benefiting from the continued strength of change in our industries.
However, we will once our worldwide professional testing business.
In the againmake progress on our strategic goals of making UK, government funding pressures and policy change Pearson more digital, more exposed to fast-growing relating to apprenticeships are creating a tough trading markets and more directly engaged in helping environment in professional training.
Our 2012 financial results will reect the sale of our FT Group 50% stake in FTSE International which contributed The FT Groups profits will be lower in 2012 than nosales, 20m of operating profit and 2.2p of in2011, reecting the sale of our 50% stake in adjusted EPS in 2011 and higher tax rates after FTSEInternational and further actions weighted one-off benets in 2011.
At this early stage in the year towards the first half of the year to accelerate the we expect Pearson to achieve growth in sales and shiftfrom print to digital.
The Financial Times and operating profits in 2012.
Margins will reect TheEconomist Group in which Pearson owns a integration costs on acquisitions made in 2011 which 50%stake are predicting weak advertising markets are expensed and the FTSE sale.
This guidance is but strong growth in digital subscription revenues.
struck at current exchange rates 1:$1.59.
Mergermarket will benefit from its high subscription renewal rates, although the outlook for M&A activity Education remains uncertain.
In Education, we expect to achieve continued growthin 2012.
In North America, we anticipate Penguin modest growth in higher education as rapid take-up Penguin has performed strongly in recent years in the ofour technology and services is partially offset by context of rapid structural change in the consumer lower college enrolments and challenging conditions publishing industry.
We expect it to perform in line inthe market for printed textbooks.
We expect our with the overall industry this year, facing tough Assessment and Information business to remain conditions in the physical bookstore channel but resilient as it prepares for the transition to helped by its strong position in digital.
eBook revenues next-generation Common Core assessments.
We accounted for 12% of Penguin revenues worldwide in expect good growth in digital school programmes 2011, up from 6% in 2010, and we expect this andservices, but another tough year for the School percentage to increase signicantly again in 2012. textbook publishing industry, which will continue to beaffected by pressure on state budgets and delays Interest and tax inpurchasing decisions during the transitionto the new Common Core standards.
In 2012, our net interest charge will be broadly level with 2011.
We anticipate our P&L tax charge against International adjusted earnings to be in the 2426% range with our cash tax rates around the same level.
We expect our International education business to show good growth.
Austerity measures will continue Exchange rates to affect education spending in much of the developed world, but we see significant opportunity in emerging Pearson generates approximately 60% of its sales in markets in China, south-east Asia, Latin America, the the US.
A five cent move in the average :$ exchange Middle East and Sub-Saharan Africa which together rate for the full year which in 2011 was 1:$1.60 has accounted for more than 40% of our International an impact of approximately 1.3p on adjusted earnings education revenues in 2011.
Across our education per share.
company, we will be integrating acquisitions made in 2011 and expensing the costs and making a series oforganic investments in fast-growing segments including digital learning, English language teaching andinstitutional services.
