16 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2011 North American Education North American Education is Pearsons largest business, with 2011 sales of 2.6bn and operating profit Watch an interview with of 493m.
Will Ethridge, Chief executive, North American Education www.
com ar2011 will-ethridge KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS SCHOOL PUBLISHING ADOPTION CYCLE WIN RATES Headline CER Underlying millions 2011 2010 growth growth growth Win rate % 11 Sales 2,584 2,640 2 % 1% 1 % 37% 10 Adjusted 493 469 5%9%8% 28% operating profit Pearsons market share by value of new business in the US adoption states.
Market share is quoted as a percentage of the total value of adoptions that we participated in.
US EDUCATION PUBLISHING SCHOOL ASSESSMENT AND INFORMATION TESTING AND COLLEGE SALES GROWTH VS INDUSTRY CONTRACT WIN RATES Pearson % Win rate % 11 61% 11 0.7 % 10 10 79% 7.7% The lifetime value of the US testing contracts won Industry % by Pearson this year as a percentage of the total lifetime value of competitive contracts bid for this year.
11 3.5 % 10 4.4% ONLINE LEARNING USERS Pearsons total year-on-year sales growth in school and college MyLab Registrations no.
education publishing products in the US versus the 11 year-on-year sales growth of the total US industry.
8.9m 10 7.3m The number of registrations by students to access one of our North American MyLabs online homework and assessment programmes.
OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 2 Our performance 17 North American Education is Pearsons largest business, with 2011 sales of 2.6bn and operating Digital learning protof 493m.
Building on our roots as a leading platforms publisher of educational materials and provider of assessment services, we have made significant In 2011 student registrations on our digital learning investments and changes to transform Pearson into platforms increased by 23% to 43 million.
aworld-leading provider of learning technologies forstudents and enterprise services for educational institutions.
Thesetechnology services including DIGITAL LEARNING PLATFORMS LearningStudio formerly known as eCollege, Users, million 11 OpenClass, PowerSchool, the MyLabs, Data 42.9m Solutions Edustructures, Schoolnet and 10 ConnectionsEducation are the backbone of our 34.9m strategy to helpeducators raise student performance 09 26.4m and institutions to become more effective.
In 2011, 08 ourstrength in digital and services businesses 19.9m enabledustoperform ahead of our more traditional print publishing markets, which were adversely affected bystate budget pressures and decline in Watch our new digital highlights lm: www.
Higher Education highlights in 2011 include: We developed a new model of enterprise-wide The US higher education publishing market was support for online higher education with Arizona State broadly level with 2010, according to the Association University Online and Ocean Community College.
of American Publishers, with solid revenue growth Through these long-term partnerships, Pearson runs inpublic colleges offset by enrolment declines in the full online learning programmes for these for-profit colleges following changes in Federal institutions and earns revenues based on the success regulations.
of the institution and its students.
Pearson gained share, benefiting from its lead in Pearson LearningStudio increased fully-online student technology and customisation, and has now grown enrolments by 20% to ten million.
Renewal rates faster than the US higher education industry for remain high at more than 80% by value with fewer 13 consecutive years.
large accounts up for renewal in the year.
Pearsons pioneering MyLab digital learning, We launched OpenClass, a dynamic, scalable and homework and assessment programmes grew cloud-based Learning Management System which strongly with student registrations in North America encourages social learning and is easy and free up 22% to almost nine million.
togrow strongly with graded submissions up 39% toalmost 250 million across the globe.
Evaluation studiesshow that the use of MyLab programmes cansignificantly improve student test scores and institutional efficiency http: bit.
18 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2011 North American Education continued Assessment and Information highlights in 2011 include: We delivered 13 million secure online tests in Revenues at our Assessment and Information division 2011with strong growth in automated written and grew modestly in 2011.
State funding pressures and spoken assessment scoring volumes.
We won the the transition to Common Core assessments Online Assessment Readiness Tool contract from continued to make market conditions tough for our both the PARCC and SBAC Common Core consortia state assessment and teacher testing businesses: to help the 45 states prepare for the transition to thesewere offset by good growth in diagnostic and online assessments.
PowerSchool supported more than ten million We signed several important contracts including students, up 6% on 2010, and developed its platform state-wide student assessment contracts in NewYork, to enable 18 additional languages to be used on the Kentucky and Arizona: Race to the Top Florida PowerSchool parent portal.
formative assessment: Indiana educator licensing Our clinical assessment business grew well boosted by andOhio pre-service teacher assessment.
We strong growth at AIMSweb, our progress monitoring alsorenewed three important contracts, extending service which enables early intervention and our relationships with Virginia and Maryland for remediation for struggling students.
Usage of state-wide student assessments and with ETS to AIMSweb increased dramatically with 47 million service state-wide assessments for California.
assessments delivered in 2011, up more than 40%.
We signed an agreement with Stanford University We acquired Schoolnet, a fast-growing and innovative toprovide the capability to deliver the Teacher education technology company that aligns assessment, Performance Assessment TPA a nationally curriculum and other services to help individualise available, web-based performance assessment instruction and improve teacher effectiveness.
formeasuring the effectiveness of teacher Schoolnet serves more than five million US pre candidatesnationally.
K-12students through partnerships with districts andstates, supporting about one-third of Americas largest cities.
Insight for learning Schoolnet provides assessment, curriculum and other services to help personalise learning and improve teacher effectiveness.
It supports more than five million students in primary and secondary education through partnerships with districts and states across the US.
Watch our new lm about Schoolnet: www.
com ar2011 schoolnet OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 2 Our performance 19 School highlights in 2011 include: We continue to develop digital programmes, The US school textbook publishing market declined platforms and apps to boost achievement, access 9% in 2011, according to the Association of American andaffordability.
We launched two major new Publishers.
There were several pressures on the schoolprogrammes aimed at meeting rising literacy industry including weakness in state budgets, a lower standards under the Common Core: new adoption opportunity total opportunity of i-lit http: redeningliteracy.
com, a personalised $650m in 2011 against $800m in 2010 and delays in digital reading programme.
It combines our proven purchasing decisions during the transition to the new literacy model with many students making two Common Core standards.
yearsof literacy growth in a single year, automated Pearson gained share with a strong adoption assessment capabilities and compelling literature performance boosted by our blended print-and-digital fromPenguin and Dorling Kindersley, all delivered programmes including Writing Coach, Prentice Hall through iPads.
We took an estimated 37% Pearson English Learning System, which benchmarks, of new adoptions competed for or 31% of the total monitors and tracks both student progress and new adoption market.
teacher best practice to boost English language skills.
We acquired Connections Education which operates Poptropica www.
com is one of online K-12 schools in 21 states and a nationwide thelargest virtual worlds for young children in the charter school programme.
It served 33,200 students USand was named by Time as one of The 50 Best in 2011, up 43% from 2010.
Poptropica has up to 9.7 million Schools have consistently highperformance ratings, monthly unique visitors from more than 130 countries.
particularly in states focused on measuring growth in student learning.
SuccessNet, our online learning platform for school teachers and students, generated more than six million registrations in 2011, up 5% on 2010.
The number of assessments taken through SuccessNet increased by 32% to more than 11 million.
Bringing education home Connections Education operates online or virtual schools for more than 33,000 students in 21 states across the US.
Virtual schools serve adiverse population of students including those who may be gifted, struggling, pursuing careers in sports or the arts, in need of scheduling exibility, or who have chosen homeschooling.
Watch our new lm about Connections Education: www.
