OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 2 Our performance 23 Professional Education KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Our Professional Headline CER Underlying millions 2011 2010 growth growth growth Education business is Sales 382 333 15% 17% 2% focused on publishing, Adjusted 66 51 29% 31% 10% operating profit training, testing Professional training Despite significant regulatory and policy changes andcertication intheapprenticeship market, Pearson in Practice successfully graduated its largest IT cohort and forprofessionals.
launched or enhanced several new apprenticeship programmes in logistics, construction, management and customer service, business and health.
Over the past five years, we have increased operating profit from 27m in 2007 to 66m in 2011.
We We acquired TQ Holdings Ltd which provides expectthis business to benefit from rising demand technical education and training services to forwork-related skills and qualications in both governments, institutions and corporations around developed and developing markets, and from close the world with particular expertise in skills related connections with professional content and customers tothe defence, engineering, oil and gas and in other parts ofPearson.
Professional testing highlights in 2011 include: Professional publishing highlights in 2011 include: We continued to see good revenue and profit growth Our resilient performance in the US benefited from at Pearson VUE, which administered more than seven the breadth of our publishing and range of revenue million tests during the year, benefiting from sales of streams, from online retail through digital additional services to customers and contractual fee subscriptions.
As a result, digital products and increases.
We won a number of newcontracts servicesnow account for more than 25% of our including the Construction Industry Training Board professional publishing revenues in the US.
In some inthe UK, the National Council of Examiners for International markets such as Japan, professional Engineering and Surveying in the US, and the HP publishers continued to face very challenging certification examination worldwide.
We formed a joint venture with the American In the US, we launched MyGraphicsLab which Councilon Education to develop an online General integrates 50 hours of videos, 250 creative projects, Educational Development GED test aligned with 50 presentations and 1,000 quiz questions with new Common Core standards.
The GED test real-world assignments to prepare students for measures an adults high school level knowledge thejob market.
andskills in math, reading, writing, science and socialscience.
We launched a new touch-screen theory driving test for the Roads and Transport Authority for Dubai.
Thetest is delivered in Arabic, English and Urdu.
Thenew test follows the opening last year of a new Pearson VUE office in Dubai to meet the Middle Easts demand for computer-based testing.
