50 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Board governance Corporate governance Senior independent director Patrick Cescau is the companys senior independent Introduction director.
The board believes that Patricks extensive The board believes that during 2011 the company knowledge of Pearson together with his broad was in full compliance with the UK Corporate commercial experience, make him highly suitable Governance Code the Code, except for a short for this role.
period of time when it did not comply with the required ratio of independent non-executive directors His role includes meeting regularly with the chairman to executive directors.
Following the resignation and chief executive to discuss specific issues, of Terry Burns and the passing of C K Prahalad in e. g. strategy, as well as being available to shareholders 2010, there was an imbalance of executive and if they should have concerns that have not been non-executive directors on the board during January addressed through the normal channels.
However, with effect from makes a significant contribution to determining the 1 March 2011, Josh Lewis was appointed to the structure and content of board meetings.
During the board as an independent non-executive director year, Patrick held separate sessions with the other and, upon appointment, joined the nomination and non-executive directors, the chief executive and an audit committees.
independent external evaluator, Boardroom Review, to appraise the performance of the chairman.
In addition, with effect from 1 January 2012, Vivienne Cox was appointed to the board as an independent The senior independent director would be expected non-executive director and, on appointment, joined all to chair the nomination committee in the event that of its committees.
it was considering succession to the role of chairman of the board.
The board embraces the Codes underlying principles with regard to board balance and diversity and the Independence of directors nomination committee, led by the chairman, is actively The board reviews the independence of each of seeking an additional suitable candidate who possesses the non-executive directors annually.
This includes the right mix of knowledge, skills and experience, reviewing their external appointments and any specifically in emerging markets, to enhance debate and potential conflicts of interest as well as assessing decision-making.
A detailed account of the provisions their individual circumstances in order to ensure of the Code can be found on the FRCs website at that there are no relationships or circumstances www.
uk and on the company website at likely to affect their character or judgement.
com investors shareholderIn particular, the board undertook a thorough review information governance of Susan Fuhrman and Patrick Cescau, as they have Composition of the board served on the board for over seven and nine years The board currently consists of the chairman, respectively.
In his letter introducing the governance Glen Moreno, five executive directors including the report, the chairman has explained the boards chief executive, Marjorie Scardino, and six consideration of Patricks position.
After thoroughly reviewing Susans positive contribution Chairman and chief executive to board and committee work, and her position as a There is a defined split of responsibilities between leader in educational reform and efficacy, the board has the chairman and the chief executive.
The chairman is asked her to continue to serve as a director.
primarily responsible for the leadership of the board All of the other non-executive directors were and ensuring its effectiveness: the chief executive is considered by the board to be independent for responsible for the operational management of the the purposes of the Code during the year ended business and for the development and implementation 31 December 2011. of the companys strategy as agreed by the board.
The roles and responsibilities of the chairman and chief executive are clearly defined, set out in writing and agreed by the board.
OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 51 Conflicts of interest STRATEGY: 1 AND 2 JUNE 2011, BEIJING Since October 2008, directors have had a statutory Strategy discussions review of China businesses duty under the Companies Act 2006 the Act to avoid Acquisition of Education Development International plc conflicts of interest with the company.
The companys Articles of Association Articles allow the directors CASE STUDY to authorise conflicts of interest.
The company has Looking to the future established a procedure to identify actual and potential planning for growth in China conflicts of interest, including all directorships or other appointments to, or relationships with, companies In June 2011, the Pearson board held a two day meeting in which are not part of the Pearson Group and which Beijing, China.
The purpose of this board meeting was to review our businesses in China.
During their three day stay the board could give rise to actual or potential conflicts of met with the key local management of all our businesses interest.
Such conflicts are then considered for operating in mainland China and Hong Kong, visited a number of authorisation by the board.
The relevant director Wall Street English language schools and met key customers and cannot vote on an authorisation resolution, or be other people who have important relationships with our China businesses.
During 2012 the board plans to have similar meetings counted in the quorum, in relation to the resolution with local businesses in Brazil and India.
relating to his her conflict or potential conflict.
The board reviews any authorisations granted on an annual basis.
BUSINESS PERFORMANCE: 28 JULY 2011, LONDON Board meetings Interim results Post-acquisition reviews The board met six times in 2011, with most meetings Acquisition of Connections Education taking place over two days.
In recent years, we have Acquisition of Stark Holding developed our board meeting agenda to ensure that board discussion and debate is centred on the key STRATEGY: 6 AND 7 OCTOBER 2011, CALIFORNIA strategic issues facing the company.
Over the course of 2011 the major items covered by the board included: Review of technology strategy Strategic plan 2011 to 2013 BUSINESS PERFORMANCE: 24 AND 25 FEBRUARY 2011, LONDON Review of audit, remuneration and nomination committee terms of reference 2010 report and accounts and dividend Disposal of stake in FTSE recommendation Acquisition of Global Education 2011 operating plan Acquisition of TQ Risk assessment and review of mitigating actions Investment in Companhia das Letras Annual review of authorised conflicts Annual review of chief executive authorisation limits STRATEGIC PLAN: 8 AND 9 DECEMBER 2011, NEW YORK and procedures Appointment of Josh Lewis to the board Strategic review of Pearson legacy businesses The action to take with regard to the Libyan Risk assessment and review of mitigating actions Investment Authoritys investment in Pearson SEC and FINRA investigation in respect of the acquisition of Global Education GOVERNANCE: 28 APRIL 2011, LONDON Ofqual review of exam awarding bodies Appointment of Vivienne Cox to the board Feedback on 2010 report and accounts Report on shareholders views Review of corporate social responsibility External board effectiveness review Acquisition of Schoolnet 52 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Board governance continued The following table sets out the attendance of the Ensuring adequate succession planning for the board companys directors at board and committee meetings and senior management: during 2011: Determining the remuneration of the non-executive directors, subject to the Articles and shareholder Audit Rem.
Board committee committee committee approval as appropriate: meetings meetings meetings meetings max 6 max 4 max 4 max 3 Approving the written division of responsibilities Chairman between the chairman and the chief executive and approval of the terms of reference of board Glen Moreno 643 committees: Executive directors Reviewing the Groups overall corporate governance Marjorie Scardino 63 arrangements, including the performance of the board, Will Ethridge 5 its committees and individual directors and determining Rona Fairhead 5 the independence of directors: and Robin Freestone 6 Determining the nature and extent of the significant John Makinson 6 risks the company is willing to take in achieving its Non-executive strategic objectives and maintaining sound risk directors management and internal control systems.
David Arculus 6443 The board receives timely, regular and necessary Patrick Cescau 6342 financial, management and other information to fulfil its duties.
Comprehensive board papers are circulated to Susan Fuhrman 64 2 the board and committee members at least one week Ken Hydon 6443 in advance of each meeting and the board receives Josh Lewis 52 2 monthly reports from the chief executive.
Directors appointed 1 March 2011. can obtain independent professional advice, at the companys expense, in the performance of their duties The role and business of the board as directors.
All directors have access to the advice The formal matters reserved for the boards decision and services of the company secretary.
and approval include: Non-executive directors meet with local senior Determining the companys strategy in consultation management every time board and committee with management and reviewing performance meetings are held at the locations of operating against it: companies.
This allows the non-executive directors to share their experience and expertise with senior Any decision to cease to operate all or any material managers and also enables the non-executive part of the companys business: directors to better understand the abilities of senior Major changes to the companys corporate structure, management, which in turn will help them assess management and control structure or its status as a the companys prospects and plans for succession.
public limited company: Board evaluation Approval of all shareholder circulars, resolutions and corresponding documentation and press releases The board conducts an annual review of its concerning matters decided by the board: effectiveness.
For the review of 2010, conducted in Acquisitions, disposals and capital projects above early 2011, the board commissioned a board 15m per transaction or project: effectiveness review from an independent third party provider, Boardroom Review which has no other All Pearson plc guarantees over 10m: connection to the company.
This review was designed Treasury policies: to be forward looking: assessing the quality of the Setting interim dividends, recommending final dividends boards decision making and debate, its overall to shareholders and approving financial statements: contribution to, and impact on, the long term health Borrowing powers: and success of the business and its preparation for future challenges.
Appointment of directors: Appointment and removal of the company secretary: OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 53 The review covered a variety of aspects associated For the review of 2011, to be conducted during the with board effectiveness, including the boards ability to early part of 2012, the chairman will meet with each of achieve its objectives, to work together effectively and the directors, executive and non-executive, on a one the management of its time.
This was carried out to one basis and discuss the boards effectiveness and through confidential interviews with all members of progress made against objectives.
He will also take the the board, through board observation and through opportunity to discuss with each director their a review of selected board papers.
individual training and development needs.
Following the review a discussion document was Directors training and induction produced to facilitate the boards discussion at their Directors receive a significant bespoke induction meeting in April, as well as to provide a reference point programme and a range of information about Pearson for the boards development and change.
This includes background The evaluation for 2010 indicated that the culture of information on Pearson and details of board the board is dominated by a sense of cohesiveness and procedures, directors responsibilities and various collaboration: the dynamics encourage openness, governance-related issues, including procedures for transparency and cooperation between executive dealing in Pearson shares and their legal obligations and non-executive directors.
During the review itself, as directors.
The induction also includes a series of the board was seen to demonstrate several areas of meetings with members of the board, presentations strength, including: regarding the business from senior executives and a briefing on Pearsons investor relations programme.
a focused strategic approach: The directors training is supplemented with a thoughtful approach to control and risk: presentations about the companys operations, strong executive leadership and corporate culture: by holding board meetings at the locations of operating a healthy alignment between performance and reward: companies and by encouraging the directors to visit a positive culture, dynamic debate, and leadership operating companies and local management as and from the chairman: and when their schedule allows.
Directors can also make use of external courses.
the effective management of time and information.
The review also highlighted an opportunity for CASE STUDY improvement, relating to the quality of discussion and Induction Josh Lewis debate over changes in the competitive environment, appointed to Pearson Board particularly with regard to technology and emerging markets.
The board addressed this issue at subsequent Josh Lewis was appointed to the board in March 2011 and a programme of induction was tailored to his particular requirements.
board meetings during 2011, including holding a Within the first few months of his appointment, Josh had met with technology strategy session in October and arranging the senior management teams from each of our businesses, as well board visits to emerging markets: China in June 2011, as spending time with all of the members of our management Brazil and India in 2012. committee.
In addition, Josh visited our operations in China, India and a number of locations throughout the US.
This induction During the course of the year the executive directors programme resulted in Josh having a rm understanding of Pearson, were also evaluated by the chief executive on their its operations, culture and the key risks and issues the company is performance against personal objectives under the facing.
A similar induction process is currently being prepared for Vivienne Cox, who was appointed to the board in January 2012. companys appraisal mechanism.
A proportion which for 2012 may be up to 20% of the total annual incentive opportunity is based on functional, operational, strategic and non-financial objectives relevant to the executives specific area of responsibility.
The chairman leads the assessment of the chief executive and the non-executive directors, led by the senior independent director, conduct a review of the chairmans performance.
54 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Board governance continued Directors indemnities At every board meeting, the directors receive an analysis of the shareholder register highlighting any In accordance with section 232 of the Act, the significant movements in ownership or the share price, company grants an indemnity to all of its directors.
and the reasons behind the movements.
In addition, The indemnity relates to costs incurred by them in every year the board receives a detailed report on the defending any civil or criminal proceedings and in views of major institutional shareholders, provided connection with an application for relief under sections either by our corporate brokers or our independent 661 3 and 4 or sections 1157 1 - 3 of the Act, investor relations advisers, Makinson Cowell.
so long as it is repaid not later than when the outcome becomes final if: i they are convicted in We also have an established programme of educational the proceedings: ii judgement is given against them: seminars for our institutional shareholders focusing or iii the court refuses to grant the relief sought.
on individual parts of Pearson.
These seminars are available to all shareholders via webcast on The company has purchased and maintains directors www.
com and officers insurance cover against certain legal liabilities and costs for claims in connection with any Private investors represent over 80% of the act or omission by such directors and officers in the shareholders on our register and we make a concerted execution of their duties.
effort to engage with them regularly.
Shareholders who cannot attend the AGM are invited to email Shareholder engagement questions to the chairman in advance at Pearson has an extensive programme of communication glenmoreno-agm@pearson.
com with all of its shareholders large and small, We encourage our private shareholders to become institutional and private.
more informed investors and recently invited all In 2011, we continued with our shareholder outreach shareholders, who had not already done so, to register programme, seeing more than 500 institutional and their email addresses.
This enables them to receive private investors at more than 300 different institutions email alerts when trading updates and other important in Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Continental Europe, announcements are added to our website.
We are committed to ensuring that all our There are five trading updates a year and the chief shareholders receive their dividends and with the final executive and chief financial officer present our cash dividend mailing this year, we will be informing any preliminary and interim results updates.
They also shareholder who has outstanding unclaimed dividends, attend regular meetings throughout the year with of the amounts owed to them and how they can investors both in the UK and around the world.
In 2011, the chief financial officer and the director We also make a particular effort to communicate of investor relations met with representatives of the regularly with our employees, a large majority of whom UK Shareholders Association.
The meeting included are shareholders in the company.
We post all company a presentation from Pearson describing the announcements on our website, www.
com, companys performance and a question and answer as soon as they are released, and major shareholder session to give shareholders the opportunity to presentations are made accessible via webcast or question management directly.
Our website contains a dedicated The chairman and senior independent director also investor relations section with an extensive archive of make themselves available to meet any significant past announcements and presentations, historical shareholder as required.
The non-executive directors financial performance, share price data and a calendar meet informally with shareholders both before and of events.
It also includes information about all of our after the AGM and respond to shareholder queries businesses, links to their websites and details of our and requests as necessary.
corporate responsibility policies and activities.
The chairman ensures that the board is kept informed Our AGM which will be held on 27 April this year of principal investors and advisers views on strategy is an opportunity for all shareholders to meet the and corporate governance.
board and to hear presentations about Pearsons businesses and results.
OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 55 Board committees The plan for 2012 is to continue to develop programmes and relationships that help attract The board has established three committees: the talented diverse people into our business and retain nomination committee, the remuneration committee them and to continue to track our progress.
The chairmen and members of these committees are appointed by the board on Whilst the chairman of the board chairs the the recommendation where appropriate of the nomination committee, he is not permitted to chair nomination committee and in consultation with each meetings when the appointment of his successor is relevant committee chairman.
being considered or during a discussion regarding his performance.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE The committee has written terms of reference which Chairman Glen Moreno clearly set out its authority and duties.
These can be Members David Arculus, Patrick Cescau, Vivienne Cox, found on the company website at Susan Fuhrman, Ken Hydon, Josh Lewis, Glen Moreno www.
com investors shareholderand Marjorie Scardino information governance The nomination committee meets at least once a year and as and when required.
The committee primarily REMUNERATION COMMITTEE monitors the composition and balance of the board Chairman David Arculus and its committees, and identifies and recommends to Members David Arculus, Patrick Cescau, Vivienne Cox, the board the appointment of new directors and or Ken Hydon and Glen Moreno committee members.
During 2011, the committee considered the The remuneration committee reports to the full board recruitment of two non-executive directors, concluding and a letter from the chairman of the remuneration with the appointment of Josh Lewis and Vivienne Cox committee and its report on directors remuneration, to the board effective March 2011 and January 2012 which has been considered and adopted by the board, respectively.
In addition, the committee met in February 2012 to The committee met four times during the year, and has review succession planning for non-executive and written terms of reference which clearly set out its executive board positions and senior management, authority and duties.
These can be found on the as well as board committee membership.
com investors shareholderThe committee ensures that the directors of Pearson information governance demonstrate a broad balance of skills, experience, independence, knowledge and diversity including gender diversity.
There are currently four female directors on the board, two of whom are executive directors.
The committee and the board always take account of diversity when considering board appointments and will continue to do so, whilst ensuring that appointments are made based on merit and relevant experience.
Pearson continues to show evidence of progress in relation to the retention of people with diverse backgrounds for both entry level and management positions and has made significant progress over the years in advancing women and culturally diverse people.
As at December 2011, 27% of Pearsons top managers were women, a 35% increase from 2008.
56 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Board governance continued Members AUDIT COMMITTEE All of the audit committee members are independent Chairman Ken Hydon non-executive directors and have financial and or Members David Arculus, Patrick Cescau, Vivienne Cox, related business experience due to the senior positions Susan Fuhrman, Ken Hydon and Josh Lewis they hold or held in other listed or publicly traded companies and or similar public organisations.
Ken As audit committee chairman, I consider Hydon, chairman of the committee, is the companys the key role of the committee to be in designated financial expert.
He is a fellow of the providing oversight and reassurance to Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, the board, specifically with regard to the integrity the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants of the companys financial reporting, accounting and the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
policies, risk management and internal control He also serves as audit committee chairman for processes and governance framework.
Tesco plc, Reckitt Benckiser Group plc and Royal Fundamental to this role is the committees access Berkshire NHS Foundation Trust.
Committee meetings are The qualifications and relevant experience of the other always attended by the chief financial officer and committee members are detailed on page 48. head of Group internal audit, and often by the chief executive and chairman.
Individual managers join Role and responsibilities meetings for specic topics, e. g. treasury or business The committee has written terms of reference which continuity planning.
In total, 15 managers attended clearly set out its authority and duties.
These are one or more meetings during the year.
During the reviewed annually and can be found on the company boards visit to Beijing, members of the committee website at www.
com investors shareholdermet with local senior financial management to information governance discuss risk management, financial control and The committee has been established by the board the Pearson code of conduct.
In December, primarily for the purpose of overseeing the accounting, the committee met with the companys chief financial reporting, internal control and risk information officer and director of digital strategy to management processes of the company and the discuss the approach of Pearson Technology to risk audit of the financial statements of the company.
The committee will continue this method during 2012, and is planning to meet local The committee is responsible for assisting the boards management in at least two regular committee oversight of the quality and integrity of the companys meetings and whenever the board is scheduled to external financial reporting and statements and meet in overseas locations.
the companys accounting policies and practices.
The Groups internal and external auditors have Also fundamental to the role of the committee is its direct access to the committee to raise any matter of relationship with both the external auditors and concern and to report on the results of work directed Group internal audit.
The committee has a healthy by the committee.
The committee reports to the full interaction with both and PWC attend all our board at every board meeting immediately following a regular committee meetings.
It also reviews the independence We always need to be learning, as the business of the external auditors, including the provision of nonprogresses and the environments in which we audit services further details of which can be found on operate change.
page 60, and ensures that there is an appropriate audit relationship and that auditor objectivity and independence is upheld.
Ken Hydon OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 57 External audit The committee discussed these issues with the Based on managements recommendations, the auditors at the time of their review of the half year committee reviews the proposal on the appointment interim financial statements in July 2011 and again at of the external auditors.
The committee reviewed the the conclusion of their audit of the financial statements effectiveness and independence of the external for the year in February 2012.
In December 2011, auditors during 2011 and remains satisfied that the the committee discussed with the auditors the status auditors provide effective independent challenge to of their work, focusing on their work in relation to management.
The committee will continue to review internal controls.
As the auditors concluded their audit, the performance of the external auditors on an annual they explained to the committee: basis and will consider their independence and The work they had conducted over revenue, objectivity, taking account of all appropriate guidelines.
which included targeted procedures at businesses There are no contractual obligations restricting the which were considered to have more complex committees choice of external auditors.
In any event, revenue recognition, such as the assessment and the external auditors are required to rotate the audit testing businesses: partner responsible for the Group audit every five The results of their review of acquisition accounting for years.
The current lead audit partner has been in place all significant acquisitions, encompassing assessment of for four years and will rotate next year.
In accordance managements valuations of intangible assets as well as with our external auditor policy, in 2010 Group internal other purchase price adjustments: audit performed a formal assessment of audit fees, services and independence.
This formed the basis for a The work they had done to test managements recommendation to the board to continue with PwC.
assumptions and estimates in relation to balance sheet judgements encompassing provisions for doubtful During the year, the committee discussed the planning, debts and inventory, recoverability of pre-publication conduct and conclusions of the external audit as assets and authors advances, reserves for sales it proceeded.
returns, estimates of tax and pension liabilities and At the July 2011 audit committee meeting, the other contingencies and how they had satisfied committee discussed and approved the auditors Group themselves that these were reasonable: audit plan, in which they identified the following key The results of their review of the impairment model, risks of misstatement of the Groups financial statements: including their challenge of managements underlying cash flow projections and consideration of key Revenue recognition, specifically in relation to longassumptions such as discount rates and perpetuity term contract accounting and increasingly to digital rates and sensitivities, which indicated that all cashrevenue streams where management assumptions generating units had adequate headroom: and estimates are necessary: The outputs of their controls testing for SarbanesAccounting for acquisitions and disposals in light Oxley section 404 reporting purposes and in support of material transactions in 2011, in particular, of their financial statements audit: and valuation of acquired intangibles which involves significant judgement: The review of the companys going concern reports.
Key balance sheet judgements, since small changes in The auditors also reported to the committee the provisioning judgements or methodology can have misstatements that they had found in the course of notable impacts on the Groups balance sheet and their work, which were insignificant, and the income statement: and committee confirmed that there were no such material Assessment of goodwill and intangible assets for items remaining unadjusted in these financial statements.
impairment in the context of current market conditions, recognising that management judgement is required.
58 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Board governance continued Training Compliance with SEC & NYSE requirements including The committee receives regular technical updates Sarbanes-Oxley: as well as specific or personal training as required.
Reviews of the effectiveness of the audit committee, Committee members also meet with local the external auditors and the Group internal audit management on an ongoing basis in order to gain function: a better understanding of how Group policies are Pearsons anti-corruption programme: embedded in operations.
For example, during its visit Review of the committees terms of reference: to Beijing in June 2011, the committee met with local senior finance managers.
Annual internal audit plan: Review of company risk returns including Social, Meetings Ethical and Environmental SEE risks: and The committee met four times during the year with the chief financial officer, head of Group internal audit, Annual review of treasury policy.
members of the senior management team and the In February 2012, the committee also considered the external auditors in attendance.
The committee also 2011 annual report and accounts, including the met regularly in private with the external auditors and preliminary announcement, financial statements, the head of Group internal audit.
business review, directors report, corporate governance compliance statement and the income At every meeting, the committee considered reports statement.
on the activities of the Group internal audit function, including the results of internal audits, risk reviews, Internal control and risk management project assurance reviews and fraud and The directors confirm they have conducted a review whistleblowing reports.
The committee also monitored of the effectiveness of the Groups systems of risk the companys financial reporting, internal controls and management and internal controls, including financial, risk management procedures and considered any operational and compliance controls and risk significant legal claims and regulatory issues in the management systems, in accordance with the UK context of their impact on financial reporting.
Corporate Governance Code and the Turnbull Specifically, the committee considered the following guidance as revised.
These systems have been matters during the course of the year: operating throughout the year and to the date of this report.
The 2010 annual report and accounts: preliminary announcement, financial statements and income The key elements and procedures that have been statement: established to provide effective risk management and The Group accounting policies: internal control systems are described below: Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Control environment Code: The board of directors has overall responsibility for Form 20-F and related disclosures including the annual Pearsons system of internal control, which is designed Sarbanes-Oxley Act 404 attestation of financial to manage, rather than eliminate, the risks facing the reporting internal controls: Group, safeguard assets and provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material financial Receipt of the external auditors report on the Form misstatement or loss.
20-F and on the year end audit: Assessment of the effectiveness of the Groups internal Responsibility for monitoring financial management and control environment: reporting and risk management and internal control systems has been delegated to the audit committee by Reappointment, remuneration and engagement letter the board.
At each meeting, the audit committee of the external auditors: considers reports from management, Group internal UK Bribery Act adequate procedures guidance: audit and the external auditors, with the aim of Risk management in Asia: reviewing the effectiveness of the internal financial and Review of the interim financial statements and operating control environment of the Group.
announcement: Annual re-approval of the internal audit mandate: OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 59 The identification and mitigation of significant business Risk management risks is the responsibility of Group senior management A risk management framework is in place to identify, and operating company management.
Each operating evaluate and manage risks, including key financial company, including the corporate centre, maintains reporting risks.
Operating companies undertake semiinternal controls and procedures appropriate to its annual risk reviews to identify new or potentially structure, business environment and risk assessment, under-managed risks.
Throughout the year, risk whilst complying with Group policies, standards sessions facilitated by the head of Group internal audit and guidelines.
and risk assurance are held with Group and operating company management to identify the key risks the Financial management and reporting company faces in achieving its objectives, to assess There is a comprehensive strategic planning, budgeting the probability and impact of those risks and to and forecasting system with an annual operating plan document the actions being taken to manage those approved by the board of directors.
The Pearson management committee reviews information, including trading results, balance sheets, the output of these sessions, focusing on the significant cash flow statements, capital expenditures and risks facing the business.
Management has the indebtedness, is reported against the corresponding responsibility to consider and execute appropriate figures for the plan and prior years, with corrective action to mitigate these risks whenever possible.
action outlined by the appropriate senior executive.
The results of these reviews are reported to the board Group senior management meet, on a quarterly basis, in detail via the audit committee.
with operating company management to review their business and financial performance against plan and Group internal audit forecast.
Major business risks relevant to each The Group internal audit function is responsible for operating company as well as performance against the providing independent assurance to management on stated financial and strategic objectives are reviewed in the design and effectiveness of internal controls to these meetings.
mitigate financial, operational and compliance risks.
The risk-based annual internal audit plan is approved We have an ongoing process to monitor the risks and by the audit committee.
Recommendations to improve effectiveness of controls in relation to the financial internal controls and to mitigate risks, or both, are reporting and consolidation process including the agreed with operating company management after related information systems.
This includes up-to-date each audit.
Formal follow-up procedures allow Group Group financial policies, formal requirements for internal audit to monitor operating companies business unit finance functions, Group consolidation progress in implementing its recommendations and to reviews and analysis of material variances, Group resolve any control deficiencies.
The Group internal finance technical reviews, including the use of technical audit function also has a remit to monitor significant specialists, and review and sign-off by senior finance Group projects, in conjunction with the central project managers.
These processes are monitored and management office and to provide assurance that assessed during the year by the Group internal audit appropriate project governance and risk management and Group compliance functions.
Group internal audit has a These controls include those over external financial formal collaboration process in place with the external reporting which are documented and tested in auditors to ensure efficient coverage of internal accordance with the requirements of section 404 controls.
Regular reports on the work of Group of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which is relevant to internal audit are provided to executive management our US listing.
and, via the audit committee, to the board.
The effectiveness of key financial controls is subject The head of Group internal audit is jointly responsible to management review and self certification and with the Group legal counsel for monitoring independent evaluation by Group internal audit.
compliance with our Code of Conduct, and investigating any reported incidents including ethical, corruption and fraud allegations.
The Pearson antibribery and corruption programme has been enhanced to support the UK Bribery Act 2010.
60 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Board governance continued Treasury management No notifications under DTR5 had been received by The treasury department operates within policies the company during the period from 1 January 2012 to approved by the board and its procedures are reviewed 5 March 2012, being the last practicable date before regularly by the audit committee.
Major transactions the publication of this report.
are authorised outside the department at the requisite Annual General Meeting AGM level, and there is an appropriate segregation of duties.
Frequent reports are made to the chief financial officer The notice convening the AGM, to be held at 12 noon and regular reports are prepared for the audit on Friday, 27 April 2012 at IET London, 2 Savoy Place, committee and the board.
London WC2R 0BL, is contained in a circular to shareholders to be dated 22 March 2012.
Insurance Insurance is provided through Pearsons insurance Registered auditors subsidiary or externally, depending on the scale of the In accordance with section 489 of the Act, risk and the availability of cover in the external market, a resolution proposing the reappointment of with the objective of achieving the most cost-effective  LLP PwC as auditors to balance between insured and uninsured risks.
the company will be proposed at the AGM, at a level Going concern of remuneration to be agreed by the directors.
Having reviewed the Groups liquid resources and Auditors independence borrowing facilities and the Groups 2012 and 2013 In line with best practice, our relationship with PwC cash flow forecasts, the directors believe that the is governed by our external auditors policy, which is Group has adequate resources to continue as a going reviewed and approved annually by the audit concern.
For this reason, the financial statements have, committee.
The policy establishes procedures as usual, been prepared on that basis.
Information to ensure the auditors independence is not regarding the Groups borrowing liabilities and financial compromised, as well as defining those non-audit risk management can be found in notes 18 and 19 on services that PwC may or may not provide to Pearson.
These allowable services are in accordance with Share capital relevant UK and US legislation.
Details of share issues are given in note 27 to the The audit committee approves all audit and non-audit accounts on page 150.
The company has a single class services provided by PwC.
Certain categories of of shares which is divided into ordinary shares of 25p allowable non-audit services have been pre-approved by each.
The ordinary shares are in registered form.
the audit committee subject to the authorities below: As at 31 December 2011, 815,626,237 ordinary shares Pre-approved non-audit services can be authorised by were in issue.
At the AGM held on 28 April 2011, the the chief financial officer up to 100,000 per project, company was authorised, subject to certain conditions, subject to a cumulative limit of 500,000 per annum: to acquire up to 81,310,000 ordinary shares by market Tax compliance and related activities up to the greater purchase.
Shareholders will be asked to renew this of 1,000,000 per annum or 50% of the external audit authority at the AGM on 27 April 2012. fee: and Information provided to the company pursuant to For forward-looking tax planning services we use the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and the most appropriate adviser, usually after a tender Transparency Rules is published on a Regulatory process.
Where we decide to use our independent Information Service and on the companys website.
auditors, authority, up to 100,000 per project subject As at 31 December 2011, the company had been to a cumulative limit of 500,000 per annum, has been notified under DTR5 of the following significant voting delegated by the audit committee to management.
rights in its shares: Services provided by PwC above these limits and all Number of shares Percentage other allowable non-audit services, such as due Legal & General Group plc 32,385,175 3.97% diligence, irrespective of value, must be approved by the audit committee.
Where appropriate, services will Libyan Investment Authority 24,431,000 3.01% be tendered prior to awarding work to the auditors.
OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 61 The audit committee receives regular reports The directors are responsible for the maintenance summarising the amount of fees paid to the auditors.
and integrity of the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination A full statement of the fees for audit and services is of financial statements may differ from legislation provided in note 4 to the accounts on page 110. in other jurisdictions.
Statement of directors responsibilities Each of the directors, whose names and functions are The directors are responsible for preparing the annual listed on pages 46 to 48, confirm that to the best of report, the report on directors remuneration and the their knowledge and belief: financial statements in accordance with applicable law The Group financial statements, prepared in and regulations.
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give Company law requires the directors to prepare a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial financial statements for each financial year.
Under that position and profit of the Group and company: and law the directors have prepared the Group and parent The directors report contained in the annual report company financial statements in accordance with includes a fair review of the development and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs performance of the business and the position of the as adopted by the European Union.
Under company company and Group, together with a description of law the directors must not approve the financial the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a The directors also confirm that, for all directors in true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company office at the date of this report: and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
a so far as the directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys In preparing these financial statements, the directors auditors are unaware: and are required to: b they have taken all the steps that they ought to have Select suitable accounting policies and then apply taken as directors in order to make themselves aware them consistently: of any relevant audit information and to establish that Make judgements and accounting estimates that are the companys auditors are aware of that information.
reasonable and prudent: Approved by the board on 7 March 2012 and signed State that the financial statements comply with IFRSs on its behalf by as adopted by the European Union or disclose and explain any material departures from those IFRSs: and Prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company and or the Group will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate Philip Hoffman Secretary accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and the Group.
This enables them to ensure that the financial statements and the report on directors remuneration comply with the Act and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the Group and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
62 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Board governance continued Additional information for shareholders Any dividend which has not been claimed for 12 years after it became due for payment will be forfeited and Set out below is other statutory and regulatory will then belong to the company, unless the directors information that Pearson is required to disclose in its decide otherwise.
If the company is wound up, the liquidator can, with Amendment to Articles of Association the sanction of a special resolution passed by the Any amendments to the Articles of Association of the shareholders, divide among the shareholders all or any company the Articles may be made in accordance part of the assets of the company and he she can value with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 assets and determine how the division shall be carried the Act by way of a special resolution.
out as between the shareholders or different classes of shareholders.
The liquidator can also, with the Rights attaching to shares same sanction, transfer the whole or any part of the The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are defined assets on trustees upon such trusts for the benefit of in the companys Articles.
A shareholder whose name the shareholders.
appears on the companys register of members can Voting at general meetings choose whether his her shares are evidenced by share certificates i. e. in certificated form or held Any form of proxy sent by the company to electronically i. e. uncertificated form in CREST shareholders in relation to any general meeting must the electronic settlement system in the UK.
be delivered to the company, whether in written or electronic form, not less than 48 hours before the time Subject to any restrictions below, shareholders may appointed for holding the meeting or adjourned attend any general meeting of the company and, meeting at which the person named in the on a show of hands, every shareholder or his her appointment proposes to vote.
representative who is present at a general meeting has one vote on each resolution for every ordinary share No shareholder is, unless the board decides otherwise, of which they are the registered holder.
A resolution entitled to attend or vote either personally or by proxy put to the vote at a general meeting is decided on a at a general meeting or to exercise any other right show of hands unless before, or on the declaration of conferred by being a shareholder if he she or any the result of, a vote on a show of hands, a poll is person with an interest in shares has been sent a notice demanded.
A poll can be demanded by the chairman under section 793 of the Act which confers upon of the meeting, or by at least three shareholders public companies the power to require information or their representatives present in person and having with respect to interests in their voting shares and the right to vote, or by any shareholders or their he she or any interested person failed to supply the representatives present in person having at least 10% company with the information requested within 14 of the total voting rights of all shareholders, or by any days after delivery of that notice.
The board may also shareholders or their representatives present in decide, where the relevant shareholding comprises at person holding ordinary shares on which an aggregate least 0.25% of the nominal value of the issued shares of sum has been paid up of at least 10% of the total sum that class, that no dividend is payable in respect of paid up on all ordinary shares.
At this years AGM those default shares and that no transfer of any default voting will be conducted on a poll.
Shareholders can declare a final dividend by passing an Pearson operates two employee benefit trusts to ordinary resolution but the amount of the dividend hold shares, pending employees becoming entitled cannot exceed the amount recommended by the to them under the companys employee share plans.
The board can pay interim dividends on any There were 14,665,223 shares so held as at class of shares of the amounts and on the dates and for 31 December 2011.
Each trust has an independent the periods they decide.
In all cases the distributable trustee which has full discretion in relation to the profits of the company must be sufficient to justify the voting of such shares.
A dividend waiver operates payment of the relevant dividend.
The board may, on the shares held in these trusts.
if authorised by an ordinary resolution of the shareholders, offer any shareholder the right to elect to receive new ordinary shares, which will be credited as fully paid, instead of their cash dividend.
OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 63 Pearson also operates a nominee shareholding Appointment and replacement of directors arrangement known as Sharestore which holds shares The Articles contain the following provisions in relation on behalf of employees.
There were 4,137,566 shares to directors: so held as at 31 December 2011.
The trustees holding these shares seek voting instructions from the Directors shall number no less than two.
Directors employee as beneficial owner, and voting rights are may be appointed by the company by ordinary not exercised if no instructions are given.
resolution or by the board.
A director appointed by the board shall hold office only until the next AGM and Transfer of shares shall then be eligible for reappointment, but shall not The board may refuse to register a transfer of a be taken into account in determining the directors or certificated share which is not fully paid, provided that the number of directors who are to retire by rotation the refusal does not prevent dealings in shares in the at that meeting.
The board may from time to time company from taking place on an open and proper appoint one or more directors to hold executive office basis.
The board may also refuse to register a transfer with the company for such period subject to the of a certificated share unless i the instrument of provisions of the Act and upon such terms as the transfer is lodged, duly stamped if stampable, at the board may decide and may revoke or terminate any registered office of the company or any other place appointment so made.
decided by the board, and is accompanied by the The Articles provide that, at every AGM of the certificate for the share to which it relates and such company, at least one-third of the directors shall retire other evidence as the board may reasonably require to by rotation or, if their number is not a multiple of show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: three, the number nearest to one-third.
The first ii it is in respect of only one class of shares: and iii directors to retire by rotation shall be those who wish it is in favour of not more than four transferees.
to retire and not offer themselves for re-election.
Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out Any further directors so to retire shall be those of the using CREST and the board can refuse to register a other directors subject to retirement by rotation who transfer of an uncertificated share in accordance with have been longest in office since they were last rethe regulations governing the operation of CREST.
elected but, as between persons who became or were last re-elected on the same day, those to retire shall Variation of rights unless they otherwise agree among themselves If at any time the capital of the company is divided into be determined by lot.
In addition, any director who different classes of shares, the special rights attaching to would not otherwise be required to retire shall any class may be varied or revoked either: retire by rotation at the third AGM after they were last re-elected.
i with the written consent of the holders of at least 75% in nominal value of the issued shares of the Notwithstanding the provisions of the Articles, the relevant class: or board has resolved that all directors should offer themselves for re-election annually, in accordance ii with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
separate general meeting of the holders of the shares of the relevant class.
The company may by ordinary resolution remove any director before the expiration of his her term of office.
Without prejudice to any special rights previously In addition, the board may terminate an agreement or conferred on the holders of any existing shares or class arrangement with any director for the provision of of shares, any share may be issued with such preferred, his her services to the company.
deferred, or other special rights, or such restrictions, whether in regard to dividend, voting, return of capital or otherwise as the company may from time to time by ordinary resolution determine.
64 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Board governance continued Powers of the directors Subject to the companys Articles, the Act and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the company will be managed by the board who may exercise all the powers of the company, including powers relating to the issue and or buying back of shares by the company subject to any statutory restrictions or restrictions imposed by shareholders in general meeting.
Significant agreements The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a change of control of the company: Under the $1,750,000,000 revolving credit facility agreement dated November 2010 which matures in November 2015 between, amongst others, the company, HSBC Bank plc as facility agent and the banks and financial institutions named therein as lenders the Facility, any such bank may, upon a change of control, require its outstanding advances, together with accrued interest and any other amounts payable in respect of such Facility, and its commitments, to be cancelled, each within 60 days of notification to the banks by the facility agent.
For these purposes, a change of control occurs if the company becomes a subsidiary of any other company or one or more persons acting either individually or in concert, obtains control as defined in section 1124 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 of the company.
Shares acquired through the companys employee share plans rank pari passu with shares in issue and have no special rights.
For legal and practical reasons, the rules of these plans set out the consequences of a change of control of the company.
