20 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2011 International Education Our International Education company is active in more than 70 countries.
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Watch an interview with John Fallon, Chief executive, Headline CER Underlying International Education millions 2011 2010 growth growth growth www.
com ar2011 john-fallon Sales 1,424 1,234 15% 15% 4% Our International Education company is active in more Adjusted 196 171 15% 13% 2% operating profit than 70 countries.
It is a major focus of our strategy, andsales and profits have broadly doubled since 2007.
Our strategy is to combine educational content, ONLINE LEARNING USERS assessment, technologies and related services to help MyLab Registrations no.
educational institutions become more effective and their students more successful.
We expect to benefit 915,502 11 from a series ofpowerful long-term global trends: 10 673,460 increasing public and private spending on education The number of registrations by students and professors despite current pressures on public spending in to access one of our International Education MyLab developed markets : growing participation rates: online homework and assessment programmes.
thedemand for assessment to provide measures of achievement: the growing technology infrastructure ONLINE LEARNING LOGINS ineducational institutions: and the rise of English Logins no.
In 2011, we continued to make 11 significant organic investments in expanding the 276,873 footprint of Wall Street English in China and the 10 140,643 roll-outof our school services business in India Number of logins by users of International Educations aswellas incurring significant charges from the online results service.
integration of acquisitions, most notably the school systems business of SEB inBrazil.
Global highlights in 2011 include: Wall Street English, Pearsons worldwide chain of English language centres for professionals, increased student numbers by 9% to more than 190,000.
Weopened 19 new centres around the world, bringing the total number close to 450.
More than 0.9 million students registered for our MyLab digital learning, homework and assessment programmes, anincrease of 36%.
They included more than 150,000 MyEnglishLab registrations, up 70%, and 28,000 registrations for our high school mathematics programme MathXL, a 54% increase.
OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 2 Our performance 21 We developed a new model of enterprise-wide We acquired Global Education and Technology support for online higher education with the Group, aleading provider of test preparation University of New England UNE in Australia which servicesfor English Language and other professional will launch in 2012.
The partnership enables UNE to qualifications, for $155m in cash.
Global Education has expand its distance learning capacity and access to approximately 450 115 owned and 335 franchised higher education and ties Pearsons revenue to the learning centres in 150 cities acrossChina.
success of the institution and its students.
In South Africa we gained share in school publishing, Our Fronter learning management system grew but market conditions were tougher than expected strongly with new contracts won in Malta, Tasmania during a year of major curriculum reform.
Active users rose by 18% to 1.3 million enrolments grew strongly at CTI, up 13% to 8,700, and their logins by 11% to 154 million.
which continues to deliver significantly better completion rates than its peers and strong job Student test volumes for the Pearson Test of placement rates of 70%.
We delivered half a million EnglishAcademic saw robust growth supported by secondary textbooks for Physics, Biology and History recognition from almost 1,900 institutions including to all government secondary schools in Uganda, one the Australian Department of Immigration & million Junior African Writer readers to the Ministry Citizenship and 95% of UK Universities.
of Education in Sierra Leone and almost two million The Organisation for Economic Co-operation textbooks in five subjects to secondary schools andDevelopment chose Pearson to develop a inZimbabwe.
competency and assessment framework for the 2015 In Brazil, we successfully completed the first stage cycle of The Programme of International Student ofthe SEB Pearson Sistemas integration with major Assessment PISA tests, one of the worlds most investments and improvements across the business.
prestigious programmes of international tests.
Our Virtual Library grew strongly and now reaches twomillion students across 100 universities, and we Developing markets highlights in 2011 include: entered the K-12 publishing market.
In Colombia, we In China, student enrolments at our Wall Street implemented a bilingual teacher training programme English centres increased 25% to 53,000, boosted by inseveral states and in Chile we won a contract to strong underlying demand and the launch of 11 new evaluate the national college admissions test.
Our students continue to rapidly acquire high-level English skills with average grade levels achieved by our students rising by 11% during 2011.
In training for an international education Global Education is a leading provider of test preparation services for students in China who are learning English.
It has a network of 450 test preparation and training centres across 150 cities in China and also provides English language training for children, tutoring in a range of subjects and teaching for other foreign languages.
Watch our new lm about Global Education: www.
com ar2011 global-education 22 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2011 International Education continued In India, we incurred costs related to the acquisition of Our Bug Club digital reading programme for TutorVista and invested to grow the business.
primary schools combines engaging phonics-based Wehave doubled the number of schools managed by books with games, assessments and teacher diagnostic TutorVista to 24 and the installations of its multimedia tools to boost reading enjoyment andcomprehension.
teaching tool Digiclass to approximately 10,000.
In 2011, more than 145,000 online users in almost 900 Vocational and Professional enrolments at our schools subscribed to BugClub online.
IndiaCan joint-venture grew more than 50% to We acquired EDI plc, a leading provider of education 86,000, with particular strength in spoken English, and training qualifications and assessment services, Chartered Accountancy, Engineering and with a strong reputation for the use of information MBAqualifications.
technology to administer learning programmes and In the Middle East, our performance was boosted by deliver on-screen assessments.
Registrations for our sales of Reading Street and Scott Foresman Math in own BTEC Apprenticeships more than doubled to Saudi Arabian schools: Giancoli Physics and Thomas 80,000 students.
Calculus along with strong MyLabs uptake in Turkish colleges: and Haeussler Mathematics and Hubert Rest of World highlights in 2011 include: Engineering along with strong MyLab redemptions We launched the Australian edition of our pioneering inEgypt.
US digital maths curriculum, enVisionMATH.
We have more local versions in development to bring high United Kingdom highlights in 2011 include: quality digital curriculum to new markets across Our UK business made solid progress during the year the globe.
despite significant regulatory and policy changes in In Italy, our new digital curriculum helped us gain itsmarkets, most notably in vocational and general significant share in lower secondary adoptions and qualifications, apprenticeships and in higher education.
We marked more than 5.7 million GCSE, A AS Level In Germany, we acquired Stark Holding, a leading and other examinations with 90% using onscreen provider of education materials including test technology.
We marked more than 3.8 million test preparation resources for pupils and teachers.
scripts for over half a million pupils taking National Curriculum Tests at Key Stage Two in 2011 and have In Japan, we faced major disruption following the been selected to mark tests in 2012.
March 2011 tsunami but maintained operations andachieved notable successes, particularly with theVersant Test of Communicative English and thelaunchof BTEC.
Heres a conversation starter Wall Street English provides spoken English training for adults in 450 learning centres in 25 territories across Asia, Europe, the Middle East and Latin America.
In 2011 we opened 19 new centres aroundthe world.
