Directors report Other statutory information Principal activities and business review The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries continues to believe that each Director makes an effective the Group are the provision of water and sewerage services, and valuable contribution to the Board, demonstrating recycling, waste management and renewable energy.
continued commitment to his or her role.
The Non-executive Information regarding the Group, including events and its Directors, Gerard Connell, Dinah Nichols and Martin Angle, progress during the year, events since the year-end and likely are all considered to be independent in accordance with the future developments is contained in the Business review set provisions of the Code.
They do not have service contracts.
out on pages 1 to 31 of this Directors report.
The Chairman, Ken Harvey, does have a contract for services which is terminable upon 12 months notice.
All of the In addition the Business review contains a fair and balanced Executive Directors, Colin Drummond, David Dupont and review of the business of the Group, including its position and Chris Loughlin, have service contracts which are due to expire prospects, Key Performance Indicators and a description when they reach age 60 unexpired term for David Dupont of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group in and Chris Loughlin is until 10 June 2014 and 20 August 2012 accordance with the requirements of the Combined Code respectively with the exception of that of Colin Drummond and Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006.
In addition in who has reached age 60.
His contract now continues subject accordance with the ABI Corporate Social Responsibility to 12 months notice and the other Executive Directors Guidelines, statements are included on any significant contracts may also continue after they reach age 60.
Formal environmental, social and governance ESG risks and the resolutions for the above Directors re-election will be actions taken in mitigating these risks within the Business proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The Directors review on page 24.
Further information on ESG aspects of biographies are set out on pages 36 and 37. the Groups business are included in the Group Corporate responsibility report on pages 28 to 31.
The principal No Director has, or has had, a material interest, directly or subsidiaries of the Company are listed in note 39 to the indirectly, at any time during the year under review in any financial statements on page 109. contract significant to the Companys business.
A list of all the Directors during the year is set out in the emoluments Corporate governance and Directors responsibilities table on page 52.
Further details relating to the Directors and statements their service agreements or contracts for services are set out The Directors responsibilities statements and the disclosures on pages 49 and 51 and details of the Directors interests in required by Part 6 of Schedule 7 of the Large and Mediumshares of the Company are given on pages 53 to 56. sized Companies and Groups Accounts & Reports Regulations 2008 and Rule DTR 7.2 are set out in the Directors insurance and indemnities Companys Corporate governance and internal control report The Directors have the benefit of the indemnity provisions on pages 34, 35 and 38 to 44 of this Annual Report which contained in the Companys Articles and the Company has are hereby included within this Directors report by reference.
maintained throughout the year Directors and Officers liability insurance for the benefit of the Company, the Directors and its Financial results and dividend Officers.
The Company has entered into qualifying third party Group profit on ordinary activities after taxation was indemnity arrangements for the benefit of all its Directors in 171.6 million.
The Directors recommend a final dividend a form and scope which comply with the requirements of the of 17.15p per ordinary share to be paid on 7 October 2011 Companies Act 2006 and which were in force throughout the to shareholders on the register on 12 August 2011, making year and remains in force.
a total dividend for the year of 24.65p, the cost of which will be 88.2 million, leaving a credit to reserves of 83.4 million.
Statement as to disclosure of information to auditors The Business review on pages 20 to 23 analyses the Groups a so far as each of the Directors in office at the date of financial results in more detail and sets out other financial the signing of the report is aware, there is no relevant information, including the Directors opinion on asset values audit information of which the Companys auditors are on page 21. unaware: and Directors b each of the Directors has taken all the steps each Director Following the inclusion in the UK Corporate Governance ought to have taken individually as a director in order to Code the Code of a provision that all directors of FTSE make themselves aware of any relevant audit information companies should be subject to annual election by and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of shareholders, all Directors are offering themselves up for that information.
re-election at this years Annual General Meeting.
The Board 32 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group Governance Financial statements 2011 Annual General Meeting business In addition to routine business, resolutions will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to: renew the existing authorities to issue a limited number of shares and to purchase up to 10% of the issued share capital of the Company seek authority to make political donations under the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000, as amended.
It is not the Groups policy to make political donations.
This is a precautionary measure which is followed by many companies to ensure that there is no inadvertent breach of the law re-elect Mr K G Harvey, Mr M D Angle, Mr G D Connell, Mr C I J H Drummond, Mr D J Dupont, Mr C Loughlin and Ms D A Nichols as Directors of the Company renew the Pennon Group All-Employee Share Ownership Plan renew the Pennon Group Executive Share Ownership Scheme seek authority to continue to call general meetings other than an annual general meeting on not less than 14 clear days notice pursuant to the EU Shareholder Rights Directive shareholder authority is required to continue to call meetings on at least 14 clear days notice.
Financial instruments of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
Details of the financial risk management objectives and Payments to suppliers policies of the Group and the exposure of the Group to price, It is the Groups payment policy for the year ending 31 March credit, liquidity and cash flow risks are set out in the Business 2012 to follow the Code of The Better Payment Practice Group review on pages 22 and 26. on supplier payments.
Information about the Code can be Employment policies and employee involvement obtained from the website payontime.
co. uk The Company The Group has a culture of continuous improvement through will agree payment terms with individual suppliers in advance investment in people at all levels within the Group.
The Group and abide by such terms.
The ratio, expressed in days, is committed to pursuing equality and diversity in all its between the amount invoiced to the Company by its suppliers employment activities including recruitment, training, career during 2010 11 and the amount owed to its trade creditors at development and promotion and ensuring there is no bias 31 March 2011, was 14 days.
or discrimination in the treatment of people.
In particular, Purchase of own ordinary shares applications for employment are welcomed from persons with The Company has authority from shareholders to purchase up disabilities and special arrangements and adjustments as to 10% of its own ordinary shares as renewed at the Annual necessary are made to ensure that applicants are treated fairly General Meeting in 2010 which was valid as at 31 March when attending for interview or for pre-employment aptitude 2011 and remains currently valid.
Wherever possible the opportunity is taken to retrain held in Treasury at 31 March 2010, 783,007 were subsequently people who become disabled during their employment in re-issued under the Companys employee share schemes order to maintain their employment within the Group.
Employees are consulted regularly about changes which Independent auditors may affect them either through their trade union appointed  LLP were appointed auditors representatives or by means of the elected Staff Council until the conclusion of the twenty-second Annual General which operates in South West Water for staff employees.
A resolution for their re-appointment upon the These forums, together with regular meetings with particular recommendation of the Audit Committee of the Board will groups of employees, are used to ensure that employees are be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
kept up to date with the operating and financial performance Appointed business of their employer.
South West Water Limited is required to publish additional The Group also uses a monthly information cascade process financial information relating to the appointed business to provide employees with important and up to date information as water and sewerage undertaker in accordance with the about key events and to receive feedback from employees.
Instrument of Appointment from the Secretary of State for the Environment.
A copy of this information is available on Further information about employment matters relating to the website southwestwater.
co. uk or upon application to the the Group are set out on pages 13, 19, 30 and 31 of the Group Company Secretary at Peninsula House, Rydon Lane, Business review.
The Group encourages share ownership amongst its Annual General Meeting employees by operating an HM Revenue & Customs HMRC The twenty-second Annual General Meeting of the Company approved Sharesave Scheme and Share Incentive Plan.
will be held at the Sandy Park Conference Centre, Sandy Park At 31 March 2011 around 35% of the Groups employees Way, Exeter, Devon EX2 7NN on 28 July 2011 at 11.00am.
Details of the resolutions are summarised above and set out Research and development in the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting which is Research and development activities within the Group circulated to shareholders with this Annual Report or provided involving water and waste treatment processes amounted by electronic communication via the Companys website to 0.2 million during the year 2009 10 0.2 million.
co. uk Pennon Group donations Information required by Section 311A During the year donations amounting to 78,678 2009 10 of the Companies Act 2006 is also on the Companys website.
Further details are included on page 29 of By Order of the Board the Group Corporate responsibility report.
No political donations were made 2009 10 Nil.
Ken Woodier Group General Counsel & Company Secretary Tax status 22 June 2011 The Company is not a close company within the meaning Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 33
