Directors report Business review Risk review Principal risks and uncertainties The following risks and uncertainties have been identified from Pennon Groups risk management process as potentially having a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation.
They are managed as described below but are not wholly within Pennon Groups total control and may still result in a material adverse impact on the Group.
Factors besides those listed could also have a material adverse effect on the Group.
Risk and impact Commentary and mitigation Change Law and regulatory Changes in law, regulation or There is a wide range of laws and regulations and policy decisions of government decisions by governmental and regulators which could have a materially adverse effect on the results of bodies or regulators could operations of both South West Water and Viridor.
Examples include: have a material adverse effect on our financial results in compliance with EU legislation, the UK has landfill diversion, recycling and or operations recovery targets.
These, together with the impact of waste recycling regulations, higher producer responsibility obligations and pre-treatment requirements, coupled with rising landfill tax, will continue further to reduce landfill volumes, profits and possibly over time landfill asset values within Viridor whilst at the same time being supportive of Viridors recycling and renewable energy activities.
the development of greater competition in the water industry could reduce South West Waters revenues.
As part of its risk management and business strategic planning processes the company evaluates developments and proposals for competition which could also provide opportunities for business expansion.
Legislation will be required for any further extension of competition in the water and sewerage services markets.
The company evaluates proposals for regulatory reform and contributes fully to consultations and other forms of dialogue with regulators and stakeholders in order to effectively communicate its views.
higher standards of environmental protection and quality standards could increase costs for both South West Water and Viridor.
Specifically for South West Water such costs are met through the five-year regulatory price review mechanism but not all changes may be funded immediately or at all.
Within Viridor, higher costs are sometimes, but not always, recovered through contractual arrangements with waste authorities.
changes in the Renewable Obligation Certificate ROC pricing mechanism could significantly reduce revenues for Viridor.
The Government has however made a strong commitment to renewables which is key to meeting the UKs long-term carbon reduction strategy and in particular to the grandfathering of existing Non Fossil Fuel Obligation NFFO contracts.
How we manage risk internally The manner in which we manage risk is set out on page 43.
Key Unchanged during year Increased during year Reduced during year 24 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group Governance Financial statements Risk and impact Commentary and mitigation Change Law and regulatory continued the planning regime may have the effect of restricting the development of future waste treatment facilities by Viridor.
Whilst Viridor has plans for further new treatment facilities it has been successful in obtaining planning permission for EfW plants at some key sites over the past year.
Nevertheless this is an ongoing material risk to the future growth of Viridor and realisation of its strategy.
in 2008 the Government announced its intention to transfer an element of sewers and pumping stations currently owned by private individuals and businesses to sewerage undertakers.
Whilst legislation has not yet been quite finalised, it is anticipated that the transfer will occur in the autumn of 2011 and there will be additional costs for South West Water which should be recoverable through the regulatory price review mechanism.
climate change and resulting increased regulatory standards required could increase costs for South West Water.
The company has plans ready and will adapt the way it conducts its business to respond effectively to the hotter, drier summers and wetter winters which are anticipated.
the five-year regulatory price review for South West Water assumes operating cost savings.
The company has a track record, and remains confident, of delivering the assumed operating cost savings in the current regulatory period.
A major restructuring programme is currently being implemented to contribute towards the additional efficiencies required.
Economic conditions Economic conditions could Whilst the Group does have some exposure to reduced economic activity materially affect the Groups and inflation deflation, South West Waters revenues are economically revenues and profitability regulated through the price review mechanism and Viridor has a diversified revenue stream which includes exports to fast-growing developing economies.
Examples of areas of impact are: in Viridor overall volumes of waste and other materials supplied have reduced due to less activity in municipal and commercial markets in current economic conditions.
These may be expected to recover somewhat as the economy recovers.
the Governments recent Spending Review has put pressure on local authority services, including household waste recycling sites operations, which is expected to have a short-term impact.
Viridor is working with local authority clients to deliver essential recycling and waste management services in an economic manner.
recyclate prices are, like any commodity, volatile and are directly impacted by world economic conditions.
The effect is most significant on recycling volumes of internationally traded commodities such as paper, card, plastics and metals.
However recyclate is typically cheaper than virgin materials which limits the impact on prices for good quality recyclate and in 2010 11 recyclate revenues per tonne increased back up to the peak levels experienced before the global financial crisis.
Brown energy prices continue to be determined by the world and UK energy market and may go down as well as up.
Prices in 2010 11 were around 30 per MWh lower than achieved in 2009 10 which affected the companys power generation comparative performance in 2010 11.
South West Waters revenues can be reduced by higher bad debts and customer affordability.
In addition to existing debt reduction strategies, which are kept under review, the company continues to implement new initiatives to improve and secure cash collection, including the use of property charging orders.
The accounts of major customers are kept under close review.
Provision was made in the last regulatory price review for companies to make an application for an Interim Determination a price increase in the event of household bad debts being significantly above the amount allowed by the economic regulator due to worsening economic circumstances in the companys operating area.
South West Water has worked with the Government on the findings of the Walker Report and has promoted fairness for its bill payers and actively sought to introduce and promote practical measures to help customers struggling to pay their water bills.
Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 25 Directors report Business review Risk review Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk and impact Commentary and mitigation Change Finance and funding Access to finance and The Group may be unable to raise sufficient funds to finance its activities or such funding costs may be funds may be only available at higher cost.
The Group has robust treasury policies adversely affected by in place which include always having pre-funded surplus cash and or committed perceived credit rating and facilities to cover at least one years estimated cash flow and arranging for no more by prolonged periods of than 20% of net borrowing to mature in any one year.
In addition in respect of market volatility or liquidity South West Water the economic regulator has a statutory duty to ensure that it is and we are subject to able to finance its functions in the normal course of business.
The Group has to limitations and restrictive date obtained funding at lower effective average interest rates compared with many obligations in respect of other companies in its sector of activity.
In addition the Groups debt has a long our borrowing and debt average maturity profile of 23 years.
arrangements Operating performance Poor operating performance Poor operating performance for both South West Water or Viridor could result in or a failure of, or interruption enforcement action, prosecutions, loss of permits and civil action which could all to, our operating systems result in negative publicity, loss of customer confidence due to poor performance or the inability to carry and, eventually, reduced demand for services and increased fixed costs.
out network operations or Within South West Water a major network failure or interruption may be suffered or damage to infrastructure the company may not be able to carry out critical network operations.
Operational may have a material adverse performance could be materially adversely affected by a failure to maintain the impact on both our financial health of the system or network which could cause South West Water to fail agreed position and reputation standards of service or specified quality standards.
Specific measures taken by South West Water include: a Water Resources Plan prepared every five years which is reviewed annually for a range of climate change and demand scenarios.
The current Water Resources Plan indicates that no new reservoirs are required before the planning horizon of 2035.
However investment is needed to develop the overall trunk main infrastructure, to expand treatment capacity and to enhance certain pumped storage facilities.
established procedures and controls as well as contingency plans and incident management procedures against the risk of contamination to water supplies and against failures of sewers and at waste water treatment works.
Insurance policies are also maintained in relation to these risks, although there can be no assurance that all or any of the costs associated with these risks would be covered or that coverage will continue to be available in the future.
Viridor operates in a competitive marketplace where price and service are key precursors to success.
Sound policies and accredited procedures are in place with internal and external inspections, to maintain operations and achieve performance standards set.
Capital investment The failure or increased South West Water may not carry out its capital programme within the price limits costs of capital projects or and with the efficiencies determined by Ofwat.
However South West Water acquisitions or joint ventures does have a track record of delivering its capital programme in accordance not achieving predicted with regulatory requirements and progress is regularly monitored and reviewed.
revenues or performance Within Viridor there is a risk of project or contract failure or overpaying for an could have a material acquisition.
However the Group has experienced and dedicated project contract adverse effect on both teams: detailed due diligence on all projects and acquisitions is carried out by our financial position experienced and qualified staff: and wherever possible back-to-back agreements and reputation with and guarantees from suppliers are entered into.
26 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group Governance Financial statements Risk and impact Commentary and mitigation Change Customer demand A reduced customer base, Viridor is experiencing increased competitive pressures in a number of areas of its increased competition business including in particular for recyclate volume, landfill gate fees and bidding affecting prices or reduced for Public Private Partnership contracts PPPs.
However Viridor provides recycling demand for services and waste management services which are locally delivered services from locally could have a material managed facilities and a substantial amount of its turnover is contracted over the adverse impact on our medium or long-term.
With regard to major competitive projects being pursued financial position there are barriers to entry due to planning permissions being difficult to obtain and significant investment requirements.
Competitive pressures in respect of South West Water are referred to in the first risk set out at the beginning of this section.
Business systems Information technology and Some of Viridors IT systems require replacement, development or upgrading to business continuity systems meet the growing requirements of the business and in some areas new technology and processes may fail being introduced may not operate or perform according to stated specification which may cause material requirements.
Viridor has a comprehensive development programme and plans disruption to the Groups in place to address the deficiencies identified and seek to ensure business businesses and could have continuity in the event of failure.
a material adverse impact Whilst there always remains the risk of interruption, failure or third party intervention on both our financial position which could have a material adverse impact on the operation of South West and reputation Waters business, the company does have well developed IT systems and business continuity systems in place.
Forward-looking statements This Business review contains forward-looking statements regarding the financial position: results of operations: cash flows: dividends: financing plans: business strategies: operating efficiencies: capital and other expenditures: competitive positions: growth opportunities: plans and objectives of management: and other matters.
These forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, those relating to the future business prospects, revenues, working capital, liquidity, capital needs, interest costs and income in relation to Pennon Group and its subsidiaries, wherever they occur in this Business review, are necessarily based on assumptions reflecting the views of Pennon Group and its subsidiary companies, as appropriate.
They involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forwardlooking statements.
Such forward-looking statements should, therefore, be considered in the light of relevant factors, including those set out in this Group risk review section.
Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 27
