Directors report Business review Strategic Q&A Delivering on our strategy With strong results recorded by both businesses in 2010 11, Group Director of Finance David Dupont, South West Water CEO Chris Loughlin and Viridor CEO Colin Drummond discuss a year of achievement and outline their strategic approach to the main challenges they face.
What were the highlights of the year, Lakeside Energy from Waste EfW and By the year-end we had 825 million and how do they reflect the Group Greater Manchester Waste PFI projects.
of funding in place to support both strategy?
subsidiaries, reflecting our Group We continued to secure further funding strategy of investing in our utility David Dupont for both businesses to finance South infrastructure businesses to achieve We saw a solid profit performance in West Waters commitments in the long-term growth for investors.
South West Waters profits current five-year cycle and to enable were stable, despite the reduced rate Viridor to continue its strategy of Can you explain the decision to set of return imposed by Ofwat, and Viridor investing in EfW and recycling assets.
a dividend growth policy of 4% per achieved very strong growth driven by annum in real terms: higher than any its successful recycling activities and the of your peer companies?
DD Certainly the decision reflects our confidence that both South West Water and Viridor are pursuing proven sound strategies which will enable them to continue to perform well during the foreseeable future.
In addition weve successfully secured funding for South West Water at a significantly lower interest rate than was assumed by Ofwat for the 20102015 period and we are pleased to be sharing this benefit with our investors.
South West Water achieved a strong operational performance last year.
What were the key highlights and how did you achieve them?
Chris Loughlin First and foremost we achieved a stepchange in operational cost-efficiency, delivering nearly double the savings of the previous year.
This coincided with very high levels of operational performance: for example, our water quality is amongst the very best in the industry and our water losses from 4 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements First and foremost, we achieved a stepchange in operational cost-efficiency, delivering nearly double the savings of the previous year.
Chris Loughlin, Chief Executive, South West Water leakage are the lowest in the country, loaded our improvement plans.
This Well continue to work with Government having met the Ofwat target in every has given us a flying start to the new and other interested parties in the single year, despite a record cold spell five-year period.
This is underpinned ongoing consultation process to help this winter leading to many frozen pipes.
by our Puros programme which is achieve the right balance between transforming how we operate our supporting those facing the most acute A new five-year period brings new assets and our working practices to financial challenges and ensuring the challenges from Ofwat.
How are you make us even more efficient in the fairest level of bills for everyone.
Financially, our very low cost Viridors joint ventures at Lakeside CL of borrowing ensures that a continued and in Greater Manchester have In essence the challenge remains to high level of outperformance is already clearly made a major contribution continue to deliver ever improving locked in.
In terms of capital expenditure to this years results.
How are they customer service and a demanding outperformance we are also seeing the progressing?
programme of operational improvements benefits of the new long-term contracts whilst outperforming our commitments we put in place at the end of the last Colin Drummond financially.
Operationally, we have frontfive-year cycle.
All in all we are in good Both are going very well.
Lakesides shape for the rest of the period.
performance during its first full year of operation was even better than The Government is reviewing water expected with a total profit contribution policy and has already announced approaching 9 million if you include support for South West Water Viridor sub-contract profits.
How would you like Greater Manchester Waste PFI contract to see this develop?
also performed very strongly during its CL second full year with 31 of the projects We welcome the fact that the 42 new facilities now completed.
We Government is minded to provide are delivering world-class recycling and support to South West Water customers waste management solutions to Greater following the findings of the independent Manchester in an economic manner at Walker Review.
a time when our client, like many local authorities across the UK, is facing tough budgetary constraints.
Group Director of Finance David Dupont, South West Water Chief Executive Chris Loughlin and Viridor Chief Executive Colin Drummond Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 5 Directors report Business review Strategic Q&A Delivering on our strategy continued Waste management is changing into a resource recovery business and we are capitalising on, and indeed leading this trend.
Colin Drummond, Chief Executive, Viridor What are the key trends currently Recycling has been a rollercoaster The years results were impacted by impacting Viridor?
for the industry have you managed lower prices for the electricity Viridor to fide-risk it?
What are CD the prospects for the coming year?
The move away from landfill to more CD recycling, combined with recovering It can be a rollercoaster, but the fact CD more energy from waste, is the most is that if you produce high-quality 2010 11 prices were still highly profitable important change affecting our industry.
recyclate, you will find a steady market for us and were only low in comparison Waste management is changing into for it: you can become a built-in part with the prices we locked in during a resource recovery business.
We are of manufacturers raw material supply summer 2008 at the historic peak of capitalising on, and indeed leading, chains.
Over the last four years we the market.
Prices are currently slowly this trend 46% of Viridors profits now have invested over 200 million in strengthening and our view, and that of come from recovering value from waste.
achieving precisely this and we have many industry analysts, is that this trend many excellent customer relationships will continue.
Viridor made five acquisitions during throughout the UK, Europe and the year.
What is your acquisition increasingly with China.
There remains strategy and how important is it the risk of price volatility but this is to the growth of the business?
lessened by recyclate being significantly CD cheaper than virgin materials.
Acquiring businesses that fit our strategy and provide a good payback on the investment has always been central to our growth.
Indeed roughly half of the 20% per annum profit growth we have achieved since 2000 has been due to acquisitions with the other half being organic.
Last year the companies we bought were all in recycling and provided us with both the geographic operational synergies we look for in the UK and greater volumes to sell through our international distribution network.
6 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements The Group performed well in the year with South West Water outperforming Ofwat assumptions and Viridor continuing to build a very strong platform for continued growth.
David Dupont, Group Director of Finance You have many potential Public What are the key KPIs and There is very substantial investment Private Partnership PPP and EfW environmental measures you use to going into Viridor.
How are assess Viridors performance?
Is it DD these progressing?
really true that being green is good Both the Lakeside and Greater for business?
CD Manchester joint venture projects are Since summer 2010 we have achieved CD funded using project finance, with banks four major EfW planning permissions Being green certainly is good for our providing over 80% of the necessary at Cardiff, Dunbar, Ardley and business.
Our profits have been growing funds on a non-recourse basis.
New Avonmouth the Secretary of States at an average compound rate of 20% investments are being financed decision is subject to challenge on the per annum since 2001.
One of our corporately, including 46 million by latter two.
During the year we agreed KPIs relates to the amount of waste the year-end in the second phase of the second phase of development recycled, which has grown from around the new Runcorn EfW plant.
By the at the new Runcorn EfW plant, with 100,000 tonnes per annum in 2001 to year-end we had around 500 million in a circa 200 million investment: the 1.7 million last year.
Another KPI is our place for Viridors ongoing investment construction programme is fully renewable energy generation capacity, needs and we are in talks with other underway the first phase is targeted which has increased over the same finance providers for additional funding at the Greater Manchester project.
period from 27MW to 136MW and we as projects progress.
We also signed a major 25-year residual are targeting an annual capacity of at How do you expect the Group to waste treatment PPP contract with least 300MW in five years time.
Other continue to perform within todays Oxfordshire County Council which KPIs relate to the economic and social challenging business environment?
will use our planned Ardley facility.
sustainability of our own business.
As We have a healthy pipeline of other I know first-hand from my appearance DD potential projects, with a view to in Channel 4s Undercover Boss, we The Group performed well in the year winning an acceptable proportion work in challenging environments: a with South West Water outperforming at satisfactory prices.
particular area of focus is therefore the Ofwat assumptions and Viridor health and safety of our workforce.
continuing to build a very strong Whilst we more than met our RIDDOR platform for continued growth.
This a national measure of health and safety gives us great confidence that we incidents target in 2010, which was also can continue to deliver in line with an improvement on our 2009 RIDDOR expectations, including the dividend performance, our over-riding goal policy that we announced a year ago.
remains achieving a zero accident rate.
Far left: Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment WEEE recycling facility, St Helens Left: Baled recyclate at Ford Materials Recycling Facility MRF Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 7
