Directors report Business review Viridor Another year of growth and investment Viridor has transformed itself over the last decade from a traditional waste management company with significant landfill operations into a progressive resource management business with a growing focus on recovering the value in waste through recycling and by using waste as a source of renewable energy.
In 20010 11 some 46% of our profits came through recovering We consider this to be recognition for the hard work, the value in waste, compared with 16% ten years ago.
Over professionalism and commitment of all our employees.
the same period we have seen our profits grow at an average Viridors Chief Executive had the opportunity to experience rate of 20% per annum and our workforce from under 500 first-hand the creativity and energy of our workforce when to over 3,200.
This is a clear indication of the way in which he took part in Channel 4s Undercover Boss primetime embracing the environmental agenda has been an effective TV programme, which was broadcast in August 2010.
Our driver of growth: put simply, being green is good for business.
employees commitment to the company was apparent in the We are confident that this focus on recycling and renewable programme and showed the extent to which their ideas help energy will continue to drive long-term growth and value for develop our business and how they contributed to what was Viridor and its stakeholders.
another successful year for Viridor.
This highly significant shift in emphasis has involved a Strong financial performance major cultural change for our business.
For their essential The last financial year has shown another robust financial contribution to this change, we congratulate our management performance as we delivered revenues of 712.0 million and and employees who have continued to deliver organisational an operating profit including joint ventures of 82.6 million to and profit growth every year throughout this period of continue Viridors record of increasing its profit by an average significant evolution.
This was despite the fact that, as we had flagged to shareholders at the beginning of the During the financial year we continued, and further year, our profits from landfill gas power generation were lower emphasised, these twin themes of profit growth and cultural than in the previous year due to the ending of a contract in change.
It saw our company continue to grow through a which prices had been fixed at a historic market peak.
number of strategic, in-fill acquisitions in the recycling industry and through the returns from two highly significant recent The strength of our financial performance during 2010 11 was investment projects, the 25-year Greater Manchester Waste driven by our recycling businesses and the impact of our two PFI contract and the Lakeside Energy from Waste EfW plant.
major recent investments, the Greater Manchester Waste PFI and the Lakeside EfW plant.
In addition it was a year in which we continued to make major long-term investments in the future capabilities and strength Recycling of our business which will, on completion, deliver significant Recycling continued to grow well, both in volume reflecting additional growth in profits from 2014 onwards.
Since last both healthy organic and acquisition-driven growth and summer we have achieved planning permissions for four through continued strong prices for recycled materials.
The major EfW facilities at Cardiff, Dunbar, Ardley and Avonmouth prices we achieved for recyclates were the direct result of our the Secretary of States decision is subject to challenge on the investment in ensuring the highest possible quality of output.
These planning permissions underpin our strategic This strength is leading to beneficial long-term relationships momentum.
with customers via a global trading platform which also allows us to respond quickly to changes in market conditions.
During the year Viridors reputation as a progressive force in our sector was recognised, and further boosted, when we During the year, we saw the volumes of recyclate traded were named the Recycling and Waste Management Business increase to over 1.7 million tonnes, representing growth of the Year at the National Recycling Awards.
of 22% over the previous years total of 1.4 million tonnes.
Recycling collections vehicle, Bargeddie Materials Recycling Facility MRF 16 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Viridor Group Governance Financial statements KPI Renewable energy generation capacity MW as at 31 March 2011 136 2010 128 2009 101 2008 84 2007 75 136MW network.
The noticeably better value of high-quality recyclate, when compared to virgin materials, is increasingly making it the first choice for manufacturers across the world.
During the year these acquired businesses contributed a little over 100,000 tonnes of recyclate.
Strategically the shift to recycling is important to us due to the significantly higher profit we realise per tonne, compared with our landfill returns, which are reducing.
This gap will increasingly widen as the UK Government seeks to discourage further landfill through the application of an 8 year-on-year increase in tax on each tonne of waste sent to landfill.
This will raise landfill tax from its current level of 56 per tonne from 1 April 2011 to 80 per tonne by 1 April 2014.
This stance adopted by the Government strongly reinforces the long-term logic of our focus on recycling and energy recovery as the best methods for waste management which will also result in delivering enhanced value to investors.
Runcorn Energy from Waste Combined Heat Greater Manchester and Power Facility 2010 11 was the second year of operation of the 25-year artists impression currently under construction Greater Manchester Waste PFI contract, a joint venture which is the UKs largest-ever combined waste and renewable energy project.
We have now completed 31 of the 42 Of this growth the existing business contributed around collection, recycling and renewable energy facilities that 200,000 tonnes, an increase of 13%.
By the time the programme is complete, it will divert 75% of Greater Manchesters waste Growth was also driven by the acquisition of five privatelyfrom landfill and recycle or compost over 50%.
owned high-quality recycling businesses for a combined consideration of nearly 50 million, comprising seven A second major aspect of the Greater Manchester PFI Materials Recycling Facilities MRFs in East Anglia, the contract is the construction of a Combined Heat and Power Midlands, the North West and the South West of England.
CHP EfW plant, Runcorn Phase I, which is on schedule to These acquisitions reinforce our position as the UKs leading open towards the end of 2012 13.
During the year we also operator of MRFs, placing us at the forefront of a fast-growing commenced construction of Phase II of the Runcorn plant, business segment that continues to receive encouragement a Viridor project, which is targeted at the North West market from government at both UK and European levels.
When this comes on stream in 2014 15 the combined plant will have a total waste capacity of 750,000 The businesses were acquired for the significant operational tonnes per annum and a CHP capacity of 120MW making it synergies that their geographic locations and services offer one of the largest and most efficient plants in Europe.
The the company and for the additional capability to produce high plant will operate alongside the existing EfW facility at Bolton quality recyclate for sale through our international distribution Waste landlled m tonnes KPI Total waste handled m tonnes 2010 11 3.5 2010 11 8.3 2009 10 3.9 2009 10 7.8 3.5m tonnes 8.3m tonnes 136 136 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 17 Directors report Business review Viridor Another year of growth and investment continued KPI Profit before interest and tax PBIT plus joint ventures, profit before tax PBT and Return on equity 1 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 CAGR m m m m m m m m m m m 2010-11 PBIT plus joint ventures 13.1 14.9 17.6 20.2 28.6 34.3 45.0 57.3 63.7 77.0 82.6 20% PBT 11.7 13.5 14.2 14.7 20.1 21.9 27.6 34.2 39.9 55.1 62.9 18% Return on equity 2 investment 6.1% 7.0% 7.4% 7.5% 10.3% 10.6% 13.3% 16.5% 19.3% 18.7% 21.4% UK GAAP 1 Compound Annual Growth Rate, being the rate of growth between 2001 and 2011 expressed as a single annual average figure over the period 2 Return on equity investment is calculated as PBT expressed as a percentage of Pennon Groups equity investment in Viridor 294 million which has a generating capacity of 9MW of electricity through mentioned the prices we received in 2010 11 were lower than the use of 120,000 tonnes of waste as fuel.
in the previous year by some 9%.
This was due to the ending in March 2010 of a highly profitable electricity forward sale In Greater Manchester we have also received planning contract at prices that reflected values achieved at the peak permission to build four Anaerobic Digestion AD plants with of the market in May 2008.
We are confident that prices will a capacity of up to 8MW of electrical power.
The first plant firm up again in the years to come.
was fully commissioned just after the year-end and the others are under construction.
Renewable energy summary We believe that future growth in our power generation Lakeside volumes will be driven by our EfW and AD activities.
We This year saw us also make significant early returns on one currently have a total renewable electricity production capacity of our largest recent investment projects, the Lakeside EfW including landfill gas plants of 136MW.
With our current plant near Heathrow airport, which delivered its first full investment projects underway and our healthy pipeline of year of operation in 2010 11.
This important joint venture further PPP opportunities we are confident of growing our with Grundon Waste Management has the capacity to capacity to over 300MW in five years time.
We estimate that treat 410,000 tonnes of waste each year, with an electricity this will be around 0.5% of the UKs total electricity generation generation capacity of up to 37MW.
or between 3% and 4% of the countrys total renewable EfW prospects energy capacity at that time.
We also have a very strong pipeline of further opportunities in We have called upon the Government to set a target for 6% the EfW sector including a new PPP contract signed in March of the UKs total electricity production to be generated from 2011 with Oxfordshire County Council to build a new CHPwaste, by whatever technology, by 2015.
We regard this enabled plant at our site at Ardley, Oxfordshire.
This major target as being achievable, albeit challenging.
We believe it is project is expected to result in the capacity to treat 300,000 common sense, not just because of the need to divert waste tonnes of waste each year with an electricity generation from landfill and the positive implications for the UK of utilising capacity of 25MW.
As noted previously, the Secretary of its residual waste to generate energy, but also as a practical States decision to grant planning permission has been solution to increase the diversity of supply sources in a period appealed against by a local group.
of increasing uncertainty regarding future energy supplies.
Alongside a number of other potential sites for EfW and AD Other business sectors plants we already have planning permission in place for four Our landfill business has seen volumes decline in recent further EfW sites at Exeter, Cardiff, Dunbar and Avonmouth years as recycling has increased in the UK and the move the latter also subject to challenge that between them will be to generating energy from waste has gathered momentum, capable of annually treating over one million tonnes of waste which are positive offsetting trends for Viridor.
By the end of with a generation capacity of 103MW of electricity and heat.
the last financial year, our total landfill capacity was 69 million 3 Landfill gas power generation cubic metres, which is 8 million m less than we operated at In another aspect of our renewable energy operations, we also the end of 2009 10 and is in line with Viridors strategy to focus saw continued volume growth in our landfill gas and power its activities on recycling instead of landfill.
generation business which expanded its total operational Our collection services remain strong as we have targeted capacity by 8% to reach 108MW during the year.
As already controlled growth in industrial and commercial collection Profit contribution by segment 2010 11 Profit contribution by segment 2009 10 6 1 5 6 5 1 4 4 2 3 3 2 1.
JVs 4% 18 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Before central overhead costs, including pensions.
Viridor Group Governance Financial statements RIDDOR accident and incident rate KPI per 100,000 employees Calendar year 2010 2,165 2009 2,445 2008 1,505 2007 2,142 2006 1,818 2,165 Greater Manchester PFI contract Anaerobic Digestion Facility within areas which provide the right service and geographic We believe that Viridor is well placed to build further on synergies with other areas of our business, such as providing the successes that the approach of the Governments materials for our recycling and EfW operations.
policy regime for waste has enabled over the last 20 years, which has been highly encouraging and progressive.
These Key relationships successes include a 58% reduction in the amount of CO 2 All waste and recycling facilities in England and Wales require produced by the waste industry since 1990 the best of any environmental permits, or waste management licences or PPC sector in the UK, a six-fold growth in energy produced from permits in Scotland.
These are issued and monitored by the waste over the same period, and growth in municipal recycling Environment Agency and the Scottish Environment Protection from under 10% a decade ago to over 40% today.
Viridor maintains a positive working relationship with the regulators via proactive liaison and issues These are outstanding achievements, driven by a regulatory management, at both a site specific and strategic level.
environment in which Viridor has been able to take an action-orientated, entrepreneurial approach to environmental Local authorities are the largest single customer group issues proving that being green is good for business.
As we accounting in total for 34% of the companys revenue.
No target further growth, particularly in our recycling and EfW individual authority accounts for more than 11%.
Viridors businesses, we believe it is important that the current lightROC contracts account for 6% of revenue primarily with one touch, market-friendly approach is maintained to give us the customer.
No supplier accounts for more than 3% of Viridors operational freedoms we need for the benefit of our clients, revenue.
The company sources from competitive markets.
for the environment at large and for our investors.
Our employees Looking ahead we intend to continue our current strategy of The success of Viridors continued expansion and working hard to deliver what local and national government development is as a direct result of its professional and are seeking to achieve from recycling and waste management.
motivated workforce: these attributes are embedded in Our profit profile in the next couple of years is likely to be our Mission Statement.
We ensure that every support and driven by our recycling operations.
Our healthy list of EfW and protection is afforded to our employees through robust PPP prospects underpins our medium-term profit momentum.
health and safety systems: and timely and focused training and personal development opportunities through our highly In the long-term we are confident of continuing to deliver trained staff who provide support, guidance and advice to strong growth in shareholder value through continuing to all our employees.
New employees joining us via acquisitions lead the way in exploiting opportunities arising from the receive particular attention to ensure that they are quickly Governments landfill diversion, recycling and renewable and effectively assimilated into Viridor to ensure their health, energy targets.
safety and welfare and to allow them to contribute to the companys continued success.
We are justifiably proud of our employees achievements.
Looking ahead We await with interest the Governments forthcoming waste policy review and believe strongly that the current marketfriendly approach to recycling and generating energy from waste should be actively encouraged.
Far left: Bredbury resource recovery centre, Stockport Left: Household Waste Recycling Centre HWRC, Salford Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 19
