OVERVIEW Growth strategy: Pursue complementary 5 strategic acquisitions Case Study Perform acquires worlds largest football portal Goal.
com In February 2011, the Group made a major strategic Post acquisition the Group implemented the following investment in the direct-to-consumer digital sports changes with the target of the business being profitable market, by acquiring Goal.
com, the worlds largest within six months: football portal for $30m.
Integrated the advertising sales function into theGroup's Founded in 2005 and with a network of over 400 editorial existing sales teams in UK, USA, France, Italy, Germany, contributors, producing 600,000, stories each year, in 15 SpainandAustralia: languages and 27 editions, Goal.
com had built a significant Embedded the ePlayer across the site: global user base averaging 16 million monthly unique users Removed the standalone senior management team: in 2010.
Migrated the technology function from US to Katowice, Poland: Despite this scale, Goal.
com was loss-making with poor user Migrated the site onto the Group's data centre: and monetisation due to a lack of sales resource to represent the Launched a weekly Goal TV show.
media in keymarkets, the significant standalone costs of its US-based management and technology teams and the cost of This target was delivered and in addition, key performance operating a large-scale technical platform for a single website.
In 2011, average monthly users were 51 per cent greater than in 2010, despite Strategically the Group's management considered the there not being aFIFAWorldCup.
acquisition to be a unique opportunity to acquire the biggest and best global digital football brand, and to utilise the For 2012, the strategy for Goal.
com includes: the roll-out of quality editorial, VOD content already owned by the Group a number of new territory editions, launch of a range of new to drive user growth and to improve the monetisation of smartphone and connected TV variants and improvement the site.
of the live score and football data elements ofthesite.
18 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 OVERVIEW BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW Good progress was made in 2011, with 24m Perform completing the acquisition of the remaining non-controlling interests in both The average monthly number of GSM and Watch&Trade.
In December 2011 web unique users on Goal.
com the Group acquired two related German in 2011 digital sports media businesses.
Key deal highlights included: Acquisition of one of Germany's leading independent sports websites Spox.
com: Acquisition of an experienced management team who will assume responsibility for the monetisation of Goal.
com and ePlayer in Germany: and Acquisition of the largest independent 275m The Group outlined the following key digital sports advertising sales agency pillars to its acquisition strategy at IPO in Germany, mediasports Digital.
The average monthly number and this strategy remains in place: of impressions on the Goal.
com In 2012, Perform will continue to deploy website in 2011 Local Champions: single territory the primary proceeds raised at IPO.
versions of Perform, typically with local The Group plans to make a number of user traffic, advertising sales capability acquisitions which will continue to increase and a range of technology and content its revenue and EBITDA and expands its distribution clients.
capabilities and geographical reach in order to consolidate its position as the Direct-to-Consumer: global sports global leader in digital sports media.
portals businesses similar to Goal.
com but in sports other than football.
Complementary Products: digital sports products such as sports data, social 2.5m gaming and fantasy.
Number of social followers of Goal.
com on twitter and facebook Goal.
com is available across all major mobile operating platforms 9% Percentage of Goal.
coms visits driven byfacebook Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 19 S C R O E N M N U E S C N T O T C O A BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Overview The Group is the market leader in the commercialisation of multimedia sports content across a variety of digital platforms Content distribution Technology Advertising & & production sponsorship Subscription 20 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 S I D P E O M R T S S T F R A O N P S S OVERVIEW BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Overview Advances in broadband technology, the mass adoption of internet-enabled 11,376 The Group owns digital sports rights devices by consumers and continued through contracts relating to more than innovation in the digital sports rights and In 2011, the Group: live streamed 11,376 200 sports leagues, tournaments and online gambling industries have provided sporting events for its Watch&Bet events.
Utilising its rights portfolio, the the Group with greater opportunities to customers 2010: 8,129 Group creates a range of products, monetise its digital sports content.
The combining sports video, editorial and Groups multiple platform distribution data content that are distributed direct model, multiple revenue streams and to consumers and to business clients.
global distribution capabilities mean that In2011, the Group: live streamed 11,376 the Group is very well placed to drive sporting events for its Watch&Bet value from its portfolio of content.
customers: managed over 100 internet delivered video subscription products on 130m behalf of third-parties: and managed and produced services and products that had In 2011, the Group managed and a combined reach of more than 130m produced services and products average monthly unique users globally.
that had a combined reach of more than 130m average monthly The Group is a partner to hundreds unique users globally ofbusinesses globally, including sports bodies, rights agencies, broadcasters, bookmakers, publishers and media agencies.
The Group had over 640 employees at 31 December 2011, is headquartered in the United Kingdom, and has regional offices in the United States, Singapore, India, Japan, 129% Spain, Italy, Poland, France, Australia, New Zealand, Norway, Germany and Year on year advertising and the Netherlands.
sponsorship video revenue growth 2010: 19% 3.6bn ePlayer total video on demand streams viewed during the year 2010: 1.1 billion Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 21
