"OVERVIEW BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE Directors' Report The Directors present their Annual Report together with the audited financial statements for the year to 31 December 2011. Business Review Perform Group plc is required to set out in this report a fair review of the business of the Group during the year to 31 December 2011 and ofthe position of the Group at the end of the financial year and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group known as a ""Business Review""."
The purpose of the Business Review is to enable shareholders to assess how the Directors have performed their duty under section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 duty to promote the success of the Company.
The Overview and Business and Financial Review sections on pages 1 to 33 report on the activities and results for the year and give an indication of the Company's future developments.
The sections of the Annual Report referred to above, fulfil the requirements of the Business Review and are incorporated by reference and shall be deemed to form part of this report.
Principal Activities The Company's principal activity during the year was that of the holding Company of a group of digital media companies.
The Group isthemarket leader in the commercialisation of multimedia sports content across a variety of digital platforms.
Revenue and profit Revenue during the year amounted to 103.2m 2010: 67.4m.
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent was 3.1m 2010: 9.1m.
Dividends The Directors do not recommend that a final dividend is paid 2010: nil.
No interim dividend 2010: nil was paid.
Directors The names and biographical details of the Directors holding office at the date of this report are set out on pages 34 and 35 and are incorporated by reference into this report.
At the Annual General Meeting on 17 April 2012, all Directors will retire in accordance with the Articles of Association and, being eligible, willoffer themselves for re-election.
The separate circular to shareholders incorporating the Notice of this year's Annual General Meeting sets out why the Board believes these Directors should be re-elected.
Details of the Directors' service agreements and letters ofappointment are given in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 48 to 50.
Directors' share interests Directors' holdings at 31 December 2011 in the shares of the Company are shown on page 50.
Therewere no changes to the beneficial interests of the Directors between 31 December 2011 and 28 February 2012.
Directors' insurance and indemnities The Company maintains Directors' and officers' liability insurance which gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its Directors.
In accordance with section 236 of the Companies Act 2006, qualifying third-party indemnity provisions are in place for the Directors and Company Secretary in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office, to the extent permitted by law.
Share capital Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with details of movements in the issued share capital of Perform Group plc areshown in note 25 to the financial statements which is incorporated by reference and deemed to be part of this report.
On 18 March 2011 the Company re-registered from a private limited company to a public limited company.
Following a resolution of the Company passed on 7 April 2011 which took effect immediately prior to the Listing of the Company's securities onthe main market of the London Stock Exchange: each of the Company's A Ordinary Shares were subdivided, reclassified and redesignated as 36 new Ordinary Shares: each of the Company's B Ordinary Shares were subdivided, reclassified and redesignated as 36 new Ordinary Shares: each holding of the existing Preference Shares were consolidated into one preference share: these Preference Shares were subdivided, reclassified and redesignated into, in aggregate, 21,132,432 new Ordinary Shares and 1,380,354,048 deferred shares of 2 and 7 9ths pence each in the capital of the Company: and the Company allotted a further 28.0m Ordinary Shares of 2 and 7 9ths pence each.
Following the share re-organisation and Listing the Company's share capital comprised 225,376,072 new Ordinary Shares of 2 and 7 9thspence.
The Company received proceeds, net of bank fees and costs, of 69.7m gross primary proceeds were 72.5m.
On 21 June 2011 the Company cancelled, at no cost, all of the deferred shares created on Listing.
The deferred shares did not entitle the holders to any dividends or distribution and were only able to be transferred by the Company.
A capital redemption reserve of 38.3m wascreated asaresult.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 39 GOVERNANCE Directors' Report continued As at 31 December 2011, the Company had 225,376,072 Ordinary Shares in issue.
The Company does not hold any treasury shares.
The Company will be subject to the continuing obligations contained in the Listing Rules with regard to the issue of Ordinary Shares forcash.
"The provisions of section 561 1 of the Companies Act 2006 the ""Act"" which confer on shareholders rights of pre-emption inrespect of the allotment of equity securities which are, or are to be, paid up in cash other than by way of allotment to employees under andemployees' share scheme as defined in section 1166 of the Act apply to the issue of shares in the capital of the Company except totheextent that such provisions were disapplied as set out in the Company's Prospectus."
The Company may by ordinary resolution increase, consolidate, or subject to the Act, sub-divide its share capital.
The Company may byordinary resolution also cancel any shares which, at the date of the passing of the resolution, have not been taken or agreed to be taken by any person and diminish the amount of its authorised share capital by the amount of the shares so cancelled.
Subject to the provisions ofthe Act, theCompany may by special resolution reduce its share capital, capital redemption reserve and share premium account inanyway.
Subject to the Act and without prejudice to any relevant special rights attached to any class of shares, the Company may purchase anyofitsown shares.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the Corporate Governance Code 2010, theCompanies Act 2006 and related legislation.
The Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
Substantial shareholdings As at 31 January 2011, the Company had been notified under Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following major interests inits issued ordinary share capital: Number of Ordinary Shares % of total voting rights Premium TV Group 101,865,876 45.20 Simon Denyer 27,518,088 12.21 John Gleasure 12,121,342 5.38 Legal and General Investment Management 8,038,367 3.57 Baillie Gifford & Co 7,336,207 3.26 Interests in own shares The Company does not hold any of its own shares.
Charitable donations During the year to 31 December 2011 the Group donated 10,000 to charitable causes including Save The Children, John Hartson's Foundation, Roger Federer's Foundation and Urdd Sports Department, who organise sporting activities for children all over Wales.
Political donations The Company made no political donations during the year.
Employment policies Equal opportunities The Group's policy is always to ensure that all persons are treated fairly irrespective of their age, race including colour, nationality, ethnic or national origins, sexual orientation, disability, gender including gender reassignment, religious beliefs or political opinion, trade union membership or non-membership, marital and physical or mental status or any other factors including pregnancy and maternity.
The Group endeavours to provide those who have physical or mental disabilities with equal opportunities in the application and recruitment process, and specific assistance and arrangements including training, career development and promotion arrangements to enable them towork foruswherever and whenever this is reasonably practicable.
Health and Safety The Group is committed to providing a consistently safe and effective working environment for all staff, including contractors, customers andmembers of the public.
In doing so it will, as a minimum, comply with local health and safety legislation, but will exceed those requirements should it be necessary to do so.
The Group has a Health and Safety Policy available to all employees and applied to the Group's business operations worldwide.
The Health and Safety Policy sets out the organisation and arrangements for achieving and maintaining adequate standards of health and safety at work throughout the Group.
40 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 OVERVIEW BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE Overall Group health and safety is the responsibility of the Chief Operating Officer.
Each Executive member of the Group Board isresponsible for giving appropriate consideration to the health and safety implications arising out of decisions or proposals made withintheremit of their respective areas of corporate responsibility.
For subsidiary companies health and safety is the responsibility of the Managing Directors who will establish appropriate and effective systems and arrangements to ensure compliance and to achieve the corporate objectives.
All employees are expected to exercise personal responsibility in preventing injury to themselves and others and to co-operate with management in complying with health and safety legislation.
Employee Involvement Employee communication The Group believes that employee communication is important in building strong relationships with, and in motivating and retaining, employees.
The Group makes use of various methods and channels including face to face briefings, open discussion forums with senior management, email and corporate internet to ensure that matters of interest and importance are conveyed to and heard from employees quickly andeffectively and that all employees are aware of the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of the Company.
Employee share schemes The Group recognises the importance of good relationships with employees of all levels.
During the year the Group implemented aPerformance Share Plan for senior management.
Further details of this scheme are set out in note 26 to the financial statements.
TheGroup intends to implement a Company Share Option Plan and a Sharesave Scheme in 2012.
"In March 2010, the Group put in place a Growth Securities Ownership Plan ""GSOP"" under which certain key non-shareholding employees were given the opportunity to purchase a financial instrument which tracked the Company's market capitalisation for a period ending in April2012 being one year after the Group's admission to the London Stock Exchange."
Further details of this scheme are set out in note 26 to the financialstatements.
Environmental policy During the year the Group recycled 16,040kg 2010: 8,270 kg of paper which equated to CO savings of 22,830kg 2010: 11,710 kg, 2 withrecycling per employee of 4.1kg week 2010: 2.1kg week.
The Group is currently working with Carbon Smart to: measure environmental impacts to report performance internally, benchmark the organisation and target improvements based ona realistic baseline: receive support in developing and implementing practical low or no cost actions for improving environmental performance: and assistance in engaging staff to ensure that improved environmental performance becomes part of the everyday work environment.
Financial Instruments The Group's financial risk management objectives and policies are set out within note 22 to the financial statements.
Note 22 alsodetails the Group's exposure to foreign exchange, interest, credit and liquidity risks.
These notes are incorporated by reference andare deemed toform part of this report.
Creditor payment policy For all trade creditors, it is policy to: agree and confirm the terms of payment at the commencement of business with that supplier: pay in accordance with contractual and other legal obligations: and continually review the payment procedures and liaise with suppliers as a means of eliminating difficulties and maintaining a good workingrelationship.
The Company's trade creditors at 31 December 2011 were 277,000 2010: 70,000.
"Significant contracts change of control In the event of a change of control awards made under the Group's Performance Plan ""Award"" will vest."
Unless otherwise determined by the Remuneration Committee, the proportion of an Award which vests shall be calculated by reference to the achievement of performance conditions at the date of the corporate event, reduced pro rata to take account of the period from the date of Award to that event.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee may take into account other factors, including but not limited to, the performance of the Company, and the interests of Shareholders.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 41 GOVERNANCE Directors' Report continued Alternatively, in the above circumstances, the Remuneration Committee may permit or require Awards to be exchanged for new awards ofshares in the acquiring Company on a comparable basis.
Essential contracts The Group has a number of contractual arrangements with suppliers of goods and services, including a variety of content rights-holders.
Whilstthese arrangements are important to the Group, individually none are them are essential to the business of the Group.
Auditors In accordance with section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006, each of the Company's Directors in office as at the date of this report confirmsthat: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company's auditors are unaware: and he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant auditinformation and to establish that the Company's auditors are aware of that information.
The Group's auditors are Grant Thornton UK LLP.
A resolution to re-appoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as auditors to the Company willbeproposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Note 4 in the financial statements states the auditors' fees for both audit and non-audit work.
Going Concern The Group's business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position and set out inthe Overview and Business and Financial Review sections on pages 1 to 33, along with details of the Group's cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities.
Financial risk management objectives, details of financial instruments and hedging activities, and exposures to credit risk and liquidity are described in note 22 to the financial statements.
The Directors have reviewed the Group's forecasts and projections.
These include the assumptions around the Group's products and markets, expenditure commitments and expected cash flows.
Taking into account reasonably possible changes in trading performance, and after making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly they consider it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the Company's offices at Hanover House, Plane Tree Crescent, Feltham, TW137JJ commencing at midday on Tuesday 17 April 2012.
The Notice of this year's Annual General Meeting is included in the separate circular to shareholders.
"The Notice is available to view under the ""Investors"" section of the Company's website www."
By order of the Board David Surtees Company Secretary Registered Office: Sussex House Plane Tree Crescent Feltham TW13 7HE Registered number: 6324278 42 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
