B BU US SI IN NE ES SS S A AN ND D F FI IN NA AN NC CI IA AL L R RE EV VI IE EW W Technology & production Chelseafc.
com winner of the The Group generates technology and The Group is now contracted to manage Best Club Team website in the production revenues from: the design, over 100 websites and mobile services Ultimate Digital Sports Awards build and management of websites, on behalf of third parties and has mobile services and products e. g. for the contracts with over 50 clients.
Key clients Football League Interactive : the ingest, are primarily football clubs and leagues, encoding, scheduling and streaming of rights holders and broadcasters.
During live video content e. g. for Fox Sports 2011, Perform won some significant new and the Abu Dhabi Media Company : the international contracts including the ingest, encoding and distribution of VOD Norwegian Professional Football League content e. g. for Premier League : and the and Al Jazeera Sport and entered a new filming and production of live and noncommercial partnership with Football live content e. g. for Premiership Rugby.
Revenues grew strongly in the year through the start of a number of new production services contracts and the development and delivery of numerous mobile applications.
2 28 8 P Pe er rf fo or rm m G Gr ro ou up p p pllc c A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 11 1 O OV five ER RV VI IE EW W B BU US SI IN NE ES SS S A AN ND D F FI IN NA AN NC CI IA AL L R RE EV VI IE EW W G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC CE E F FI IN NA AN NC CI IA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM ME EN NT TS S B BU US SI IN NE ES SS S A AN ND D F FI IN NA AN NC CI IA AL L R RE EV VI IE EW W Year ended Year ended Technology & production 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 Revenue m 15.0 11.7 28% Year on year revenue growth % 28 33 Percentage of overall revenues % 15 17 Year on year revenue growth 2010: 33% For Al Jazeera Sport the sports division in Norway and a network of mobile of broadcaster Al Jazeera the Group websites and applications for a variety built and operates the world's most of mobile operating platforms including 47 advanced live sport streaming service iOS and Android.
This will ensure an aljazeerasport.
tv which makes available innovative and flexible platform for Number of mobile apps over internet and mobile all 16 Al Jazeera the clubs and provide an engaging launched 2010:25 Sports television channels and other and content-rich, digital experience for live sports events.
Al Jazeera Sport is Norwegian football fans.
the largest holder ofsports rights in the MENA region with access to some of the During 2011, the Group co-produced leading global sports properties including ITVs Ashes highlights show and FIFA World Cup, UEFA Euro 2012, UEFA produced for the Rugby Football Union, 81 Champions League, UEFA Europa the O2 Inside Line, a weekly, online, League, La Liga, Serie A, Ligue 1, NBA, magazine programme.
In addition, Number of products launched ATP and WTA.
the Group filmed and produced 60 2010: 40 Premiership Rugby games, the 2011 The deal with Norway's Professional International Paralympic Committee Football League involves the European Swimming Championships design, build, management and inGermany and filmed and produced commercialisation of 32 club websites all tournaments for the Professional including video and audio players, SquashAssociation.
22.5m acentral portal for the top two leagues Number of average monthly unique users on third-party websites internet and mobile 2010: 19.3m P Pe er rf fo or rm m G Gr ro ou up p p pllc c A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 11 1 2 29 9
