OVERVIEW Growth strategy: Expand across new 3 digitalplatforms Case Study Al Jazeera Sport selects Perform to power its multiplatform digital broadcast service In 2011, Al Jazeera Sport, one of the worlds leading sports broadcasters, selected Perform to design, build and operate its exciting new digital broadcast product On November 1 2011, to celebrate its 10th anniversary as a sports The delivery and optimisation of Performs broadcaster, Al Jazeera Sport launched www.
tv B2B and B2C products on connected across Web TV and a range of smartphone devices.
On each platforms and devices is a key part platform, Al Jazeera Sport offers users two free global sports of the Group's strategy, ensuring end channels and subscribers in the Middle East and North Africa a consumers receive the best possible further 14 live sports channels, together with a significant library service and maximising the revenue of video on demand sports content.
The results have been outstanding.
The applications had achieved 2011 saw the emergence of competing no.
1 status in the sports category in the Apple App Store in over smartphone platforms to the iPhone, 20territories.
such as Android, and a range of quality tablet devices.
Reacting to these new The Group provides the end-to-end production and technology trends, the Group has launched a range platform, and supports Al Jazeera Sport's drive to grow of products optimised for new mobile subscriptions for these products.
Highlightsinclude: In 2012, the Group will continue to roll out Al Jazeera Sport on an array of new smartphone and connected TV platforms to keep pace with the exciting technological developments in the delivery of video content to connected consumer devices and platforms.
14 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 OVERVIEW BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW 87m Number of Android tablet sales projected by 2015 McQueen 40% Current penetration of smartphones in USA Neilsen 166% Launch of Goal.
com on iPhone, The Group's platform development strategy iPad, Android, RIM, Nokia OVI for 2012 will include launching its own Unit growth of iPad sales andWindows Phone: consumer products LIVESPORT.
com and arange of B2B Launch of www.
com on and third-party consumer products on a iPad, iPhone and Android: range of connected TV platforms.
This will extend the Group's reach to the living Launch of www.
com oniPad, room, openingupnew revenue and iPhone: and opportunities and delivering the Group's products whenever and wherever its Launch of Watch&Bet as an iOS and customers want them.
In 2012, the Group believes connected TV platforms will become mass 153m consumer products and the Group is ideally positioned to benefit as original Estimated number of smart TV equipment manufacturers seek to unit shipments globally in 2015 differentiate their services by partnering Reportlinker.
com with digital content businesses to create quality consumer applications.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 15
