GOVERNANCE Board of Directors 1 Paul Walker 3 Oliver Slipper 5 Peter Williams Non-Executive Chairman Joint Chief Executive Officer Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Paul Walker was appointed to the Board Oliver Slipper was appointed to the in January 2011 as the Companys NonBoard in August 2007.
He was the chief Peter Williams was appointed to the Executive Chairman.
Paul served as chief executive officer of Premium TV until Board in March 2011.
Peter was finance executive officer of The Sage Group its amalgamation with Inform Group in director of Daily Mail and General Plc from 1994 to September 2010.
Oliver joined Trustplc DMGT from 1991 until March has been a non-executive director of Premium TV in 2001 as commercial 2011.
He joined the DMGT group in 1982, Experian plc since June 2010 and a manager.
In 2005, Oliver was appointed having previously qualified as a chartered non-executive director of Diageo Plc chief executive officer.
Prior to Premium accountant with Thomson McLintock and since June 2002.
He is currently chair of TV, Oliver worked at Accenture within the worked for three years as an accountant the Newcastle Science City Partnership media and entertainment team, where with Grindlays Bank.
During his time with and is a director of the Entrepreneurs he worked for clients including Cable DMGT, he served as a non-executive Forum.
Paul previously served as a non- & Wireless, NTL and Sony Playstation director of Bristol Evening Post plc, GWR executive director ofMyTravel Group advising on digital strategies.
Oliver holds Group plc subsequently Gcap Media plc Plc from December 2000 to December a BA Hons in Classical Studies from and Euromoney Institutional Investor plc.
Paul qualified as a chartered Manchester University.
He has also served as a non-executive accountant at Ernst & Young, having director of Ibis Media VCT1 plc since graduated from York University with 4 David Surtees 2006 and was chairman of a committee aneconomics degree.
Chief Financial Officer of the 100 Group of FTSE 100 Finance Directors between 2008 and 2010.
2 Simon Denyer David Surtees was appointed to the Joint Chief Executive Officer Board in March 2011.
David joined 6 Marc Brown the Company at the start of 2008 Independent Non-Executive Director Simon Denyer was appointed to the from Shine, one of the UKs leading Board in September 2007.
The founder independent television producers, Marc Brown was appointed to the Board of Inform Group in 2004, Simon was its where he had been chief financial officer in March 2011.
Marc has been a member managing director until its amalgamation since April 2002.
Prior to Shine, David of Microsofts Corporate Development with Premium TV in 2007 to create worked at Carlton Productions for two Group since joining the company in Perform.
Prior to Inform Group, Simon was years and the BBC for six years.
Currently he is a General head of digital rights at IMG, sales director qualified as a chartered accountant Manager, Corporate Development and at Sportal and started his career in sports with Price Waterhouse in 1993.
David Global Head of M&A and Strategic media at Haymarket Publishing.
He has holds a BSc Hons in Geography from Investments.
Prior to joining Microsoft, worked with major sports rights holders in BristolUniversity.
Marc practised corporate law at a firm the exploitation of their digital media rights in Boston, was a high school teacher for the past 12 years.
Simon holds a BA and coach and an investment banker Hons in Economics and Geography from inNew York.
He holds a JD degree from Loughborough University.
Georgetown University Law Center, an MBA in finance from New York University and a bachelor of arts in economics from Colgate University.
34 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 OVERVIEW BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 1 2 7 Jrg Mohaupt Non-Executive Director Jrg Mohaupt was appointed to the Board when Access Industries acquired 3 4 a majority stake in the Company in July 2007.
Jrg is responsible for the media online and telecom businesses at Access Industries, which he joined in May 2007.
He was previously a managing director of Providence Equity Partners.
Jrg has been active in the media and communications space since 1992.
Jrgs current board positions include Tory Burch LLC, Rebate Networks GmbH, AINMT Holdings AB, RGE Group Limited, Icon UK Distribution Holdings Limited and Mendeley Research Networks.
Prior board positions include Digiturk, Casema 5 6 NV, Comhem AB, Bibit BV, VersaTel Telecom NV and Speedera Networks Inc. 8 Peter Parmenter Independent Non-Executive Director Peter Parmenter was appointed to the Board in December 2011.
Peter is Head of New Platforms and OEM at EA Interactive, a division of Electronic Arts, a global leader in digital interactive entertainment.
Prior to joining EA, Peter held positions at EMI Records, Hutchison Telecoms and the Bertelsmann 7 8 Group.
Peter is vice-chair of the Mobile Entertainment Forum.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 35
