Board of Directors Chairman and Executive Directors Nicholas Wrigley Chairman age 56 Date of appointment Appointed to the Board on 1 February 2006 and as Chairman ofthe Board on21April 2011.
Committee membership Chairman of the Nomination Committee and member of the Remuneration Committee.
Experience Nicholas Wrigley is an Executive Vice Chairman of Rothschild London.
He has over 25years mergers and acquisitions experience atRothschild andis a qualied accountant.
MCIOB FRICS Group Chief Executive age 58 Date of appointment 1 January 1989.
Committee membership Chairman of the Risk Committee.
Experience Mike Farley was appointed Group Chief Executive in April 2006.
He joined Persimmon in 1983 and was responsible for establishing Persimmon Homes Wessex and for developing the Groups operating businesses in the Midlands, before becoming Chief Executive ofthe South Division.
Mike is a member of the Chartered Institute of Building.
ACA Group Finance Director age 50 Date of appointment 4 January 1999.
Committee membership Member of the Risk Committee.
Experience Mike Killoran joined the Company in 1996.
A chartered accountant by profession, Mike worked in manufacturing, distribution and retail sectors before joining the Group.
He took over his present role in April 1999.
Jeff Fairburn Group Managing Director and North Division Chief Executive age 45 Date of appointment 1 June 2009.
Experience Jeff Fairburn joined the Group in 1989.
He was promoted to Managing Director of the Groups North East operating business in 2000 and became North East Regional Chairman in 2005, before assuming the role of North Division Chief Executive in 2006.
In January 2012 he was appointed Group Managing Director with responsibility for Group operational functions and the Groups strategic landbank.
Persimmon Plc 30 Annual Report December 2011 Overview Strategy and KPIs Performance Governance Financials Other information Board of Directors continued Non-executive Directors David Thompson Senior Independent Director age 57 Date of appointment 10 August 1999.
Committee membership Member of the Nomination Committee.
Experience David Thompson is Chairman of Marstons Plc and Chief Executive of Anglia Maltings Holdings Limited.
He is also anon-executive Director of Caledonia Investments Plc.
Richard Pennycook Non-executive Director age 48 Date of appointment 14 March 2008.
Committee membership Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Nomination Committee.
Experience A Chartered Accountant and graduate of Bristol University, he has been the Group Finance Director of Wm Morrison Supermarkets Plc since 2005.
Previous roles include GroupFinance Director of RAC Plc, Finance Director of JDWetherspoon Plc, CEO of Welcome Break Holdings Plc andnon-executive Director of Richer Sounds Plc.
Neil Davidson CBE Non-executive Director age 61 Date of appointment 19 January 2004.
Committee membership Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee and a member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Experience Neil Davidson is Chairman of The Cricketer Publishing Limited and Eminate, a Nottingham University spin-out business, specialising in nano-technology.
He is also a director of Competition Law Process Management.
He was previously Chief Executive of Arla Foods UK Plc until he retired in June 2005.
Jonathan Davie Non-executive Director age 65 Date of appointment 1 January 2010.
Committee membership Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and member oftheAudit Committee.
Experience Jonathan Davie is a non-executive Chairman of IG Group Holdings Plc and First Avenue LLP.
Mr Davies previous roles include Vice Chairman of Credit Suisse, CEO of BZW Global Equities and non-executive Director of Credit Suisse UKPrivate Bank.
Mark Preston Non-executive Director age 44 Date of appointment 9 January 2012.
Committee membership Member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Experience Mark Preston, a chartered surveyor, is the Group Chief Executive of Grosvenor Group Limited, an appointment he took up in 2008.
Heisa non-executive Director of Sonae Sierra SGPS.
He is also a board member of The Association of Foreign Investors in Real Estate, a Member of the University of Cambridge Land Economy Advisory Board and a Member of the Eurohypo International Advisory Board.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2011 31
