Overview Strategy and KPIs Performance Governance Financials Other information Our Strategic Priorities Our objective is to deliver our Capital Return Plan to shareholders by building a range of sustainable homes across the UK and selling to both the private market and housing associations.
Ourstrategic priorities are set out below.
Continue to control Our divisional structure We continue to review We have a very strong We maintain efficient Improving development costs is designed toutilise our our business processes and diverse supply operations by utilising local market expertise.
tocontrol costs and chain and we ensure standardised materials margins Re-plan existing sites Our business requires rebuild our operating we are not dependent available from a Acquisition of new land in depth knowledge of margin.
Wehave on a single supplier or variety of sources at attractive prices local markets in order to dual branded our subcontractor for the andsuppliers, thereby engage subcontractors, regional housebuilding construction of our lowering our build Conversion of strategic plan sites in accordance operations with both newhomes.
We continue land at enhanced with local demand, Persimmon Homes to re-plan our existing margins anticipate customer and Charles Church sites to maximise sales Maximise sale prices taste and to assess the brands tocapture best opportunities.
working practices and economies of scale.
See profit measures on page 16 Increased southern We reduce our We acquire new sites We will acquire new We will undertake Selective exposure exposure to local in locations where our land atattractive prices selective new site market volatility by market experience from thepromotion of startsclosely controlling new site More traditional site maintaining operations confirms good levels our strategiclandbank our working capital layouts across markets of customer demand and selectively acquire expenditure to ensure acquisitions Appropriate product throughout the UK fornew homes.
land thatwilldeliver that we have the right mix to enhance our sales enhanced margins in product availability potential.
inthe right locations across the UK.
See Landbank on page 17 Improve the energy In order to meet Space4s new Space4 will continue to Build efficiency of our homes increasing sustainability Eco-housing range work closely with our and reduce running requirements forour will reduce costs and social housing division, sustainable costs new homes and improve the energy Westbury Partnerships, improved operational efficiency of our homes.
to supply affordable, homes Use modern methods efficiency, we will The strategy of using sustainable, energy of construction to continue to invest in modern methods efficient new homes support site production our closed panel timber of construction will into the public sector rates and overcome frame manufacturing continue to support site housing market.
any potential labour facility at Space4.
production rates and shortages overcome any potential Invest in Space4 labour shortages.
See Waste generated per home sold on page 17 Appropriate capital The housing market Our current landbank We consider that a The planned Continue to structure continues to be represents over six landbank equivalent optimisation of our constrained by the lack years supply.
Our of c. five years supply landbank will take focus on cash Capital discipline of mortgage availability strategy is to continue would align our account of the new Deliver returns to which affects housing to optimise the scale of landbank with expected National Planning Policy generation shareholders demand throughout the our landbank to a size future customer Framework and will country.
Ourstrategy that supports the level demand for our homes.
improve our return on Reduce finance costs of cashgeneration, of trading achievable capital employed.
Good exibility will continue to within the current maintain liquidity and market.
an appropriate capital structure for our balance sheet.
See Cash and cash ow measures on page 17 Continued management The health and safety Our Board sets We work closely Health training of our employees, objectives and with the Health and subcontractors, targets and our Safety Executive and and Safety Continue to improve customers and visitors health and safety the Home Builders safety culture toour sites remains a department oversees Federation to ensure Maintain a high level of key priority for us.
implementation and compliance with best compliance with health performance by all our practice and legislative and safety standards operating businesses.
See RIDDORS on page 16 Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2011 9
