Petrofac 14 Annual report and accounts 2011 Vision and values Our clear vision and distinct culture help to differentiate us Ayman Asfari Group Chief Executive and organisation.
For us, vision Petrofac has always had must always be aligned with strategy, a clear vision and strategy.
and performance and values are In 2011, as we began our inextricably linked.
fourth decade, we brought further focus to our future Petrofac is successful because of the values our people represent direction.
They are part of what We re-articulated our vision to be the differentiates us along with such factors worlds most admired oileld service as our commitment to developing local company and restated the strategy that workforces and the breadth of our will help us achieve that vision, focusing capabilities, our robust approach to on continued geographic expansion, the riskmanagement, and the exible development of our offshore business commercial models that we adopt to and the growth of our integrated meet individual customer needs.
Our values have been part of our DNA We also restated our core values, for many years and are as important ofbeing safe, ethical, innovative, today as they were when we were responsive, quality and cost conscious a small, privately-owned company.
and driven to deliver, which are essential Theyprovide each of us, whatever our to our strategy: unveiled a new role and seniority, with the inspiration two-divisional structure and announced togo the extra mile for our customers.
a target of more than doubling our 2010 By keeping our values alive in our recurring Group earnings by 2015. current global team and cultivating themin the thousands of people It is indicative of our distinctive culture we arenow recruiting, we will continue that we worked on our vision and values toprogress on our growth journey.
at the same time as tackling the more commercial points of earnings, strategy Performance highlights Petrofac Our services and business model Annual report and accounts 2011 15 Chairmans statement Interview with the Group Chief Executive Leadership team Vision and values Creating sustainable growth Engineering, Construction, Operations & Maintenance Integrated Energy Services 22 41 50 65 107 153 Delivering significant efficiencies on equipment procurement for an Abu Dhabi project while maintaining quality, and reducing landll waste by 80% with a landmark recycling project were just two ofthe achievements celebrated at our rstEVE Awards ceremony.
Many other initiatives also won plaudits, including a model project that completed two months ahead of schedule and delivered ten million man-hours without lost time incident, and a drive to build staff engagement around critical safety activity.
The awards recognised employees who embody Petrofacs values-based culture, with, for example, the Abu Dhabi project illustrating our value of being cost conscious and the recycling scheme demonstrating our commitment to ethical behaviour.
The 17 shortlisted applications came from many different functions and business areas and were drawn from scores of entries around the Group.
The winners collected their awards at our leadership conference in Abu Dhabi, in November.
Overview ReRi view off operattions i Financial Fina Financia nciall performance and risk Corpora Corp Corpora orat t te e e responsibility Go G G vernance Gr Gr Gro o ou up up p financial statements Comp Com Compa pa an n ny y y financial statements
