Directors information Petrofac Corporate governance report Annual report and accounts 2011 95 Nominations Committee report Audit Committee report Board Risk Committee report Directors remuneration report Directors statements 01 22 41 50 10 1 1 7 153 Remuneration policy for 2012 onwards Individual elements of remuneration Balance of xed and variable pay Fixed pay Basic salary A significant proportion of Petrofacs total remuneration package is variable.
There is a particular emphasis on long-term share-based Benets in kind incentives, to align closely Directors interests with shareholders Basic salary interests.
Ordinarily, the Committee determines an Executive Directors basic The Committee considers that the targets set for the different salary at the beginning of each year and any change is applied with elements of performance related remuneration are appropriate.
Basic salaries are generally set at median Thebalance between the xed basic salary and cash allowances or below against the relevant benchmarking group and depend and variable annual bonus and long-term incentive elements upon the individuals role and contribution.
of remuneration varies depending on performance.
The charts The Committee recognises that Petrofac has continued to perform below show the mix between xed and variable pay, excluding strongly during the year.
However, due to the prevailing economic cash allowances benets.
climate, the Committee kept Executive Director salary increases As the proposed Value Creation Plan is a one-off plan and will not in line with the broader UK employee population at around 5%.
be part of the ongoing remuneration policy, this has been excluded Nosalary increase has been awarded to Tim Weller, as he was from the charts.
appointed to the Board in October 2011.
The actual mix may be higher or lower than that shown below, Following the increases, basic salaries generally remain at median depending on the performance of Petrofac and the individual.
or below compared to the UK market and at median or below compared to the oil & gas services comparator group.
The revised Composition of total remuneration at target and basic salaries are therefore generally in line with Petrofacs maximumperformance remuneration policy.
Target performance Changes to basic salaries, with effect from 1 January 2012, 38% salary 39% annual bonus areasfollows: 23% PSP 2012 2011 basic salary basic salary Ayman Asfari 611,000 582,000 Maroun Semaan US$595,000 US$567,000 Andy Inglis 525,000 500,000 Tim Weller 425,000 425,000 Maximum performance In addition, Marwan Chedid was appointed to the Board as Chief 20% salary Executive, Engineering, Construction, Operations and Maintenance 40% annual bonus 40% PSP ECOM on 19 January 2012.
Marwan will receive a basic salary of US$540,500 for this role, effective from the date of his appointment.
Benefits in kind Executive Directors receive certain benets in kind.
UK-resident Executive Directors receive private health insurance, life assurance and long-term disability insurance.
Maroun Semaan, who is resident in the UAE, receives similar benets as well as other typical expatriate senior executive benets, such as education and return If an Executive Director receives a maximum cash bonus and ights to his permanent home.
maximum PSP award equal to 200% of basic salary, his xed remuneration excluding cash allowances benets would be In addition to their basic salary and non-cash benets, UK resident one-fifth of his overall remuneration, with variable remuneration Executive Directors also receive a cash allowance in place making up the balance.
At target performance, xed remuneration of benets including, but not limited to, car allowances and pension would be broadly two-fths of overall remuneration.
Directors do not receive pension contributions from the Company.
In 2011, all UK-based Executive Directors received a cash allowance of 65,000.
Overview ReRi view of f operat tiions Financial Fina Financia nciall performance and risk Corpora Corp Corpora orat t te e e responsibility Go G vernance Gr Gr Gro o ou up up p financial statements Comp Com Compa pa an n ny y y financial statements Petrofac 96 Annual report and accounts 2011 Directors remuneration report continued The Company pays a cash allowance in respect of housing Variable pay Annual cash bonus and transport to Maroun Semaan, in line with local market practice.
In 2011, Maroun Semaan received a cash allowance of Performance Share Plan US$220,000 for the year.
Annual cash bonus Cash allowances for all Executive Directors will be frozen in 2012, Each January, the Committee decides whether to award each remaining at the same level as in 2011.
Executive Director a cash bonus for the previous year.
In doing so, the Committee considers two principal elements: The table below sets out cash allowances for Executive Directors from 1 January 2012: the extent to which the Groups financial performance, and, as appropriate, the business unit or division for which the 2012 cash 2011 cash individual Director is primarily responsible, have achieved allowance allowance annually established budgets and targets Ayman Asfari 65,000 65,000 the extent to which the individual has met personal objectives, Maroun Semaan US$220,000 US$220,000 which are agreed at the start of each year with the aim of achieving the Groups business strategy.
Each Executive Andy Inglis 65,000 65,000 Directors personal objectives include health and safety targets.
Tim Weller 65,000 65,000 Inaddition, some Executive Directors have targets in relation to succession planning, risk management and the development As an Executive Director based in the UAE, Marwan Chedid will and implementation of the Groups CR programme.
In this way, the Committee considers that it has an incentive structure for receive an annual cash allowance of US$200,000 in respect of senior managers that promotes responsible behaviour housing and transport, in line with local market practice.
For 2011, in line with the stated policy, the Committee In addition, Maroun Semaan and Marwan Chedid, as UAE resident set the maximum bonus potential at 200% of basic annual Executive Directors, are entitled by local statute to receive a cash salary for achievement of corporate and personal targets.
sum called an end of service indemnity payment from their employer on the termination of their employment within the UAE.
The Committee awarded cash bonuses of between 150% and Such payments are due to all expatriate employees working in the 200% of salary to Ayman Asfari, Maroun Semaan and Andy Inglis, UAE and are based on years of service and salary.
Further details in recognition of the Companys strong growth in revenue and are provided on pages 103 and 141.
Accordingly, the Company earnings across all divisions.
Despite this continued strong accrues an amount in respect of this each year.
performance, some very stretching backlog targets were only partially achieved, and as such annual bonuses were scaled back accordingly in certain cases.
Following his appointment in September 2011, and in recognition of Petrofacs exceptional financial performance and his strong start in the role, Tim Weller will receive a cash bonus of 200% of salary in respect of 2011 pro-rated to reect his part-year service.
The following table sets out the 2011 annual bonus awards made to Executive Directors: Annual bonus in As % of 2011 basic respect of 2011 salary Ayman Asfari 875,000 150% Maroun Semaan US$1,000,000 176% Andy Inglis 1,000,000 200% Tim Weller 275,000 200% Directors information Petrofac Corporate governance report Annual report and accounts 2011 97 Nominations Committee report Audit Committee report Board Risk Committee report Directors remuneration report Directors statements 01 22 41 50 10 1 1 7 153 Performance Share Plan PSP TSR is the percentage return to a purchaser of an ordinary share in Executive Directors and certain senior managers may receive the Company arising from share price appreciation and  share awards on an annual basis.
Participants investment of dividends over a given period.
The TSR of the are granted contingent awards to receive ordinary shares Company is measured and then compared against the median in the Company, which will, in normal circumstances, vest after TSR of an index of a number of international peer companies, as three years, subject to their continued employment and to the detailed in the table below.
extent performance conditions are met.
2009 2010 2011 2012 award award award award Under the existing PSP, the maximum award level in any financial year is 200% of basic annual salary, although an award Aker Solutions 999 9 of up to 300% may be made under exceptional circumstances.
AMEC 999 9 Award levels are determined based on a participants individual contribution to the business.
Chicago Bridge & Iron Co. 999 9 The following table sets out the proposed 2012 PSP awards Entrepose Contracting 99 8 8 for Executive Directors: Fluor Corporation 999 9 2012 PSP award as % of Foster Wheeler 2012 basic salary 999 9 Ayman Asfari 196% Halliburton 999 9 Maroun Semaan 168% Helix Energy Solutions 988 8 Andy Inglis 191% JGC 999 9 Tim Weller 159% Maire Tecnimont 999 9 Saipem The Committee has proposed an exceptional PSP award 999 9 to Marwan Chedid of 231% of 2012 basic salary, reecting his Schlumberger 999 9 strong individual contribution to the business and his promotion SNC-Lavalin Group to the Board.
999 9 Technip Plan operation 999 9 The PSP is currently structured as follows: Tecnicas Reunidas 999 9 Wood Group John 999 9 50% of award based on TSR performance relative to an index of sectoral comparators over the WorleyParsons three-year performance period 999 9 PSP award paid in shares PSP award Vesting against the TSR element is determined in line with the amount dependent on 50% of award based on annual EPS growth over following: performance the three-year performance period achieved TSR relative to an un-weighted Percentage of TSR element of award 1, 2 comparator group index vesting Year 0 Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Less than index 0% Equal to index 30% The Committee considers that the PSP should balance alignment Outperformance of index by up to Straight-line vesting between 30% with shareholder returns and reward for delivery of strong 25% and 100% underlying financial performance: Outperformance of index by 25% 100% Relative TSR Remains the best measure of the Companys or more ultimate delivery of shareholder returns 1 The Committee is authorised under the rules of the PSP to make retrospective Absolute EPS Internal financial measure most closely linked adjustment s to the comparator index for any year of award if one or more of to value creation in an oil & gas services business the constituent companies are subject to fide-listing, merger, acquisition or other such event.
Performance Three years is considered to be an appropriate 2 It is assumed that a notional 100 is invested equally across all the companies period long-term horizon for both performance making up the TSR index at the start of the performance period.
At the end of measurement and retention the vesting period, the index will represent the value of what the initial notional investment of 100 would have returned over the period.
This will be representative of the average return made by the Companys competitors.
This is then compared Relative TSR element 50% of award to the return by an equivalent notional investment of 100 in Petrofac over the same period.
For the 2012 PSP grant, the TSR vesting schedule and, in particular the required level of outperformance of the index, will remain the same as previous grants.
Overview ReRi view of f operat tiions Financial Fina Financia nciall performance and risk Corpora Corp Corpora orat t te e e responsibility Go G vernance Gr Gr Gro o ou up up p financial statements Comp Com Compa pa an n ny y y financial statements Petrofac 98 Annual report and accounts 2011 Directors remuneration report continued In addition to achieving the TSR performance condition, the The Committee consulted extensively with major shareholders Committee considers a further measure of underlying financial on the introduction of the VCP, modifying elements of the plan to take into account feedback received.
the Committee reviewed the quantum of the proposed plan in For awards granted in 2010 onwards, vesting of the TSR element the context of existing remuneration arrangements and potential is subject to achievement of strong underlying overall Company costs associated with the plan.
In doing so, it considered overall performance.
For awards granted before then, it is necessary to remuneration levels at Petrofac, the estimated cost of the plan achieve EPS growth over the period of at least RPI plus 3% over and potential benets to shareholders.
It concluded that the overall the three-year vesting period.
levels of reward available are not excessive and the cost of the VCP is appropriate in the context of potential returns to shareholders if EPS element 50% of award the performance targets are achieved.
For the 2012 PSP grant, the EPS vesting schedule and in particular the required level of performance will remain the same as the last As a result of shareholder feedback, the Committee also agreed two years grants.
to introduce a shareholding requirement for Executive Directors, as detailed later in this report.
Earnings per share represent the earnings excluding dividends, Award values inpence, attributable to one ordinary share.
The Companys EPS Awards with an expected value of between one and two times performance over a three-year period is calculated and vesting salary are proposed for Executive Directors excluding the Group is inline with the vesting schedule attached to a particular award, Chief Executive and President.
asshown in the table below: Options will be valued at 19.5% of face value using a recognised Awards made from simulation model.
This translates into a face value of award of 2010 onwards Awards made prior to 2010 roughly five times expected value.
Accordingly, to achieve an EPS compound EPS compound Percentage of EPS expected value of between one and two times salary, a core annual growth annual growth over element of award award with a face value of c. five ten times basic salary is over three-year three-year period vesting required.
For Executive Directors with divisional or business unit period responsibility, the performance multiplier could further increase 10% or less 15% or less 0% awards by a factor of up to 1.5 times.
Awards to other members of the senior management team will be made at a lower value.
More than 10%, More than 15%, less Straight-line vesting less than 15% than 20% between 0% and 30% Grant of awards 15% 20% 30% It is proposed that, subject to shareholder approval of the VCP, one-off awards will be made in May June 2012.
However, options More than 15%, More than 20%, less Straight-line vesting may be granted until the second anniversary of adoption of the plan less than 20% than 25% between 30% and to senior recruits or existing executives who take on signicantly 100% increased responsibilities.
Each participant of the plan will only ever 20% or more 25% or more 100% receive one award.
Performance conditions The Committee determines the EPS targets immediately before The proposed VCP has four distinct stretching performance the grant of each award.
It considers internal growth projections, measures to ensure maximum alignment between participants market consensus gures and general external conditions.
TheCommittee believes the targets attached to the existing PSP awards are extremely stretching.
Group profit After Tax Group PAT The Committee intends that awards would only vest upon delivery Value Creation Plan VCP of performance over and above the Companys very ambitious FY After careful consideration and consultation with major 2015 Group PAT growth targets.
Group PAT is a key performance shareholders, the Committee is proposing the implementation indicator for the Company and the Committee considers that this of a new one-off incentive plan.
Full details of the proposed new is the most appropriate way to measure the delivery of growth plan are set out in the Notice of the 2012 AGM, at which this plan and the underlying financial health of the Company.
The proposed will be presented for shareholder approval.
Group PAT performance targets are set out in the table below: Under the VCP, it is proposed that one-off share option awards Threshold Maximum will be made in 2012 to a limited group of 1015 key individuals at 1 Below US$862m US$1,293m or more FY 2015 Group PAT senior executive level, including Executive Directors, responsible for Two times FY2010 PAT Three times FY2010 PAT driving Company growth.
The Group Chief Executive and President 2 Level of vesting 0% 100% who together own more than 26% of Petrofacs issued share 1 capital will not participate in the VCP.
In each case the Group PAT delivered in FY2010 has been adjusted to exclude the gain of US$124.9m on the EnQuest demerger and the trading net profit from Developments demerged assets of US$2.1m which arose in that year.
Although the VCP will not form part of our ongoing remuneration framework, all awards granted under the plan will support 2 Between US$862m and US$1,293m, vesting would be on a straight line basis.
our policy of aligning executive and shareholders interests and Exercise price providing upper quartile remuneration where challenging standards Awards would be made over premium-priced share options, with are met while paying basic xed remuneration at median or below.
the exercise price set at a 10% premium to the Companys share price at the date of grant.
Accordingly, share price growth of at least 10% must be achieved before participants realise any value.
Directors information Petrofac Corporate governance report Annual report and accounts 2011 99 Nominations Committee report Audit Committee report Board Risk Committee report Directors remuneration report Directors statements 01 22 41 50 10 1 1 7 153 Plan operation The diagram below provides an illustration of how the VCP would operate: May June one-third vests in 2016 Divisional Core award vests Last 2012 business unit one-third vests in 2017 based onFY 2015 potential multiplier applied VCP award Group PAT exercise date one-third vests in 2018 where relevant made 2013 2015 2012 2014 2016 2017 2019 2020 2018 Four-year performance period from FY 2012 to FY 2015 FY 2015 divisional FY 2015 Group business unit PAT performance performance tested tested Objectives of the VCP Objectives Plan features Ensuring continued delivery Awards will only result in significant vesting for delivery of performance over and above the Companys of exceptional growth and ambitious growth targets: shareholder value creation Group profit After Tax Group PAT Stretching targets no vesting unless PAT in FY 2015 is two times PAT delivered in FY 2010: full vesting only if PAT in FY 2015 is three times PAT delivered in FY 2010.
Divisional business unit performance earnings To reect the importance of strong operational performance, awards to individuals with direct divisional or business unit responsibility will be subject to a multiplier which would potentially reduce or increase the original award by 50% dependent on individual divisional or business unit earnings performance in FY 2015.
Shares will be granted at an exercise price set 10% above the market price on the date of grant.
Building sustained Following the end of the four-year performance period 20122015, shares will vest in equal tranches performance over the on the fourth, fifth and sixth anniversaries of grant, only to the extent that performance conditions have longterm been satisfied, with full vesting only occurring six years after award.
A claw-back malus provision would allow the Committee the right to reduce vesting outcomes in certain circumstances prior to the vesting date.
The Committee would also evaluate performance taking full account of a number of safeguards as set out below.
Developing a new generation Participation will be limited to 1015 key individuals at senior executive level, including Executive Directors, of leaders with an ownership butwill exclude participation by the Group Chief Executive and President.
Only one award will be made mindset to each individual.
Divisional business unit performance Additional performance safeguards To reect the importance of strong operational performance In addition to the above performance features, the Committee to the achievement of the Companys growth aspirations, awards will also evaluate performance taking full account of the following to individuals with direct divisional or business unit responsibilities safeguards: will be subject to a multiplier which would potentially reduce or health & safety, environmental and ethical performance: increase the award by 50% dependent on individual divisional or relative TSR performance against peers and in particular whether business unit earnings performance in FY 2015.
There will be no TSR performance is above median : divisional or business unit multiplier for awards to Group roles.
EPS growth consistent with PAT growth: The proposed divisional business unit performance multiplier is set out in the following table: positive economic profit performance: delivery of Board-approved business plan: and Multiplier factor Threshold Target Maximum any other material factors impacting risk management.
Level of achievement against Not less 1.0x Not more divisional or business unit than than Vesting performance targets 0.5x 1.5x Subject to performance against Group PAT and, where applicable, divisional or business unit targets, the share options would vest in Claw-back provisions equal tranches on the fourth, fifth and sixth anniversaries of grant.
Claw-back malus provisions would allow the Committee to reduce The Committee considers that the additional holding period will vesting outcomes in certain circumstances prior to the vesting date.
ensure the building of sustained performance over the long term.
These circumstances include material misstatement of results and misconduct under the Companys Code of Business Conduct.
Overview ReRi view of f operat tiions Financial Fina Financia nciall performance and risk Corpora Corp Corpora orat t te e e responsibility Go G vernance Gr Gr Gro o ou up up p financial statements Comp Com Compa pa an n ny y y financial statements Petrofac 100 Annual report and accounts 2011 Directors remuneration report continued Shareholding requirement Since 2007, Executive Directors have not participated in the DBSP As a result of the discussions with shareholders on the VCP, as there are no performance conditions attached to matching the Committee intends to introduce a shareholding requirement awards.
If such individuals are considered for DBSP participation for Executive Directors to build up a shareholding of three times in future years, the Company undertakes not to make matching basic salary over a period of five years.
awards, unless they are subject to suitably stretching performance conditions and a deferral period of at least three years.
Prior to his Wider workforce remuneration appointment as an Executive Director, Marwan Chedid received When determining remuneration arrangements for Executive awards under the DBSP.
Directors, the Committee takes into consideration as a matter of course the pay and conditions of employees throughout the Group.
Restricted Share Plan RSP Under the RSP, selected employees are made grants of shares For 2012, it aligned Executive Director salary increases with those on an ad hoc basis throughout the year.
in the wider UK and UAE workforce of around 5%, recognising that average salary increases may be higher in other areas of the Group.
The scheme is used primarily, but not exclusively, to make awards Within our highly competitive sector there is upward pressure on to individuals who join the Group part way through the year, having remuneration levels at all grades.
The Committee is aware that left accrued benets with a previous employer.
securing increasingly sought-after key talent is critical to the The Committee approves awards, having taken managements continued success of Petrofac.
recommendations into consideration and regularly monitors the level of awards.
Other discretionary share plans Petrofac strongly encourages share plan participation by Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in the scheme.
employees to ensure alignment of their interests with those of However, prior to their respective appointments as Executive shareholders.
The Company is proud of the high level of Directors during 2011, Andy Inglis and Tim Weller received awards participation in its share plans, as can be seen in the table below: under the RSP to compensate them for incentive opportunities foregone elsewhere.
Further details are provided on pages 102 Number of employees with awards at Percentage take-up and 104.
Plan 31December 2011 ineach plan Share Incentive Plan SIP DBSP 3,526 100% On an all-employee basis, the Company offers participation to all SIP 1,203 30% UK resident employees, including Executive Directors, in a UK PSP 41 100% tax-approved SIP, which the Committee considers as part of its oversight role.
Under the SIP, all eligible employees may invest up RSP 102 100% to 1,500 per tax year of gross salary or, if less, 10% of salary to UK employees only purchase ordinary shares Partnership Shares.
There is no holding period for these shares.
The Company does not make awards Deferred Bonus Share Plan DBSP of Matching or Free Shares under the SIP.
Under the DBSP, selected employees are required to defer a proportion of their annual cash bonus into Company shares Separately, the Company offers a share dealing service to all invested shares.
The Company will generally grant the participant employees.
an additional award over a number of shares, being a specified ratio to the number of his or her invested shares matching shares, typically using a 1:1 ratio.
Subject to a participants continued employment, invested and matching share awards may either vest 100% on the third anniversary of grant: or alternatively, vest one-third on the first anniversary of the grant, one-third on the second anniversary and the final proportion on the third anniversary.
The Committee approves awards, having taken managements recommendations into consideration.
From 2011, eligibility to participate in the DBSP was extended to certain Petrofac joint ventures JVs where Petrofac has a shareholding of at least 25%, and where the Committee considers it appropriate.
The Committee believes that extending participation levels will align the interests of key individuals in the Companys JV entities with those of Petrofac shareholders.
