Operating environment Petrofac Segmental analysis Annual report and accounts 2011 39 Engineering, Construction, Operations & Maintenance Onshore Engineering & Construction Offshore Projects & Operations Engineering & Consulting Services Integrated Energy Services 01 41 4 4 50 65 107 153 Petrofac Training Services is supporting Saudi Arabias drive to develop its own oil & gas industry workforce by operating and managing a new national training centre.
Having been awarded a five-year contract to run the Saudi Petroleum Services Polytechnics Centre for Construction Skills and Drilling training in January, wewill receive our first students later this year.
The Dammam centre will provide a range of bespoke, internationally accredited training programmes in construction, health and safety and drilling.
The intake will include local workers for Aramco the worlds largest oil & gas company along with staff from the Saudi state-owned companys contractor base.
The focus on training young nationals will further the governments wish to expand its workforce and the planned Saudisation of the local industry, which aims to extend the economic benets of Saudi assets to its own population.
Our 34 trainers will teach up to 1,000 students each year.
Reecting our commitment to local stafng, we intend to train the trainers so that local people make up most of the teaching staff within a few years.
FPF5 Mobile Offshore Production Unit Total proven and probable reserves on Total proven and probable reserves on MOPU formerly the Ocean Legend Block PM304 Petrofac net entitlement theChergui eld Petrofac net entitlement whichwe purchased in September 2011, increased to 17.5 million barrels of oil was4.6 million barrels of oil equivalent as at initially exporting stabilised crude oil through equivalent as at 31 December 2011, 31December 2011 2010: 5.4 million barrels existing facilities, and ultimately through the following the inclusion of 5.9 million of oil equivalent.
phase two FPSO after its arrival in the barrelsrelating to West Desaru 2010: Cendor eld.
First oil iscurrently planned for 12.3million barrels.
Greater Stella Area the fourth quarter of2012.
development, UK Chergui eld, Tunisia Work is progressing on the second phase In October 2011, we signed an agreement The Chergui gas plant performed strongly, of development of Block PM304 which that will see the deployment of the oating with an average of 28.2 million standard willinvolve a larger permanent facility to production facility FPF1 the FPF1 on the cubic feet per day mmscfd of gas sold develop fully the Cendor fault block.
Greater Stella Area development in the during the year 2010: 27.8 mmscfd.
Thefacilities comprise two xed wellhead North Sea.
Following the FDP submission Thiswas despite the impact of several structures tied back to a Floating in early 2012, we will nalise the sale of 80% shortshut-ins that occurred during the Production, Storage and Ofoading FPSO of the share capital in the company holding periods of political unrest early in 2011. vessel.
We are on schedule to meet the the FPF1 to Ithaca Energy Inc Ithaca, and Theincrease in production was 2012 installation work programme for the Dyas BV, which will result in the recognition underpinned by better reservoir wellhead structures and pipelines.
First oil is of a sale profit in2012.
performance and pressure support, and currently planned for the second quarter of operating efficiency gains, as well as the Offshore Projects & Operations will carry 2013, and will bring the overall production performance of the third well which was out modication and upgrade works to capacity of Block PM304 to around 60,000 tied back to the plant in mid 2010. theFPF1 ahead of its deployment on the barrels per day.
Greater Stella Area development, and will The development programme for 2012 subsequently provide Duty Holder services includes drilling two to three wells to access to the FPF1 on a life of eld contract.
additional reserves and to further appraise the concession area.
Overview ReRi view off operations i Financial Fina Financia nciall performance and risk Corpora Corp Corpora orat t te e e responsibility Go G G vernance Gr Gr Gro o ou up up p financial statements Comp Com Compa pa an n ny y y financial statements
