Petrofac 106 Annual report and accounts 2011 Directors statements Directors responsibilities Going concern The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and to affect its future development, performance and position are set regulations.
The Directors have chosen to prepare the financial out in the business review on pages 22 to 40.
The financial position statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting ofthe Company, its cash ows, liquidity position and borrowing Standards IFRS.
The Directors are also responsible for the facilities are described in the financial review on pages 44 to 46. preparation of the Directors remuneration report, which they Inaddition, note 34 to the financial statements include the havechosen to prepare, being under no obligation to do so under Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its Jersey law.
The Directors are also responsible for the preparation capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its ofthe corporate governance report under the Listing Rules.
financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures tocredit risk and liquidity risk.
Jersey Company law the Law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial period in accordance with The Company has considerable financial resources together generally accepted accounting principles.
The financial statements withlong-term contracts with a number of customers and are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs suppliersacross different geographic areas and industries.
of the Company at the period end and the profit or loss of the Asaconsequence, the Directors believe that the Company is Company for the period then ended.
In preparing thesenancial wellplaced to manage its business risks successfully despite statements, the Directors should: the current uncertain economic outlook.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company themconsistently has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
specify which generally accepted accounting principles have been adopted in their preparation Responsibility statement under the Disclosure prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis and Transparency Rules unlessit is inappropriate to presume that the Company will Each of the Directors listed on pages 66 and 67 confirm that to the continue in business best of their knowledge: The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS, records which are sufficient to show and explain the Companys givea true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position transactions and as such as to disclose with reasonable accuracy and profit of the Company and the undertakings included in the at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them consolidation taken as a whole: and to ensure that the financial statements prepared by the Company the operating and financial review includes a fair view of the comply with the Law.
They are also responsible for safeguarding development and performance of the business and the the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps position of the Company and the undertakings included in the for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of oftheprincipal risks and uncertainties that they face.
the corporate and financial information included on the Companys By order of the Board website.
Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation inother jurisdictions.
Directors approach The Boards objective is to present a balanced and understandable Tim Weller assessment of the Companys position and prospects, particularly Chief Financial officer in the annual report, half year report formerly the interim report and other published documents and reports to regulators.
The Board has established an Audit Committee to assist with this obligation.
