Petrofac 72 Annual report and accounts 2011 Corporate governance report continued In May 2011, after six successful years, Rodney Chase stepped down as Chairman.
Rodney led our Board from our initial listing on Who is on our Board?
the London Stock Exchange though a period of considerable As Chairman, I am responsible for leading your Board and ensuring growth and development.
Kjell Almskog, our Senior Independent that it operates effectively.
Over the past two years, there have Director, also stepped down from the Board in May, following the been a number of membership changes, reecting our policy that completion of his two three-year terms.
Keith Roberts, our Chief Non-executive Directors should generally serve two three-year Financial officer, retired from the Board in October 2011.
At 31 December 2011, we had nine Directors on the Board colleagues, I wish to thank them all for their considerable comprising myself as Chairman, four Non-executive Directors and contributions to Petrofac and wish them continued success.
Since the year end, we have announced the appointment of a further two new Directors, one Executive and one Non-executive.
Accordingly, at the date of this report, your How is our Board organised?
Board has 11 members, who are set out in the table below: Role of the Chairman Name Position Appointed As Chairman, I am responsible for leading theBoard and ensuring Norman Murray Chairman 1 March 2011 its effectiveness.
I see both my role, and that of theBoards, Rijnhard van Tets Senior Independent Director asonewhich challenges management and once satisfied, supportsmanagement.
Thomas Thune Non-executive Director Andersen Role of the Group Chief Executive Stefano Cao Non-executive Director Ayman Asfari is our Group Chief Executive and is responsible for the implementation and execution of strategy and the Roxanne Decyk Non-executive Director 1 March 2011 day-to-day management of the Group.
He is supported by Ren Mdori Non-executive Director 19 January 2012 his senior management team, whose details are outlined on Ayman Asfari Group Chief Executive pages 12 and 13.
Maroun Semaan President Ayman and I have clearly dened terms of reference and these Marwan Chedid Chief Executive, ECOM 19 January 2012 areset out in writing.
The split in responsibilities is shown in the Andy Inglis Chief Executive, IES 1 March 2011 table below: Tim Weller Chief Financial officer 13 October 2011 Roles Chairman Group Chief Executive All Non-executive Directors who served during the year, and to Lead the Board Implement strategy date, are independent in judgement and character.
All Directors arerequired to disclose any potential conict to our Board for Ensure effective communication Develop manageable goals itsconsideration and I am not aware of any relationship or with shareholders andpriorities circumstance which is likely to prejudice, or could appear Ensure effective communication Lead and motivate the toprejudice, the judgement of any Director.
ows between Directors management teams Biographies of each of your Directors are shown on pages 66 and Facilitate the effective contribution Develop proposals to present to of all Directors the Board on all areas reserved 67.
We have made considerable efforts to build a board with the for its judgement right balance of skills, diversity and industry expertise.
You will see that your Directors are drawn from across the world and have Role of the Senior Independent Director varied career histories, with no single type of person dominating the Rijnhard van Tets is our Senior Independent Director, a position he Board.
We are fortunate in that many of our Directors bring a great assumed in May 2011.
He is available to shareholders to answer deal of experience in the oil & gas industry, both in exploration and any questions which cannot be addressed by the Chairman production and lump-sum contracting.
We believe this is essential orGroup Chief Executive.
He acts as a sounding board and to safeguard the interests of our shareholders.
The additional condante to me as Chairman and is also available as an strengths brought to the Board by our new Directors are detailed intermediary for the other independent Directors as required.
Rijnhard would be called upon to chair our Board in the unlikely event that I am unavailable to attend any meeting thus providing suitable continuity.
Directors information Petrofac Corporate governance report Annual report and accounts 2011 73 Nominations Committee report Audit Committee report Board Risk Committee report Directors remuneration report Directors statements 01 22 41 50 10 1 1 7 153 The Board Board tenure As a Jersey company, our Board is unitary in nature.
This means Six years or more that all our Directors share equal responsibility for the decisions that Three five years One two years we make.
Executive and Non-executive Directors need to be able Less than one year to work together in an atmosphere of openness, trust and mutual respect.
It is therefore important that all Directors see the Chairman as a fair and impartial individual.
My relationships with the Group Chief Executive and the Senior Independent Director are particularly important, as these two individuals represent the views of management and Non-executive Directors, respectively.
Ihold regular private meetings with Ayman and Rijnhard between our Board meetings and I believe therefore that I am equally informed Executive Non-executive Director balance about the views of management and Non-executive Directors.
This Executive Directors Non-executive Directors insight assists me in two ways: I am better able to set the agenda Non-executive Chairman for our Board meetings and I can ensure that all Directors contribute at our meetings through their individual and collective experience, challenge and support.
The Board is assisted by four committees as set out in the diagrambelow.
Each committee is responsible for reviewing andoverseeing activities within its particular terms of reference.
Ateachscheduled Board meeting, the chairman of each committee provides a summary of any committee meeting held Geographical mix of Board members since the previous Board meeting and, in addition, the minutes of all UK committee meetings are circulated to the Board.
Reports for 2011 Continental Europe US from each of these Committees are provided on pages 80 to 105.
Middle East Copies of each committees terms of reference are available on theCompanys website www.
Shareholders Responsible for decisions of strategic or substantive nature.
Elect the Directors Elect the auditors Meetings generally held in Jersey and always outside of UK.
Board Non-executive Chairman, 5 Executive Directors and 5 Non-executive Directors Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Board Risk Committee Audit Committee Non-executive Chairman, 3 Non-executive Directors 4 Non-executive Directors 4 Non-executive Directors 5 Non-executive Directors and Agrees remuneration policy and sets Oversees the Groups risk Monitors the integrity of the 1 Executive Director individual compensation levels for management andinternal control Companys financial statements and Takes primary responsibility for members of senior management processes for non-financial matters reviews financial and regulatory succession planning, Board Director compliance and controls Committeereportpages 91 to 105 Committee report pages 86 to 90 selection andcomposition Committee report pages 82 to 85 Committee report pages 80 and 81 Overview ReRi view of f operat tiions Financial Fina Financia nciall performance and risk Corpora Corp Corpora orat t te e e responsibility Go G vernance Gr Gr Gro o ou up up p financial statements Comp Com Compa pa an n ny y y financial statements
