Petrofac 66 Annual report and accounts 2011 Directors information Norman Murray Ayman Asfari Maroun Semaan Non-executive Chairman Group Chief Executive President Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointed to the Board on 1 March 2011 and became Appointed to the Board on 11 January 2002.
Appointed to the Board on 11 January 2002.
Experience Experience Experience Ayman joined the Group in 1991 to establish Petrofac Maroun joined the Group in 1991 to establish Petrofac Prior to his portfolio career, Norman spent 25 years in the International, of which he was CEO.
He has more than International.
He was Group Chief Operating officer venture capital industry.
He co-founded Morgan Grenfell 30 years experience in the oil & gas industry, having fromJanuary 2009 before becoming President on Private Equity Limited and was also a director of Morgan formerly worked as managing director of a major civil 1January 2012.
Prior to joining Petrofac, he managed Grenfell Asset Management Limited.
Until June 2011, and mechanical construction business in Oman.
oil&gas pipeline, process facilities and civil works hewas chairman of Cairn Energy plc, having served on Ayman is 53. construction contracts in Oman and Bahrain, with the that board for 12 years.
He is a former chairman of the Consolidated Contractors International Company.
Key strengths British Venture Capital Association, a past president ofthe Marounis 56.
Distinguished record with strong operational leadership Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland and was a skills: clear strategic vision: entrepreneurial track record: Key strengths non-executive director of Robert Wiseman Dairies plc until international focus: wealth of oil industry knowledge.
Wide-ranging business development skills: consistent February 2012.
Norman is 64. execution of lump-sumengineering, procurement and Committee membership Key strengths construction EPC contracts: deep knowledge of the Member of Nominations Committee.
Wide-reaching board, financial and commercial Middle East and North Africa MENA region: appreciation experience having served on various company boards, of enterprise risksand comprehensive management of External appointments asboth director and chairman: deep understanding of subsidiaries andjointventures.
Member of the board of trustees of the American governance and regulatory matters gained in University of Beirut.
Committee membership entrepreneurial environments and in energy markets.
None Committee membership External appointments Chairman of Nominations Committee.
Member of the board of trustees of the American University External appointments of Sharjah and a founding member of the board of trustees He is a non-executive director of Greene King plc.
of the Arab Forum for Environment and Development.
Thomas Thune Andersen Stefano Cao Roxanne Decyk Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointed to the Board on 13 May 2010.
Appointed to the Board on 13 May 2010.
Appointed to the Board on 1 March 2011.
Experience Experience Experience Thomas spent 32 years at the AP Mller-Mrsk group Stefano has 33 years experience in the oil & gas industry.
Roxanne retired from The Royal Dutch Shell Group in early with an international career ending as CEO and president Since February 2009, he has been CEO of Sintonia SA, 2011 having held a number of roles including head of of Mrsks oil & gas company.
He also served on Mrsks aholding company owning infrastructure assets, including global government affairs and corporate affairs director main board and its executive committee from 2005 to toll roads, airports and telecoms.
From 2000 to 2008, over a period of 11 years.
She was a member of Shells 2009.
Stefano was chief operating officer of Enis exploration executive committee from 2005 to 2009.
Prior to joining &production division, before which he spent 24 years at Shell, Roxanne had various roles at Amoco Corporation Key Strengths Saipem SpA, the international oil & gas services group, and Navistar International Corporation.
Wide-ranging international experience: broad knowledge holding such senior roles as chief executive officer, of energy, transportation, infrastructure and marine Key strengths chairman and chief operating officer.
He is a former industries: proven track record executing growth Strong track record in global and international government independent director of Telecom Italia SpA.
Stefano is 60. strategiesand mobilising and developing organisations: relations: extensive experience in the energy industry: HSEexperience and extensive knowledge from both Key strengths communications, sales and marketing knowledge: anexecutive and non-executive standpoint.
Strong international business experience: broad reputation and brand strategy expertise: sustainable knowledge of energy industry: significant knowledge of development knowledge: broad international human Committee membership technical and commercial activities, both as operator resources knowledge.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and member andcontractor.
of the Audit and Nominations Committees.
Committee membership Committee membership Member of the Audit, Board Risk, Nominations and External appointments Chairman of the Board Risk Committee and Member of Remuneration Committees.
He is a non-executive director of SSE plc, chairman of the Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
theLloyds Register Group board of trustees, chairman External appointments ofDeepOcean, chairman of the Danish-UK Chamber External appointments She is an independent director of Snap-on Incorporated of Commerce and vice-chairman of VKR Holding.
He is CEO of Sintonia SA and a director of Atlantia SpA, and Alliant Techsystems Inc. Gemina SpA, Aeroporti di Roma SpA and Sagat SpA.
Directors information Petrofac Corporate governance report Annual report and accounts 2011 67 Nominations Committee report Audit Committee report Board Risk Committee report Directors remuneration report Directors statements 01 22 41 50 10 1 1 7 153 Appointments after 31 December 2011 Andy Inglis Tim Weller Marwan Chedid Chief Executive, Integrated Energy Services Chief Financial officer Chief Executive, Engineering, Construction, Operations and Maintenance Appointment Appointment Appointed to the Board on 1 March 2011.
Appointed to the Board on 13 October 2011.
Appointment Appointed to the Board on 19 January 2012.
Experience Experience Andy joined Petrofac in January 2011 having spent Tim joined Petrofac in September 2011 from Cable & Experience 30years with BP, latterly as CEO of its exploration and Wireless Worldwide, where he had been chief financial Marwan joined Petrofac in 1992 when the business was production business.
He was an executive director on the officer between May 2010 and July 2011.
A Fellow of the first established in Sharjah, having previously worked for BP plc board between 2007 and 2010.
He started his BP Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales CCC, a major consolidated contractor company based career as a project engineer on various North Sea projects, with a degree in Engineering Science, he started his career inthe Gulf and the Middle East, for eight years.
In 2007, followed by commercial and operating roles in BPs with KPMG in London, eventually becoming a partner in hewas appointed Chief Operating officer of the upstream business.
He became executive vice president KPMGs Infrastructure Business Unit.
He was previously Engineering & Construction International business with and deputy chief executive of BP exploration & production chief financial officer at United Utilities Group PLC between day-to-day responsibility for the successful delivery of in 2004.
He is a former non-executive director of BAE July 2006 and May 2010 and held chief financial officer overall operations.
In January 2009, he became Managing Systems plc.
Andy is 52. roles with RWE Thames Water Limited and Innogy Director of Engineering & Construction Ventures before Holdings PLC now RWE npower Holdings PLC from being appointed as Chief Executive, ECOM with effect Key strengths 2002 to 2006.
Broad strategic understanding and deep technical knowledge of the oil & gas industry: proven global and Key strengths Key strengths operational leadership: considerable board and executive Wide-ranging financial management experience: strategic Thorough knowledge of the oil & gas sector and management experience.
and financial planning, cost control and capital efficiencies: contracting environments: solid commercial, operational external stakeholder communications and management: and engineering experience: excellent understanding of Committee membership experience of major systems implementation.
None Committee membership Committee membership External appointments None None None External appointments External appointments He is a non-executive director of the Carbon Trust and of None BBCWorldwide.
Rijnhard van Tets Mary Hitchon Ren Mdori Non-executive Director Secretary to the Board Non-executive Director Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointed to the Board on 11 May 2007.
Appointed to the Board on 19 January 2012. as Senior Independent Director in May 2011.
Experience Experience Experience Joining Petrofac shortly after IPO, Mary, a chartered Ren is finance director of Anglo American plc, a position Senior Independent Director, Rijnhard is general partner of secretary with almost 20 years experience in a UK-listed he has held since September 2005.
He was group finance Laaken Asset Management NV.
He advised the managing environment, has responsibility for the Groups governance director of The BOC Group plc between June 2000 to May board of ABN AMRO between 2002 and 2007, having and listing rule compliance framework.
She previously 2005, having held several finance appointments, including previously served as a managing board member for 12 worked at TBI plc, the AXA group and Savills plc.
finance director of BOCs gases business in the Americas, years.
At ABN AMRO, his roles included that of chairman Mary is 46. from 1997.
Ren is 54. of the wholesale clients and investment banking group.
Key strengths Key strengths Rijnhard is 64.
Good understanding of governance matters: technical Extensive and current international financial experience: Key strengths knowledge of regulatory issues: experience of guiding well-established knowledge of governance and regulatory Extensive financial background, with solid international board behaviours and performance: effective stakeholder matters: good understanding of operational and strategic board and senior management experience achieved from communication experience: excellent organisation skills.
management: experience of balance sheet strengthening serving on various company boards and advisory trusts: opportunities and the whole range of nancing Committee membership excellent experience of governance and audit committees.
Secretary of the Audit, Board Risk, Nominations and Committee membership Remuneration Committees.
Committee membership Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Member of the Audit, Board Risk and Nominations Board Risk and Nominations Committees.
External appointments External appointments He is non-executive chairman of Arcadis NV, Euronext He is an executive director of Anglo American plc and Amsterdam NV and Euronext NV, and a non-executive non-executive director of Anglo Platinum Limited and director of IFF Europe, NYSE Euronext Inc, BNP Paribas SSEplc.
He will step down from the SSE plc board OBAM N. V. as well as various charities.
Overview ReRi view of f operat tiions Financial Fina Financia nciall performance and risk Corpora Corp Corpora orat t te e e responsibility Go G vernance Gr Gr Gro o ou up up p financial statements Comp Com Compa pa an n ny y y financial statements
