Directors information Petrofac Corporate governance report Annual report and accounts 2011 69 Nominations Committee report Audit Committee report Board Risk Committee report Directors remuneration report Directors statements 01 22 41 50 10 1 1 7 153 Recommendation that quoted companies should be required to disclose each year the proportion of women on How have we responded to Lord Davies report?
the board, women in senior executive positions and female In 2010, acting on concerns raised following the financial crisis that employees in the whole organisation.
a lack of diversity in the boardroom had contributed to the problem 13% of our employees are women and very few of them occupy ofgroup think, the UK Government asked Lord Davies to review senior roles as the majority of our female employees do not tend to the situation, identify barriers preventing women reaching the ll operational roles.
We do, however, have some senior women in boardroom and make recommendations as to what government functional roles, including our Secretary to the Board and her and businesses could do to increase the proportion ofwomen on qualied staff as well as a positive track record of bringing women corporate boards.
Lord Davies published his report Women on into our graduate pool in recent years.
Petrofac is wholly committed Boards in February 2011.
The report found that women were to building its future pipeline of talent regardless of background or under-represented and concluded that there wereclear benets gender.
To that end the Nominations Committee agreed that we forhaving greater gender diversity on boards.
Wepublished our would monitor the number of women in the business at all levels response to Lord Davies report on our websitein September 2011 from graduate to senior management positions, and that we would following a special meeting of the Nominations Committee.
continue to evaluate this and develop actions as part of the ongoing Outlined below are our responses to thekey recommendations.
review of the human resources HR strategy.
Recommendation that companies should set out the In response to the Davies report, the FRC published two percentage of women they aim to have on their boards by amendments to the UK Code that require companies to report 2013 and 2015.
FTSE 100 boards should aim for a minimum ontheir boardroom diversity policy each year and to include of 25% female representation by 2015.
All chief executives genderdiversity in the evaluation of board effectiveness.
to review the percentage of women they aim to have on Theseamendments will be implemented in a revised edition of their executive committees in 2013 and 2015. theUK Code to be issued in 2012 and will apply to financial years Excluding me as Chairman, we aspire to have 15% female beginning on or after October 2012.
We intend over the next year representation on our Board by 2013 and 25% by 2015. todevelop an inclusion and diversity policy including aspirations Wecurrently have ten Directors excluding me of which one is a associated with gender.
The policy will build on our Code of woman, so clearly we need to maintain our focus if we are to Business Conduct equality of opportunity statement and will be meetour aspirations for 2013 and 2015.
When engaged in future supported by diversity and inclusion training for all managers and searches for Non-executive Directors, we will continue to require supervisors.
We will formally report on our progress in next years search consultants to include a minimum number of female corporate governance report.
candidates on the long and short lists.
Your Board is clear, however, that it will not appoint a woman to the Board unless she is the best candidate for the role as we believe that tokenistic appointments can destabilise a board and be detrimental to shareholders.
Petrofac faces particular challenges in seeking to build a Board with more women.
The majority of our employees are engineers, which is a male-dominated profession and furthermore our Board has anequal number of Executive and Non-executive Directors.
Incommon with other companies we are therefore only likely to meet our aspirational targets for 2013 and 2015 by recruiting female Non-executive Directors.
Whilst we do not have a conventional executive committee the Group Chief Executive reviews the composition of the senior management team at the level below the Board as a matter of course.
Although it is unlikely that we will have any women at this level in 2013, it is too early to predict what might happen in 2015.
We are very confident, however, that neither our Board nor our employees are susceptible to group think notwithstanding our lack of gender diversity given that otherwise we have a very diverse Board and a workforce comprising more than 80 nationalities.
Overview ReRi view of f operat tiions Financial Fina Financia nciall performance and risk Corpora Corp Corpora orat t te e e responsibility Go G vernance Gr Gr Gro o ou up up p financial statements Comp Com Compa pa an n ny y y financial statements
