Petrofac 78 Annual report and accounts 2011 Corporate governance report continued How does our Board formally satisfy itself that Does our Board receive information which ithas sound risk management and internal allows it to identify when delivery of its goals control systems?
The Board is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of The Board receives a comprehensive written report from the Chief Petrofacs risk management and internal control systems, including Financial officer, at each face-to-face Board meeting, as well as financial, operational and compliance controls.
The Board currently periodic updates between such meetings.
The Board is kept very considers this by reference to the work undertaken during the year well informed about the Groups financial performance for the year by both the Audit and Board Risk Committees.
In addition to to date as compared to the years budget or the latest revised which, the Board also receives regular reports from members of forecast, with explanations for any variances.
The budget and management with responsibility for the Groups material enterprise five-year plans submitted to the Board incorporate risk analysis as a risks.
Going forward, under our new risk framework structure matter of course.
In addition to financial goals, we have strategic asset out on page 88, the Audit Committee will provide our Board and operational goals and we are currently working on developing with a formal report on the effectiveness of the Groups financial a broader set of financial and non-financial key performance and regulatory controls at year-end while the Board Risk indictators KPIs, which should assist us in monitoring delivery of Committee will provide a formal report on the effectiveness of these goals.
At present, however, Ayman Asfari provides us with a theGroups risk management systems in relation to the Groups full presentation on business operations at each face-to-face Board enterprise risks and project and investment risks.
These two meeting, during which he highlights any possible impediments to reports will be the primary means by which our Board will take a the delivery of our goals.
view on whether or not the Group has sound risk management and internal control systems.
We will continue to place considerable Shareholder information reliance on reports made to the full Board and our Board will have responsibility for approving the Groups enterprise risk register.
TheBoard is satisfied that sound risk management and internal Who are our major shareholders?
control systems have been in place across the Group throughout Ordinarily, shareholders of Jersey-incorporated companies with a 2011 and to todays date when the financial statements were UK listing need only disclose their holdings if they hold voting rights approved.
Petrofac also seeks to have a sound system of internal of 5% or more in a company.
However, our Articles of Association control, based on the Groups policies and guidelines, in all material have been drafted so that any shareholder with 3% or more of our associates and joint ventures.
Aswith all companies, our systems voting rights must disclose their holding, bringing us in line with of internal control and risk management are designed to manage UK-incorporated companies.
rather than eliminate business risk and can only ever provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material Those shareholders with holdings of 3% or more at the year-end misstatement or loss.
and as at the date of this report are as follows: Number of Percentage of issued How does our Board identify Petrofacs ordinaryshares share capital significant risks?
Ayman Asfari and family 62,837,968 18.17 Management provides our Board with details of our current significant risks and how we plan to mitigate them as part of each Maroun Semaan and family 28,135,388 8.14 Board pack.
The risks that we consider significant today are shown on pages 47 to 49.
Legal & General Group Plc 13,782,232 3.98 The risks are identied by reference to: risk matrices received from each of our individual business units bottom-up approach the views of senior management top-down approach Percentage split between investors Geographical breakdown of shareholder base Institutional and private investors North America Employees, former employees UK Scotland including beneficial interests UK England Wales and employee share ownership trusts Europe Rest of World Excluding employees, former employees and share ownership trusts.
