Petrofac 20 Annual report and accounts 2011 Integrated Energy Services Our commercial exibility is at the core of the difference we bring to our customers Petrofac has become the first foreign company in over 70 years to operate Mexicos state oil elds.
Following a live competitive tender, The terms of the contracts where national oil company Petrleos we invest around US$500 million in the Mexicanos PEMEX awarded us the development for a 90% interest, are contract to re-develop and increase reimbursed for 75% of both operational production at two mature onshore elds and development expenditure with that have been in operation since the a cost recovery mechanism and receive early 60s.
tariffs for the baseline and incremental production provide essential asset Petrofac will deploy an integrated development funding forour customer.
services solution to re-activate and develop PEMEXs Magallanes and The contracts, which were signed Santuario elds.
We will manage, in October 2011 and will see us using operate and maintain the blocks for and developing local workers, got off the25-year life of the Production to a good start.
PEMEX will three-month transition, Petrofac took retain ownership of the elds.
over eld operations on schedule.
Performance highlights Petrofac Our services and business model Annual report and accounts 2011 21 Chairmans statement Interview with the Group Chief Executive Leadership team Vision and values Creating sustainable growth Engineering, Construction, Operations & Maintenance Integrated Energy Services 22 41 50 65 107 153 Andy Inglis Chief Executive, Integrated Energy Services We believe we are well positioned Service Contract RSC, such as our Integrated Energy Services to respond to this need because of the existing greeneld project Berantai in IES harnesses Petrofacs breadth and depth of our capability and Malaysia, where we are developing and broad range of capabilities our track record of local delivery.
While operating the eld and willbuild local to provide integrated services the creation of IES took place only last operating capability, beforehanding back to oil & gas resource holders.
year, this is not a new business for operatorship to the resource holder.
Value We help customers develop their Petrofac.
Over the last 15 years, Petrofac is created through innovative concept resources either through the development has established a track record for leading selection and our ability to manage and of new elds or by enhancing production thedevelopment of a wide range deliver the overalleld development from from mature reservoirs.
Our offering is of integrated greeneld and browneld concept tooperation.
characterised by commercial exibility projects.
During this time, we have Thirdly, through traditional upstream that ensures alignment with our addedcompetence beyond our core investments, such as our Cendor customers combined with differentiated engineering & construction capability to Production Sharing Contract PSC execution strategies that deliver include capability in asset management, in Malaysia, whereby we develop a eld enhancedvalue.
maintenance and operations, training, alongside our equity partners and recover browneld engineering, well management Forecasts of world oil production show our investment through the sale and production engineering.
national oil companies NOCs will drive of production.
Value is created through material growth in oil production capacity A key differentiator of our integrated thedesign of fast-track, cost effective over the next two decades.
NOCs have offering is our training capability.
solutions and the efficient operatorship the hydrocarbon resources to underpin Petrofachas one of the largest training ofthe post development asset.
this increase, however, they face organisations in the oil & gas industry, We believe there is a growing desire a number of challenges in delivery.
which creates the platform for long-term fromour NOC customers to retain the Firstly, the NOC giant elds are in decline, alignment with NOCs to develop ownership of their reserves and the title demanding significant technical focus capability within their own workforces.
We therefore expect and capital investment to sustain We are leveraging our integrated capability to see an increase in PEC and RSC production.
Secondly, many new sources by using three generic commercial contracting arrangements where we do of production capacity are more complex models.
Firstly, the Production not book the reserves or the production.
and nally, newly discovered elds are Enhancement Contract PEC, such as smaller.
Because of this increasing The market opportunity is significant and ourbrowneld Ticleni contract for Petrom difficulty and complexity, NOCs are faced we believe our distinctive strategy and where we are paid tariffs per barrel for with a growing demand on their capability proven capability can meet the growing baseline and incremental production and and are seeking partners who can bring needs of our customers and make IES create value through the integration of our integrated services to support the astrong growth vehicle for Petrofac.
subsurface, operations and projects development of their resources.
Secondly, through the Risk Overview ReRi view off operattions i Financial Fina Financia nciall performance and risk Corpora Corp Corpora orat t te e e responsibility Go G G vernance Gr Gr Gro o ou up up p financial statements Comp Com Compa pa an n ny y y financial statements
