Directors information Petrofac Corporate governance report Annual report and accounts 2011 75 Nominations Committee report Audit Committee report Board Risk Committee report Directors remuneration report Directors statements 01 22 41 50 10 1 1 7 153 How do we decide what Directors are paid?
How do we get the best out of our Board?
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining We invest time and effort in appointing our Directors and arranging the remuneration and terms of employment of Executive Directors Board meetings so it would be disappointing if we did not get the as well as some members of senior management.
This Committee best out of our Board.
I believe that your Board must operate in an is also responsible for determining the Chairmans fees.
A detailed atmosphere of mutual trust and respect in order to beeffective and report on the activities of the Remuneration Committee is provided I therefore encourage Directors to be open and forthright.
Responsibility for determining the as encouraging the right culture within the boardroom, I believe that remuneration payable to the Non-executive Directors lies with the following aspects of practical support for Directors are essential the full Board.
TheExecutive Directors and I therefore effectively to enable them to engage fully with the Company and allow them determine the fees payable to the Non-executive Directors albeit to make the best possible contribution: we take independent external advice.
These fees are reviewed Evaluation each year and further details are provided on page 102.
I believe that your Board should be continuously trying to improve its effectiveness.
The UK Code requires me, however, to evaluate What is our approach to shareholders Board performance once a year.
In 2010 we conducted an re-appointing Directors?
externally facilitated Board evaluation which resulted in some significant recommendations for improving the Boards In line with the UK Code, all your Directors will seek appointment performance.
The table below sets out our progress in seeking orre-appointment by shareholders at the 2012 annual general toimplement those recommendations during 2011. meeting AGM.
Tim Weller, Marwan Chedid and Ren Mdori will seek appointment for the first time, having been appointed to the This year, given that we are a Board in transition, I carried out Board since the last AGM.
Full biographical details of all Directors one-to-one interviews with each Director towards the end of can be found on pages 66 and 67 and in the Notice of Meeting.
2011and early 2012, using a set of pre-dened questions.
Asrequired by the UK Code, the terms and conditions of Thesequestions aimed to address the activities and responsibilities appointment of all Directors are available for inspection by any of the Board as well as the Board committees.
Each interview person at our registered ofce in Jersey and at our corporate gavesufcient time for each Director to raise any areas of concern services ofce in London.
They will also be available for inspection with me, plus the opportunity to discuss any topics relating to our prior to the AGM to be held in May 2012.
Boards performance and areas for suggested development.
TheSecretary to the Board and I have collated the results of these interviews into a report for the whole Board.
This was presented at theend of February 2012 and I will report on the outcome of this workin next years report.
My appraisal was conducted by Rijnhard van Tets, our Senior Independent Director.
Rijnhard did this through a series of interviews with the Directors before meeting with me to presentfeedback.
Progress report on 2010 evaluation recommendations Action Progress More strategic discussion.
In 2010, our Board spent 15% of its time in Board meetings considering strategy.
In 2011, this had increased to 32% following the introduction of a dedicated strategy day in May, a half day in November and regular strategic deep dives at other Board meetings.
Articulate our risk appetite and significant The Board Risk Committee undertook a review of the Groups risk framework during the year as risks more effectively.
a consequence of which, our Board has a clearer understanding of its attitude to the various risks facing the enterprise.
A full report is given by the Board Risk Committee on pages 88 and 89.
Revisit the Groups delegated authorities so A new delegated authority matrix was approved by our Board in November 2011.
A full report the Board uses its time more effectively.
is also available in the Board Risk Committees report.
Focus more on succession planning.
In 2010, the Nominations Committee spent 75% of its time leading searches for the new Chairman and the two new Directors appointed in early 2011.
It therefore spent considerable time engaged in the practical application of Board succession planning but little time on wider succession planning.
In 2011, the Nominations Committee has continued to focus on succession for our Board but has widened its remit to the management layer below the Board.
In addition, from 2012 onwards our Board will receive two reports a year from the Group Head of Human Resources which will cover succession planning for the entire organisation.
Overview ReRi view of f operat tiions Financial Fina Financia nciall performance and risk Corpora Corp Corpora orat t te e e responsibility Go G vernance Gr Gr Gro o ou up up p financial statements Comp Com Compa pa an n ny y y financial statements Petrofac 76 Annual report and accounts 2011 Corporate governance report continued Board agenda and papers Training We spend considerable time developing the agenda for each of our As Chairman, I am responsible for the development needs of all scheduled Board meetings.
We have a number of standing items Directors.
The UK Code puts greater emphasis on Director training and various matters, such as the forthcoming years budget or than ever, a governance development which I support.
HSSEIA plan, which are brought to the Board on the basis of a Specic training was provided during the year via the Audit and 12-month rolling programme.
On average, however, at least half Remuneration Committees and full details are provided in their ofany Board meeting agenda is devoted to strategic and nonrespective reports.
We did not consider that there was any need to recurring items.
Inaddition, we take care to structure each agenda run any specic training for either the Nominations Committee or so that the orderof business changes from meeting to meeting.
Board Risk Committee, although the Group Head of Compliance Ibelieve that taking this tailored approach encourages our Board to provided the Board with an opportunity to undertake the Groups engage more effectively.
Inaccordance with the UK Code, we anti-bribery and corruption training following a presentation to the ensure Board papers are dispatched in a timely manner, usually Board Risk Committee during the year.
Neither did we organise any one week prior toeach meeting, so that all Directors have adequate formal training for the whole Board this year but I will be considering time to be briefed properly in advance of meetings.
This is of the merits of doing so during 2012 and have asked each Director particular importance given our Directors geographical spread.
for his or her views on the matter as part of this years Board Directors are expected to challenge constructively all proposals evaluation exercise.
We continue to support Directors who wish to brought to meetings and well written papers help them to do this attend external seminars run by professional advisers and this year effectively.
When telephonic Board meetings are held, the offered Directors the opportunity to become members of the Secretary to the Board ensures that papers are circulated Deloitte Academy which provides them with the opportunity to electronically, generally at least 24 hours prior to themeeting.
attend arange of relevant seminars and engage in online training.
Inaddition, for the first time the Secretary to the Board has Secretary to the Board recorded all formal training undertaken by Directors during the Our Secretary to the Board, Mary Hitchon, is responsible to our year.
This will help me to assess the extent to which any Board Board and acted as Secretary to all committees during the year.
member might need additional developmental support.
She is available to individual Directors in respect of Board WhileIbelieve that we can do more, we have made considerable procedures and provides general support and advice.
One of her progress in relation to training during 2011. key roles is to advise me on governance matters so that I can enhance the governance and effectiveness of the Board, the committees and our individual Directors, which she does with professionalism and integrity.
She ensures that our Board is kept properly informed and is consulted on all matters reserved to it and that papers and other information are delivered in a timely fashion.
Directors information Petrofac Corporate governance report Annual report and accounts 2011 77 Nominations Committee report Audit Committee report Board Risk Committee report Directors remuneration report Directors statements 01 22 41 50 10 1 1 7 153 Induction We appointed four new Directors in 2011 and two new Directors atthe start of 2012.
We work with each of our new Directors to provide them with an individually tailored induction programme.
Details of our new Directors individual programmes are set out in the table below: Name and position Strengths Focus areas Induction programme Norman Murray Prior experience as To increase Normans Norman attended a formal presentation led by Freshelds Non-executive Chairman chairman and director knowledge of Petrofacs on the role and responsibilities of a UK-listed director ofaUK-listed company.
this is compulsory for all our new Directors.
Hevisited our ofces in Sharjah, Aberdeen, Chennai, Mumbai, Woking Experience of a FTSE and London, where he met senior operational 100E&P company.
management, key functional heads of the Group and new Strong financial experience.
Norman visited our NGL 4 site in the UAE, which provided him with experience of our role as a contractor.
Norman passed his offshore survival training in Aberdeen and is therefore now able tovisit offshore installations.
Roxanne Decyk Broad commercial To increase Roxannes Roxanne attended the Freshelds presentation Non-executive Director experience and previous knowledge of Petrofac referenced above.
Inaddition, at her request, she senior management andthe UK-listed attended one-on-one seminars with partners from experience within a companyenvironment.
Deloitte and Ernst & Young respectively on the roles ofthe majorIOC.
Roxannevisited our ofces in Sharjah, Aberdeen, Woking and London, Holds a number of where she met senior operational management, key non-executive directorships functional heads for the Group andnew graduates.
Roxanne visited our Asab site intheUAE.
Andy Inglis Previous experience as an To increase Andys Andy attended the Freshelds presentation.
Given that Chief Executive, IES executive director within BP knowledge of Petrofac.
Andy already had extensive industry and listed company plc and as a non-executive experience but was new to Petrofac, he undertook a director at BAE Systems comprehensive programme of visits around the Group.
He visited 16 of the Groups ofces, many key sites and met senior customer representatives.
During the course of these visits, he met our senior operational and functional management teams.
Tim Weller Previous experience as To increase Tims Tim attended the Freshelds presentation.
He has visited Chief Financial officer adirector of UK-listed knowledge of Petrofac.
our Sharjah, Aberdeen, Woking, Chennai and Mumbai entitiesand extensive ofces and has met our senior operational andfunctional financial experience.
Tim completed hisoffshore survival training in Aberdeen, which will allowhim to visit offshore installations.
We consider it important that all our senior management in functional roles have an appreciation of operational considerations and in particular HSE.
Directors appointed after year-end: The Freshelds seminar is compulsory and will be Ren Mdori Experience as chief To increase Rens heldduring the year.
Ren will be offered any formal Non-executive Director financial officer within a knowledge of Petrofac and training he may request in relation to his committee major UK-listed entity assist him in preparing for memberships.
He will undertake a tour of the main andas a non-executive his role as a member of theAudit, Board Risk and Petrofac ofces and will meet senior operational and directorwithin the oil & Nominations Committees.
Marwan Chedid Promoted from within To increase Marwans The Freshelds seminar is compulsory and will be Chief Executive, ECOM Petrofacs engineering and understanding of the role heldduring the year.
Marwan will also be attending the construction business.
ofa director within a London Business Schools Directors Forum in early UK-listed entity.
Participants on this programme work with leading gures from other companies boards and professional advisers to develop their boardroom skills through role play and sharing best practice.
Overview ReRi view of f operat tiions Financial Fina Financia nciall performance and risk Corpora Corp Corpora orat t te e e responsibility Go G vernance Gr Gr Gro o ou up up p financial statements Comp Com Compa pa an n ny y y financial statements
