Directors information Petrofac Corporate governance report Annual report and accounts 2011 95 Nominations Committee report Audit Committee report Board Risk Committee report Directors remuneration report Directors statements 01 22 41 50 10 1 1 7 153 Remuneration policy for 2012 onwards Individual elements of remuneration Balance of xed and variable pay Fixed pay Basic salary A significant proportion of Petrofacs total remuneration package is variable.
There is a particular emphasis on long-term share-based Benets in kind incentives, to align closely Directors interests with shareholders Basic salary interests.
Ordinarily, the Committee determines an Executive Directors basic The Committee considers that the targets set for the different salary at the beginning of each year and any change is applied with elements of performance related remuneration are appropriate.
Basic salaries are generally set at median Thebalance between the xed basic salary and cash allowances or below against the relevant benchmarking group and depend and variable annual bonus and long-term incentive elements upon the individuals role and contribution.
of remuneration varies depending on performance.
The charts The Committee recognises that Petrofac has continued to perform below show the mix between xed and variable pay, excluding strongly during the year.
However, due to the prevailing economic cash allowances benets.
climate, the Committee kept Executive Director salary increases As the proposed Value Creation Plan is a one-off plan and will not in line with the broader UK employee population at around 5%.
be part of the ongoing remuneration policy, this has been excluded Nosalary increase has been awarded to Tim Weller, as he was from the charts.
appointed to the Board in October 2011.
The actual mix may be higher or lower than that shown below, Following the increases, basic salaries generally remain at median depending on the performance of Petrofac and the individual.
or below compared to the UK market and at median or below compared to the oil & gas services comparator group.
The revised Composition of total remuneration at target and basic salaries are therefore generally in line with Petrofacs maximumperformance remuneration policy.
Target performance Changes to basic salaries, with effect from 1 January 2012, 38% salary 39% annual bonus areasfollows: 23% PSP 2012 2011 basic salary basic salary Ayman Asfari 611,000 582,000 Maroun Semaan US$595,000 US$567,000 Andy Inglis 525,000 500,000 Tim Weller 425,000 425,000 Maximum performance In addition, Marwan Chedid was appointed to the Board as Chief 20% salary Executive, Engineering, Construction, Operations and Maintenance 40% annual bonus 40% PSP ECOM on 19 January 2012.
Marwan will receive a basic salary of US$540,500 for this role, effective from the date of his appointment.
Benefits in kind Executive Directors receive certain benets in kind.
UK-resident Executive Directors receive private health insurance, life assurance and long-term disability insurance.
Maroun Semaan, who is resident in the UAE, receives similar benets as well as other typical expatriate senior executive benets, such as education and return If an Executive Director receives a maximum cash bonus and ights to his permanent home.
maximum PSP award equal to 200% of basic salary, his xed remuneration excluding cash allowances benets would be In addition to their basic salary and non-cash benets, UK resident one-fifth of his overall remuneration, with variable remuneration Executive Directors also receive a cash allowance in place making up the balance.
At target performance, xed remuneration of benets including, but not limited to, car allowances and pension would be broadly two-fths of overall remuneration.
Directors do not receive pension contributions from the Company.
In 2011, all UK-based Executive Directors received a cash allowance of 65,000.
Overview ReRi view of f operat tiions Financial Fina Financia nciall performance and risk Corpora Corp Corpora orat t te e e responsibility Go G vernance Gr Gr Gro o ou up up p financial statements Comp Com Compa pa an n ny y y financial statements
