Petrofac 04 Annual report and accounts 2011 Our services The scale and scope of Petrofacs capabilities enable us to provide services to our customers across the entire life cycle of their oil & gas assets.
Our services are delivered CO Storage 2 through two divisions Engineering, Construction, Operations & Maintenance ECOM and Integrated Energy Services IES.
Design From the concept to the detail, our design services CO 2 draw on deep technical experience combined with a Sequestration long track record of delivering in the eld.
Our design capture teams span the technical spectrum and are available Rening world-wide to discuss customers needs.
and petrochemicals ca c ca ca als a als s s s s Build Whether it is on or offshore, brown or greeneld, ourengineering, procurement and construction businesses deliver customers projects with an acute Storage focus on schedule and cost.
We work under both reimbursable and lump-sum contractual models fromthe million to the multi-billion dollar scale.
Maintain Our people have deep experience in operating oil & gas infrastructure.
We provide project management, operations and maintenance support and engineering and construction solutions for planned facility modications and upgrades.
Manage Oil & gas We provide a complete asset management service, processing under a variety of different commercial models, facilities and covering production enhancement, production pipelines operations and maintenance work, both offshore andonshore.
Train Our global training business manages 14 training facilities in six countries.
We have an integrated approach, working with customers to assess capability needs and to build programmes to develop competent, safe and efficient workforces.
Develop We bring our spectrum of technical skills together under integrated contracts to support customers in developing their energy resources.
We undertake this development work under innovative commercial structures, sharing risk with our customers in order to align ourselves closely with them.
