Petrofac 34 Annual report and accounts 2011 Integrated Energy Services Integrated Energy Services harnesses Petrofacs broad range of capabilities to provide integrated services to oil & gas resource holders.
The division has three integrated service lines, which report as one financial segment.
Integrated Energy Services comprises What we do Employees threediscrete but integrated service lines, Developments, Production Solutions and IES helps customers develop their Training Services.
Where we can leverage resources either through the development 2,300 our service capabilities to enhance value, of new elds or by enhancing production Contribution to Group revenue mitigate risks and reduce costs, Integrated from mature reservoirs.
Our offering is Energy Services provides a fully integrated characterised by a commercial exibility service offering for resource holders under that ensures alignment with our exible commercial models that are aligned customers and differentiated engineering to their requirements.
Projects cover and execution strategies that deliver upstream developments, both greeneld 9% enhanced value.
and browneld, and related energy infrastructure projects, and can include the Key highlights provision of financial capital in addition to Secured first Risk Service Contract in our intellectual capital.
Our service offering Contribution to Group profit Malaysia, for development of the is underpinned by the ability to develop Berantai eld resource holders local capability through Awarded Magallanes and Santuario the provision of technical skills training Production Enhancement Contracts programmes and competency inMexico development and assurance frameworks.
4% Field Development Programme Integrated Energy Services was formally approved by PETRONAS to develop launched as a new division at a Capital thethird phase of Block PM304, Markets Day held in June 2011.
We believe WestDesaru, with first oil expected that the scale of the opportunity for inlate 2012 Integrated Energy Services is significant Agreement to earn 20% interest in and that our service offering responds GreaterStella Area: first oil expected directly to the needs of resource holders.
second halfof 2013 Petrofac has been on a journey for more than ten years to add competence beyond Revenue Net profit US$ millions US$ millions our core engineering & construction 2007 363.22007 44.9 capability, and it is the resulting scope and 2008 435.12008 37.4 depth of our service capability that now 2009 484.12009 61.1 positions us to offer a differentiated and 1 2010 384.2 2010 38.0 integrated solution to the marketplace.
Operating environment Petrofac Segmental analysis Annual report and accounts 2011 35 Engineering, Construction, Operations & Maintenance Onshore Engineering & Construction Offshore Projects & Operations Engineering & Consulting Services Integrated Energy Services 01 41 4 4 50 65 107 153 Petrofac along with its partners Kencana and Sapura were selected to deliver the Berantai project.
As part of this fast-track development, a wellhead platform will be installed to support the drilling of 18 wells, with a second wellhead platform expected to be installed in a subsequent phase.
Bothplatforms will be connected to a Floating Production Storage and Ofoading FPSO vessel, which will be jointly owned by the Berantai partners.
The FPSO will undergo modication to ensure suitability for the Berantai development.
Produced gas will be exported by subsea pipeline via the Angsi Field, whileoil will be ofoaded via shuttle tanker.
Under the terms of the RSC, the Berantai partners will receive a rate of return linked to their performance against an agreed incentive structure, including project costs, timing to first gas and sustained gas delivery after project completion, with an ongoing incentive structure based on operational uptime.
Integrated Energy Services deploys its Within our Training Services business, have signed a five-year deal with Saudi services to meet the individual needs of delegate numbers were higher than in Petroleum Services Polytechnic to deliver a customers using different commercial 2010, and we saw the strongest growth construction and drilling training curriculum frameworks: Risk Service Contracts RSC, inour UK facilities, including the Altens and into Saudi Aramco and its supply chain.
Production Enhancement Contracts PEC, Marine Training Centres in Aberdeen, and In Nigeria, our personnel continue to assist and traditional upstream equity investment in the Americas.
InNovember 2011, we Seven Energy with its asset development models including both Production Sharing entered into a strategic partnership with both at the operational level and through Contracts PSC and royalty concessions.
Raytheon Company to deliver water representation on Seven Energys During 2011 we were awarded examples of survival training to the oil & gas industry at Boardand management committees.
each, on which initial progress is discussed NASAs Johnson Space Center underwater Asat31December 2011, 80% of our below: the Berantai eld in Malaysia RSC, facility in Houston.
warrants had vested after reaching agreed the Magallanes and Santuario blocks in milestones.
Earlier in the year, we invested Training Services is a key component of our Mexico PECs, and the Greater Stella Area afurther US$50 million in the company, integrated offer.
Througha well constructed development in the United Kingdom equity 1 taking our interest up to 22.0% training and competence development.
Inaddition, we announced programme, ourcustomers can attain entering into the strategic alliance with a Co-operation Agreement with global standards with local capability.
Seven Energy in November 2010 we have Schlumberger Production Management This was the driving force behind the gained significant knowledge which will in January 2012, under which the two memorandum of understanding MOU we be crucial in addressing the growing divisions will work together to deliver signed with PETRONAS in July 2011, to opportunity set in Nigeria and establishing integrated and high-value production collaborate in the areas of competency an independent local presence in-country.
projects in the emerging and growing development, capability building and production services and production education activities.
Already in 2012 we enhancement market.
1 On a fully diluted basis assuming the full conversion of all convertible securities and exercise of all outstanding warrants and options.
Overview ReRi view off operations i Financial Fina Financia nciall performance and risk Corpora Corp Corpora orat t te e e responsibility Go G G vernance Gr Gr Gro o ou up up p financial statements Comp Com Compa pa an n ny y y financial statements
