Petrofac 64 Annual report and accounts 2011 Corporate responsibility continued Our ethical core Petrofac is known to customers for its technical capability and trackrecord for delivery.
We aim to be known equally for our ethicalvalues and behaviour.
Businessethics, particularly in the areas of bribery and corruption, are also increasingly important to regulators, customers and stakeholders who need the assurance of knowing they can trust us to do the right thing.
Maintaining our goodreputation is, therefore, essential for our continued success.
In2011, we worked to embed ethical conduct, one of our core values, even further into everything wedo.
Our newly appointed Group Head of Ofcers.
We aim to identify champions in Embedding ethical Compliance led a programme of initiatives every one of our businesses and functions.
businesspractices aimed at raising awareness of the need to The Group compliance function is also We are now putting processes in place to behave ethically, providing the tools and working to develop closer relationships with make the standards ten principles part of training to support correct behaviour, aligned functions, such as audit and the way we work.
Reputational screening, andembedding compliance procedures finance, to complement existing synergies for example, is now a routine part of our into business processes.
This activity with the risk management team.
due diligence assessment for third-party helpsformalise Petrofacs established To harness further the wider Petrofac suppliers, along with technical and financial commitment to doing the right thing.
community in support of ethical conduct, suitability.
Suppliers are identied as being Preventing bribery and corruption was a the Group compliance team is responsible at low, medium or high risk of susceptibility major focus for the year and will remain so for the management of Petrofacs Speaking to bribery and corruption and we shape in the future.
We built on the November Up programme.
This whistle blowing ourrelationships with them accordingly.
2010 launch of our new standard for the initiative encourages staff to raise concerns Thethird-party risk assessment, and prevention of bribery and corruption, in line about unacceptable behaviour via a free supporting activity, will further help Petrofac with the UK Bribery Act, with a dedicated condential helpline and email service.
people to understand the risks in this area training programme.
After being formally Werealise that staff may feel uncomfortable and take adequate steps to mitigate them.
launched in July 2011 by Petrofacs Group about speaking up and that, although As well as adapting existing processes, Chief Executive, the e-learning module was 69% of respondents in our 2011 weareintroducing new ones to support rolled out to 3,000 employees in particularly PetroVoices employee survey indicated ourbribery and corruption standard.
high-risk areas, before being opened up to knowledge of the Speaking Up process, Wehave created a register to record all our entire workforce and included in our a14% increase from the previous survey, giftsand entertainment, given or received, induction programme.
By the end of 2011, awareness could be higher.
In2012, a accepted or declined, which is currently around 70% of the employees initially Company-wide communications campaign being embedded across the organisation identied had completed the course, which will aim to raise the prole of Speaking Up, with support of senior management.
provides guidance in areas such as gifts particularly among contractors and other Theregister, is accompanied by a detailed and entertainment, political contributions third parties.
Wealsoaim to extend the guide on gift and entertainment protocol.
and due diligence of third parties.
range of languages spoken by our helpline Additionally, staff in India, Iraq, Turkmenistan, counsellors.
Engaging our people Algeria and Sharjah received face-to-face Looking ahead, in 2012, Petrofac will incompliance training on the standard and on our wider continue to assess, monitor and curb the Code ofBusiness Conduct.
Strategically, our central compliance reputational risk in our operations and value function is not intended to monitor and chain.
As part of this process, we will revise uphold the behaviour of our entire the Code of Business Conduct to Preventing bribery organisation.
Compliance must be incorporate changes in regulation and andcorruption was a embedded in the businesses and our culture, in line with our conviction that the people have a vital role to play in this major focus for the year Code is a living document, and will further process.
In 2011, we began developing re-emphasise the fairness and and will remain so in anetwork of compliance champions.
transparency at the heart of our business.
Thisincluded the creation of two full-time compliance leads for each of our divisions, reporting to their respective Chief Financial
