Petrofac 74 Annual report and accounts 2011 Corporate governance report continued How often does our Board meet?
Where does our Board meet?
The Board meets face-to-face at least six times a year at scheduled We make sure that we hold one of our six scheduled meetings in meetings.
In addition, the Board meets telephonically on an ad hoc Sharjah, which is the location of our largest ofce and the centre basis if items of business arise which cannot be held over until the ofour ECOM business.
While in Sharjah, our Board takes next scheduled face-to-face meeting.
Scheduled meetings are theopportunity to meet more than 50 members of our local generally held over a two-day period, though at least two of these management team over an informal dinner.
In January 2012 our are longer as during our annual programme of events we also hold Non-executive Directors also met with eight graduates and trainees a dedicated strategy day as well as a site visit.
Committee meetings of different nationalities and disciplines.
Every year we also hold are held prior to the full Board meeting.
Details of Director onemeeting in a location where Petrofac has significant business.
attendance and eligibility to attend are set out in the table below: InOctober 2011, we visited Abu Dhabi, the location of our joint venture with Mubadala Petroleum Services Company, Petrofac Board Emirates LLC.
While there, we visited the Petrofac Emirates ofce, Board meetings had a tour of the Asab oil eld development site and met with the Total number of meetings held meetings eligible to during the year to 31 December 2011 attended attend project management team.
These two Board meetings in particular a allow us, not only to consider formal business, but also help us to Norman Murray 5 5 get to know Petrofac, its people and its customers.
We held two Rijnhard van Tets 6 6 meetings in Jersey during 2011 and another two meetings in Thomas Thune Andersen 6 6 different European locations.
From 2012 we intend to continue to Stefano Cao 6 6 hold one meeting in Sharjah and one in a location where we have significant business, holding the remaining four meetings in Jersey.
Roxanne Decyk 5 5 Ayman Asfari 6 6 Maroun Semaan 6 6 Where is the Company resident?
Andy Inglis 5 5 Petrofac Limited was incorporated in Jersey under the Companies Tim Weller 2 2 Jersey Law 1991.
Former Directors a Rodney Chase 2 3 Kjell Almskog 3 3 What is the selection process for our Board?
Keith Roberts 5 5 We have a formal, rigorous and transparent selection procedure a Chairman.
for the appointment of Directors.
The Nominations Committee is responsible for recommending new Directors to our Board.
The full Board, with the exception of the Who attends Board meetings?
existing Chairman, takes responsibility for considering the appointment of a new Chairman.
Board size and composition As well as Directors and the Secretary to the Board, regular guests areconsidered very carefully to ensure the correct balance of from operational and functional management are invited to attend individuals and diversity of experience is available.
During 2011, selected members of the senior individuals need to have sufficient time to give to our Board.
Care is management team attended part or all of at least one meeting.
taken to establish the existing commitments of all Non-executive Wealso had regular updates from the functional heads of HSSEIA, Directors, particularly the Chairman.
Should a Directors external HR, strategy and corporate responsibility CR.
Several other commitments change after appointment, they are required to make members of operational management, one or two tiers me and the Board aware as soon as practicable so that we can belowmanaging director level, also attended some meetings.
consider any potential conict of interest, time commitment Weconsider that this regular exposure to our senior management challenge or residency status conict.
A detailed report on the is valuable, not least in its benets to our succession planning activities of the Nominations Committee is set out on page 80. programme.
It helps Directors get to know the Company and its senior management better and it makes for more effective Board meetings that, while always professional, are nevertheless lively andengaging.
