Directors information Petrofac Corporate governance report Annual report and accounts 2011 79 Nominations Committee report Audit Committee report Board Risk Committee report Directors remuneration report Directors statements 01 22 41 50 10 1 1 7 153 We place considerable importance on communication with How does our Board engage with our ourshareholders, including our employee shareholders.
shareholders and make sure that it is aware Allshareholders receive hard copies of our annual report ofshareholders views?
andaccounts ARA and half-year reviews.
These, and all As a Board, we acknowledge our responsibilities to promote the announcements wemake to the market, together with copies of success of the Company for many people but our shareholders presentations to analysts and interviews with Ayman and Tim are are, of course, our principal focus.
available on our website www.
All shareholders are invited to attend the Companys AGMat which they have the Ayman Asfari, Tim Weller and the investor relations team, headed opportunity to put questions to the Board and meet with those by Jonathan Low, provide presentations to research analysts and Board Directors able to attend.
institutional investors, including a question and answer session, following the announcement of our full and half year results.
Our Annual General Meeting AGM Thesepresentations are broadcast live on our website and may therefore be followed by all shareholders.
Ayman, Tim and the Full details of this years AGM, which will be held in London, are set investor relations team have a regular programme of meetings out in the Notice of AGM which accompanies the ARA and which scheduled each year and conduct a series of individual meetings is also available on our website.
As a matter of good practice, we with existing and potential shareholders following our full and halfwill conduct all resolutions on a poll and announce the results to the year results and interim management statements.
In 2011, they held market as soon as possible after the meeting.
approximately 370 investor meetings, of which Ayman and or the I look forward to seeing as many of you as possible this year when Chief Financial officer attended approximately half of the meetings.
my colleagues and I will be available to answer your questions.
I believe, therefore, that Ayman and Tim are well placed to provide the rest of the Board with their insights into shareholder sentiment.
Directors receive brokers research notes from Jonathan and an update from one of our joint brokers at each Board meeting.
We offer analysts and institutional shareholders the opportunity to visit at least one of our operations every other year.
In 2011, Norman Murray we held a Capital Markets Day in London which provided an Chairman of the Board update on the Groups strategy and the roll-out of the Integrated 2 March 2012 Energy Services division.
In the past, we wrote to our major shareholders at each year-end, offering them the opportunity to meet the Chairman or the Senior Independent Director.
We rarely received any responses, perhaps because December is a particularly busy time of year.
I therefore decided that I would write to shareholders offering to meet them earlier in the year accompanied by our Secretary to the Board and a member of the investor relations team.
I met six of our largest institutional shareholders and four key voting and advisory services providers.
Our discussions focused on governance related matters.
While shareholders focused on different points, some common areas of debate emerged principally in relation to determination ofstrategy, succession planning, board behaviour, executive remuneration and how the Group manages its risk, particularly in relation to HSSEIA.
I did not talk about operational matters, as these issues are dealt with by Ayman and Tim.
Iprovided a report to the Board after I had concluded the visits.
Thomas Thune Andersen, in his capacity as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, along with Carol Arrowsmith from Deloitte also consulted with six of our major shareholders as well asthree key advisory services providers in early 2011 and again atthe start of this year to discuss remuneration policy.
Overview ReRi view of f operat tiions Financial Fina Financia nciall performance and risk Corpora Corp Corpora orat t te e e responsibility Go G vernance Gr Gr Gro o ou up up p financial statements Comp Com Compa pa an n ny y y financial statements
