Directors information Petrofac Corporate governance report Annual report and accounts 2011 75 Nominations Committee report Audit Committee report Board Risk Committee report Directors remuneration report Directors statements 01 22 41 50 10 1 1 7 153 How do we decide what Directors are paid?
How do we get the best out of our Board?
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining We invest time and effort in appointing our Directors and arranging the remuneration and terms of employment of Executive Directors Board meetings so it would be disappointing if we did not get the as well as some members of senior management.
This Committee best out of our Board.
I believe that your Board must operate in an is also responsible for determining the Chairmans fees.
A detailed atmosphere of mutual trust and respect in order to beeffective and report on the activities of the Remuneration Committee is provided I therefore encourage Directors to be open and forthright.
Responsibility for determining the as encouraging the right culture within the boardroom, I believe that remuneration payable to the Non-executive Directors lies with the following aspects of practical support for Directors are essential the full Board.
TheExecutive Directors and I therefore effectively to enable them to engage fully with the Company and allow them determine the fees payable to the Non-executive Directors albeit to make the best possible contribution: we take independent external advice.
These fees are reviewed Evaluation each year and further details are provided on page 102.
I believe that your Board should be continuously trying to improve its effectiveness.
The UK Code requires me, however, to evaluate What is our approach to shareholders Board performance once a year.
In 2010 we conducted an re-appointing Directors?
externally facilitated Board evaluation which resulted in some significant recommendations for improving the Boards In line with the UK Code, all your Directors will seek appointment performance.
The table below sets out our progress in seeking orre-appointment by shareholders at the 2012 annual general toimplement those recommendations during 2011. meeting AGM.
Tim Weller, Marwan Chedid and Ren Mdori will seek appointment for the first time, having been appointed to the This year, given that we are a Board in transition, I carried out Board since the last AGM.
Full biographical details of all Directors one-to-one interviews with each Director towards the end of can be found on pages 66 and 67 and in the Notice of Meeting.
2011and early 2012, using a set of pre-dened questions.
Asrequired by the UK Code, the terms and conditions of Thesequestions aimed to address the activities and responsibilities appointment of all Directors are available for inspection by any of the Board as well as the Board committees.
Each interview person at our registered ofce in Jersey and at our corporate gavesufcient time for each Director to raise any areas of concern services ofce in London.
They will also be available for inspection with me, plus the opportunity to discuss any topics relating to our prior to the AGM to be held in May 2012.
Boards performance and areas for suggested development.
TheSecretary to the Board and I have collated the results of these interviews into a report for the whole Board.
This was presented at theend of February 2012 and I will report on the outcome of this workin next years report.
My appraisal was conducted by Rijnhard van Tets, our Senior Independent Director.
Rijnhard did this through a series of interviews with the Directors before meeting with me to presentfeedback.
Progress report on 2010 evaluation recommendations Action Progress More strategic discussion.
In 2010, our Board spent 15% of its time in Board meetings considering strategy.
In 2011, this had increased to 32% following the introduction of a dedicated strategy day in May, a half day in November and regular strategic deep dives at other Board meetings.
Articulate our risk appetite and significant The Board Risk Committee undertook a review of the Groups risk framework during the year as risks more effectively.
a consequence of which, our Board has a clearer understanding of its attitude to the various risks facing the enterprise.
A full report is given by the Board Risk Committee on pages 88 and 89.
Revisit the Groups delegated authorities so A new delegated authority matrix was approved by our Board in November 2011.
A full report the Board uses its time more effectively.
is also available in the Board Risk Committees report.
Focus more on succession planning.
In 2010, the Nominations Committee spent 75% of its time leading searches for the new Chairman and the two new Directors appointed in early 2011.
It therefore spent considerable time engaged in the practical application of Board succession planning but little time on wider succession planning.
In 2011, the Nominations Committee has continued to focus on succession for our Board but has widened its remit to the management layer below the Board.
In addition, from 2012 onwards our Board will receive two reports a year from the Group Head of Human Resources which will cover succession planning for the entire organisation.
Overview ReRi view of f operat tiions Financial Fina Financia nciall performance and risk Corpora Corp Corpora orat t te e e responsibility Go G vernance Gr Gr Gro o ou up up p financial statements Comp Com Compa pa an n ny y y financial statements
