Directors information Petrofac Corporate governance report Annual report and accounts 2011 93 Nominations Committee report Audit Committee report Board Risk Committee report Directors remuneration report Directors statements 01 22 41 50 10 1 1 7 153 Introduction Information not subject to audit This remuneration report has been prepared in accordance with Support for the Committee Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and The Committee has appointed Deloitte LLP Deloitte to provide Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 of the United independent advice on remuneration matters.
Deloitte is a member Kingdom and relevant listing rules of the Financial Services of the Remuneration Consultants Group and as such voluntarily Authority.
The Remuneration Committee takes responsibility for the operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive preparation of the report, which is approved by the Board.
remuneration consulting in the UK.
This report sets out the remuneration policy and principles under During 2011, Deloitte also provided tax services and an internal which Directors and senior managers are rewarded, and details audit secondee to the Company.
the remuneration and share interests of each Director for the year In addition, the Committee received support during 2011 from legal ended 31 December 2011. advisors Norton Rose, who provided advice on certain matters Although not a requirement of Jersey law, shareholders will be relating to compensation and benets.
invited to approve this report at the Annual General Meeting AGM To continue with Committee training, Carol Arrowsmith of Deloitte on 11 May 2012.
The vote on this resolution will have advisory also provided the Committee with a formal update on the external status only and will cover the remuneration policy and overall environment for executive remuneration during the course of a remuneration packages and will not be specic to individual levels meeting.
Members of the Remuneration Committee will be available at the AGM to answer shareholders questions about During 2011, the following individuals, none of whom were Directors remuneration.
Committee members, attended at least part of one meeting: The sections of this report dealing with Directors emoluments Individual Role Reason for attendance and share interests have been audited pages 103 to 105 by the Ayman Asfari Group Chief Executive To provide context Groups external auditors.
formatters under discussion The Board and the Committee consider that, throughout 2011 and up to the date of this report, the Company has complied with the Rodney Chase Chairman of the Board To provide context provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code UK Code formatters under discussion relating to Directors remuneration.
Norman Murray Chairman of the Board To provide context The Committee takes its responsibility very seriously and monitors formatters under developments in the area of executive remuneration closely, for discussion example, inputting into the recent BIS consultation paper on Mary Hitchon Secretary to the Board Secretary executive remuneration.
Geoff Traneld Group Head of HR To provide context As set out above, the Committee considers executive remuneration formatters under matters in the context of alignment with risk management.
Two discussion members of the Board Risk Committee sit on the Committee Carol Partner at Deloitte LLP Advisor which allows them to provide oversight on any Group risk factors Arrowsmith relating to remuneration matters.
The Committee believes that the remuneration arrangements in place do not raise health and safety, None of the above individuals attended part of any meeting environmental, social or ethical issues nor inadvertently motivate in which their own compensation was discussed.
Overview ReRi view of f operat tiions Financial Fina Financia nciall performance and risk Corpora Corp Corpora orat t te e e responsibility Go G vernance Gr Gr Gro o ou up up p financial statements Comp Com Compa pa an n ny y y financial statements
