Petrofac 38 Annual report and accounts 2011 Integrated Energy Services continued We have committed to an investment of Ohanet project, Algeria In January 2011, we approximately US$500 million for a 90% Overall production was lower than in 2010, interest in the contract to develop the secured our first RSC averaging approximately 90,000 bpd of oil blocks, while a subsidiary of PEMEX will inMalaysia, to lead the equivalent for the first ten months of the retain a 10% economic interest in the year 2010: 113,000 bpd of oil equivalent.
Petrofac will be reimbursed for development of the On average, we earned our share of the 75% of its operational and development Berantai eld monthly liquids production by the 11th day expenditure through a cost recovery of the month 2010: 11th, with the lower mechanism andwill receive tariffs for each The Berantai partners are in the process of production rates offsetting the higher barrel of baseline and incremental developing the eld and will subsequently average oil & gas prices.
Petrofac successfully operate the eld for a period of seven years at the end of October 2011, as expected, completed the transition and assumed after first gas production.
As part of the eight years from first gas, over which time operational responsibility for these blocks fast-track development, a wellhead platform we earned our dened return.
on 1 February 2012. has been installed to support the drilling of 18 wells, with the drilling programme Block PM304, Malaysia Berantai eld, Malaysia progressing well.
The conversion and As anticipated, and reported in the first half, upgrade of the FPSO Berantai is being In January 2011, we secured our first RSC oilproduction from the first phase of undertaken by Onshore Engineering & in Malaysia, to lead the development of the Cendor was lower in 2011 at 10,000 bpd Construction and Offshore Projects & Berantai eld, offshore Peninsular Malaysia, 2010: 13,300 bpd, despite achieving Operations and is in its final stages of for PETRONAS.
We have a 50% interest production uptime of over 98%.
The FPSO Berantai inthe RSC, alongside local partners is now in decline as a result of the natural is expected to mobilise to the Berantai eld Kencana and Sapura, both of whom hold decrease in eld pressure.
Gas lift facilities during the second quarter of 2012, and we a25% interest together known as the were installed in the fourth quarter of 2011, expect to achieve first gas from the eld Berantaipartners.
which are now operational, in order to shortly thereafter.
A second wellhead Under the terms of the RSC, the Berantai stabilise production in 2012. platform is expected to be installed in a partners will receive a rate of return linked subsequent phase, with both platforms The Field Development Programme FDP totheir performance against an agreed being connected to the FPSO Berantai by for the third phase of development of Block incentive structure, including project costs, subsea owlines.
Gas will be exported by PM304 West Desaru, was approved by timing to first gas and sustained gas subsea pipeline via a nearby host platform, PETRONAS in February 2012.
We intend to delivery measured six months after project and critical tie-in works were completed in accelerate the development of this fault completion, with an ongoing incentive late 2011. block by introducing an Early Production structure based on operational uptime.
System which will deploy the upgraded Above One of 300 active wells on the Ticleni oil eld, Romania.
Above Water and gas separation facility, Ticleni oil eld, Romania.
