Our Assets: POX Hub The technology of the future anticipates that it will be able to From 1994 to 2009, global gold take on a growing share of Russian production increased by 40% to gold mining and processing in the 2,350t: however exploration results near future.
failed to outstrip the depletion of current deposits.
The shortage The hub concept and design of new, non-refractory deposits In 2006, the Group began an coupled with current gold price extensive testing programme to levels has seen attention re-focus, examine the technological both in Russia and worldwide, properties of the refractory on known refractory gold deposits, mineralisation at Pioneer and which were previously deemed Malomir in order to devise the uneconomical due to high capital most efficient treatment method.
More than 300 tests, ranging from a scoping stage bench-scale trial In response to this industry-wide to closed-cycle pilot plant trend, Petropavlovsk re-focused experiments, have enabled Group The pressure oxidisation POX its strategy of profitable growth on specialists and external technical the development of a processing advisers to complete the design process chosen by the Group to treat technology not yet used in the of a hydrometallurgical processing refractory ore is currently one of the most gold mining industry in Russia.
hub, which will be one of the This decision was based not only largest and most advanced of its modern, efficient and environmentally on the nature of the Groups own kind in Russia.
deposits, but also on the belief friendly methods available.
that, with easy to process oxide After examining all the technical, ores fast running out worldwide, infrastructural and logistical Professor Yakov Schneerson the commercial recovery of gold aspects in a detailed evaluation Director of Gidrometallurgiya from refractory ores was likely to of several development options, become the mining technology of the Group decided to centralise R&D Centre the future.
Through the processing the processing of refractory of refractory ores, the Group concentrates at its Pokrovskiy The hub concept Malomir Two flotation plants at Malomir and Pioneer will produce concentrate using flotation technology.
This will then be transported to the Pokrovskiy site, which will act as a regional hub, for further treatment and gold recovery.
Refractory ore On-site flotation plant Flotation concentrate carbon pre-float and sulphide 27.3g t Au, 21.0% S flotation Pioneer Refractory ore On-site flotation plant Flotation concentrate sulphide flotation 27.9g t Au, 28.9% S 44 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011 About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information Recent years have seen a marked shift 1994 and 2009, accounting towards refractory ore processing: for more than 10% of global global production from refractory ores gold production in 2011. increased by more than 165% between Addressing logistical site, which it envisages will act as concentrate from Malomir and Refractory ores a regional pressure oxidation and two which will process the flotation challenges metallurgical processing hub.
Based on manufacture and and technology The hub at Pokrovskiy will be The POX plant is designed to delivery lead times, Outotec split supplemented by two flotation process 600Kt of concentrate equipment for the POX hub and Refractory ore generally contains plants at Malomir and Pioneer per annum at full capacity.
the two flotation plants into four sulphide minerals, which lock in concentrates produced at these This additional capacity, categories.
This has allowed the gold particles making it difficult or plants using flotation technology the modular nature of the plant Group to develop the optimal even impossible to extract gold will be transferred to Pokrovskiy and the logistical advantages schedule of manufacturing and using conventional cyanide for treatment and gold recovery.
of Pokrovskiys location will shipping contracts.
Outotec is leaching or gravity concentration.
also facilitate the treatment of acting as the principal developer, Some refractory deposits also Following its own extensive concentrate from other mines.
overseeing and controlling the contain organic carbon that in-house research and test work, quality of the equipment and the absorbs gold during cyanide in Q4 2010 the Group The Group adopted a flexible yet delivery schedule execution.
leaching creating an effect known commissioned Outotec Finland conservative approach to its as preg robbing, making a Oy Outotec, the global leader design of the pressure oxidation To guarantee the timely and safe proportion of gold unrecoverable.
in minerals and metals processing plant by running continuous delivery of all essential equipment, technology, to assist the Group additional checks to improve the Group commissioned Three main methods are usually with the preparation of the efficiency and robustness.
INTOTEC Group INTOTEC, used to extract gold from technical design for the POX plant a highly experienced and refractory material: roasting, at Pokrovskiy and the flotation Permitting reputable Russian shipping bioleaching and autoclave plants at Malomir and Pioneer.
PHM Engineering, the Groups company which has been oxidation of which the latter is Moscow-based in-house technical providing transport services to considered the most reliable and The design of the hub will enable services subsidiary, is at an the Group.
INTOTEC will also be environmentally friendly.
With this flotation concentrates from Malomir responsible for liaising with the advanced stage in preparing method, gold-bearing sulphides, and Pioneer to be processed in construction plans and relevant Russian authorities for such as pyrite, arsenopyrite and the same POX plant located at documentation to fulfil Russian timely and efficient custom pyrrhotite, are extracted from the Pokrovskiy.
The plant will consist of technical regulations and to clearances.
The documentation ore using flotation, creating a six pressure oxidation vessels, four facilitate the permitting process.
required to facilitate this is already high-grade concentrate which of which will process the flotation at an advanced stage.
is then treated at high temperatures in a pressurised autoclave.
This process breaks up the sulphide minerals, releasing the gold which can then be recovered through conventional RIP cyanide leaching, as used currently at the Pokrovskiy, Pioneer, Malomir and Albyn plants.
The Pokrovskiy hub Gold 3 Re-grinding 6x60m autoclaves Cyanide leaching Gold smelting Gold dor bars 0 acid pre-treatment Temperature: 225 C chlorine washing Pressure: 35 bar 45 Our Assets: POX Hub continued Quality control and assurance All large equipment, such as autoclave vessels and receivers, Leading manufacturers have been were sized and designed taking commissioned by Outotec to into account the transport provide the key equipment for the limitations of the Russian rail Pokrovskiy hub and the two system, and will therefore meet all flotation plants, including Shanghai necessary requirements and Morimatsu for autoclave vessels, technical regulations.
The LOTERIOS S. p. A Italy for pressure pipe lines, DSB Surebau GmbH permitting process required for the transport of oversized cargo from Germany for titanium inner gear the Vladivostok port to Pokrovskiy and autoclave linings, Outotec for is now at an advanced stage and flotation, control and automation will be completed in time to comply equipment, Feluwa Pumpen with the construction schedule.
GmbH Germany for acid resistant high-pressure slurry pumps, Smaller items will be delivered by MOGRAS Industries USA for valves, and Red Mountain Energy road by INTOTEC, using In developing our POX plant we approximately 450 containers and Corporation for the oxygen plant.
A temporary storage Although internal quality control at draw on a wealth of international area larger than a football pitch is these manufacturers is to a very experience in successful pressure being prepared at the site to high standard, the Group accommodate the cargo during undertakes further regular leaching, looking at all POX autoclaves the construction phase.
inspections using in-house and Outotec specialists.
In addition, in operation worldwide.
Our technical The first flotation equipment has NDE Group was commissioned to been cleared by Russian customs provide on-going independent team visited a number of sites gaining and arrived at the Malomir site in monitoring on all key equipment.
first-hand operational and technical March 2012.
NDE Group is a large, reputable international firm which, among knowledge of the process.
other services, provides vendor assessments and independent Viktor Fedorov quality assurance to a wide range Head of R&D of industries.
The first checks on high-pressure pumps are being undertaken in March 2012 in Germany, as scheduled.
Staff hiring and training Recognising that human the Pokrovskiy Mining College first-hand technical and managerial resources are key to the success has also been running a course experience of running such a plant.
of such a large-scale project, for future POX technicians and the Group launched a specialist skilled workers.
In view of this, the Groups training programme in preparation management is confident that a for the commissioning of the The Group was successful in full, highly skilled team will be POX plant.
This comprehensive securing the services of Evgeniy ready to operate the new facility programme provides training Kudrin as Technical Director of upon commissioning.
of future plant engineers and the Pokrovskiy POX plant.
operators at the Groups unique Mr Kudrin was the Deputy Director pilot autoclave plant facility for Production and Operations in Blagoveschensk, which is at the Nadezhdinskiy plant in equipped with the control and Norilsk which is of comparable automation system of an industrial size and uses similar technology autoclave plant.
Over the last year, to the Pokrovskiy POX plant.
Mr Kudrin therefore has 46 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011 About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information Gold mine City town Railway Federal highway BAM Railway Malomir Tynda Pioneer Pokrovskiy Chita Trans-Siberian Railway CHINA Birobidjan Khabarovsk EAO Blagoveschensk Cross-border bridge site As the Groups original site, flotation concentrate to be brought and the potential toll treatment of which has been in operation for to the plant for processing not just third-party refractory concentrates.
more than ten years, Pokrovskiy from the Amur region, but also from Given the abundance of was chosen as the location of the other gold-bearing regions of the undeveloped refractory deposits hub due to its skilled workforce Russian Far East.
Currently, there in Russia, and in the Russian Far and excellent infrastructure, are no other operational POX plants East in particular, this advanced including available power supply dedicated to treating gold refractory processing technology will and access to the federal road ores in Russia, despite the large open up a new dimension for system.
This allowed the Group proportion of refractory deposits the Groups future growth.
to make significant CAPEX and among the countrys gold reserves.
The Pokrovskiy site benefits OPEX savings.
from sufficient resources and Once completed, the POX plant supporting infrastructure to Pokrovskiys close proximity to the will be able to extract gold from a facilitate the expansion of the Trans-Siberian Railway, just 10km wide range of refractory ores, plant, should this be required.
away from the mine, will enable supporting both long-term sustainable gold production from the Malomir and Pioneer deposits Pilot test plant Petropavlovsks move towards gold recovery in Russia, with only also to cyanidation.
These tests POX processing has been a few similar test facilities operating indicated overall recovery to be supported by six years of intensive in the world.
research by the Groups R&D Tests on Pioneer samples resulted Centres.
Extensive laboratory During 2011, the Group carried in average gold recovery of 86%.
work was supplemented with bulk out tests of Malomir and Pioneer test sampling at the Groups samples at the pilot plant.
The pilot plant test results unique metallurgical pilot test Encouraging results were received confirmed the previously plant based in Blagoveschensk.
for Malomir using carbon flotation developed mathematical model to remove organic carbon and of the autoclave oxidation process Testing work using a scaled pilot minimise preg robbing.
at the future Pokrovskiy plant.
autoclave at the test plant allows Group specialists established Semi-industrial pressure oxidation for the continuous processing of flotation parameters and regimes, tests also provided sufficient pulp large volumes of concentrate, enabling the removal of the majority material for representative replicating the full-scale process.
Sulphide concentrate thickeners and filtration tests, This pilot facility remains the was subjected to pressure showing better than previously largest operational autoclave for oxidation in the pilot autoclave and expected results.
