Directors Report For the year ended 31 December 2011 Report and financial Plans for future developments Research and development Dr David Humphreys was statements are included in the statements Companies within the Group carry appointed as a Non-Executive The Directors present their of the Chairman on pages 4 to 7, out exploration, development and Director on 24 August 2011 and report and the audited financial Our Strategy page 11 and Our analysis work necessary to Mr Peter Hill-Wood retired as a statements for the year ended Assets on pages 44 to 59. support their activities.
19 May 2011 at the conclusion Post balance sheet events Further information is given in the of the Companys Annual Principal activities and Details of events occurring since Operations, development and General Meeting.
performance in 2011 section on future development 31 December 2011 are set out in note 36 to the Consolidated pages 44 to 61 and in the Ms Rachel English will be appointed The principal activities of the Financial Statements.
Exploration, Reserves and as a Non-Executive Director of the Group, which are mainly based Resources section on pages Company on 28 March 2012. in Russia, during the year were: Business review and 62 to 75 which form part of this Ms English has over 25 years Gold mining, exploration and Group results Directors Report.
international experience in development of the Pokrovskiy, Under Section 417 of the blue-chip companies, Pioneer, Malomir and Albyn Sustainability with responsibilities spanning Companies Act 2006, the mines and the mining of the Further information is given in the finance, strategy, planning, Directors are required to prepare Groups alluvial deposits: Operating Responsibly section business development, a business review.
This comprises on pages 22 to 23 and the and mergers and acquisitions.
Exploration for the assessment of the following, each of which Sustainability Report 2011.
She is currently a non-executive of mineralisation and the are incorporated by reference estimation of reserves and director of Kuwait Energy Plc, into, and form part of this resources of deposits located in Directors Global Carbon Capture and Directors Report: the following regions of Russia: The current Directors of the Storage Institute Ltd, the Audit The statements of the Chairman, Committee of the Department the Amur region, Krasnoyarsk Company at the date of this report and Honorary President on and their biographical details for International Development, Krai, Yamal-Nenets Autonomous pages 4 to 8: appear on pages 88 and 89 and and NHS London.
She is also a District and Zabaikalskiy Krai are incorporated into this report by non-executive director of Helios Chita region : Our Strategy on pages 10 to 21: reference.
Subject to the following, Social Enterprise, which she The Operating Responsibly E valuation of potential all of the Directors held of ce founded with former Scottish report on pages 22 to 23: acquisition and joint venture throughout the year ended Power, BP and Shell senior executives to develop renewable opportunities in gold mining in 31 December 2011.
Gold: Our Market Position and energy access projects in rural Russia: and Competitive Environment of Dr Pavel Maslovskiy resigned as sub-Saharan Africa.
She was pages 24 to 27: Evaluation of potential business Chief Executive Of cer and formerly Chief Financial Of cer opportunities.
The Key Performance Indicators Mr Sergey Ermolenko was at Gasol Plc and, prior to that, on pages 30 to 33: appointed as Chief Executive Senior Corporate Strategist at BG The principal activities of IRC, Of cer on 20 December 2011.
She has also held senior The Chief Financial Of cers a 65.6% owned subsidiary of Messrs Andrey Maruta and Martin positions with British Energy Plc, Statement on pages 34 to 43: the Group, during the year were: Entergy Inc and Shell Gas & Power.
Smith, and Dr Al ya Samokhvalova The statements in the section were appointed to the Board on Ms English is a graduate of the Iron ore production at Kuranakh: entitled Operations, 4 January 2011.
University of Oxford and a Fellow T he exploration and development and performance of the Institute of Chartered development of iron-related in 2011 on pages 44 to 61: Accountants in England and Wales.
reserves and resources, The statements in the section including the K&S project with entitled Exploration, Reserves the commencement of the and Resources on pages 62 construction programme, the to 75: Garinskoye project, the Bolshoi Seym project, as well as the The Report of the Risk Kostenginskoye and Garinskoye Committee on pages 76 to 87: Flanks projects: and The Corporate Governance Processing of steel slag Report on pages 99 to 107: and commenced from production The Directors Remuneration at the Steel Slag Reprocessing Report on pages 108 to 120.
Plant in north-eastern China, IRCs 46% owned joint venture.
92 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011 About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information With regard to the appointment Directors who are to retire by There have been no changes and replacement of Directors, rotation at that meeting.
to the interests of the Directors the Company is governed by its In accordance with the between 1 January 2012 and the Articles of Association, the UK requirements of the UK Corporate date of this report.
Corporate Governance Code, Governance Code, all Directors will the Companies Act 2006, and stand for election at the 2012 AGM, Details of the awards made to related legislation.
Directors may with the exception of Mr Brian Directors under the Companys be appointed by the Company Egan who will resign as Chief Long-Term Incentive Plan are set by ordinary resolution or by the Financial Of cer and as a Director out in the Directors Remuneration Board, on recommendation of the Company on 13 April 2012 Report on pages 113 to 115. of the Nomination Committee.
and will therefore not be seeking The Company may, in accordance re-election.
Further information with and subject to the provisions on the appointments to the Board of the Companies Act 2006, by is set out in the Corporate ordinary resolution of which Governance Report on pages 99 to 102. special notice has been given, remove any Director before the expiration of his her term of of ce.
Directors interests A Director appointed by the Board The interests of the Directors in the holds of ce only until the following share capital of the Company at Annual General Meeting and is the beginning and end of the year, then eligible for election by the as well as at the date of this report, shareholders but is not taken are as detailed in the table below.
into account in determining the Directors or the number of As at 1 January 2011 As at 31 December 2011 As at 27 March 2012 Ordinary Shares of % of issued Ordinary Shares % of issued Ordinary Shares % of issued 0.01 each share capital of 0.01 each share capital of 0.01 each share capital Graham Birch 10,000 0.005% 10,000 0.005% 10,000 0.005% Brian Egan Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Sir Malcolm Field 50,312 0.03% 50,312 0.03% 50,312 0.03% Lord Guthrie Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Peter Hambro and Associates 10,630,768 5.66% 8,672,558 4.62% 8,672,558 4.62% 1 Peter-Hill Wood 58,281 0.03% 58,281 0.03% N A N A Sir Roderic Lyne 1,625 0.001% 1,625 0.001% 1,625 0.001% 2 Pavel Maslovskiy and Associates 16,861,696 8.98% 14,903,486 7.93% N A N A 3 Andrey Maruta 3,333 0.0018% 3,333 0.0018% 3,333 0.0018% Charles McVeigh 500 0.0003% 500 0.0003% 500 0.0003% 3 Al ya Samokhvalova Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil 3 Martin Smith Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil 4 David Humphreys N A N A 1,820 0.001% 1,820 0.001% 5 Sergey Ermolenko N A 302,500 0.16% 302,500 0.16% 1 Mr Peter Hill-Wood retired as a Director on 19 May 2011, hence the number of shares shown as at 31 December 2011 represents the number of shares held as at the date of his resignation.
2 Dr Pavel Maslovskiy resigned as a Director on 20 December 2011, hence the number of shares shown as at 31 December 2011 represents the number of shares held as at the date of his resignation.
3 Mr Andrey Maruta, Dr Al ya Samokhvalova and Mr Martin Smith were appointed as Directors on 4 January 2011, hence the number of shares shown as at 1 January 2011 represents the number of shares held as at the date of their appointment.
4 Dr David Humphreys was appointed as a Director on 24 August 2011, hence the number of shares shown as at 1 January 2011 represents the number of shares held as at the date of his appointment.
5 Mr Sergey Ermolenko was appointed as a Director on 20 December 2011, hence the number of shares shown as at 1 January 2011 represents the number of shares held as at the date of his appointment.
93 Directors Report continued For the year ended 31 December 2011 Status of interests of Key Performance Indicators Supplier payment policy Corporate governance and Dr Pavel Maslovskiy and The Companys performance is It is Group policy to agree and shareholder relations Associates measured against the Key clearly communicate the terms of The Corporate Governance Following his resignation as a Performance Indicators KPIs payment as part of the commercial Report on pages 99 to 107 has Director of the Company on as contained on pages 30 to 33. arrangement negotiated with been prepared in accordance with 20 December 2011, Dr Maslovskiy suppliers and then to pay Rule 7.2 of the FSAs Disclosure has no obligation to notify the Financial instruments and according to those terms based and Transparency Rules and forms upon receipt of an accurate invoice.
Company of any transactions financial risk management part of this Directors Report.
Trade creditor days for the year he undertakes in Petropavlovsk Details of the Groups financial risk management objectives and ended 31 December 2011 were Details of the Companys shares pursuant to the Financial Services Authoritys FSA policies and exposure to risk are 35 days on average for the Group compliance with the UK Corporate Disclosure and Transparency described in note 32 to the 2010: 35 and 23 days on average Governance Code, including Regulation DTRs 3.
Financial Statements and in the for the Company 2010: 23. relations with shareholders, are set Accordingly no interest is shown Report of the Risk Committee on out in the Corporate Governance for Dr Pavel Maslovskiy as at pages 76 to 87 which forms part of Donations Report on pages 103 to 104.
31 December 2011 or as at this Directors Report.
No political donations were made and no political expenditure was 27 March 2012 in the previous Employees table on Directors interests.
incurred during the year 2010: The Group maintains a policy Dividends As the business of the Company US$nil.
Sponsorship and of providing employees with Risks and uncertainties develops, and subject to the charitable donations amounted information about the Company Risk is inevitable in business and the availability of distributable to US$3.4 million 2010: and regular meetings are held Group faces many risks.
Some are reserves, the Directors intend to US$ 2.5 million.
During the year, between management and speci c to the Group, some relate to pursue a dividend policy which the Group continued to provide employees to allow exchanges its charitable financial support the Groups industry, some are re ects the Companys cash ow of information and ideas.
through the Petropavlovsk Further information of the Groups Russia-related and some relate to and earnings, while maintaining an Foundation for Social Investment consultation with employees and the environment in which the Group appropriate level of dividend cover operates.
These are further and having regard to further fund the Foundation which was sharing of information is contained discussed in the Report of the Risk the development of the Companys established in 2010 to coordinate in the Sustainability Report 2011.
the Groups social investment in the summary of the Groups principal Russian Far East.
The Foundation The Group is committed to risks on pages 76 to 87, which forms The Directors recommend a final is a non-commercial and charitable providing equal opportunity organisation which nances part of this Directors Report.
dividend for 2011 of 7 pence per for individuals in all aspects of cultural, educational and other employment.
The Group gives Ordinary Share which together with the interim dividend of 5 social activities within the Russian every consideration to applications Going concern At the time when the Consolidated pence per Ordinary Share paid in Far East.
The Group regards the for employment by disabled Financial Statements are November 2011 makes a total provision of charitable donations persons where the requirements of authorised, there is a reasonable dividend for the year of 12 pence as an important part of its strategy the job may be adequately lled by expectation that the Group has per Ordinary Share 2010: 10 to maintain good working a disabled person.
Where existing relationships with local authorities.
suf cient liquidity and adequate pence.
The final dividend, if employees become disabled, it is the Groups policy wherever resources to continue operational approved by shareholders at the Details of the Groups charitable practicable to provide continuing existence for the foreseeable 2012 Annual General Meeting will be paid on 26 July 2012 to activities are set out in the employment under similar terms future as described in note 2.1.
Accordingly, the Directors continue shareholders on the register as at Sustainability Report 2011 and on and conditions and to provide to adopt the going concern basis 29 June 2012.
The associated ex pages 23 and 29 of this Report.
training, career development and in preparing the Consolidated dividend date will be 27 June 2012. promotion wherever appropriate.
The Board considers that the proposed dividend level is appropriately covered and is consistent with the Companys development spending.
94 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011 About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information Directors indemnities Pursuant to the issue of A qualifying third-party indemnity US$380 million 4.00% guaranteed provision as fide ned in Section 234 convertible bonds due on of the Companies Act 2006 is in 18 February 2015 the Bonds force for the bene t of the Directors issued by Petropavlovsk 2010 in respect of liabilities incurred as a Limited the Issuer on result of their of ce to the extent 18 February 2010 and guaranteed permitted by law.
In respect of by the Company, upon a change those liabilities for which Directors of control over the Company may not be indemni ed, the constituting a Relevant Event Company maintained a directors as fide ned in the Terms and and of cers liability insurance Conditions of the Bonds and policy throughout the financial year.
the Articles of Association of the issuer, the exchange price of the Signi cant agreements shares of the Company shall be adjusted in accordance with the change of control formula contained in the Terms A change of control of the Company following a takeover and Conditions of the Bonds and bid may cause a number of the Bondholders have the right to agreements to which the require the redemption of the Company, or any of its subsidiaries, Bonds at their principal amount is party, such as commercial plus accrued and unpaid interest trading contracts, joint venture to the date of redemption.
agreements, and banking Pursuant to an up to arrangements to take effect, alter or terminate.
In the context of the US$340 million Credit Facility potential impact on the Group, dated 13 December 2010 certain of these arrangements are ICBC Loan between Industrial considered to be signi cant.
and Commercial Bank of China Limited, ZAO Industrial and Commercial Bank of China The following signi cant Moscow as the lenders and agreements contain certain termination and other rights for LLC Kimkano-Sutarskiy Mining the counterparties of the Group and Bene ciation Plant as companies upon a change of borrower and the Company as control of the Company.
guarantor, if any person or group of persons acting in concert gains control of the Company, the lenders may cancel the total commitments under the ICBC Loan and may accelerate all amounts outstanding under the ICBC Loan so that they become immediately due and payable.
95 Directors Report continued For the year ended 31 December 2011 Powers of Directors The Directors have reviewed the Restrictions on voting The Board may, in its absolute Subject to the Companys Articles interests declared by Directors discretion and without giving No shareholder shall be entitled of Association, the prevailing which could con ict with those any reason, refuse to register any to vote at any general meeting or legislation and any directions given of the Company, and are satis ed transfer of a share or renunciation class meeting in respect of any by special resolution, the business that the Boards power to of a renounceable letter of Ordinary Shares held by him if and affairs of the Company will be authorise potential con icts is allotment unless: any call or other sum then managed by the Directors who operating effectively.
payable by him in respect of that may exercise all such powers of 1. it is in respect of a share which share remains unpaid.
The powers of is fully paid up: Amendment of Articles of all issued Ordinary Shares are Directors are further described in Association fully paid.
In addition, no member 2. it is in respect of only one class the Schedule of Matters reserved The Companys Articles of shall be entitled to vote if he failed of shares: for the Board, copies of which are Association may be amended by to provide the Company with available on the Companys special resolution of shareholders.
3. it is in favour of a single information concerning interests website at www.
net transferee or not more than four in those Ordinary Shares Capital structure joint transferees: required to be provided under Con icts of interest Details of the Companys issued the Companies Act 2006.
4. it is duly stamped if so required : Under the Companies Act 2006, share capital is shown in note 26 and Directors are subject to a statutory on page 163.
No shares were D eadlines for voting rights duty to avoid a situation where they issued during the year.
5. it is delivered for registration to have, or can have, a direct or The Company has one class Votes are exercisable at general the Companys registered of ce indirect interest that con icts, of Ordinary Share which carries meetings of the Company.
or such other place as the Board or may possibly con ict, with the no rights to xed income.
The notice of a general meeting may from time to time determine, interests of the Company.
will specify the deadline for accompanied except in the case appointing a proxy or proxies of a transfer by a recognised The Companies Act 2006 allows Rights and obligations attaching Directors of public companies to to vote in relation to resolutions person where a certi cate has to Ordinary Shares authorise con icts and potential to be passed at that meeting.
not been issued or in the case of The rights attaching to the con icts of interest of directors a renunciation by the certi cate Ordinary Shares are governed where the articles of association T ransfer of Ordinary Shares for the shares to which it relates by the Articles of Association and contain a provision to that effect.
and such other evidence as the prevailing legislation.
There are no The transfer of Ordinary Shares, The Companys Articles of Board may reasonably require to speci c restrictions on the size of is governed by the general prove the title of the transferor or Association afford the Directors provisions of the Companys a holding.
Subject to any rights or such powers.
In addition, the person renouncing and the due Articles of Association and restrictions attached to any Directors will be able to impose execution of the transfer or prevailing legislation.
There are Ordinary Shares, on a show of limits or conditions when giving renunciation by him or, if the hands every shareholder present no restrictions on the transfer of any authorisation, if they think this transfer or renunciation is in person or by proxy or being a the Ordinary Shares other than is appropriate.
Directors of the executed by some other person corporation present by a duly i as set out in the Articles of Company who have an interest on his behalf, the authority of that authorised representative has Association: ii certain in matters under discussion at person to do so.
restrictions which may from time one vote, and on a poll every Board meetings are required to to time be imposed by laws and shareholder who is present in declare this interest and, subject regulations for example, insider person or by proxy has one vote to certain exceptions, to abstain for every Ordinary Share held by trading laws : and iii pursuant to from voting on the relevant the shareholder.
the Listing Rules of the Financial matters.
Any material related party Services Authority whereby transactions will be approved by a certain Directors, of cers and committee of the Board consisting employees of the Company solely of independent Directors.
require the approval to deal in the Ordinary Shares in accordance with the Companys share dealing rules.
96 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011 About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information Registration of a transfer of an If the Board refuses to register a Allotment of Ordinary Shares uncerti cated share may be transfer of a share it shall, within and disapplication of prerefused in the circumstances two months after the date on emption rights set out in the Uncerti cated which the transfer was lodged The Company has authority to Securities Regulations with the Company, send notice issue Ordinary Shares under its as fide ned in the Companys of the refusal to the transferee.
Articles of Association and an Articles of Association.
Any instrument of transfer which ordinary resolution will be the Board refuses to register shall proposed at this years Annual Subject to certain exceptions, except in the case of suspected General Meeting to authorise the Board may refuse to register or actual fraud be returned to the Directors to allot Ordinary Shares a transfer of Ordinary Shares by person depositing it.
up to a maximum aggregate a person with a 0.25% interest nominal amount of 619,938. as fide ned in the Companys Shareholder agreements This represents the aggregate Articles of Association after The Directors are not aware of of 33% of the nominal value of failure to provide the Company any agreements between the Ordinary Shares in issue with information concerning holders of the Companys as at the date of this report.
interests in those shares required Ordinary Shares that may result A special resolution is to be to be provided under the in restrictions on the transfer of proposed which will disapply the Companies Act 2006. securities or on voting rights or statutory pre-emption rights for any arrangements by which, issues of Ordinary Shares for The Board shall not refuse with the Companys cocertain purposes.
to register any transfer or operation, financial rights carried renunciation of partly-paid by securities are held by a R epurchase of Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares which are listed person other than the holder of on the London Stock Exchange The Company was granted the securities.
No person has on the grounds that they are authority to repurchase up to 5% any special rights of control over partly paid Ordinary Shares in of its issued share capital at the the Companys share capital.
circumstances where such Annual General Meeting held on refusal would prevent dealings 19 May 2011.
This authority will Ordinary Shares held by the in such Ordinary Shares from expire at the conclusion of this Employee Bene t Trust years Annual General Meeting taking place on an open and Ordinary Shares held by the unless renewed at that meeting.
Petropavlovsks Employee The Company has not made use Bene t Trust abstain from voting.
of this authority during the year under review.
The Board will seek shareholder approval at this years Annual General Meeting for the authority to repurchase up to 5% of the issued share capital.
Further details of the above proposals and resolutions will be contained in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
97 Directors Report continued For the year ended 31 December 2011 Interests in voting rights Information provided to the Company pursuant to the Financial Services Authoritys FSA Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs is published on a Regulatory Information Service and on the Companys website.
As at the year-end and the date of this report, the Company had been noti ed under DTR5 of the following signi cant holdings of voting rights in its shares.
31 December 2011 27 March 2012 % of issued % of issued Number of Ordinary Share Number of Ordinary Share Shareholder Ordinary Shares capital Ordinary Shares capital BlackRock, Inc. 20,895,603 11.12% 20,522,080 10.92% Peter Hambro & Associates 8,672,558 4.62% 8,672,558 4.62% Vanguard Precious Metals and Mining Fund 7,750,000 4.13% 7,750,000 4.13% Legal & General Group plc 6,138,385 3.27% 6,138,385 3.27% Capital Research and Management Company 6,047,130 3.22% 6,047,130 3.22% Status of interests of Accordingly no interest is shown for Auditor This con rmation is given and Dr Pavel Maslovskiy Dr Pavel Maslovskiy and Associates In the case of each of the persons should be interpreted in and Associates as at 31 December 2011 or as at who are Directors of the Company accordance with the provisions of The shareholding previously 27 March 2012 in the above at the date when this report was s418 of the Companies Act 2006. noti ed to the Company as owned Interests in voting rights table.
approved: by Pavel Maslovskiy and Deloitte LLP have expressed so far as each of the Directors Associates is held through various Deadlines for exercising their willingness to continue in is aware, there is no relevant of ce as auditor and a resolution structures where Dr Maslovskiy voting rights audit information as fide ned has no ability to determine how to re-appoint them will be Votes are exercisable at a general in the Companies Act 2006 the shares are voted.
Accordingly meeting of the Company in respect proposed at the forthcoming of which the Companys auditor DTR5 does not require these of which the business being voted Annual General Meeting.
is unaware: and holdings to be aggregated.
Votes may be 31 December 2011 and as at the exercised in person, by proxy, or in each of the Directors has taken This report was approved by present time none of these relation to corporate members, all the steps that he she ought to the Board of Directors of Petropavlovsk PLC and signed holdings comprised of 3% or by corporate representatives.
have taken as a Director to make on its behalf by: more of the Companys issued The Articles provide a deadline for himself herself aware of any share capital and accordingly no submission of proxy forms of not relevant audit information disclosure has been made to the less than 48 hours before the time Amanda Whalley as fide ned and to establish that Company pursuant to DTR5.
appointed for the holding of the the Companys auditor is aware Company Secretary meeting or adjourned meeting.
