Our Management Expertise 01 Vladimir Dementeev 01 General Manager, Irgiredmet A prominent scientist in precious metals metallurgy, Mr Dementeev graduated from the Irkutsk Technical University.
He began his career at Irgiredmet as a junior research associate rising through the ranks before being appointed General Director of Irgiredmet in 1993.
Mr Dementeev has written four books and more than 70 research articles and is responsible for 34 inventions.
02 Alexander Mutiev 02 Chief Engineer of MC Petropavlovsk Mr Mutiev is a quali ed chemical engineer.
From 1973 to 1995 he worked in Uzbekistan at an institute where he specialised in the project planning of precious metals production.
In 1995 he moved to Russia where he worked as a production engineer at a gold mining company in the Krasnoyarsk region.
He joined Pokrovskiy Rudnik in 2002 as Director of the RIP plant and in 2005 was appointed Director of Production at MC PHM.
In 2007, he was appointed Chief Engineer of MC Petropavlovsk.
06 Professor Yakov Schneerson 07 06 Director of Gidrometallurgiya R&D centre Professor Schneerson is one of the worlds leading specialists in autoclave technology.
He is accredited with more than 65 inventions and patents and has published more than 300 scienti c papers and books.
Prior to his work with the Group, Professor Schneerson oversaw the commissioning of the first POX plant in Russia, Nadezhdinskiy now operated by Norilsk Nickel, which over 30 years later is still in operation, and worked on other prominent pressure oxidation projects.
His extensive scienti c and engineering 07 Valery Alekseev expertise has been a driving force in General Director of Kapstroi researching new processing technologies for the Group.
A quali ed engineer who has been with the Group since inception, Mr Alekseev has been the backbone of all construction projects carried out by the Group to date.
Prior to his career with the Group, Mr Alekseev worked on other prominent mine engineering projects in Russia and elsewhere, including managing the design and construction of the Murantau plant in Uzbekistan one of the largest of its kind in the world.
In his current role with the Group, Mr Alekseev heads Kapstroi, a Group subsidiary specialising in mine construction.
90 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011 About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information 04 Yury Golubev 03 04 Deputy General Director of PHM Engineering Prior to joining the Group in 2005, Mr Golubev was involved in the development of projects in Russia, Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan, and received a prestigious Soviet award for his work in the latter.
Alongside his role with the Group, Mr Golubev has acted as an expert of the State Reserves Committee of the Russian Federation since 1980 and is regularly invited to participate in miningrelated conferences and has published many Russian-language articles.
In 2007, he received a prominent award in recognition of his contribution to the 03 Vera Usova Russian mining industry.
Head of Environmental Safety Ms Usova is a quali ed geologist and ecologist.
She joined the Group in 2001 and is now Head of Environmental Safety.
Her work has been noted by the government of the Amur region who awarded her a Certi cate of Merit for her long-term contribution to environmental protection in 2003.
Ms Usova has also published two Russian language books on ecology in the eld of gold mining.
05 Nikolai Vlasov 05 Chief Geologist One of the original members of the Groups founding management team, Mr Vlasov previously headed a Soviet governmental department responsible for evaluating gold resources in the Russian Far East.
The experience and geological knowledge of the Amur region he has amassed during his career has been invaluable to the Group in identifying prospective, new geological targets, including the Pioneer, Malomir and Albyn deposits which are now working mines.
Mr Vlasov has several state and industry awards for his work.
