About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information Our Assets: Tokur and Krasnoyarsk Region Tokur region assets Krasnoyarsk region assets Hard-rock deposit at a semi-industrial production stage Hard-rock deposit at a pre-production stage, 0.20Moz JORC reserves: 1.40Moz JORC resources exploration licences 2 Total licence area: 4.8km 1.22Moz JORC reserves and 3.03Moz JORC resources 2 Combined total licence area: 1,048.1km Tokur Krasnoyarsk region assets Reserves within the Glavniy 2011 allowed the Group to fide ne Tokur is a former underground fault zone, south of the historical In the Krasnoyarsk region, Group JORC-compliant Ore Reserves mine which was mined underground mine.
assets include the signi cant and to signi cantly improve its successfully between 1939 and Visokoe non-refractory deposit, mineral resource position.
1992 and was acquired by the A small-scale operation involving currently at a pre-production stage, The Groups specialists are Group in 2003 with a view to the mining and re-processing of as well as the Troeusovskaya and nalising the development plan for resuming mining works and turning historical low-grade waste dumps Verkhnetisskaya exploration this asset, considering processing it into an open-pit operation.
All three assets are either through an RIP plant or Due to its location, which is located on the Yenisey Ridge, material is washed through a sluice heap-leach operations.
This work halfway between the recently to recover the free gold and to which has been a key area for the is expected to be nalised during commissioned Malomir and Albyn remove clay and dirt, preparing Russian gold mining industry for the course of 2012.
The first mines, Tokur makes an important it for the next stage of X-ray decades and is home to large, production from the Visokoe regional centre for processing separation.
At this stage, the ore is well-known, deposits such as deposit is currently scheduled exploration samples from all sites put through a sorting machine Olimpiada and Blagodatnoe, for the short to medium-term.
in the north and east of the Amur which uses an XRF analyser to both operated by Polyus Gold.
A re assay and sample separate ore from waste, Troeusovskaya and preparation laboratory belonging upgrading it to a c. 4g t Au The Visokoe site is located Verkhnetisskaya are two adjacent to the Group operates at the site.
approximately 50km north-west exploration licences with a 2 of the village of Teya and 70km combined area of over 1,000km, Tokur mineralisation is represented During 2011, approximately 400oz north-west of Severo-Yeniseyskiy, located approximately 50-70km by high-grade narrow veins which of gold was recovered at the with its long history of mining of south of Visokoe and 70-80km were mined through a series of Malomir RIP plant from Tokur the Sovetskoe gold deposit.
underground adits during Soviet pre-concentrate.
Mineralisation at Visokoe is At the Troeusovskaya early stage times, but mining at the site was con ned within a single, large bulk exploration site, the Group has abandoned in 1992.
After the successful completion of zone 40-70m thick and with a strike been testing historically known and the feasibility study at the end of length of 1.7km.
The zone has been recently discovered geochemical After completing an additional 2011, the Groups specialists traced to a depth of approximately anomalies which indicate the drilling programme in 2008, started work on the design of the 440m without any indications of presence of a signi cant gold Group experts re-evaluated future processing plant at Tokur.
With its low strip mineralisation.
At Verkhnetisskaya, Tokur for open-pit mining, is expected that the Tokur plant will ratio, Visokoe is well suited for the Group has completed limited fide ning JORC-compliant Ore be commissioned in H2 2014. low-cost and highly productive trenching and drilling, discovering open-pit mining.
a new mineralised zone that is still being assessed.
Exploration will Exploration and other technical continue during 2012. work completed at Visokoe during Go to page 71 for a breakdown of reserves and resources Go to page 73 for a breakdown of Go to page 64 for more details reserves and resources on the exploration results Gold mine City town Railway Krasnoyarsk region Tokur BAM Railway Amur region Visokoe Trans-Siberian Railway CHINA Location infrastructure including: an The Krasnoyarsk region is one of exploring the possibility of Tokur is located in the northall-season access road, power Russias most prospective mining developing all of the assets in this eastern part of the Amur region, in supply and a related mining town.
areas and the location of area as one cluster due to their an area of intensive historic alluvial world-class gold, nickel and other synergies.
The area has good mineral deposits.
The Group is 59 2011 was a landmark year for IRC IRC as it achieved many key milestones and grew closer to its vision of being a Sino-Russian industrial commodities champion.
IRC in 2011 Production Mine project 2011 was IRCs first full production In October 2011, the mine achieved City town year since listing.
Although still in a full production capacity for iron ore Railway ramp-up phase, production at the concentrate at an annualised Federal highway Kuranakh mine exceeded targets.
Development activities at the K&S This resulted in a signi cant increase Kuranakh project advanced according to in production for the year to a total of Amur region plan and budget during the year, 800,000 tonnes, 7% higher than putting that operation on track to targeted production.
Full annual Garinskoye bolster production by an additional capacity of ilmenite concentrate is three million tonnes of high-quality targeted during 2012.
During 2011, Trans-Siberian iron ore concentrate in the production did, however, increase to Railway K&S near-term.
Finally, IRCs extensive 63,500 tonnes, 22% ahead of the CHINA Blagoveschensk exploration portfolio continued to 52,000 tonne target.
Based on EAO add value, both at brown eld and current reserves, the life-of-mine green eld sites.
is estimated at 15 years, with IRC assets Kuranakh mine, which produces opportunities to extend this further.
Kuranakh With operations in the Russian iron ore and ilmenite concentrates.
The Kuranakh mine came into Financial performance Far East, IRC has rapidly The larger K&S project is being production in 2010, becoming During 2011, Kuranakh generated developed to be a vertically developed, and the larger still IRCs first producing mine.
integrated supplier of Garinskoye deposit is currently 2 The operation covers 85km and Cash costs for the year averaged intermediary and nished being optimised to provide IRC comprises the Kuranakh and US$66.2 per tonne.
Longer-term industrial commodity with a diverse asset portfolio for Saikta deposits: an on-site production costs are currently crushing and screening plant and forecast, at approximately US$60 concentrates to Russian, Chinese shortand long-term growth.
the nearby Olekma processing per tonne as the ilmenite circuit and international markets.
The final products, an iron ramps up.
Transportation costs for IRCs success is due to a ore concentrate with a 62.5% Kuranakh iron ore concentrates to The IRC assets previously formed combination of geology and iron Fe content and an ilmenite Suifenhe on the Chinese-Russian the Groups Non-Precious Metals geography.
Large, high-grade concentrate with a 48% titanium border averaged US$43.8 per division, having been Ore Reserves are exploited using dioxide content TiO, are directly tonne in 2011.
It is anticipated that 2 amalgamated into the Group Russias world-class mining and loaded onto railcar wagons for rail freight rates could reduce in the transportation on the BAM and midto long-term.
following the acquisition of technical skills, water and power Trans-Siberian Railways to its Aricom plc in April 2009.
The strategically customers in Russia, China and 2012 targets October 2010, the Group advantageous asset locations internationally via the Russian During 2011, Kuranakh achieved its completed the listing of IRCs and developed rail infrastructure Paci c ports.
The target shares on The Stock Exchange permit the rapid transport of IRCs for iron ore concentrate for 2012 is of Hong Kong Limited.
products to the local market, 820,000 tonnes 62.5% Fe grade Chinese border and Russian content.
During 2012, the ilmenite circuit will continue to ramp-up to an IRC has a portfolio of exploration Paci c ports.
annualised capacity of 160,000 and mining assets located in the tonnes, therefore production in 2012 Amur region and neighbouring Further information on is targeted at an intermediate level EAO region in the Russian Far IRC may be found at of 125,000 tonnes.
Its principal assets are the www.
hk increases should work towards improving unit and total costs.
60 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011 About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information IRC Limited: key facts IRC 2011 highlights 65.6% owned subsidiary of Petropavlovsk 8,000 tonnes of iron ore saleable product at the Producer and developer of industrial commodities Kuranakh mine Quoted on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited First shipments of ilmenite to Russian, Chinese and Independent Board of Directors and strong international clients management team First drawdown of project debt facility to fund K&S project Fully funded growth plans with good year-end cash position Commencement of construction of K&S processing plant K&S Exploration accelerating production from the Giproruda K&S is an advanced stage Sutara deposit.
IRC is completing In addition to its three main mining development project which is a detailed feasibility study in 2012 assets, IRC also has signi cant Giproruda is a technical mining currently on track for to decide on the final method to other exploration opportunities, research and consultancy commissioning in 2014, with an optimise the long-term mine plan.
notably in and around the three main institute with operations in initial annual production capacity assets.
In 2012, IRC total attributable Russia and Asia.
Giprorudas potential of 3.2 million tonnes of Costs resources grew 16% to 1,345 million work includes the design, high-grade iron ore concentrate.
Long-term production costs at tonnes of iron ore. More importantly, co-ordination, construction The operation comprises the twin attributable iron reserves grew 24% the K&S operation are currently and commissioning of quarries deposits of Kimkan the K and to 801 million tonnes.
forecast at US$33 a tonne of iron and mines, in precious and Sutara the S. The former is ore concentrate.
The current cost base metals, as well as bulk currently being mined by open-pit of rail freight to Suifenhe on the Going forward commodities, particularly those methods, with ore being stockpiled Chinese-Russian border is IRC forecasts good production located in challenging geological for processing.
At full production, approximately US$20 per tonne.
growth in 2012 and rm prices, and climatic conditions, it is anticipated the deposits will be targeting annual production of especially in Russia.
mined sequentially, producing on Garinskoye 820,000 tonnes of iron ore and average 10 million RoM tonnes per 63,500 tonnes of ilmenite Garinskoye is an advanced 2011 was a successful year annum at an average grade of 35% concentrates respectively.
exploration project which covers for Giproruda.
In terms of resources, institute celebrate its 80th be situated between the two Garinskoye is the largest project anniversary, but it also won new deposits.
Construction began in in the IRC portfolio.
Currently tenders as a sole consultant 2010 and is due for completion in undergoing final geological and in conjunction with industry mid-2014.
It is funded through a investigation and mine planning, partners.
Giproruda also project finance facility provided by the project is targeting completed various contracts the Industrial and Commercial construction and first production that have been instrumental to Bank of China ICBC and is from 2015.
Adjacent to the project, the development of IRC, however being constructed by China IRC has exploration licences for the focus of the institutes work 2 National Electric Engineering ground covering over 3,500km.
is shifting increasingly towards Company Limited CNEEC other commodities and with supervision from IRC.
Exploration activities at Garinskoye third-party work.
K&S is well situated, close to the Based on the results of geological Trans-Siberian Railway which modelling, the concept of two- 02 provides a direct route to the stage development of Garinskoye market.
Furthermore, the recently could be considered.
This could upgraded main east-west federal imply a DSO-style operation by highway is located close to the mining the higher grade ore first.
In addition to transport access, K&S also enjoys excellent electricity and water supplies.
In August 2011, IRC announced the favourable findings of a mine optimisation study for K&S, showing potential to nearly double production estimates from 3.2 to 6.1 million tonnes per annum by 02 At Giprorudas of ces in St Petersburg.
