Honorary Presidents Statement Dr Pavel Maslovskiy These achievements will stand us an advisory capacity as Honorary in good stead for 2012 and beyond, President of the Board as we bringing, I believe, benefits to all prepare for a new exciting stage the Groups stakeholders from of development for our Group.
our investor base in London and worldwide to our employees in As an integral player in global the Amur region.
economics, Russia cannot avoid facing the challenges the modern Our Group is recognised in global economy is experiencing the Amur region not only for its today.
These challenges have put remarkable growth, but for a lot of pressure on costs incurred our commitment to operating both from mining our existing sites responsibly and sustainably: and developing new projects.
providing fair wages and Our team is responding to these opportunities for career challenges by implementing the development and social mobility.
new technologies and re-educating We remain the largest gold our mining teams in order to producer in the Amur region, improve mining efficiencies and itself a key gold producing region enhance our processing capacities.
of Russia, and we remain one of This approach is in line with the the regions largest employers.
latest policies of the Russian Over the years, our Group has Government, which has recently been a major contributor to the strongly reiterated its commitment growing prosperity of this to support innovative business strategic area of Russia and to projects and the sustainable 2011 was a very successful and enhancing the quality of life of development of remote regions.
Our team is proud to contribute important year for the Group.
to building a more powerful Our management team effected an In light of this, our team was very and prosperous country and to proud when several key figures in strengthen the local economy.
impressive improvement across our our Group were elected to the local parliament in 2011 myself We are also proud to be at the operations following the challenges included as a Senator and Member forefront of the latest technological of the Federation Council of Russia, developments in the mining we encountered in 2010, as was representing the Amur region.
industry by introducing pressure demonstrated by the strong progress I am truly honoured by this oxidation POX technology for appointment and consider it to be gold processing not yet available in our development projects and public recognition of the significant in Russia.
In contrast to comparable contribution the Group has made technologies, POX should provide a further year-on-year increase in to the development of the Russian less operational and environmental our gold production.
Far East and the importance of our risk and higher processing business activities for the region.
As such, we believe Dr Pavel Maslovskiy I hope that, with my long-standing that this project could bring a knowledge of the region, this significant boost not only to our Honorary President position will enable me to become production, but also to the Russian an ambassador for the Amur region gold mining industry.
and for local business, including other local mining companies, We look forward to the Group tackling some of the major continuing to thrive in 2012. challenges we currently face, including the amending of existing mining legislation and improving business practices.
However, my nomination as a Senator does not mean that I am no longer involved in the life of the Dr Pavel Maslovskiy Group.
In spite of my new role, I am Honorary President still passionate about this business of the Board which I co-founded 18 years ago and I am planning to support the Group by remaining available in 08 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011
