Our Assets: Yamal and Chita Region Yamal region assets Chita region assets Three projects at advanced evaluation Three projects at exploration, advanced evaluation and pre-development stages and pre-development stages 0.37Moz of JORC reserves and 1.07Moz of JORC resources 0.74Moz JORC resources 2 2 Combined total licence area: c. 1,690km Combined total licence area: 69km Yamal region assets are associated with DevonianChita region assets The mineralisation at Verkhne In the Yamal region, the Group Carboniferous igneous intrusions The Group holds three prospective Aliinskoye varies in composition holds licences for the hosted by a Silurian-Devonian assets in the Chita region, of which between refractory and nonPetropavlovskoye and Novogodnee volcanic and sedimentary the most advanced, the Verkhne refractory, with the majority being Monto gold deposits, as well as sequence.
Aliinskoye high-grade deposit, non-refractory and amenable to Sob-Kharbeiskaya, an asset at an is currently at a stage of precyanide recovery from otation early stage of exploration, which is In addition to signi cant JORC development.
Work at the other concentrate.
The Group is approximately 40km west from gold reserves and resources, two licence areas, Kulinskoye and considering two development Petropavlovskoye.
The Zapadnoye Novogodnee Monto holds c. 3Mt Bukhtinskaya, is less advanced, options: the treatment of the chromite deposit was successfully of high-grade magnetite iron ore but already re ects the great concentrate at the future sold at the beginning of 2012. and substantial reserves of exploration potential of the region.
Pokrovskiy POX hub or the industrial aggregates within the on-site processing of the otation Petropavlovskoye and Novogodnee host un-mineralised waste rock.
The Verkhne Aliinskoye deposit is concentrates.
Verkhne Aliinskoye Monto are two adjacent ore bodies Metallurgical tests have proved situated 30km west of the town of is at an advanced stage in located alongside the Obskaya gold to be non-refractory and Baley, a well-known historical gold the permitting process and Bovanenkovo rail line, which amenable to direct cyanidation.
It is a high-grade, management is working on an connects them to the Russian narrow vein deposit potentially optimal mine plan for the asset.
national rail network and to the In 2011 quarrying began at the site, suitable for underground mining.
Labytnangi port on the Ob River.
with material processed through The deposit is hosted within a The Bukhtinskaya and Kulinskoye Since their acquisition in 2004, a mobile crushing and screening monzonite intrusion and comprises licence areas are located in the the Group has completed extensive plant, producing saleable a large number of quartz-sulphide eastern part of Chita, on the border exploration and other essential aggregate.
Sales contracts veins with a strike length of up to with the Amur region.
Both assets technical work progressing the have now been signed and first several hundred metres.
are at exploration stage, deposits from green eld sites to aggregate sales were carried out with known narrow high-grade an advance pre-development in Q1 2012.
Through exploration and vein mineralisation.
comprehensive technical work, of these licence areas is on-going.
The Group continues to develop Verkhne Aliinskoye has been The gold mineralisation at Petropavlovskoye and developed to an advanced Petropavlovskoye and Novogodnee Novogodnee Monto and is pre-production stage with total Monto occurs in  in the process of nalising JORC resources of 0.74Moz of sulphide metasomatite stockwork optimal processing ow sheets gold at 6.25g t including 0.27Moz and in magnetite scarn.
It is in the Measured and Indicated expected that gold production categories.
The deposit is will commence in 2014. underexplored, with many of the veins open both along strike and down dip.
Go to page 65 for more information on exploration results at Yamal Go to page 74 for a breakdown Go to page 72 for a breakdown of of reserves and resources for reserves and resources Verkhne Aliinskoye Petropavlovskoye and Novogodnee Monto Verkhne Aliinskoye Yamal region Chita region Location part of the Tyumen Oblast, and Location Trans-Siberian Railway, which The Groups Yamal assets are contains an estimated 90% of The Chita region is part of the provides a link to Pokrovskiy, the located on the eastern slopes of Russias natural gas reserves.
Zabaikalskiy Krai and is a major, location of the Groups future POX the Polar Ural mountains, 60km The Polar Urals host a number of historical gold producing region of hub.
from the regional capital, industrial commodities and Russia.
The Groups assets are Salekhard.
The Yamal region is precious metals.
situated within easy reach of the 58 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011
