About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information Corpora t e Go v ernance Letter from the Chairman Report of the Company and For the year ended 31 December 2011 Nomination Committee Chairman Board changes The Board has been considerably On 20 December 2011 I was proud strengthened during 2011 and the to announce the election of Dr Pavel beginning of 2012 with the addition Maslovskiy as a Senator and of four Executive Directors and the Member of the Federation Council appointment of two new Nonof Russia Upper House of the Executive Directors including the Russian Parliament.
This followed appointment of Ms Rachel English Dr Maslovskiys election as a with effect from 28 March 2012. member of the Amur region However I and the Board miss parliament on 4 December 2011. the support and wise counsel As a consequence of this provided by Mr Peter Hill-Wood appointment, Dr Maslovskiy who retired as a Non-Executive resigned from his longstanding role Director on 19 May 2011. as the Companys Chief Executive Of cer in order to take up his Most signi cant among the new parliamentary responsibilities.
team, Mr Sergey Ermolenko, Under Russian law, Senators are a founding shareholder and General prohibited from holding a business Director of Management Company of ce that is remunerated or which Petropavlovsk the Groups main has a management as opposed to operating company in Russia since an advisory role.
In order to retain its inception, was appointed as a the bene t of Dr Maslovskiys Director and Chief Executive Of cer knowledge and experience the on 20 December 2011 to replace Board conferred on him the title of Dr Maslovskiy.
Sergey was also Honorary President, a role for which appointed as a member of the Dear shareholder, on behalf he receives no remuneration.
In his Executive Committee on the capacity as Honorary President, same date.
of the Board, I am pleased Dr Maslovskiy continues to advise to present the Corporate Mr Ermolenko and to attend Board Mr Ermolenko was, with meetings, although he does not Dr Maslovskiy, Dr Nikolai Vlasov, Governance Report for 2011. vote at meetings of the Board.
Mr Valery Alekseev and myself, We are grateful to Dr Maslovskiy one of the original five members of Peter Hambro for his continued support.
the Groups founding management team and has been the Companys Chairman key operational executive.
99 Corporate Governance Report continued F or the year ended 31 December 2011 The Board has also bene ted from During the year, in addition to Directors on PLC boards.
the appointment of a number of nding a suitable replacement for The report did, however, conclude other new Executive Directors.
Mr Peter Hill-Wood, the Board also that given the size and international Dr Al ya Alya Samokhvalova, sought to strengthen the aspect of the Group, the Company previously Head of External composition of the Board by should consider the diversity of the Relations, a position that she appointing an additional NonBoard and recognise the value that continues to hold, was appointed Executive Director, this was in part a woman Director would bring.
as Strategic Director in led by succession planning issues.
On 25 August 2011, the Company January 2011.
Her technical ability, had announced that it would take knowledge and expertise in the The Nomination Committee led Lord Davies comments included in eld of mining and of our business, this appointment process on his report on Women on Boards as well as her understanding of the behalf of the Board working closely published in February 2011 into Russian culture are extremely with external consultants.
As part consideration for future valuable in managing our of their remit, the consultants appointments whilst noting that the operations within Russia.
assisted the Nomination Board believed that this issue is part Committee in undertaking a skills of the wider diversity debate and I was also pleased to welcome analysis to clarify where the current that the skills, nationality and Mr Andrey Maruta and Mr Martin Non-Executive Directors expertise of a potential Board Smith to the Board following their possessed certain attributes and member also needed to be taken appointment as Finance Director to highlight where additional skills into consideration.
However the - Russia and Technical Director, or attributes might be helpful to the Board had concluded that it was respectively, on 4 January 2011.
Their report concluded that not appropriate at that time to set an Prior to their appointment as the Companys individual aspirational target for the number of Directors, Andrey and Martin had Non-Executive Directors combine women that it would aim to have on both worked for the Company for to bring an exceptionally high-level the Board in 2013 and 2015 and the a number of years in senior mix of skills: fund management, Board still considers this to be the positions: Andrey as Group banking and other City experience: case.
The Nomination Committee Financial Controller and Martin as the broadest international, and the Board also considered Group Head, Technical Services.
diplomatic and political succession planning as an integral Martins additional appointment as experiences: together with part of the selection process.
Deputy Chief Executive to assist in-depth knowledge of the metals Sergey Ermolenko was announced and mining sphere and broad on 20 December 2011. experience as Non-Executive The Board of Directors Director Title Date of appointment Date of resignation Peter Hambro Chairman 20 December 2001 Pavel Maslovskiy Chief Executive Of cer 20 December 2001 20 December 2011 Sergey Ermolenko Chief Executive Of cer 20 December 2011 Brian Egan Chief Financial Of cer 22 April 2009 Andrey Maruta Finance Director - Russia 4 January 2011 Al ya Samokhvalova Strategic Director Group Head of 4 January 2011 External Communications Martin Smith Deputy Chief Executive 4 January 2011 Technical Director Graham Birch Non-Executive Director 12 February 2010 Senior Independent Director 4 January 2011 Sir Malcolm Field Non-Executive Director 22 April 2009 Lord Guthrie Non-Executive Director 22 January 2008 Sir Roderic Lyne Non-Executive Director 22 April 2009 Charles McVeigh III Non-Executive Director 25 June 2009 David Humphreys Non-Executive Director 24 August 2011 Peter Hill-Wood Non-Executive Director 12 June 2003 19 May 2011 Dr Maslovskiy was appointed as Honorary President of the Company on 20 December 2011 although he is no longer a member of the Board of Directors.
Ms Rachel English will be appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 28 March 2012.
100 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011 About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information As a result of the above process The Board during which presentations were and following the retirement of Following the above changes, made by senior executives of the Mr Peter Hill-Wood, at the the Board comprises myself as Company.
I discuss matters on conclusion of the Companys Chairman, five Executive Directors a regular basis with both the Annual General Meeting on and seven Non-Executive Executive Directors and the 19 May 2011, I was pleased to Directors following the Non-Executive Directors.
appointment of Ms English all announce the appointment of During the year I held separate Dr David Humphreys on 24 August of whom are considered by the meetings with the Non-Executive 2011 to replace him.
Dr Humphreys Company to be independent in Directors as did my colleague has a broad range of experience character and judgement and Dr Graham Birch, in his capacity within the global mining industry free from any business or other as Senior Independent Director.
as a consultant, lecturer and relationship which could materially academic.
He has extensive interfere with the exercise of their We, as a Board, are responsible knowledge of the Russian mining judgement.
Biographies of the for the determination and industry, having been Chief Directors and of our Honorary monitoring of the Companys Economist at Norilsk Nickel, President, including details of their strategic aims, budgets, major Russias largest mining company, skills and experience, are provided items of capital expenditure and from 2004 to 2008 and was under Board of Directors and senior appointments, the direction formerly Chief Economist of Rio Honorary President on pages 88 and control of the Company and Tinto, a position he held for eight to 89.
The biography for Ms English the management of the capital years.
I would like to take this is provided in the Directors Report structure.
We seek to ensure that on page 92. opportunity to thank Mr Peter the necessary financial and human Hill-Wood both personally and resources are, and will continue to on behalf of the Company for his Dr Humphreys undertook an be, in place to enable the Company signi cant contribution to the induction programme following to meet its objectives.
Board during his tenure as a his appointment.
meetings with senior management We have adopted a formal within the Company, attendance at schedule of matters reserved I am also pleased to announce the Committee meetings and the for the Boards decision, appointment of Ms Rachel English provision of detailed information a copy of which can be found at as a Non-Executive Director with on the Group.
In addition effect from 28 March 2012, undertake a similar induction to the standard agenda items the following the recommendation programme.
The Board is satis ed Board has considered the following to the Board of the Nomination that all Directors have suf cient matters during the year: Committee.
Whilst her time to devote to their roles, the Groups compliance with the appointment is based on her and that having refreshed the Bribery Act 2010 which came composition of our Board with the skills, experience and knowledge, into force on 1 July 2011, a result her appointment will bring more appointment of six new Directors of which was the constitution of diversity to the Board.
Following since 1 January 2011, it is not an Anti-Bribery Committee, her appointment, our Board and placing undue reliance on key chaired by myself, as Company our Executive Committee are now individuals.
Indeed, with the Chairman, to ensure that the comprised of 15% and 20% of addition of our new colleagues, Group has adequate processes women respectively.
I anticipate the continuation of and procedures in place in order healthy debate and discussions at that the Company can comply our Board meetings.
Other than as with the Act: and detailed above there were no further changes to the Board the Companys five year strategic during the year.
During the year the Board met Professional development on six scheduled occasions.
and information Further Board meetings were held I ensure that all Directors to deal with matters of a routine or continually update their skills administrative nature.
We also held and knowledge, and develop a separate dedicated strategy the familiarity with the Companys meeting in November which was operations needed to ful l their attended by all of the Directors, role on both the Board and any Committees.
101 Corporate Governance Report continued F or the year ended 31 December 2011 During the year the Board had Nomination Committee of its remit, the Committee also Anti-Bribery Committee a presentation by an external I currently Chair the Nomination reviewed the appointment of The Board has adopted a adviser on directors duties, Committee, assisted by my fellow each Director prior to that zero-tolerance approach to which focussed on the regulatory Directors Sir Malcolm Field, Mr Director seeking re-election corruption and bribery issues.
framework, duties to stakeholders, Charles McVeigh and Dr Graham at the forthcoming Annual In order to ensure that the corporate conduct and Birch as members of the General Meeting and was Company has appropriate policies governance.
Mr Peter Hill-Wood pleased to recommend the and procedures in place to comply Non-Executive Directors are retired as a member of the re-election of all Directors to the with the new legislation introduced invited, at the Companys expense, Committee on 19 May 2011. under the Bribery Act 2010, Board.
I am pleased to note that to attend conferences and which came into force on all the incoming Directors are seminars on the mining industry.
During the year the Nomination 1 July 2011, the Board established considerably younger than me.
Committee considered the an Anti-Bribery Committee during New committees The Board is supplied with regular selection and appointment of the the latter part of 2010, for which Strategic and Technical and timely information in a form new Non-Executive Directors and I act as Chairman.
The Anti-Bribery Committees and of a quality that enables it to the new Chief Executive Of cer Committee also comprises three We have continued to focus on discharge its duties.
The Directors following the resignation of Executive Directors, two members our governance arrangements receive reports, in advance of each Dr Maslovskiy.
Appointments were of the Executive Committee and to ensure that these meet best Board meeting, on the Groups recommended to the Board on the Company Secretary.
practice whilst assisting the strategy operations, updates on financial merit and against objective criteria.
The Committee has adopted of the Company for growth through matters, investor relations and Care was taken to ascertain that policies and procedures and exploration and new technologies.
brie ngs on regulatory and Dr Humphreys and Ms English has provided training on the As a result of a strategic review of corporate governance issues.
would have suf cient time available new legislation to our employees the business in the fourth quarter The Directors also receive copies to meet their Board and committee in both Russia and London.
of 2010 we formed two new of papers considered at Executive responsibilities before any formal This Committee reports to the committees to manage the more Committee meetings including recommendation was made to Board on a regular basis.
complex multi-mine business which minutes of these meetings.
the Board for their appointment.
the Group has transformed into in Board and Board committees All Directors are encouraged to As part of this process, recent years: the Strategic The Board is responsible for the make further enquiries, as they Dr Humphreys and Ms English Committee and the Technical Groups system of corporate feel appropriate, of the Executive were asked to disclose all other Committee.
The Strategic governance and is ultimately Directors or management.
time commitments and, on their Committee is chaired by Dr Alya accountable for the Groups appointment, undertake to inform Samokhvalova, Strategic Director activities, strategy, risk management Board committees are provided the Board of any changes and whilst the Technical Committee is and financial performance.
with suf cient resources and the con rm that they would have chaired by Mr Martin Smith, The Board has established a power to obtain such additional suf cient time to ful l their Deputy Chief Executive and number of committees and provides support and professional advice responsibilities.
Their letters of Technical Director.
The functions suf cient resources to enable them as they may require.
All Directors appointment detail the expected of the Strategic Committee are to to undertake their duties.
These are have access to the services of a time commitments.
The terms and formulate annual and long-term detailed on page 105. professionally-quali ed and conditions of appointment of all budgets and forecasts and to experienced Company Secretary, Directors are available for public monitor performance against these.
who is responsible for information inspection.
No Director has a notice Whilst the Technical Committee is ows to the Board and its period of more than one year.
responsible for providing technical committees and between senior analysis of the Groups budgets, management and Non-Executive In addition, this Committee forecasts and investment plans.
Directors, facilitating induction and reviewed succession planning for Both Committees report to the assisting with professional the Executive Directors and for Executive Committee, with reports development as required, ensuring members of the Executive on their work being made to the compliance with Board procedure Committee and this remains a key Board by the Committee Chairman.
and applicable laws and regulation.
As part The new Committee structure is There is an agreed procedure for working well with detailed Directors to take independent presentations on the Companys professional advice at the five year strategic plan being made Companys expense if considered to the Board in November 2011, necessary to discharge their for review and discussion, following responsibilities as Directors.
detailed analysis on proposed projects, exploration and mining plans having been undertaken by these two committees.
102 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011 About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information UK Corporate Governance My primary role as Chairman is to Performance evaluation The 2011 evaluation of the Board, Code compliance provide leadership to the Board, As part of the Boards commitment its Committees, and its Executive I and the Board are committed necessary to promote the success to rigorous standards of corporate and Non-Executive Directors to high standards of corporate of the Company and create value governance, the Board appointed has been undertaken internally governance.
We believe that for shareholders in the long-term, an external assessor, Abbeywell using a con dential questionnaire good governance is fundamental whilst ensuring that sound effective Associates Limited to undertake a with Directors identifying to the success of the Company corporate governance practices full Board and Committee evaluation opportunities for improvement.
All Directors completed a and to our relationship with our are embedded in the Group and in The questionnaire covered issues key stakeholders.
con dential internally designed such as effectiveness of the Board questionnaire which was used to and its Committees, how well I can con rm that with one Compliance during the year: form the basis of one-on-one strategy is tested and developed, exception the Company is In addition to the non-compliance interviews with the assessor which Board composition and currently in compliance with the detailed above, the Company did took place in the early part of 2011. succession planning, and UK Corporate Governance Code not comply with the following The evaluation focussed on the risk management controls.
which was adopted by the provisions during 2011: performance of the Board, The responses of the Directors its Committees and its Executive were collated into a report by Financial Reporting Council to replace the Combined Code for i.
Following the retirement of and Non-Executive Directors.
accounting periods of Premium Mr Peter Hill-Wood and prior A detailed report was submitted to Separate conversations were then Listed companies commencing to the appointment of Dr David the Board in March 2011 for review held between each Director and on or after 29 June 2010.
Humphreys as a Non-Executive and discussion.
Although identifying the Senior Independent Director, Director on 24 August 2011, some areas for improvement, Dr Graham Birch, who also led The one exception concerns my the independent Non-Executive including a more formalised the Non-Executive Directors induction programme for new position as Chairman of the Directors did not comprise at assessment of my performance Company.
I was not considered least half of the Board.
During this Directors and more detailed as Chairman.
I have discussed the independent under the terms of period and prior to the retirement succession planning, the report outcome of the evaluation with the Code at the date of my of Mr Hill-Wood the Company concluded that i the Board and its Dr Birch and he has formally appointment nor do I satisfy the was actively seeking to appoint Committees continue to operate reported the results to the Board.
an additional Non-Executive effectively and ii I and my fellow The evaluation concluded that the However, my role as Chairman is Director.
The Nomination Directors contribute effectively and Companys succession planning clearly separated from that of Committee and the Board have demonstrated commitment has developed as a consequence to our roles.
As a result of the of actions undertaken following the Mr Sergey Ermolenko, Chief thought it appropriate to ensure Executive Of cer and prior to that the most suitable candidate evaluation, the Nomination 2010 Board performance Mr Ermolenkos appointment my was appointed, who could assist Committee scheduled an evaluation, although the Board role was clearly separated from the Board in achieving the additional meeting during the recognises that, by its very nature, that of Dr Maslovskiy.
The division Companys strategy, even if this year and considered succession succession planning is an of responsibilities between my role resulted in a short period during planning issues in more detail.
of Chairman and that of Sergeys which the Company would not A more formalised induction This demonstrates the positive programme was introduced for role of Chief Executive Of cer and be in compliance with Provision bene ts to the Company of such a of Martin Smiths role of Deputy B.
Following the Dr Humphreys, which included performance evaluation.
The 2011 Chief Executive, with clear and well appointment of Ms Rachel meetings with senior executives evaluation, although identifying fide ned reporting lines, have been English as a Non-Executive and attendance at Committee areas for review for which actions set out in writing and agreed by the Director with effect from meetings prior to his appointment will be proposed, has concluded Board.
A copy of the document is 28 March 2012, seven of the to the relevant Committee, and it is that the Board and its Committees available on the Companys Companys thirteen Directors proposed that Ms English will are operating effectively.
net will be considered as undertake a similar induction programme upon her appointment.
independent both by the Company and under the Code.
As a result of the additional public holiday on 29 April 2011 for the Royal Wedding, the 2010 Report & Accounts of the Company were not sent to shareholders 20 clear working days before the Companys Annual General Meeting and did not comply with Provision E. 2.3 of the Code.
The Board apologises to shareholders for this failing.
The Notice of General Meeting and the Proxy Forms were posted within the requisite timescale.
103 Corporate Governance Report continued F or the year ended 31 December 2011 Based on this process, we Directors to investors at the We encourage as many The re-election of each of the continue to implement changes to HSBC Global Natural Resource shareholders as possible to attend Directors has been reviewed by the enhance the Boards performance Conference held in Singapore, the Annual General Meeting and Nomination Committee.
The Board of its responsibilities.
the Troika Conference held in shareholders are given the recommends that shareholders Russia, the BMO Capital opportunity to discuss any issues vote in favour of the resolutions to Shareholder engagement Markets Global Metals and of interest or concern, including elect or re-elect all of the Directors In our 2010 preliminary results Mining Conference held in performance, governance or of the Company and the reasons presentation on 31 March 2011 Florida, USA and at the Deutsche strategy with the Directors.
for this recommendation are set Bank BRICS Metals & Mining At the Companys 2012 Annual out in the Letter with the Notice we said that as we execute our strategy during 2011 we will be Conference held in London.
General Meeting, Sir Malcolm of the Meeting.
guided by the four Cs: conservative The Executive Directors also Field, Chairman of the Audit and in our guidance: consistent in our attended other similar investor Remuneration Committees, You should be aware that I as production: contingency plans conferences in Barcelona, Sir Roderic Lyne, Chairman of the Chairman am also a non-executive in place: and frequent Moscow and London to meet HSE Committee and Lord Guthrie, director of Tynda Forest Holdings communication with investors.
Chairman of the Risk Committee Limited formerly Russian Timber will be available to answer any Group, non-executive chairman of A workshop presentation was matters relating to those Sundeala Limited, Peter Hambro We have delivered on our made to analysts and investors committees.
I will, of course, Limited and Tidal Transit Limited, communication strategy by the on the POX hub project in be happy to answer any questions which are all family companies, following actions: June 2011. relating to the work of the and I am a partner in Durrington The CEO, CFO, Head of External Presentations and conference Nomination Committee.
I am a director Relations and I have maintained calls were held for investors all Board Directors who are able of various subsidiaries of the an on-going and active dialogue and analysts following the to attend will be available to meet Group.
Any changes to these with institutional investors Companys preliminary and with investors after the meeting to commitments are reported to through a regular programme of interim results announcements discuss issues with shareholders.
I am informed that the meetings covering a wide range and production updates.
Board is satis ed that my other of issues.
Annual re-election of Directors signi cant commitments do not The Remuneration Committee The Companys Articles require restrict me from carrying out my Dr Graham Birch, our Senior Chairman and Company Independent Director, has a Director to stand for re-election duties effectively.
Secretary also entered into a provided an independent access at the first Annual General Meeting dialogue with some of our The following section of this point for our institutional following his appointment and at institutional shareholders and least once every three years Corporate Governance Report shareholders to whom he is well corporate governance bodies thereafter.
However, in accordance provides further explanation of known.
During the year he met regarding remuneration issues.
with the requirements of the Code, the Companys Board and with several institutional investors all of the Directors will submit Committee structure.
to discuss governance, strategy Copies of the presentations made and other issues that themselves for annual re-election to shareholders can be found on our shareholders raised.
at each Annual General Meeting.
Peter Hambro website at www.
Directors may be appointed Chairman Amongst others, presentations Our website is regularly updated by shareholders by ordinary 27 March 2012 and contains a wide range of were made by the Executive resolution or by the Board on the information about the Group recommendation of the Nomination and we welcome comments Committee and must then stand and observations from our for re-election at the next Annual shareholders on its content.
General Meeting where they may I ensure that the views of our be re-elected by ordinary resolution shareholders are communicated of the shareholders.
Biographical details of all Directors, except Ms English are included on pages 88 to 89 Biographical details of Ms English are provided on page 92 104 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011 About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information Board and Committee structure Board of Directors Executive Chairman 5 Executive Directors 7 independent Non-Executive Directors Each Committee has written terms of reference which have Audit Committee Remuneration Committee been approved by the Board 3 independent 4 independent and are reviewed at least annually Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors to ensure that they comply with the latest legal and regulatory requirements and re ect best practice developments.
The current full terms of reference of each Committee may be obtained from the Investor section of the Companys website at www.
net or from the Company Secretary.
HSE Committee Nomination Committee 3 independent Company Chairman Non-Executive Directors 3 independent 2 Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Anti-Bribery Committee Risk Committee Company Chairman 4 independent 3 Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors 2 ExCo Members 1 Executive Director Executive Committee and Company Secretary Strategic Committee Technical Committee Responsible for evaluation Responsible for evaluation of projects from a strategic of projects from a technical perspective perspective Both Committees working together Note: the composition of the Board of Directors is shown following the appointment of Ms English as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 28 March 2012.
105 Corporate Governance Report continued F or the year ended 31 December 2011 Board and committee membership and attendance during the year Board and Committee membership and attendance at meetings during the year is shown in the table below: Key: C Chairman, M Member Board Audit Remuneration Nomination HSE Risk Review of Scheduled strategy 7 Mr Peter Hambro C 6 6 1 1 C 3 3 5 6 6 7,8 Dr Pavel Maslovskiy M 6 6 1 1 5 3 7 Mr Brian Egan M 6 6 1 1 2 5 3 Mr Andrey Maruta M 6 6 1 1 3,4, 7 Dr Al ya Samokhavlova M 6 6 1 1 M 5 5 3 3,4, 5 Mr Martin Smith M 6 6 1 1 M 5 5 M 5 5 1 Dr Graham Birch M 6 6 1 1 M 4 4 M 3 3 M 6 6 1 Sir Malcolm Field M 6 6 1 1 C 4 4 C 3 3 M 3 3 1 Lord Guthrie M 6 6 1 1 M 3 3 M 5 5 C 6 6 1 Sir Roderic Lyne M 6 6 1 1 M 3 3 C 5 5 M 6 6 1 Mr Charles McVeigh III M 6 6 1 1 M 4 4 M 3 3 1,6, 7 Dr David Humphreys M 2 2 1 1 2 2 1,2 Mr Peter Hill-Wood M 2 3 N A M 1 1 M 0 1 M 1 2 M 1 3 1 Considered an independent Director under the Code.
2 Retired as a Director and as a member of the Audit, Nomination HSE and Risk Committees on 19 May 2011.
3 Appointed as a Director on 4 January 2011.
4 Appointed as a member of the HSE Committee on 9 February 2011.
5 Appointed as a member of the Risk Committee on 9 February 2011.
6 Appointed as a Director on 24 August 2011.
7 Directors who were not members of these Committees attended meetings at the invitation of the Chairman of that Committee.
8 Dr Maslovskiy resigned as a Director of the Company on 20 December 2011.
Mr Ermolenko was appointed as a Director on 20 December 2011.
As illustrated above, Directors who are not members of the Audit, Remuneration, HSE and Risk Committee meetings may attend by invitation of the relevant Committee Chairman.
Dr Humphreys was appointed as a member of the Remuneration, HSE and Risk Committees with effect from 1 January 2012.
The Board and the Nomination Committee keep the membership of committees under review to ensure gradual refreshing of skills and experience.
106 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011 About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information Board Dr David Humphreys was The Group manages its operations The Executive Committee For further information see appointed as a member of the in accordance with its licence The Executive Committee pages 99 to 102.
Committee on 1 January 2012, terms and conditions and the comprises the Chairman, having attended two meetings legislation of the Russian the five Executive Directors and Audit, Remuneration and Risk of the Committee during the year Federation governing health and the following four members of Committees by invitation and as part of his safety, labour and environmental senior management: Reports from each of the induction programme following his protection, including the Russian Dmitri Chekashkin, Group Head, Chairman of the Audit, appointment as a Non-Executive Labour Code.
In addition, the Precious Metals Operations & Director of the Company in Group is aligning itself with Remuneration and Risk First Deputy of General Director August 2011. international standards of codes Committees can be found on of Management Company pages 121 to 124, 108 to 120 of practice, as set out in its Values Petropavlovsk Russia and 76 to 87 respectively.
This Committee is responsible and Commitments statement, for establishing and reviewing as detailed in the Sustainability Alexei Maslovskiy, Business Nomination Committee the Groups health, safety Report 2011.
Development Manager For information on the work of the environmental and community Anna-Karolina Subczynska, relations Sustainability strategy, For further information on the Committee during the year see Group Head of Legal Affairs evaluating the effectiveness of the Companys HSE Committee and pages 100 and 102.
Groups policies and systems for the Groups sustainability policies, Andrei Tarasov, Deputy General managing Sustainability issues see page 22 of this Report and Health, Safety and Director of MC Petropavlovsk and risks, and assessing the the Sustainability Report 2011, Environmental Committee performance of the Group with which includes a statement from HSE Committee The Strategic and Sir Roderic Lyne is Chairman of the regard to the impact of Sustainability Sir Roderic Lyne as Chairman of Technical Committees HSE Committee.
The Committee decisions and actions.
Further information on these currently comprises three Committees is available on pages Non-Executive Directors and two 102 and 105 of this Report.
During 2011, membership of the Committee was as follows: Member Sir Roderic Lyne Lord Guthrie Peter Hill-Wood Retired 19 May 2011 Martin Smith Appointed 9 February 2011 Al ya Samokhvalova Appointed 9 February 2011 107
