2011 was a very successful year for Exploration Report exploration, particularly at Pioneer, Malomir and Albyn in the Amur region, at Visokoe in the Krasnoyarsk region and at Petropavlovskoye in the Yamal region.
Geological exploration is one Exploration in 2012 will focus within of the Groups top priorities.
the area south and south-west of The Group does not rely on the Nikolaevskaya, as well as north state to replenish its resource base and north-east of current Pioneer and nd new resources but invests pits at the occurrences known as in its own exploration.
For this Alkaganskiy, Zakritiy and Opytniy.
purpose, comprehensive in-house geological exploration subsidiaries Pokrovskiy were established.
Exploration at Pokrovskiy focused on upgrading Inferred Resources Pioneer into Measured and Indicated In 2010, the Group acquired the categories at Pokrovka-2 as well larger Alkagan-Adamovskaya as expanding resource size and licence area surrounding the proving ore body extensions.
Pioneer deposit, as geological interpretation suggested the At Zheltunak, an ore body located high-grade NE Bakhmut trend may some 20km north-east from the continue into this new licence area.
Pokrovskiy deposit, exploration This concept has now been identi ed JORC-compliant Mineral con rmed by the 2011 exploration Reserves and Ore Resources programme, which identi ed a suitable for processing using the further extension of the NE existing RIP plant at Pokrovskiy.
Bakhmut ore body, including This discovery was included in a new high-grade pay shoot.
the Groups 2012 reserves and The zone contains both refractory resources estimate and open-pit Geological exploration is one and non-refractory mineralisation, mining has already commenced and is yet to be fully evaluated.
of the Groups top priorities and for this purpose, a comprehensive Several other zones of Malomir mineralisation containing both Drilling at the areas surrounding, range of in-house geological exploration refractory and non-refractory and adjacent to, the Quartzitovoye material were also identi ed.
and Malomir Central open-pits, subsidiaries were established.
These include the Zvezdochka as well as north of the zone and a new zone south-east of Ozhidaemoye deposit, has Nikolai Vlasov NE Bakhmut.
The latter zone was identi ed several further zones Chief Geologist discovered late in 2011 and is yet to of refractory and non-refractory be fully understood and evaluated.
These new findings were only partly re ected in the Further exploration and Groups 2012 reserves and interpretation of the drilling results resource estimate as both the were completed for Nikolaevskaya, exploration programme and allowing classi cation of Measured, interpretation of results obtained Indicated and Inferred category during 2011 are still on-going.
JORC Resources and also a The findings include Zone 26, north JORC-compliant Ore Reserve of the Malomir Central open-pit, evaluation for this zone.
There is and the Kanavinskaya zone also an indication of potential new located north of Ozhidaemoye.
undiscovered zones south of Nikolaevskaya, as well as north of Mineralisation at Kanavinskaya is NE Bakhmut.
Exploration of these currently estimated to the Inferred areas is on-going.
category to be 11Mt at 0.7g t. However, preliminary metallurgical The Group is continuing active tests indicate that mineralisation exploration within areas is non-refractory and could add surrounding the Pioneer deposit.
250Koz to the RIP Resource Several geochemical anomalies inventory.
The current resource were discovered in 2011, estimate for Zone 26 adds although the Group is waiting approximately 60,000oz to the for further geological results.
refractory resource, including 800Kt at 0.95g t Indicated and 1,400Kt at 0.77g t Inferred.
62 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011 About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information More than 1,500 quali ed geologists 15 sites of active exploration during 2011 6 state-accredited laboratories c. 700,000 assay analyses performed in 2011 c. 266,000m of drilling completed in-house in 2011 01 Drill core from the Albyn deposit 01 Inll drilling completed in 2011 resulted in an increase in Albyns resource estimate.
02 Geological map of the Amur region The region contains an abundance of resources thanks to favourable geological conditions.
03 Weighing gold in re assay The Groups laboratories use a wide range of analytical methods, including re assay.
In total, the Groups laboratories analysed c. 700,000 gold samples in 2011.
02 03 63 Exploration Report continued 2 During 2011, further zones of At Elginskoye, a new 325km area could become a signi cant of approximately 1.0g t which mineralisation north-west of the licence area located 15km west addition to the main reserves and could be amenable for simple operational Quartzitovoye open-pit of the Albyn plant and acquired resources base of the Albyn mine.
These zones are by the Group in November 2010, Preliminary tests showed expected to be non-refractory, the exploration programme yielded Taldan and Osezhinskaya heap-leach recovery of 60%, but due to their location within its first positive results.
The Taldan and Osezhinskaya although ne grinding the ore the blasting safety zone, licence areas are located in the increases recovery to 90%.
exploration has been progressing The area has extensive gold western part of the Amur region The mineralised zone has wide at a slower pace.
However, placers which were mined during in close proximity to each other.
exposure at the surface and is the Group expects to include these Soviet times.
The primary source suitable for open-pit mining.
Taldan is situated approximately zones in future Mineral Reserves of these placers has not yet been 150km by road from Pokrovskiy and Resources statements.
The areas geology is and 4km from the town of Taldan, Sagur-Semertakskaya similar to Albyn and the exploration which itself is situated on Exploration results at SagurAt the Quartzitovoye high-grade ore results received during 2011 have the Trans-Siberian Railway.
Semertakskaya included several body, new assay results resulted in con rmed the presence of an The Osezhinskaya area was high-grade intersections up to improvements in both the resource Albyn-style mineralisation, acquired in 2010 and is located 1.5m at 15.86g t and 1m at 11g t size and the con dence of the the extent of which is yet to 20km west of the town of Taldan.
which indicate that the area is estimate.
The main Quartzitovoye be ascertained.
prospective for the discovery high-grade ore body is still open at In 2011, the Group completed of a modest to small-size depth, indicating the potential to During 2011, the first trenching preliminary exploration work at the narrow vein target for potential extend the size of the resource and drilling was completed at Burinda deposit, which is located underground extraction.
the Grozovoye and Elginskoye within the Taldan licence area.
The Group is evaluating options prospects, the two historically An Inferred gold resource of to develop this asset further.
better explored targets within Albyn 0.34Moz was identi ed, with The 2011 exploration programme the licence area.
At Grozovoye, mineralisation open at depth.
Krasnoyarsk region at Albyn and the surrounding area a shallow-dipping mineralised In the Krasnoyarsk region, was very successful.
zone with an exposed width of In 2011, early stage exploration the Group has continued 100m was identi ed and sampled.
also started at the nearby successful exploration at its A comprehensive programme Signi cant trenching and drill Osezhinskaya licence area.
signi cant non-refractory of trenching and inll drilling intersections include: 39m at Historical geochemical work had Visokoe deposit, as well as at Albyn resulted in an increase 1.25g t Au trench K-430-1, identi ed a large gold anomaly over at the Troeusovskaya and 11.9m at 1.18g t Au drill hole in Measured and Indicated a granite-porphyry intrusion Verkhnetisskaya licence areas.
C-430-32 and 1m at 17.8g t Au located on the east side of the The total resource, including the trench K-414-1.
This intrusion is Drilling and trenching completed Inferred category, was also believed to be the source of gold at Visokoe upgraded the size of, upgraded from 1.8Moz to 2.2Moz.
A further shallow-dipping placers, which are widespread in and increased con dence, in the mineralised zone with a visible the river valley on the west ank of mineral resource estimate.
Further mineralised zones were thickness of 100-150m was also the granite.
A strong Ag-Cu-Mo Measured Mineral Resources were identi ed west of the main ore body, identi ed at the Elginskoye anomaly was identi ed north of the classi ed for the first time and the where both at dipping and steep prospect.
Trench intersections gold anomaly, which may indicate total Mineral Resources increased high-grade narrow vein structures received to date include: 44.3m the presence of a copper-porphyry from 1.8Moz to 2.5Moz of gold.
In the central area at 1.45g t Au, 18.5m at 1.42g t Au, style mineralisation.
Geological results indicated that of the deposit, mineralisation was 27m at 2.44g t Au and 2.3m at there is currently potential to fide ned by drilling to a depth of 4.23g t Au.
Drill hole intersections During 2012, the Group intends increase Mineral Resources 400m from the surface, with the include: 17m at 2.01g t Au and to continue exploration of further.
The Group also completed gold grade increasing with depth.
9.8m at 1.36g t Au all thicknesses Osezhinskaya.
Based on 2012 suf cient technical work to are apparent.
The Group has yet to establish results, the Group will re-evaluate estimate a maiden Probable Ore where this mineralisation will begin further exploration plans at both Reserve for Visokoe 1.2Moz in to narrow.
Exploration at the Elginskoye Taldan and Osezhinskaya.
licence area remains at an early 2 At Kharginskoye, an extension of stage, with further promising Osipkan At Troeusovskaya, a large 995km the Albyn licence area acquired in targets due to be tested in 2012.
The Group nished its preliminary licence located about 60km to the 2010, exploration identi ed several These include a large exploration at Osipkan in 2011. south of Visokoe, the Group Albyn-style zones of micaapproximately 10km long The results indicated the presence geochemical gold anomaly feldspar metasomatites with of modest-size non-refractory elevated gold grades.
Exploration identi ed during the 2011 work.
mineralisation containing in this area will continue in 2012, Group geologists believe that this 200,000-400,000oz of nonwhen more conclusive results will refractory gold at an average grade be reported.
64 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011 About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information identi ed a number of promising also identi ed and explored north 01 gold occurrences, including several and south of the Petropavlovskoye signi cant gold-arsenic main mineralised zone, adding geochemical anomalies up to 7km approximately 0.1Moz of gold in in length.
The presence of gold as Inferred category to the projects well as arsenic, together with the mineral inventory.
The total overall favourable geological JORC-compliant Mineral Resource setting, indicates the potential to estimate for the Groups Yamal discover Olimpiada-style gold region assets has now increased mineralisation.
Olimpiada is a worldto more than 1Moz of gold.
class gold deposit situated approximately 70km east of Preliminary exploration results Troeusovskaya.
The largest from the Sob-Kharbeiskaya geochemical anomaly identi ed at licence area were promising, Troeusovskaya to date is yet to be identifying a zone of gold tested.
Signi cant intersections mineralisation with potentially obtained from the site in 2011 economic grades.
Exploration at include 2.2m at 4.8g t Au and 10m Sob-Kharbeiskaya remains at an at 1.9g t Au, with individual samples early stage and is scheduled to of up to 8g t Au.
Work remains at an continue into 2012. early stage and further results will be reported in 2012.
New exploration licences In June 2011, the Group 2 The limited trenching and drilling won the auction for the 308km 01 Exploration drilling in the Amur region.
work completed on the Olenka ore Nimanskaya exploration body within the Verkhnetisskaya and extraction licence area, licence identi ed a new mineralised located in the Khabarovsk region, structure with a strike in an some 90km south of Albyn.
Similar The area is well-known for structures are well-known locally extensive alluvial gold mining, and are likely to host economic which started here in 1874. mineralisation.
The latest results It is estimated that between 4Moz are being evaluated and the to 5Moz of gold were recovered exploration programme is being from the area, with 80% of the adjusted to re ect these findings.
historical production coming The current resource estimate of from a 14x12km section of the 540Koz of Inferred resources at Nimanskaya licence area.
Olenka will be updated during 2012 to incorporate these Work completed by the Groups new discoveries.
predecessors between 1994 and 1998 identi ed several zones of Yamal region mineralisation along an 8km strike In the Yamal region, the Group and up to 5km in width.
Grades continued its exploration ranging from 0.2g t to 20g t of programme at the gold were identi ed in samples.
Petropavlovskoye gold deposit The Groups predecessors and also started early-stage concluded that the area has the prospecting at the Sobpotential for a resource of between Kharbeiskaya licence area, which 2Moz and 4Moz at an average was acquired in 2010. grade of1.0-2.0g t Au.
At Petropavlovskoye, the Group Licence review re-evaluated drilling results from the During 2011, the Group carried out Novogodnee Monto gold and iron a review of the existing exploration ore body, estimating an additional and evaluation projects and Inferred category resource of recognised an impairment charge 0.26Moz of gold, as well as 3Mt of of US$42.1 million against certain high-grade by-product iron ore at mineral properties which are not an average grade of 46% Fe tot.
