Report of the Risk Committee Dear shareholder, Mr Martin Smith, the Deputy Chief Executive and the Groups As Chairman of the Risk Technical Director, was appointed Committee the Committee, to the Committee on 9 February I would like to give you an overview 2011.
Martin has made a signi cant of the scope and activity of the contribution to the Committee since Committee and report on its work his appointment due to his detailed over the past year.
In addition, knowledge and understanding this report details the principal of the operational and health and risks relating to the Group and safety issues relating to the Group.
the actions undertaken to mitigate Based in Russia and as an and manage these risks.
Executive Director and a member of the Executive Committee, During 2011, Dr Graham Birch, Martin is involved in operational Sir Roderic Lyne, Mr Martin Smith issues on a daily basis and has a and Mr Peter Hill-Wood were my clear understanding of the Groups colleagues on the Committee.
Through active Peter Hill-Wood stepped down dialogue with his Executive from the Committee on Committee colleagues he clearly 19 May 2011 and I would like understands the principal risks of to extend my thanks to Peter for the Group and can act as a conduit his valuable contribution to the between the Committee and the Committee.
Membership of the Executive Committee.
Committee is reviewed at regular intervals by me as Chairman, the In addition, I was pleased to The Company continues to pursue Nomination Committee and the welcome Dr David Humphreys Company Chairman who as a member of the Committee its growth strategy through exploration recommend to the Board any with effect from 1 January 2012. and new technologies and the new appointments to the Risk As part of his induction Committee.
The Board considers programme, David attended Committee principally focuses on that there are signi cant bene ts two meetings of the Committee in having Non-Executive Directors by invitation in 2011 following his those risks that could impact on the provide oversight of risk issues and appointment as a Director of the to challenge the risk management Company in August 2011.
Groups business and on the success process and accordingly the of this strategy.
Committee is comprised of a We held six meetings during the majority of independent Nonyear.
These were also attended Lord Guthrie Executive Directors with two by invitation for all or part of any members comprising a quorum.
meeting by the Companys Chairman of the Risk Committee Chairman, the Chief Executive Of cer, the Chief Financial Of cer, the Strategic Director, the Group Head of Legal Affairs and the Company Secretary.
Attendance at meetings during Members: Date of appointment: 2011: Lord Guthrie 21 January 2008 6 6 Graham Birch 12 February 2010 6 6 Sir Roderic Lyne 22 April 2009 6 6 Martin Smith 9 February 2011 6 6 Peter Hill-Wood 22 April 2009 1 3 David Humphreys 1 January 2012 2 2 Retired on 19 May 2011.
Appointed as a Director on 24 August 2011.
David Humphreys attended two meetings during 2011 by invitation and as part of his induction to the Company.
76 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011 About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information Summary of activities Review and assessment of O perational: undertaken by the Committee risks during the year F inancial: during the year and focus As detailed in the Audit Committee for 2012: Report on pages 121 to 124, H ealth, Safety and The Committee recognises that the Board has ultimate Environmental HSE : the Companys risk management responsibility for setting the Legal and regulatory: structure is a live process which Groups risk appetite and the is continually evolving.
Accordingly, executive team has responsibility Human resources: and we seek external advice as we for on-going risk review and Investor relations and external management.
Whilst on-going think appropriate to ensure that communications.
review of risk management is our risk management process continues to develop.
During the delegated to the Executive Responsibility for each category year the Committee received a Committee, the Board considers is delegated to a risk owner within presentation from Deloitte, the it appropriate to retain oversight of the Executive Committee.
Companys external auditor, on risks and the effectiveness of the Consideration of principal risks effective risk management in order risk management framework.
is a standing agenda item for to assist the Committee in further This is achieved in a number of Executive Committee meetings ways.
The Board has delegated developing an integrated risk and with particular focus on new and governance framework for the authority to this Committee to emerging risks.
Deloitte also made a make recommendations to the is responsible for identifying risks presentation to the Executive Board on the Groups risk appetite.
in their risk area and the most Committee meeting on risk issues, Accordingly, the Committee is signi cant risks are recorded in focusing principally on the responsible for reviewing the risk registers.
The likelihood of implications of the Bribery Act identi cation, evaluation and occurrence and potential impact management of key risks, as well 2010 for the Group which came to the Group is assessed and as for assessing the effectiveness into force on 1 July 2011. mitigating controls which seek to In addition, whilst recognising the of related controls, and monitoring remove or minimise the likelihood progress that the Company had the internal control systems.
and impact of the risks before they made in its risk management In addition, the Committee is occur are implemented.
Risks are structure during 2010, Deloitte responsible for reinforcing risk then re-assessed once appropriate made recommendations to further management principles mitigation is in place, although improve the Companys risk throughout the Group.
The Audit some risks by their nature cannot Committee retains responsibility management processes in its be mitigated by the Company.
for reviewing financial risks and Management Letter prepared following the 2010 year-end audit.
during the year the Committee At each of its meetings, The Committee considered these received comprehensive the Committee reviews each risk recommendations together with information on these risks area and the corresponding risk the Executive Directors and and their review.
register and discusses any issues actions have been taken to comply of concern with the relevant risk with the recommendations.
Over the last few years the Group owners who are periodically has grown substantially into a invited to attend Committee complex multi-mine operation.
The Committee probes The Company continues to pursue and tests the risk identi cation its growth strategy through process and the ef cacy of the exploration and new technologies risk management strategy with and the Committee principally the various risk owners.
focuses on those risks that could The Committee also has impact on the Groups business responsibility for identifying the and on the success of this strategy.
most signi cant Group-wide risks Risks that could impact the from the individual risk registers.
business are considered in the following broad categories: 77 Report of the Risk Committee continued The Groups categorisation of risks and risk owners Principal risks relating to the Group The most signi cant risks that may have an adverse impact on the Groups reputation, its ability to meet its strategic objectives and Operational Financial to deliver shareholder value are set Factors which impact output such Financial risks include market, out below.
Summarised alongside as inadequate or failed internal credit and liquidity risks, the ability each risk is a description of its processes, failure of suppliers to to raise finance or meet loan potential impact on the Group.
deliver equipment or services covenants or foreign exchange Measures in place to manage or and other external events exposure and other related risks mitigate against each speci c risk, where this is within the Groups Deputy Chief Executive Chief Financial Of cer control, are also described.
and Technical Director The additional information column provides a cross-reference to further information, speci cally regarding the processes and procedures that are undertaken to mitigate these risks in order that the Group can successfully deliver on its strategy.
Health, Safety and Legal and regulatory Risks that create potential for loss Environmental HSE Workplace hazards that could arising from uncertainty due to result in liability for the Group or legal actions or uncertainty in the have an adverse impact on output application of laws or regulations Deputy Chief Executive Group Head of and Technical Director Legal Affairs Human resources Investor relations and Risks associated with the external communications recruitment and on-going Includes risks such as poor management of people management of market expectations and false investor Chief Executive Of cer perception Group Head of External Communications 78 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011 About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information The Groups principal risks are set out below.
These should not be regarded as a complete or comprehensive list of all potential risks and uncertainties that the Group may face which could have an adverse impact on its performance.
Additional risks may also exist that are currently unknown to the Group and certain risks which are currently believed to be immaterial could turn out to be material and signi cantly affect the Groups business and financial results.
Operational risks Risk Description and potential impact Mitigation Additional information Failure to complete various The Groups strategy relies on the The progress in meeting capital Strategic Priority page 11 capital investment projects successful completion of various capital investment timeframes and budgets POX Hub pages 44 to 47 including the execution investment projects including the is monitored regularly and a formal of the commissioning of successful commissioning of POX.
process exists by which the the Pressure Oxidation Failure to deliver the Groups active Executive Committee and the Board POX hub.
capital investment programme including can monitor the progress of material the successful execution of POX and the capital projects against the original move to refractory ore and or to adhere budgets and timeframes.
The to agreed budgets or timeframes may Technical and Strategic Committees have an adverse impact on the Groups both have the responsibility for growth plans and its future pro tability.
formulating annual and long-term budgets and forecasts including capital investment budgets and monitoring and reporting on performance against these.
POX is being delivered together with an excellent team of specialists.
The Company has dedicated signi cant time and resource to ensuring that the commissioning of the POX hub will be successful and on schedule.
Over the past five years, the Group has conducted extensive research into the POX technology and the processing parameters in its R&D centres and at the Giproruda research facility, in which IRC is the majority shareholder.
This work has been supplemented by bulk sample testing at its pilot plant in Blagoveschensk.
Delay in supply of, or failure The Group relies on the supply and Contingency plans are in place of equipment services.
availability of various services and to address disruption to services.
equipment in order to successfully These were reviewed and run its operations.
For example, strengthened in response to the timely delivery of mining equipment challenges faced by failure of and jaw crushers and their availability suppliers to deliver essential are essential to the Groups ability to equipment on schedule during 2010. extract ore from the Groups assets to crush the mined ore prior to production.
The Group has high operational standards and maintenance of equipment is undertaken on a regular basis.
Equipment is inspected at the beginning and end of every shift and suf cient stocks of spare parts are available.
Delay in the delivery or the failure of Equipment is ordered with adequate mining equipment could signi cantly lead time in order to prevent delays in delay production and impact the the delivery of equipment.
79 Report of the Risk Committee continued Operational risks continued Risk Description and potential impact Mitigation Additional information Factors which impact output The Groups assets are located in the Heating plants at operational bases such as weather, equipment Russian Far East which is an area that are regularly maintained and failures or lack of supplies.
can be subject to severe climatic operational equipment is tted with conditions.
Severe weather conditions cold weather options, which could such as cold temperatures in winter could assist in ensuring that equipment have an adverse impact on operations, does not fail as a result of adverse including the delivery of supplies, weather conditions.
equipment and fuel, and exploration and extraction levels may fall as a result The Group aims to stock several of such climatic factors.
months of essential supplies at each site.
80 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011 About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information Financial risks Risk Description and potential impact Mitigation Additional information The Groups results of A sustained downward movement in the The Group does not typically Gold: Our Market Position and Competitive Environment operations may be affected market price for gold or iron ore may implement hedging or price on pages 24 to 27 by changes in gold and or negatively affect the Groups pro tability management strategies, although iron ore prices.
The market price of gold the Executive Committee monitors is volatile and is affected by numerous the position on a regular basis and factors which are beyond the consults with the Board as Companys control.
The Group aims to include world production levels, global minimise overhead costs on an and regional economic and political on-going basis and to operate and events, international economic trends, maintain low-cost and ef cient in ation, currency exchange uctuations operations in order to optimise and the political and economic the Groups returns.
The Groups conditions of major gold-producing business model is to actively maintain countries.
Additionally the purchase and the lowest possible cash cost per sale of gold by central banks or other gold ounce.
During the year the large holders or dealers may also have Company appointed consultants an impact on the market price.
to assist it in identifying operational ef ciencies which have now been successfully implemented.
Currency uctuations may The Company reports its results in US The Group has adopted a policy Chief Financial Of cers affect the Group.
Dollars, which is the currency in which of holding a minimum of cash and Statement on pages 34 to 43 gold is principally traded and therefore monetary assets or liabilities in in which most of the Groups revenue is non-US Dollar currencies and generated.
Signi cant costs are incurred operates an internal funding structure in and or in uenced by the local which seeks to minimise foreign currencies in which the Group operates, exchange exposure.
In addition, a portion of the Group corporate overhead is denominated in Sterling.
The Companys financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in the exchange rates between these currencies.
In addition, if in ation in Russia were to increase without a corresponding devaluation of the Russian Rouble relative to the US Dollar, the Groups business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.
81 Report of the Risk Committee continued Financial risks continued Risk Description and potential impact Mitigation Additional information Lack of funding and liquidity The Groups future production growth The Groups long-term strategic Strategic Priority on page 11 to finance its strategy to is dependent on its success in funding funding needs are detailed in the Chief Financial Of cers grow through green eld and its existing operations and developing Groups five year strategic plan Statement on pages 34 to 43 brown eld exploration and additional reserves.
The Group requires which was approved by the Board through the employment of funds to invest in and develop its in November 2011.
The five year advanced technologies.
exploration projects as well as to extend strategic plan is periodically reviewed the life and capacity of its existing mining and monitored by the Executive operations.
If the Group is unable to Committee and the Board.
obtain adequate funding, this may mean A detailed annual budget is that the Group is unable to develop and approved by the Board and or meet its operational commitments.
During the year, the Group took a number of actions to reduce the impact of this risk with increased access to funding through the execution of new banking facilities.
In addition, IRC has a loan facility with ICBC amounting to US$340 million for the development of the K&S iron ore concentrate project.
Risk that the Company In the event of a breach of one or more A detailed annual budget and five Chief Financial Of cers Statement pages 34 to 43 breaches one or more of the restrictive covenants in one of the year strategic plan have been of the restrictive covenants Companys loan agreements with its developed and approved by the as set out in various loan debt providers, loans may become Board.
These assist the executive agreements.
payable immediately and the Company management and the Board to may not be able to access funds to closely monitor the position together repay the loans in such circumstances.
with i monthly forecast updates including sensitivity analysis around covenants to assist careful management of cash ows, and ii development of a cost reduction plan to offset the effect of a decline in the gold price or adverse currency movements as appropriate.
In addition, strong relationships are maintained between the Company and existing and potential equity and debt providers.
82 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011 About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information Financial risks continued Risk Description and potential impact Mitigation Additional information Funding may be demanded Petropavlovsk has provided a guarantee The Group ensures constant Chief Financial Of cers Statement pages 41 and 42 from Petropavlovsk under a against a US$340 million loan facility monitoring of IRCs performance guarantee in favour of ICBC.
In the event through 1 Petropavlovsk IRC page 61 that IRC were to default on their loan, representation on IRC Board, 2 IRC Petropavlovsk may be liable to presentations to Petropavlovsk Board, repayment of the outstanding loan 3 attendance of IRC Chairman and under the terms of the guarantee.
CEO at Petropavlovsk Executive Committee meetings, and 4 regular communication between the Group CFO and the IRC CFO.
Exploration for reserves can Exploration activities are speculative and The Group has a large, diverse Our Strategy in Focus: be costly and uncertain.
These activities portfolio of assets in highly Exploration on pages 12 to15 can require substantial expenditure to prospective gold mining regions of Exploration Report on pages 62 to 65 establish reserves through drilling and Russia and carefully plans its metallurgical and other testing, to exploration expenditure.
The Groups determine appropriate recovery exploration budget is determined for processes, to extract gold from the ore each asset at the start of each and to construct or expand mining and financial year depending on processing facilities.
Once deposits are con dence in any previously received discovered, it can take several years to results.
The Group is using modern determine whether reserves exist.
geophysical and geochemical During this time, the economic viability exploration and surveying of a project may change.
The Group employs these uncertainties, the exploration a team of quali ed geologists with programmes the Group is engaged considerable regional expertise and in may not result in the expansion or experience.
The Groups geological replacement of the current production team is supported by a network of with new reserves or operations.
state-accredited laboratories capable of performing a range of assay work to high standards.
83 Report of the Risk Committee continued Health, Safety and Environmental risks Risk Description and potential impact Mitigation Additional information Failures in the Groups health The Groups employees are one of Health and safety management Focus on health and safety and safety processes and or its most valuable assets.
The Group systems are in place across the on page 22 breach of Occupational, recognises that it has an obligation to Group to ensure that the operations Sustainability Report 2011 Health and Safety legislation.
protect the health of its employees and are managed in accordance with the that they have the right to operate in a relevant health and safety regulations safe working environment.
the Groups operations are carried out under potentially hazardous conditions.
The Group has an established health Group employees may become and safety training programme under exposed to health and safety risks which its employees undergo initial which may lead to the occurrence of training on commencement of work-related accidents and harm to the employment and take part in Groups employees.
These could also refresher training on an annual basis.
result in production delays, reputational damage and financial loss.
The Group implemented a range of additional measures during the year as a result of three fatalities in 2010 in order to minimise the risk of accidents and improve accident response, including additional and enhanced technical measures at all sites and the provision of further occupational, health and safety training.
The Group operates a prompt incident reporting system to the Executive Committee and the Board.
Board level oversight of health and safety issues occurs through the work of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee.
During 2011, amendments to the Internal policies have been updated Russian Labour Code changed the to combine state legislation with the previous principles based operational Groups internal policies to ensure health and safety measures approach compliance with the new legislation.
for enterprises within the Russian Federation to a mandatory one a breach of which could result in fines, penalties and reputational damage.
The Groups operations Accidental spillages of cyanide and Cyanide and other dangerous Focus on the environment on page 23 require the use of hazardous other chemicals may result in damage substances are kept in secure substances including to the environment, personnel and storages with limited access only Sustainability Report 2011 cyanide and other reagents.
individuals within the local community.
to quali ed personnel, with access closely monitored by security staff.
84 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011 About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information Legal and regulatory risks Risk Description and potential impact Mitigation Additional information The Group requires various The Groups principal activity is the There are established processes in Our Assets on pages 48 to 59. licences and permits in order mining of precious and non-precious place to monitor the required and Exploration Report on to operate.
metals which require it to hold existing licences and permits on an pages 62 to 65 licences which permit it to explore on-going basis and processes are and mine in particular areas in Russia.
also in place to ensure compliance These licences are regulated by Russian with the requirements of the licences governmental agencies and if a material and permits.
Schedules are licence was challenged or terminated, presented to the Executive this would have a material adverse Committee on a regular basis impact on the Group.
In addition, detailing compliance with the various government regulations require Groups licences and permits.
the Group to obtain permits to implement new projects or to renew existing permits.
Non-renewal of a permit may cause the Group to discontinue the operations requiring the permit and the imposition of additional conditions may cause the Group to incur additional compliance costs.
The Groups mineral The Groups mineral reserves and The first stage of assurance of the Strategic priority on page 11 reserves and resources are resources are estimates based on a accuracy of reserves and resources Our Strategy in Focus: estimates based on a range range of assumptions, including the is by detailed analysis of geological Exploration on pages 12 to 15 of assumptions.
results of exploratory drilling and an samples in the Groups laboratories.
Gold Reserves and Resources on pages 66 to 75 on-going sampling of the ore bodies: past experience with mining properties: These laboratories are licensed by the and the experience of the expert Russian authorities and use multiple engaged to carry out the reserve QA QC procedures.
Other uncertainties inherent procedures include the use of in estimating reserves include subjective standards, blanks and judgements and determinations based duplicates, as well as cross checking on available geological, technical, a percentage of all samples analysed, contractual and economic information.
in an independent laboratory in Ulan Some assumptions may be valid at the Ude, Republic of Buryatia, Russia.
time of estimation but may change signi cantly when new information The resource and reserve estimates becomes available.
are prepared in accordance with the guidelines of the Joint Ore Reserves Changes to any of these assumptions, Committee of the Australasian on which the Groups reserve and Institute of Mining and Metallurgy, resource estimates are based, could Australian Institute of Geoscientists lead to the reported reserves being and Minerals Council of Australia restated.
Changes in the reserves and JORC Code 2004.
The Group resources could adversely impact the engages the services of independent economic life of deposits and the experts, Wardell Armstrong pro tability of the Groups operations.
International, to review the Groups reserves and resources calculations for operating mines and development projects on a regular basis to provide additional external assurance.
In addition, the Company publishes its reserves and resources calculations based on gold prices which are lower than the current market price of gold.
85 Report of the Risk Committee continued Legal and regulatory risks continued Risk Description and potential impact Mitigation Additional information The Group is subject to risks Actions by governments or changes To mitigate the Russian economic associated with operating in in economic, political, judicial, and banking risk, the Group strives Russia.
administrative, taxation or other to use the banking services of several regulatory factors or foreign policy in the financial institutions and not keep countries in which the Group operates disproportionately large sums on or holds its major assets could have an deposit with a single bank.
adverse impact on the Groups business or its future performance.
Most of the The Group seeks to mitigate the Groups assets and operations are political and legal risk by constant based in Russia.
monitoring of the proposed and newly adopted legislation to adapt Russian foreign investment legislation to the changing regulatory imposes restrictions on the acquisition environment in the countries in which by foreign investors of direct or indirect it operates and speci cally in Russia.
interests in strategic sectors of the It also relies on the advice of external Russian economy, including in respect counsel in relation to the of gold reserves in excess of a speci ed interpretation and implementation amount or any occurrences of platinum within the Group of new legislation.
The Group closely monitors None of the Groups assets are currently its assets and the probability of included on the list of subsoil blocks of their inclusion into the Strategic federal signi cance, maintained by the Assets lists published by the Russian Government Strategic Russian Government.
Assets, and on the basis of the Russian foreign investment law and the related legislation now in force, it is not currently expected that any of the Groups assets will be classi ed as Strategic Assets.
However, if the legislative framework changes in the future, so that some assets of the Group become Strategic Assets, the Group entities holding licences in respect of such deposits may, themselves, become strategic.
In this case, such Group entities rights in relation to such assets may be limited or even terminated with the compensation of incurred expenses in the course of the exploration of such deposits under the procedure set out by the Russian Government.
If the relevant Group entities are allowed to continue exploring such assets, direct or indirect acquisitions of interests in such entities may require clearance under the Russian foreign investment law.
Fluctuations in the global economy may adversely affect Russias economy.
Russias economy has recently become increasingly dependent on global economic trends and is more vulnerable to market downturns and economic slowdowns elsewhere in the world, as well as to reductions and uctuations in the prices of hydrocarbons and minerals.
86 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011 About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information Human resources risks Risk Description and potential impact Mitigation Additional information The Group depends on The Groups success and growth Succession planning is an Directors Remuneration Report on pages 108 to 120 attracting and retaining key is closely aligned to the experience, important item on the Boards personnel.
abilities and contributions of certain agenda.
The appointment of Corporate Governance Report on pages 99 to 107 of its key senior managers, and in three new Executive Directors in particular the Groups Chairman and January 2011 and further changes the Groups Chief Executive.
following the resignation of Dr Maslovskiy, the Companys The Groups growth and pro tability long-standing Chief Executive may be adversely impacted by the Of cer, on 20 December 2011 form loss of the services of these key part of the Companys on-going senior managers or its inability to long-term succession planning.
attract additional highly-quali ed and experienced people.
Regular reviews of reward structures and incentive plans are carried out in order to attract, retain and incentivise key employees.
The Group seeks its skilled labour The Group has a long standing Focus on community and within the geographies in which it programme of investing in education workforce engagement on page 23 operates, avoiding the need for higher in the regions in which it operates to Focus on education on page 22 expatriate labour costs.
As the scale ensure a constant supply of highly Sustainability Report 2011 of the Group's operations increases, quali ed specialists for the Group's it may experience a shortage of skilled operations.
labour which may make it dif cult to execute its business plans and or lead In response to the challenges of to operational inef ciencies.
moving from a small-scale mining operation to a more complex multi-mine operation, additional investment continues to be made in training including expansion of the Pokrovskiy Mining College and recruitment to improve operational ef ciencies.
Overview Approval As a result of its work undertaken This report was approved by the during the year, the Risk Board and signed on its behalf by: Committee has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its Lord Guthrie terms of reference.
As Chairman Chairman of the of the Risk Committee I will be Risk Committee available at this years Annual 27 March 2012 General Meeting to answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
