Board of Directors and Honorary President 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 01 Peter Hambro 02 Sergey Ermolenko 03 Martin Smith 04 Brian Egan Chairman Chief Executive Of cer Deputy Chief Executive Chief Financial Of cer Mr Hambro is a founding shareholder of Mr Ermolenko was appointed Chief Mr Smith was appointed Deputy Mr Egan is Chief Financial Of cer of the Company and has been Chairman Executive Of cer in December 2011, Chief Executive in December 2011, the Company having previously been of the Group since its formation in 1994. following the resignation of Dr in addition to his role as Technical Chief Financial Of cer of Aricom plc, He is also non-executive chairman and Maslovskiy in December 2011.
He joined the Groups which he joined in July 2007.
Prior to a member of the boards of several One of the five founding members of management team in 1994 on joining Aricom, he was Chief Financial family companies.
Mr Hambro started the Company, Mr Ermolenko has held secondment from Kier International.
Of cer of Gloria-Jeans Corporation, a his career with his family bank and top managerial positions with the In 2006, he joined Aricom plc as leading Russian apparel manufacturer became Joint Managing Director of Group since its inception in 1994 and Technical Director and, following and retailer.
He has more than 16 years Smith St. Aubyn Holdings Limited has been instrumental in the expansion Aricoms merger with the Group in experience in senior financial roles with before joining the gold world at the of the Group into a multi-mine operator, 2009, he became Group Head of Associated British Foods plc, Mocatta Group as Deputy Managing overseeing the commissioning of Technical Services, being appointed Georgia-Paci c Ireland Limited and Director of Mocatta & Goldsmid Pokrovskiy, Pioneer, Malomir and to the Board in January 2011.
Mr Hambro is also Chairman Albyn.
Mr Ermolenko has over With over 30 years experience in the the Institute of Chartered Accountants of the Nomination Committee.
40 years experience of operating global natural resources industry he in Ireland.
mines in the Russian Far East.
commenced his career as a mining engineer at Anglo American Corporation, later leading projects for Kier International, Costain Mining and Shell International.
He is Chairman of the Groups Technical Committee and a member of the HSE and Risk Committees.
05 Andrey Maruta 06 Dr Al ya Alya Samokhvalova 07 Dr Graham Birch Finance Director, Russia Strategic Director Senior Non-Executive Director Mr Maruta quali ed as a Chartered Dr Samokhvalova was appointed to the Dr Birch was appointed to the Board Certi ed Accountant at Moore Board as Strategic Director in January in February 2010 and as Senior Stephens in 2001, became a Fellow 2011.
In addition to this role, she is Non-Executive Director in January member in 2006 and joined the Group Group Head of External 2011.
He is also a non-executive in 2003 as Group Chief Accountant.
Communications, a position she has director of Hochschild Mining plc and of He was appointed Deputy Finance held since 2002.
Dr Samokhvalova is ETF Securities, an asset management Director in 2005 and Finance Director also a non-executive director of the company, and vice-chairman of in 2006.
Following the merger with Russo-British Chamber of Commerce.
He was Aricom plc in 2009 he was again Dr Samokhvalova holds a Masters in formerly a director of BlackRock appointed Deputy Finance Director.
Investment Management from CASS Commodities Investment Trust Plc and He was appointed to the Board of the Business School, London, and a PhD manager of BlackRocks World Mining Company and as Finance Director in Economics from the Moscow Trust and Gold & General Unit Trust.
Russia in January 2011. International Higher Business School.
Prior to joining BlackRock, Dr Birch She is Chairman of the Strategic worked at Mercury Asset Management, Committee and a member of the OrdMinnett Fleming OrdMinnett and Groups HSE Committee.
He holds a PhD in Mining Geology from Imperial College, London.
Dr Birch is a member of the Companys Audit, Nomination and Risk Committees.
88 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011 About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information 08 09 10 11 12 13 08 Lord Guthrie 09 Sir Malcolm Field 10 Sir Roderic Lyne Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director General the Lord Guthrie of Sir Malcolm Field was previously a Sir Roderic Lyne was previously a Craigiebank GCB LVO OBE DL non-executive director of Aricom plc, non-executive director of Aricom plc, was appointed to the Board in 2008. a position he had held since 2003, a position he had held since 2006, He is also a director of Colt Defense and was appointed to the Board in and was appointed to the Board in LLC and a non-executive director of 2009 upon the merger with Aricom plc.
2009 upon the merger with Aricom plc.
Gulf Keystone Petroleum Ltd. Lord In addition to his role with the Group, He is vice-chairman of the Council Guthrie is an independent member of Sir Malcolm is currently the senior of the Royal Institute of International the House of Lords, a board member independent director of Hochschild Affairs Chatham House and Chairman of the Moscow School of Policy Mining plc.
Sir Malcolm served as of the Board of Governors of Kingston Studies, a Visiting Professor and Chairman of the Civil Aviation Authority University and a member of the Honorary Fellow of Kings College and Chairman of Tube Lines Limited, Committee of the Iraq Inquiry.
London, Colonel of the Life Guards one of the London Underground Sir Roderic served as British and Gold Stick to The Queen.
He was formerly Chief Ambassador to Russia from formerly a director of NM Rothschild Executive Of cer of WH Smith Plc.
& Sons Limited, Chief of the Defence Sir Malcolm has held non-executive He is Chairman of the Companys HSE Staff and the Principal Military Adviser directorships with numerous Committee and a member of the to two Prime Ministers and three companies, including Scottish & Remuneration and Risk Committees.
Secretaries of State for Defence.
Newcastle plc and Evolution Group Plc.
Lord Guthrie is Chairman of the Risk He is Chairman of the Audit and Committee and a member of the HSE Remuneration Committees and a and Remuneration Committees.
member of the Nomination Committee.
11 Charles McVeigh III 12 Dr David Humphreys 13 Dr Pavel Maslovskiy Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Honorary President Mr McVeigh III joined the Group as a Dr Humphreys was appointed to the Dr Maslovskiy is a founding shareholder Non-Executive Director in June 2009.
Dr Humphreys of the Company and held directorships He is currently chairman of Citigroups has a broad range of experience in within the Group, including the position Corporate and Investment Banking the global mining industry through his of Chief Executive Of cer, from the Global Wealth Management work for mining companies and as a Groups inception in 1994 until Partnership.
He also serves on the consultant and academic.
He was chief December 2011, when he relinquished boards of EFG-Hermes and Savills plc economist at Norilsk Nickel, Russias all remunerated positions following his and is a trustee of the Landmark Trust.
largest mining company, from 2004 appointment as a Senator and Member Formerly he was co-chairman of to 2008.
He was previously with Rio of the Federation Council of Russia.
Citigroups European Investment Bank Tinto for 18 years, the last eight of these Following his resignation as Chief and served on the boards of Witan as the companys chief economist.
Executive Of cer, the Companys Investment Company plc, Clearstream, Prior to joining Rio Tinto, Dr Humphreys Board of Directors conferred on him the London Stock Exchange, LIFFE worked for nine years in the UK the title of Honorary President.
In this and British American Business Inc. government service, for six of these as capacity Dr Maslovskiy continues to He was also appointed by the Bank an advisor on minerals policy.
He was advise the Company.
Similarly, of England to serve on the City Capital appointed as a member of the Risk, Dr Maslovskiy holds an advisory role Markets Committee and the Legal HSE and Remuneration Committees as Emeritus Director at IRC Limited.
Prior to embarking on his business is a member of the Audit and career, Dr Maslovskiy was an Associate Nomination Committees.
Professor of Metallurgy at the Moscow Aircraft Technology Institute.
