Directors Report The directors are pleased to present their report and the consolidated financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries for the 52 weeks 2010: 52 weeks ended 29 January 2011.
Principal activities The Group trades principally as a manufacturer, distributor and seller of soft drinks.
Company number The Companys registration number is SC005653.
Business review A detailed review of the Groups activities and of future plans is contained within the Chairmans Statement on pages 4 to 5, the Business and Financial Review on pages 10 to 25 and the Corporate and Social Responsibility report on pages 28 to 39.
The information contained in those sections fulfils the requirements of the Business Review, as required by Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006, and should be treated as forming part of this Directors report.
Results and dividends The Groups profit after tax for the financial year ended 29 January 2011 attributable to equity shareholders amounted to 22.585m 2010: 17.948m.
An interim dividend for the current year of 6.75p 2010: 6.25p per ordinary share was paid on 22 October 2010.
The final proposed dividend of 18.66p 2010: 16.85p per ordinary share will be paid on 3 June 2011 if approved at the Companys annual general meeting on 23 May 2011 AGM.
The directors have taken advantage of the exemption available under s408 of the Companies Act 2006 and have not presented an income statement for the Company.
The Companys profit for the year was 17.164m 2010: 13.348m.
"Directors The following were directors of the Company during the financial year ended 29 January 2011: t 3 BOOB t 8 3 #BSS t 3 "" 8IJUF t 8BSCVSUPO t "" # $ 4IPSU t 4 &TQFZ SFUJSFE BOVBSZ t %, FNQ t. "" SJGGJUIT BQQPJOUFE 4FQUFNCFS t A. L. Memmott Subject to the Companys Articles of Association the Articles and any relevant legislation, the directors may exercise all of the powers of the Company and may delegate their power and discretion to committees."
The Articles give the directors power to appoint and remove directors.
Under the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee, any appointment must be recommended by the Nomination Committee for approval by the board.
The Articles require directors to retire and submit themselves for election at the first AGM following appointment and to retire no later than the third AGM after the AGM at which they were last elected or re-elected.
Consequently, M. A. Griffiths, who was appointed to the board on 1 September 2010, will retire at the AGM and, being eligible, will offer himself for re-election.
In addition, in order to comply with provision B of the new UK Corporate Governance Code, published by the Financial Reporting Council in May 2010, all directors will submit themselves for re-election at the AGM.
The biographical details of the board are set out on page 45 of this report.
Directors interests The directors interests in ordinary shares of the Company are shown within the Directors Remuneration Report on page 61.
No director has any other interest in any shares or loan stock of any Group company.
Other than service contracts, no director had a material interest in any contract to which any Group company was a party during the year.
Directors third party indemnity provisions As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force between the Company and each of its directors under which the Company has agreed to indemnify each director, to the extent permitted by law, in respect of certain liabilities incurred as a result of carrying out their role as a director of the Company.
The directors are also indemnified against the costs of defending any criminal or civil proceedings or any claim in relation to the Company or brought by a regulator as they are incurred provided that where the defence is unsuccessful the director must repay those defence costs to the Company.
The Companys total liability under each indemnity is limited to 5.0m for each event giving rise 46 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 to a claim under that indemnity.
The indemnities are qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006.
In addition, the Company maintained a Directors and Officers liability insurance policy throughout the financial year and has renewed that policy.
Research and development The Group undertakes research and development activities to update and expand its range of products in order to develop new and existing products.
Expenditure during the year on research and development amounted to 614,000 2010: 437,000.
Political donations and political expenditure No Group company has made any political donations or incurred any political expenditure in the year 2010: nil.
Charitable donations During the year the Company entered into fundraising activities for the Princes Trust.
Further details of the work are included within the Corporate and Social Responsibility Report on pages 37 and 38.
The total of the Companys direct donations for charitable purposes cash donations to charity during the year was 260,762 2010: 169,640.
Further donations of products were made to community programmes.
Land and buildings The directors are of the opinion that there is no significant difference between the market value and the book value of the Groups land and buildings as at 29 January 2011.
Post balance sheet events Any post balance sheet events requiring disclosure are included in note 28 to the accounts.
Employee involvement The Group is committed to engaging employees at all levels regarding matters which affect them and the performance of the Group.
This is achieved in a number of ways, including the use of regular briefing procedures, which twice yearly include a report on trading results.
Quarterly communication and consultation meetings are held at which employee representatives views are taken into account when the Company is making decisions that are likely to affect employees interests.
In addition to this, a biannual internal magazine, The Quencher, is distributed to all employees.
All qualifying employees are entitled to join the Savings Related Share Option Scheme and the All-Employee Share Ownership Plan.
Employment of disabled persons Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered bearing in mind the qualifications and abilities of the applicants concerned.
In the event of employees becoming disabled every effort is made to ensure that their employment will continue.
The Groups policy is that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons are, as far as possible, identical to those of other employees.
Payment policy and practice The Groups policy is to make payment in accordance with the terms agreed with suppliers when satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods or services in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
Trade payables days as at 29 January 2011 were 22 30 January 2010: 16 based on the ratio of Company trade payables note 19 at the end of the year to the amounts invoiced during the year by suppliers.
Substantial shareholdings As at 21 March 2011, the Company had been notified under Rule 5 of the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following interests in the Companys ordinary share capital.
Number of % of Type of shares voting rights holding Caledonia Investments Plc 3,417,000 8.78 Direct Lindsell Train Ltd 2,876,368 7.39 Indirect Standard Life Investments Limited 2,002,032 5.14 Direct and indirect A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 47 Directors Report continued Relations with shareholders The Company has regular discussions with and briefings for analysts and institutional shareholders.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director normally meet with major shareholders twice annually and brief the next board meeting on their discussions.
All shareholders, including private investors, have an opportunity to participate in questions and answers with the board on matters relating to the Companys operation and performance at the AGM.
Share capital As at 29 January 2011 the Companys issued share capital comprised a single class of ordinary shares of 12.5 pence each.
All of the Companys issued ordinary shares are fully paid up and rank equally in all respects.
The rights attaching to the shares are set out in the Articles.
Note 26 to the financial statements contains details of the ordinary share capital.
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company every holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote and, on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
The Notice of AGM gives full details of deadlines for exercising voting rights in relation to resolutions to be passed at the AGM.
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution are announced at the AGM and published on the Companys website after the meeting.
Subject to the relevant statutory provisions and the Articles, shareholders are entitled to a dividend where declared and paid out of profits available for such purposes.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than: t Those which may from time to time be applicable under existing laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws t Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, whereby certain directors and employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the Companys ordinary shares and are prohibited from dealing during close periods At 29 January 2011 the Company had authority, pursuant to the shareholders resolution of 24 May 2010, to purchase up to 10% of its issued share capital.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the 2011 AGM.
It is proposed that this authority be renewed at the 2011 AGM, as detailed in the Notice of AGM.
At 29 January 2011 Robert Barr Limited, as trustee of the General Employee Benefit Trust, the Savings Related Benefit Trust and the Long Service Award Trust the Trustee, held 1.30% of the issued share capital of the Company in trust for the benefit of the executive directors and employees of the Group.
As at 29 January 2011, the trustees of the Profit Linked Share Plan the PLSP Trustees held 0.20% of the issued share capital of the Company in trust for the benefit of the executive directors and employees of the Group.
A dividend waiver is in place in respect of the Trustees and the PLSP Trustees holdings.
The voting rights in relation to these shares are exercised by the Trustee or the PLSP Trustees, as the case may be, who may vote or abstain from voting the shares as they see fit.
Under the rules of the All-Employee Share Ownership Plan the Plan, eligible employees are entitled to acquire shares in the Company.
Details of the Plan are set out on page 56.
Plan shares are held in trust for participants by Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited the Trustees.
Voting rights are exercised by the Trustees on receipt of participants instructions.
If a participant does not submit an instruction to the Trustees, no vote is registered.
In addition, the Trustees do not vote any unawarded shares held under the Plan as surplus assets.
As at 29 January 2011, the Trustees held 1.53% of the issued share capital of the Company.
The Executive Share Option Scheme was approved by shareholders at the 2010 AGM 2010 ESOS.
The 2010 ESOS superseded the Companys current Executive Share Option Scheme, which expires on 19 May 2013 2003 ESOS.
To date, no options have been awarded under the 2003 ESOS or the 2010 ESOS.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Change of control As disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report, under certain conditions the notice period for executive directors may increase from one year to two years in the event of a takeover of or by the Company or a Company reconstruction.
All of the Companys share incentive plans contain provisions relating to a change of control of the Company.
Full details of these plans are provided in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 55 to 62.
The Companys banking facilities may, at the discretion of the lender, be repayable upon a change of control.
48 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Articles of association The Companys Articles may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
No amendments are proposed to be made to the existing Articles at the 2011 AGM.
Financial risk management Information on the exposure of the Group to certain financial risks and on the Groups objectives and policies for managing each of the Groups main financial risk areas is detailed in the Financial risk management disclosure in note 24.
Contracts of significance There were no contracts of significance as defined by Listing Rule 9.8 subsisting during the financial year.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business Review on pages 10 to 17.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 18 to 25.
After making the appropriate enquiries, the directors have concluded that the Group will be able to meet its term loan obligations and will continue to generate positive free cash flow for the foreseeable future and therefore have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group overall have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and, accordingly, consider it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.
Directors statement as to disclosure of information to auditors So far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined by the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Each director has taken all steps that ought to be taken by a director to make themselves aware of and to establish that the auditors are aware of any relevant audit information.
Auditors The Audit Committee has responsibility delegated from the board for making recommendations on the appointment, reappointment, removal and remuneration of the external auditors.
The auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, have indicated their willingness to continue in office, and a resolution proposing their reappointment will be proposed at the 2011 AGM.
Corporate governance The Companys statement on Corporate Governance is included in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 50 to 54 of this report.
The Corporate Governance Report forms part of this Directors report and is incorporated into it by cross-reference.
Annual general meeting The Companys AGM will be held at 9.30am on 23 May 2011 at the offices of KPMG, 191 West George Street, Glasgow, G2 2LJ.
The Notice of the AGM is set out on pages 112 to 113 of this report.
Recommendation to shareholders The board considers that all the resolutions to be considered at the AGM are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and unanimously recommends that you vote in favour of them.
A. Barr Company Secretary 28 March 2011 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 49
