Key Performance Indicators The principal key performance indicators used by management in assessing the performance of the Group, in addition to the income statement, are as follows: Turnover Growth Free Cash Flow The increase in value of revenue recorded in the period Net cash flow excluding the movements in borrowings, relative to the prior period.
shares, dividend payments and non cash exceptional items.
Average Realised Price Return on Capital Employed The average revenue per case sold.
Operating profit before exceptional items as a percentage of invested capital.
Invested capital is defined as period Gross Margin end non-current plus current assets less current liabilities Revenue less material costs and production related costs, excluding all balances relating to any financial instruments, divided by revenue.
interest bearing liabilities and cash or cash equivalents.
Operating Profit Margin Interest Cover Operating profit before exceptional items and before the The ratio of EBITA EBITDA less depreciation relative deduction of interest and taxation, divided by revenue.
to finance charges in respect of the relevant period.
Profit Margin Net Debt EBITDA Operating profit before exceptional items and before the The ratio of aggregate amount of all obligations in respect deduction of taxation, divided by revenue.
of period end consolidated gross borrowings to reported EBITDA.
EBITDA Margin EBITDA defined as profit on ordinary activities before tax Market Growth less exceptional items, adding back interest, depreciation, Nielsen market growth summaries reported in terms amortisation and impairment, divided by revenue.
of volume and value by major product category and geography.
Market Share Nielsen market share summaries reported in terms of volume and value by major brand and geography.
Return on Capital Employed Market Price per Litre Nielsen market scantrack data of retail price per litre 2011 21.4% reported by major brand and geography.
2010 19.2% Reportable Accidents The moving average total of reportable accidents EBITDA Margin in a period, together with the number of lost time accidents and near misses.
