Directors Statement Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the annual report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the Group and parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent Company financial statements on the same basis.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent Company financial statements, the directors are required to: t select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: t make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: t state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and t prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and parent Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the parent Company and the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
A copy of the Group and parent Company financial statements has been placed on the Companys website, www.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the U. K. governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors statement pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules Each of the directors, whose names and functions are set out on page 45 of this report confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: t the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group and parent Company: and t the Business Review on pages 4 to 39 includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and parent Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
B. C. Short Chief Executive Finance Director 28 March 2011 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 63 64 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Accounts Its a WRAP Delivering for the Community Strathmore Spring Water is continuing its commitment to A. G. BARR p. l. c. was the first new the community by donating 1,500 plastic bottles to Scottish signatory of the WRAP Woodlands Community Courtauld 2 Commitment, a U. K. - wide Development Trust.
The brainchild of Woodlands voluntary waste reduction agreement Community Garden, Glasgow, the greenhouse for major grocery retailers and brand venture is being led by the committed local community owners to reduce household food group who have transformed a plot of former derelict land waste and cut product and packaging on West Princes Street into waste in the grocery supply chain.
a public social space and eco hub.
Strathmore Spring Water uses 25% recycled plastic in all their PET bottles, which ultimately means its consumers are reducing their own carbon footprint.
Accounts Independent Auditors Report to the Members of A. G. BARR p. l. c. 66 Consolidated Income Statement 68 Statements of Comprehensive Income 69 Statements of Changes in Equity 70 Statements of Financial Position 72 Cash Flow Statements 73 Accounting Policies 74 Notes to the Accounts 82 Review of Trading Results 111 Notice of Annual General Meeting 112 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of A. G. BARR p. l. c. We have audited the financial statements of A. G. BARR p. l. c for the year ended 29 January 2011 set out on pages 68 to 110.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 63, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion on, the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APBs website at www.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: t the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 29 January 2011 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: t the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: t the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and t the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: t the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: t the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: t adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or t the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or t certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or t we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
66 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: t the directors statement, set out on page 49, in relation to going concern: t the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 50 to 54 relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review and t certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration.
Craig Anderson Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 191 West George Street Glasgow G2 2LJ 28 March 2011 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 67
