36 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Forward momentum 2011 was a challenging year for the semiconductor industry.
Despite a good start to the year, the slowing global economy and worries about sovereign debt, combined with natural disasters resulted in industry revenue growth slowing in each subsequent quarter.
As with previous years, ARMs royalty revenues outperformed the overall industry as we continued to gain share.
This share gain looks set to continue as more marketleading companies choose ARM technology for their future products.
ARM royalty and semiconductor industry growth Outperforming the semiconductor industry 50% 40% In 2011, ARMs penetration of its target market was 30%, up from 25% in the previous year.
ARM has been gaining 30% share every year, and this has enabled our royalty revenues to outperform the 20% semiconductor industry.
Over the past five years ARMs royalty revenue has 10% been growing at an average 19% per year, well ahead of the industry growth 0% rate of 4% per year.
-10% -20% 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 ARM Semiconductor industry In most years ARM outperforms the semiconductor industry by between 5 and 15 percentage points Overview 11 37 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 Financial statements 95 The current environment Governments that need to save money often In addition, 2011 saw several natural need to slow spending on new IT projects, disasters.
On 11 March, Japan was hit by a Through the year, the front pages of most and make government workers redundant.
devastating earthquake which damaged newspapers have been dominated by stories Rising unemployment across the developed much of Japans infrastructure.
Power cuts about governments struggling to balance world can impact consumer confidence and caused many factories to slow or halt budgets and lower national debt.
so reduce spending on consumer electronics production for several months, and The US remained close to a doubledip such as mobile phones and digital TVs.
Many recession with politicians struggling, and digital devices are made in Japan, or contain When consumers buy fewer gadgets, then failing, to produce a deficit plan, whilst components sourced from the country, OEMs consume fewer chips.
In the second growth remained sluggish and andthe Japanese consumer buys about 10% half of 2011, inventories within OEMs rose unemployment increased.
ARM estimates to very high levels.
This led to concerns that that its Q3 royalty revenues were about In Europe, there were worries over sovereign they would slow down spending, leading $3million lower due to this event.
nations defaulting on their debt, and that many semiconductor companies to reduce politicians lacked the will to take hard their inventories to lower levels.
ARMs In October, Thailand was hit by floods that economic decisions that would be royalty revenue is derived from the sales affected about 13 million people, making unpopular with voters.
ofARM technologybased semiconductor many homeless and closing many chips to OEMs.
A reduction in OEM businesses in over 50 provinces.
These areas Even China has not been immune with spending would impact ARMs royalty manufacture critical components in 45% of concerns about its ability to sustain growth revenues.
Analysts expect that OEMs will the worlds hard disk drives used in laptops, when so many of its major export markets manage their inventories to lower levels PCs, settop boxes and servers.
the industry has some inventory, there may been predicting a crash of the booming be some shortages in early 2012 which could Chinese economy, and the main topic for have an impact on ARMs royalty revenues.
debate was whether the landing was going to be hard or soft.
Floods in Thailand impacted the manufacture of critical components used in 45% of the worlds disk drives.
38 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 In 2011, the semiconductor industrys The microcontroller market grew Semiconductor outsourcing revenues grew 8% : ARMs processor bylessthan 10% in 2011, and ARM ARMs processor market share looks set royaltyrevenue grew 22% in 2011.
This processorbased microcontrollers grew tocontinue to grow as semiconductor outperformance is consistent with previous approximately 50% taking ARMs market companies continue to outsource some years, as ARM is exposed to highgrowth share in microcontrollers from 8% in 2010 oftheir technology R&D to ARM.
In 2011, areas of the industry and as ARM gained to over 15% in 2011.
ARM signed a record 121 processor licences, share in all its target markets.
For example: including 36 customers signing their first Mali, ARMs graphics processor, started ever processor licences.
We also signed A typical smartphone can contain up to shipping in some high volume consumer fivephysical IP platform licences, taking the four ARM technologybased chips and electronic products.
At the start of 2011, total number of physical IP licences to 92. the smartphone market grew 65% Mali processors were in less than 1 million yearonyear.
chips per quarter, but this had increased Even though the macroeconomic over 25fold by the end of the year.
environment is uncertain, and consumer Tablets continued to ramp in volume and demand weak, semiconductor companies most contain multiple ARM processor ARMs overall market share in 2011 was are continuing to invest in R&D.
Some consumers are 30%, up from 25% in the previous year.
taketwo to three years to design, develop, choosing to buy tablet computers instead ARMs physical IP business also grew prototype and manufacture a new chip, and of laptops or PCs.
Tablets wirelessly strongly during the year, mainly driven maybe another year for an OEM to build connect to data and services and so drive byan increase in chips manufactured their product around that chip and get it to cloud computing, and increasing demand at45nm and smaller.
In 2011 semiconductor companies for lowerpower servers.
manufactured at these smaller geometries were making investment decisions we expect our physical IP royalty revenue basedontheir view of 2015 and beyond.
Theyarelooking through the current macroeconomic uncertainty, towards future opportunities in growth markets.
Physical IP revenues $m 07 54.4 32.3 08 44.6 40.3 09 35.9 36.2 10 41.3 43.8 11 49.2 48.7 P Ph hy ys siic ca all IIP P L Liic ce en ns siin ng g P Ph hy ys siic ca all IIP P R Ro oy ya allt ty y Smartphones Mali growth in 2011 Microcontrollers % x % 75 25 15 Smartphones contained an ARM ARMs Partners reported a 25-fold Market share Cortex-A family processor increase in the shipments of Mali Up from 8% in 2010 processor-based chips ARM processor-based microcontrollers gained share as more leading semiconductor companies launched ARM processor-based products in 2011 Overview 11 39 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 Financial statements 95 Forward momentum Mobile computer growth is expected to content.
ARM technology is well placed bedriven by the proliferation of tablets, totake advantage of this trend as ARM Analysts are divided on how the andnew lower power computers.
Today, processor chips canalready run all the industrywill fare in 2012 and beyond.
ARM technologybased chips are the internet software.
Wehave seen many DTV Theprobability and duration of another applications processor in nearly all tablets, and STB chip vendors buy ARM licences recession is unclear, but any further and we expect to retain a high share over inrecent years, and expect these chips to reduction in consumer spending may thenext few years.
ARM processorbased come to market over the next few years.
impact both industry revenues in the chips are the main chip in very few laptops shortterm and the longer term investment Microcontrollers MCUs are often lowcost, and PCs.
However, with Microsofts plans of technology companies.
They are growing announcement that the Windows 8 strongly as they are being used Looking further ahead, analysts expect some operating system will be available on ineverything from washing machines longterm trends to continue, including: ARMlowpower SoCs in 2012, we could tocars to factory automation.
Over the last start to see some penetration within Smartphones are expected to grow strongly.
few years OEMs have been requesting traditional computer formfactors.
In 2011 they grew 65% yearonyear, and are ARMprocessorbased MCUs from their expected to grow strongly over the next five Servers are expected to grow in line chip suppliers.
They want to benefit from years, and could make up over half of all withtheexpansion of internet traffic.
having a common architecture for their handsets in 2016.
This benefits ARM as we Thehigh energy requirements of servers software engineers to target, regardless earn six times the royalty from the chips ina areencouraging semiconductor companies ofwhich MCU vendor provided the chip.
smartphone than from the chips in a and OEMs to consider ARM technology This has driven ARMs licensing voiceonly phone.
Although we may see some opportunity, and we are now beginning licensing activity over the next few years, tosee those chips come to market, which wedo not expect to see any meaningful will help to drive ARMs unit shipments.
royalty revenue until 2016 and beyond.
We believe that the combination of these Digital TVs DTV and SetTop Boxes STB longterm trends and our innovative are expected to become increasingly internet business model will enable us to continue connected.
Highend DTVs are already able togain market share and outperform to display webpages and download apps and thebroader semiconductor industry.
