14 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Our business model How and where we make money ARM is the worlds leading semiconductor intellectual property supplier.
The technology we design was at theheart of many of the digital electronic products sold in 2011.
ARM has an innovative business model.
We license our technology to a network of Partners, mainly leading semiconductor manufacturers.
Our Partners incorporate our designs alongside their own technology to create smart, energyefficient chips suitable for modern electronic devices.
The companies who choose ARM Each ARM processor and physical IP Our business model technology pay an up-front licence design is suitable for a wide range of fee to gain access to a design.
They end applications and so can be reused ARM designs technology to go into incorporate the ARM technology into in different chip families addressing energy-efficient chips.
A processor their chip a process that often takes 34 multiple markets.
Each new chip family design can take 23 years to develop.
When the chip starts to ship, ARM generates a new stream of royalties.
In most years, ARM introduces 23 new receives a royalty on every chip that uses An ARM design may be used in many processors that have been designed the design.
Typically our royalty is based different chips and may ship for over with a range of capabilities making on the price of the chip.
them suitable for different end-markets.
23 years 34 years 20 years ARM research Partnership chip Multiple applications & development development development & sales $ $ $ $ $ $ Cost Licence Royalty Royalty revenue incurred revenue revenue continues Overview 11 15 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 Financial statements 95 Why semiconductor companies Technologies that are suitable for How ARM creates value use ARM technology the ARM business model ARM endeavours to recover its costs from ARM designs technology that would be ARMs licensing business started in the the licence revenues of each technology, difficult and expensive for our Partners early 1990s with the development of our first leaving the majority of royalties to be R&D teams to develop for themselves.
The processor is like the brain reinvested back into the business or to cheaper for them to license the technology ofthe chip: it is where the software runs and bereturned to shareholders.
Over the from ARM than to develop it internally.
it controls the functionality of the product.
mediumterm, we expect royalties to grow Thedesign of a processor or a library of ARM designs each processor to be faster than licence revenues and we expect physical IP requires a large amount of R&D applicable to a broad range of endmarkets that revenues will grow faster than costs, investment and expertise.
We estimate that to maximise the number of Partners that making ARM increasingly profitable.
each semiconductor company would need can license each processor andto maximise As our customers are the worlds largest to spend over $100 million every year to the number of markets inwhich the Partner semiconductor manufacturers, their regular reproduce what ARM does.
This represents can deploy that technology.
In most years royalty payments have become a highly more than $20 billion of annual costs for the ARM introduces 23 new processor designs.
By designing once and licensing Over the past 10years, ARM has developed isstrongly cash generative.
many times, ARM spreads the R&D costs other technologies suitable for a licensing over the whole industry, making digital and royalty business model, such as graphics electronics cheaper.
processors and physical IP components.
Both of these technologies are now widely licensed and are delivering royalty revenues.
Revenue by destination Our global markets 2011 2010 North Asia Rest of The majority of ARMs revenues are 000 000 UK Europe America Pacific earned from semiconductor companies that are based all over the world.
These UK 1,540 3,758 companies sell their ARM-based chips Europe 59,451 54,553 % % % % toOEMs building consumer electronics, North America 189,558 152,553 1 12 39 49 which are also based in all major Asia Pacific 241,277 195,731 economies.
The OEMs sell their products to consumers and enterprises in every country.
ARMsroyalty revenues are Consumer products by destination derived from the chips in these OEM products, and ARM therefore benefits Consumer Automotive from the growth in all economies and Handsets Electronics Computers Multimedia countries around the world.
Europe 16% 23% 24% 19% Demand for consumer products has North America 23% 19% 23% 18% been growing rapidly, especially Asia Pacific 38% 34% 31% 39% in emerging markets such as Brazil andChina.
Rest of the World 23% 24% 22% 24% Source: GfK Digital World produced by GfK Boutique Research in partnership with the ConsumerElectronics Association USA.
ARM employees by location UK 41% Europe 11% North America 27% Asia Paci c 21% Read more on how p21 ARM benefits from smarter products 16 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Strategy and Over the next few pages we performance outline our growth strategy, and what we have been doing to deliver against thisstrategy.
Our three growth drivers: Increase market penetration 1.
Read more about p18 this on page Increase value per smart 2. electronic device Read more about p21 this on page Generate additional royalties 3. from new technology Read more about p22 this on page Shareholder return Read more about p23 this on page
