40 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Industry viewpoint Jim McGregor is In-Stats Chief Technology Strategist.
He has technical knowledge andbusiness experience gained through over 20years in the semiconductor and electronic systems industries.
Jim writes extensively on the market disruptions and inflection points that will drive both changes in market growth and the Jim McGregor futureoftechnology.
In-Stats Chief Technology Strategist In this article, Jim provides an independent view on the changing competitive dynamics in the mobile computing market, and the opportunities and threats for ARM.
About In-Stat With nearly 30 years of history in research and consulting, In-Stats market intelligence combines technical, market and end-user research and database models to analyse the Mobile Internet and Digital Entertainment ecosystems.
For more information on In-Stat, visit www.
Overview 11 41 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 Financial statements 95 ARM vs. Intel: A Competition on Many Fronts This is a competition Although the competition between the ARM and x86 processor architectures between not only ARM hasbeen much hyped, analysing the competitive nature of the opposing and Intel, but also ARMs sides is a complex undertaking.
The differences between the two solutions semiconductor Partners extend well beyond the technical characteristics and include differences in and Intel, and the ARM ecosystems, business models, application models, and industry perception.
Even defining who is engaged in the competition is complicated.
ForARM ecosystem and the x86 processors, ARM provides processor designs to awide variety of semiconductor ecosystem.
companies from industry leaders like Qualcomm to unknown start-ups.
For x86 processors, AMD and Intel are theprimary companies designing and selling processors, but only Intel istargeting low-power applications traditionally addressed with ARM processors.
With the goal of developing complete business and consumer solutions that include hardware, software, content and services, this is a competition between not only ARM and Intel, but also ARMs semiconductor Partners and Intel, and the ARM ecosystem and the x86 ecosystem.
The analysis begins with the changing dynamics of the market.
For 35 years, the high-tech industry was driven by the personal computer market with an emphasis on providing more performance and increased functionality.
Over the past decade, the focus has shifted to performance efficiency with the growth of the internet, increased network connectivity, availability of digital content, and user migration to mobile devices and applications.
The result is a change in how we develop semiconductors, software, infrastructure, and services to support these mobile devices.
For semiconductors, the associated changes rely on the principles of Moores Law the ability to continue to double the number of transistors inthe same physical space every 18 to 24 months for a cost-effective solution.
The efficiencies created allow for increasing integration of discrete functions, reducing the semiconductors power consumption, and or reducing the semiconductor costs.
This has led the entire industry to develop highly integrated processors or SoC solutions for most electronic applications.
These SoCs combine multiple CPU cores with graphics processing units GPUs, a variety of accelerators, I O, on-chip high-speed networks, and memory on a single chip.
In addition, most of the major SoC vendors have now either developed or acquired the intellectual property that will enable further integration of system functions, such as baseband modems and wireless interfaces.
The consumer device changes have been even more dramatic.
Prior to handsets, the electronics industry was highly segmented into hardware, software, content, and services.
Consumers would purchase the hardware, like a TV or PC, and then seek the necessary software, content, and services.
This model is no longer acceptable to consumers.
Consumers expect to have solutions that have internet connectivity, content, user-friendly interfaces, and services readily available with the push of a button.
This transformation to complete solutions has shifted the emphasis of the value chain away from the underlying technology to the complete solution.
The processor architecture is only relevant to the extent it enables the user experience, which includes power consumption battery life, content and applications, and services.
42 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Beyond the market dynamics is the technology and ecosystem.
ARM Beyond the market andx86 are starting from different ends of the power and performance dynamics is the spectrum.
Both architectures are focused on performance efficiency, but technology and the ARM architecture began as a low-power limited-function architecture ecosystem.
ARM and x86 that is slowly scaling up to higher performance, while the x86 architecture has been driven by overall performance and is slowly scaling down are starting from different tolower power.
With different power targets ranging from 300mW for ends of the power and smartphones to potentially 100W or higher for servers, both architectures performance spectrum.
have power and performance advantages in different segments as shown in the diagram at the bottom of the page.
Currently, there is little crossover between ARM and x86.
The x86 scales up from a few watts and supports 64-bit operations, while ARM architecture resides in the realm below a few watts and supports only 32-bit operations.
This will change in the future.
In October 2011, ARM announced the ARMv8 instruction set architecture to support 64-bit operations in future SoCs.
Intelhas also announced it will introduce more competitive lower power architectures over the next few years.
With OEMs design cycles, the introduction of devices with these architectures will likely not be until 2014.
Both architectures will benefit from advancements in semiconductor design and manufacturing over the next few years.
However, Intel controls its own destiny with the companys internal manufacturing process.
ARMsemiconductor Partners mostly rely on leading manufacturing foundries like GLOBALFOUNDRIES, Samsung, and TSMC.
Beyond the technology is the ecosystem.
The x86 architecture has a deep ecosystem founded by strong computing OEMs, IT service providers, andsoftware vendors, particularly for business and design environments.
Similarly, the ARM ecosystem has a deep ecosystem founded by strong semiconductor vendors, consumer electronic OEMs, communication service providers, and application developers for mobile communications and entertainment.
The most significant difference between the two ecosystems is the software instruction set supported by the two environments.
Because porting operating systems and application software is costly and time consuming, developers are unwilling to invest without a significant market opportunity.
Microsoft has generated interest with Windows 8 support on ARM-based processors from NVIDIA, Qualcomm, and Texas Instruments.
Likewise, Intel has announced support from Googles Android on Intel platforms.
This broader operating system support may eventually bridge the software divide.
However, any gains in competing platforms are likely to be slow for both architectures.
The initial competition will be in tablets, where ARM has a high market share and Ultrabooks, which are primarily based on the x86 Traditionally ARM Architecture overlap Traditionally x86 300500mW 25W 1215W 2030W 4050W 100200W 300W 100mW Cellphone Smartphone Tablets Netbook PC Notebook PC Desktop PC Servers Mobile CE Home CE Embedded applications Current division point Overview 11 43 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 Financial statements 95 architecture.
The competition is likely to extend to other platforms in the Time will tell if ARMs future.
The challenge for both architectures is to build a sustainable momentum in mobile opportunity against an ecosystem that has already achieved a devices will translate critical mass.
into critical mass in the Market perception and relationships also play a role in the competition.
computing segments Overcoming established vendor relationships can be difficult, but or if x86 architecture aswehave previously seen, OEMs will consider other vendors and or architectures for potential differentiation over their competitors.
However, reaches critical mass market perception can be a challenge.
ARM has always been the silent inmobile devices.
partner in the success of their customers.
Intel has been perceived as thehigh-profile industry leader.
Both positions create potential problems and opportunities in the marketplace.
This competition is ensuring that the SoCs powering the next generation ofelectronic devices will be highly complex solutions.
The processor architecture will be just a small part of the hardware solution, but one thatplays a critical part from a software perspective.
Any processor architecture could be utilised for the CPU cores, but the rich ecosystems ofthe ARM and x86 architectures make them the architectures of choice going forward for mobile and computing devices, as well as other consumer and embedded applications.
With mobile devices projected toexceed four billion units annually in 2016 according to In-Stat, there is room for both architectures.
There will be leaders in each market segment andpotential for both to cross the divide.
Time will tell if ARMs momentum in mobile devices will translate into critical mass in the computing segments or if x86 architecture reaches critical mass in mobile devices.
From media players to computers: The total consumer electronics opportunity for ARM and Intel billions devices shipped 2.2 2011 2012 2.5 2013 2.7 2014 2.9 3.1 2015 3.1 Source: In-Stat 3,290
