Overview 11 63 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 Financial statements 95 Board of directors The experience of the team ARMs Board has the breadth and depth of experience necessary to guide the Group as it seeksto take full advantage of new opportunites and contend with new challenges.
Doug Dunn 67 Warren East 50 Tudor Brown 53 Chairman Chief Executive Officer President Committees Committees Committees Nomination Committee Chairman None None Current directorships Current directorships Current directorships ST Microelectronics N. V. Non-Executive Director fide La Rue plc Non-Executive Director and ANT plc Non-Executive Director Soitec S. A. Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Audit Committee Expertise TomTom N. V. Non-Executive Director Expertise Tudor Brown was one of the founders of ARM.
B E Semiconductor Industries N. V. Warren East joined ARM in 1994 to set up Before joining the Group, he was at Acorn Non-Executive Director ARMsconsulting business.
He was Vice Computers where he worked on the ARM R&D Expertise President, Business Operations from February programme.
He joined the Board in 2001, Doug Dunn joined the Board as an 1998.
In October 2000 he was appointed to became President in 2008 and will be retiring independent non-executive director in the Board as Chief Operating Officer and in from the Board on 3 May 2012.
He had December 1998 and has been non-executive October 2001 was appointed Chief Executive responsibility for developing high-level Chairman since 1 October 2006.
Before joining ARM he was with relationships with industry Partners and retire from the Board on 3 May 2012.
He is a chartered engineer, governmental agencies and for regional previously President and Chief Executive Fellow of the Institution of Engineering and development.
His previous roles include Officer of ASM Lithography Holding N. V. until his Technology, Fellow of the Royal Academy Engineering Director and Chief Technology retirement in December 2004.
Before joining ofEngineering and a Companion of the Officer, EVP Global Development and Chief ASML, he was Chairman and Chief Executive Chartered Management Institute.
He is a Fellow of the Officer of the Consumer Electronics Division of anhonorary doctorate from Cranfield Institution of Engineering and Technology.
Royal Philips Electronics N. V. and a member University and is a member of the UK Trade Hecurrently sits on the UK Government ofthe board.
He was previously Managing and Investment Executive Board for AsiaTask Force.
Director of theSemiconductor divisions of Technology, responsible fordriving the Plessey andGEC and held several engineering UKstrade and investment objectives andmanagement positions at Motorola.
64 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Tim Score 51 Mike Inglis 52 Simon Segars 44 Chief Financial Officer EVP and General Manager, EVP and General Manager, Processor Division Physical IP Division Committees Committees Committees None None None Current directorships Current directorships Current directorships National Express Group plc Non-Executive Pace plc Non-Executive Director SOI Industry Consortium Director Director and Chairman of the Audit EDA Consortium Director Expertise Committee Mike Inglis joined ARM in 2002 and became Expertise Expertise EVP and General Manager of the Processor Simon Segars joined the Board in January Tim Score joined ARM as Chief Financial Officer Division in July 2008, having previously been 2005and was appointed EVP and General and director in March 2002.
Before joining EVP, Sales and Marketing.
Before joining Manager of the Physical IP Division in ARM, he was Finance Director of Rebus Group ARM, he worked in management consultancy September 2007.
He has previously been EVP, Limited.
He was previously Group Finance with A. T. Kearney and held a number of senior Engineering, EVP, Worldwide Sales and latterly Director of William Baird plc, Group Controller operational and marketing positions at EVP, Business Development.
He joined ARM in at LucasVarity plc and Group Financial Motorola, Texas Instruments, Fairchild and BIS early 1991 and worked on many of the early Controller at BTR plc.
Macintosh and gained his initial industrial ARM CPU products.
He led the development experience with GEC Telecommunications.
of the ARM7 and ARM9 Thumb families.
Heis a chartered engineer and a Member Heholds a number of patents in the field ofthe Chartered Institute of Marketing.
Mike Muller 53 Kathleen ODonovan 54 Philip Rowley 59 Chief Technology Officer Senior Independent Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Director Committees Committees Committees None Audit Committee Chairman Remuneration Committee Chairman Nomination Committee Audit Committee Current directorships Nomination Committee None Current directorships Invensys Pension Trustee Ltd Chairman Current directorships Expertise Prudential plc Non-Executive Director, HMV Group plc Chairman Mike Muller was one of the founders of retiring31 March 2012 Misys plc Non-Executive Director ARM.
Before joining the Group, he was Trinity Mirror plc Non-Executive Director Promethean World plc Non-Executive Director responsible for hardware strategy and the andChairman of the Audit Committee andChairman of the Audit Committee development of portable products at Acorn Livestation Limited Chairman Computers.
He was previously at Orbis Expertise Computers.
At ARM he was VP, Marketing from Kathleen ODonovan joined the Board in Expertise 1992 to 1996 and EVP, Business Development December 2006.
Previously she was a Philip Rowley joined the Board in January 2005. until October 2000 when he was appointed non-executive director and Chairman of the He was Chairman and CEO of AOL Europe, Chief Technology Officer.
In October 2001, Audit Committees of the Court of the Bank of theinternet services and web brands provider hewas appointed to the Board.
England, Great Portland Estates plc, EMI Group until February 2007.
He is a qualified chartered plc and a non-executive director of O plc.
accountant and was Group Finance Director 2 Prior to that, she was Chief Financial Officer of Kingfisher plc from 1998 to2000 and Deputy ofBTR plc and Invensys plc and before CEO and CFO of the General Merchandise thatshewas a Partner at Ernst & Young.
Priorto that, his roles included EVP and Chief Financial Officer ofEMI Music Worldwide.
Overview 11 65 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 Financial statements 95 Young Sohn 56 Larry Hirst 60 Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Director Director Committees Committees Nomination Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Chairman ARM Asia Pacific Advisory Group Current directorships Current directorships MITIE Group plc Non-Executive Director Cymer, Inc. Non-Executive Director Sentebale Trustee and Director Nanosys, Inc. Non-Executive Director Expertise Expertise Larry Hirst joined the Board in January 2011.
Young Sohn joined the Board in April 2007.
He Heis the former Chairman of IBM Europe, has extensive experience in the semiconductor Middle East and Africa.
He retired from IBM industry both in Silicon Valley and in Asia.
He is in2010 having previously held a wide range the former CEO of Inphi Corporation, Inc, ofsenior positions since joining the company where he remains as a Senior Adviser.
Heis Chairman of the UK Trade and he was President of the semiconductor Investment Executive Board for Technology products group at Agilent Technology, Inc. responsible for driving the UKs trade and andChairman of Oak Technology, Inc.
He is also a UK Business that, he was President of the hard drive business Ambassador.
He is a former Commissioner of Quantum Corporation and, before that, forthe Commission for Employment and Skills Director of Marketing at Intel Corporation.
anda former Chair of e-skills UK the UK Sector Skills Council for Business and Information Technology.
Janice Roberts 56 Andy Green 56 Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Director Director Committees Committees Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Current Directorships Current directorships Mayfield Fund Managing Director Logica plc CEO RealNetworks, Inc. Non-Executive Director Expertise Expertise Andy Green joined the Board in February 2011.
Janice Roberts joined the Board in January He has been CEO of Logica plc since 2008.
She has been a Managing Director at Heis a former CEO of BT Global Services and a Mayfield Fund since 2000, a Silicon former CEO of Group Strategy and Operations Valley-based venture capital firm with at BT plc and was CEO of BT Openworld.
He is approximately $3 billion under management, Chair of e-Skills UK the UK Sector Skills Council where she focuses on the mobile, wireless, for Business and Information Technology, is on communications and consumer technology the board and the Presidents Committee of industries.
Prior to that, she held various the CBI and is a Companion of the Chartered executive positions at 3Com Corporation Management Institute.
including President Palm Computing, President 3Com Ventures and Senior Vice President, Business Development and Global Marketing.
She is a director of several private technology companies in the US.
