Governance Directors report The Directors submit the Annual Report of Polymetal Supplier payment policy International Plc together with the audited financial The Companys and the Groups policy is to set the terms statements of Polymetal International Plc for the year of payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms of ended 31 December 2011. each transaction, ensure that the suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and abide by the agreed terms of Principal activities and Business review payment.
Polymetal International plc is a holding company Polymetal International is a large gold and silver mining and therefore did not have any material trade creditors as company, operating central processing hubs and a number at 31 December 2011. of standalone mines in Russia and Kazakhstan.
Detailed information on the Groups business, activities and financial Charitable and political donations performance can be found in Overview and Business Review The Company may not make a political donation to a political sections of this report on pages from 2 to 71.
These sections party or other political organisation, or to an independent election candidate, or incur any political expenditure, unless such donation also include description of likely future developments and or expenditure is authorised by an ordinary resolution of any research and development activities held by the Company shareholders and is passed before the donation is made or and the Group.
Principal risks and uncertainties Many of the regions in which the Group operates are Refer to pages 60 to 63 for a description of principal risk considered socially and economically undeveloped areas of and uncertainties and the Groups response.
The Group pursues a responsible social strategy in those regions and views the implementation Corporate governance of long-term social programmes as a key factor in the Refer to pages 74 to 79 for a description of the Groups sustainability of the Groups operations.
corporate governance structure and policies.
The Groups social programmes focus on the social and Going concern economic development priorities in the regions in which The business of the Group, its strategy and the factors that it operates and aims to improve education and healthcare, may affect future performance are described on pages 2 develop local infrastructure, promote sports and healthy to 51 of this report.
The risks in achieving the Groups strategic lifestyles, promote the cultural and artistic potential of the objectives, together with assessment of their potential impact local population and support local minorities.
and mitigating actions are set out on pages 60 to 63 of this report The financial position of the Group, its cash flows and liquidity As part of this social programme, the Group has entered into are further analysed on pages 52 to 59 of this report.
social partnership agreements with municipalities and regional governments.
Under these social partnership agreements, The Board, having considered all relevant factors related the Group organises and finances a variety of humanitarian to financial position, risks and business prospects of the projects and development and maintenance projects in these Group, have a reasonable expectation that the Group communities.
In addition, the Group also undertakes various has adequate resources to continue operations in the social projects in accordance with the agreements with the foreseeable future.
Therefore, the going concern basis is public organisations of indigenous minorities of the north appropriately used in accounting and preparation of the of Russia IMN and in accordance with the Groups own financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011. charitable programmes.
More detail on these activities can Refer also to Note 1 of the financial statements.
be found on pages 64 to 71 of this Annual Report.
Directors In 2011, the Group spent US$4.0 million on social and The Directors, their status and Board Committee memberships community projects 2010: US$3.9 million.
are set out on pages 72 to 73 of the report.
Capital structure Directors interests The structure of the Companys share capital is detailed The information on Directors interests in shares of the in Note 31 to the financial statements.
Company is set out in the Remuneration report on page 84.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding or on Directors indemnities the transfer of shares, which are both regulated by the Articles To the extent permitted by the Companies Jersey Law 1991, of Association of the Company and applicable legislation.
the Company indemnified every Director or other officer The Directors are not aware of any agreements between of the Company other than any person whether an officer holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions or not engaged by the Company as auditor out of the assets on the transfer of shares or on voting rights.
of the Company against any liability incurred by him for negligence, default, breach of duty, breach of trust or otherwise in relation to the affairs of the Company.
This provision does not affect any indemnity, that a Director or officer is otherwise entitled to.
80 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or Dividends terminate upon a change of control of the company such as The Groups net profit for the year ended 31 December 2011 commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, and employees attributable to equity holders of the Company was US$290 share plans.
None of these is considered to be significant million 2010: US$ 239 million.
The Directors have proposed in terms of their likely impact on the business of the Group the payment of dividend of US$0.20 per share 2010: nil.
Furthermore, the Directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company and its Directors or Annual General Meeting employees that provide for compensation for loss of office The Annual General Meeting of shareholders of the Company or employment, that occurs because of a takeover bid.
will take place on 13 June 2012 at 11am BST time in Le Hocq Suite, Radisson Blu Waterfront Hotel, Rue fide LEtau, Substantial shareholdings in the Company are disclosed St Helier, Jersey JE2 3WF, Channel Islands.
A webcast will on page 147. be available for shareholders who will not be able to attend the meeting in person.
Details of employee option schemes are set out in the Remuneration report on pages 82 to 85.
Auditors The Directors confirm that at the date of approval of this There were no acquisitions of the Companys own shares in Annual Report: 2011, other than the 3,305,988 shares that were repurchased so far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit and cancelled out at a cost of 920 pence per ordinary share information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: in December 2011 as part of the provision of stabilisation and mechanism following the listing.
At 31 December 2011 the the Directors have taken all reasonable steps to ascertain any Group and its subsidiaries legally held no treasury shares.
relevant audit information and ensure the auditors are aware In the financial statements the Group present treasury shares of such information.
These were legally sold under a sale and repurchase arrangement for which the accounting treatment Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue has been to continue to recognise the treasury shares.
As at in office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be 31 December 2011, the Company did not have any shareholder proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The authorities to purchase its own shares.
Audit and Risk Committee reviews both the level of the audit fee and the level and nature of non-audit fees as part of its Articles of the Company can be altered from time to time by review of the adequacy and objectivity of the audit process.
special resolution of the Company.
A resolution is a special resolution, when it is passed by three-fourths of the members On behalf of the Board who being entitled to do so vote in person, or by proxy, at a general meeting of the Company.
The Board may appoint a person, who is willing to act to be a Director, either to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director Bobby Godsell and in either case whether or not for a fixed term.
Irrespective 24 April 2012 of the terms of his appointment, a Director so appointed shall hold office only until the next following annual general meeting.
If not re-appointed at such annual general meeting, he shall vacate office at its conclusion.
The Company may by ordinary resolution remove any Director from office notwithstanding any provision of the Companys Articles of Association or of any agreement between the Company and such Director, but without prejudice to any claim he may have for damages for breach of any such agreement.
No special notice needs to be given of any resolution to remove a Director and no Director proposed to be removed has any special right to protest against his or her removal.
The Company may, by ordinary resolution, appoint another person in place of a Director removed from office.
Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 81 Appendices Financial statements Governance Business review Overview
