G Go ov five er rna nan nce ce An experienced team Chairman Executive Director Non-executive Director Independent non-executive Director 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 01 Bobby Godsell 02 Charles Balfour 03 Vitaly Nesis Chairman Senior Independent Chief Executive Officer Mr Godsell is Chairman of the Nomination Non-Executive Director Mr Nesis was appointed Chief Executive in Committee.
He is also Chairman of Business September 2011.
He was JSC Polymetals Mr Balfour is the Senior Independent Leadership South.
He is a member of the CEO from 2003, becoming a member of member of the Board of Directors and South African National Planning Commission is a member of the Audit and Risk, the Board in June 2004.
Between 2002 and and co-Chairman of the South African 2003, he was CEO of Vostsibugol and in Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
His previous roles 2000 he was Strategic Development Director He has over 40 years experience in the have included President of the South African investment banking industry in the US, UK, at the Ulyanovsk Automobile Plant.
From Chamber of Mines and Chairman of Eskom, 2001 to 2002 he headed the Investment France and Hong Kong including working for and he has over 30 years experience in the Planning Department at SUAL-Holding.
Dillon Read, Banque Paribas, Durlacher and mining sector, previously serving as Chief From 1999 to 2000 he worked for McKinsey Fleming Family Partners.
Between 1993 and Executive of AngloGold Ashanti.
He has a 2004 Mr Balfour was an executive of Nasdaq in Moscow, and from 1997 to 1999 he was BA from the University of Natal and an MA an analyst at Merrill Lynch in New York.
International and Chairman from 2000 until from the University of Cape Town.
He graduated from Yale University in 1997 2004.
He is currently a director of Humber Power and Humber Energy.
Mr Balfour was with a BA in Economics.
04 Konstantin Yanakov educated at Eton and the Sorbonne in Paris.
06 Marina Grnberg Non-Executive Director Mr Yanakov has been a member of 05 Jean-Pascal Duvieusart Non-Executive Director JSC Polymetals Board of Directors since Non-Executive Director Ms Grnberg has been a member September 2008.
He is also currently Mr Duvieusart is Director of PPF Advisory of JSC Polymetals Board of Directors the CFO at CJSC ICT.
Prior to joining ICT, Russia and has been a member of since September 2008.
She is also a board he held various posts at MDM Bank before the Supervisory Board of PPF since 2010. member of Mozaik Holdings, Waterstones becoming the CFO of JSC Polymetal.
He joined McKinsey in 1992 and was Holdings, the Azbuka-Atticus publishing He graduated from the Government of group, MIG Credit, Marenco Swiss Managing Partner for Central Europe and Russias Finance Academy with a degree the CIS from 2005 to the end of 2009.
Helicopters, A&NN Capital Management in Global Economics and received a Mr Duvieusart graduated from the Catholic Fund and Chairman of GLP and of CJSC PhD in Economics from the Russian SPAR-Retail.
She is a member of the University of Louvain, Belgium with a Masters State University of Management.
In 2007, Degree and received an MBA from the supervisory board of Euroset Holdings, Mr Yanakov received an MBA from the University of Chicago in 1992.
President of the Nadezhda charitable London Business School.
fund and of A&NN US, and Managing Director of A&NN Schweiz.
Ms Grnbergs qualifications include degrees in Law from Moscow State Law Academy and in Applied Mathematics from Moscow State University.
72 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 two years he was a mining engineer in 07 Jonathan Best Senior management the Production and Technical Department Independent Non-Executive Director of JSC Polymetal.
He graduated from the Mr Best is Chairman of the Audit and Vitaly Savchenko Mining Department of the St. Petersburg Risk Committee and a member of the Chief Operating Officer State Mining Institute, majoring in Remuneration Committee, having been an Mr Savchenko was appointed COO of Open-pit Mining.
independent member of JSC Polymetals JSC Polymetal in 2009 and elected to the Board since December 2006.
He has more management board in September 2011. than 30 years experience in the mining Valery Tsyplakov From 2007 to 2009 he was Director of industry.
In 2006, he served as the interim Managing Director, the Production Department, having held CEO of Trans-Siberian Gold, prior to which JSC Polymetal Engineering senior production, technical and mining he was CFO of AngloGold Ashanti Ltd, Mr Tsyplakov was appointed Managing positions since 2004.
From 1994 to 2003 involved in the companys formation Director, Polymetal Engineering in 2004. he worked at Priargunskoe Mining and and its listing in New York.
He is currently a From 2000 to 2004 he held senior roles Chemical Company, latterly as a chief non-executive director of AngloGold Ashanti in the Production and Technology and engineer.
Mr Savchenko graduated from Holdings plc and a member of its Audit Technological Research Departments, the Kyrgyz Mining Institute in 1994 with Committee.
He is Chairman of Sentula Mining subsequently becoming Deputy General a degree in underground mineral mining and Bauba Platinum, where he serves on the Director for Mineral Resources, Design engineering and is a recipient of a thirdNomination and Remuneration Committees.
Previously he served category Miners Glory Medal.
Mr Best is Chairman of the Audit Committees as Department Head at the Soviet Union of Metair Investments and Gulf Industrials.
Research Institute of Aeronautical Sergey Cherkashin He is an associate of the Chartered Institute Automation and prior to this at Orhus Chief Financial Officer of Management Accountants, and holds Universitys Physics Institute.
He was also Mr Cherkashin was appointed CFO of JSC an MBA from the University of the a Research Fellow in the Plasma Physics Polymetal in 2005 having previously held Witwatersrand, Johannesburg.
Department of the Moscow Physics and senior management positions in the food Engineering Institute, from where he processing and machine building industries.
08 Russell Skirrow graduated in Experimental Nuclear Physics.
He was CFO of the Timashevsk Dairy Plant, He also holds a PhD in Physics and Independent Non-Executive Director Sales Director of the Ulyanovsk Automotive Dr Skirrow is a member of the Audit Mathematics.
Plant and Deputy CEO of Development at and Risk Committee, having been an the Volgograd Dairy Plant, having previously independent member of Polymetals board Pavel Danilin been a consultant for AT Kearney in Moscow.
He has 17 years Deputy CEO, Strategic Development Mr Cherkashin graduated from the Moscow experience in investment banking, including Mr Danilin was appointed Deputy CEO Institute of Physics and Technology in ten years at Merrill Lynch as Head of Global for Strategic Development 2009, having Applied Mathematics, and has completed Metals, Mining & Steel Research and previously been Director of Corporate a one-year MBA programme at the University subsequently as Global Chairman of the Finance and Investor Relations.
Dr Skirrow is Chairman to 2005, he was Head of Corporate Finance, of Dampier Gold, and has 12 years and between 2002 and 2003 he worked at Sergey Trushin experience in the international mining industry CJSC ICT in the same capacity.
From 1998 Deputy CEO for Mineral Resources having worked with companies such as Gold to 2001 he was Deputy Head of the currency Mr Trushin was appointed Deputy CEO, Fields South Africa and Western Mining department and Head of the financial Mineral Resources in 2010.
From 2008 Corporation in Australia and the US.
He is a resources department at the Kaliningrad to 2010 he was Chief Geologist at the member of the Institute of Materials, Minerals branch of Bank Petrocommerce.
Mr Danilin Khabarovsk Exploration Company and & Mining with Chartered Engineer status, and graduated in 1998 from Kaliningrad State between 2006 and 2008 he was Chief a Fellow of the Financial Services Institute Technical University in Economics and Geologist at Albazino Resources, where of Australia.
He has a BSc in Geology from Management.
He gained an MBA in 2007 he had held various positions since Durham University and a PhD from the Royal from the University of California at Berkeley, 1998.
In 1997, he was a geologist with School of Mines, Imperial College London.
Dalnevostochnie Resources and in the preceding six years he was a geologist 09 Leonard Homenuik Igor Kapshuk with the Production Geological Association Independent Non-Executive Director Chief Legal Officer Dalgeology and the Nizhne-Amursk Mr Homeniuk has been an independent Mr Kapshuk was appointed Chief Legal exploration expedition.
Mr Trushin has member of the Board since June 2010.
He Officer in 2009, having been head of the a degree in Geological Surveying and is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee legal department since 2005 and Deputy Mining Engineering Exploration from the and a member of the Nomination Committee.
Between 2001 and 2003 Novocherkassk State Polytechnic Institute.
From 2004 to 2008 he served as President, he held various positions including Deputy CEO and member of the Board of Directors General Counsel, Head of the department Roman Shestakov of Centerra Gold and subsequently Chairman for legal matters and Head of the claims Deputy CEO, Project Development of the Board of Trade Ideas LLC.
He has over department at the Siberia Energy Coal and Construction 35 years experience in the mineral sector, Company and Vostsibugol Irkutsk.
From Mr Shestakov was appointed Deputy having held executive positions with Centerra 1999 to 2001 he worked as a legal advisor CEO for Development and Construction Gold, Kumtor Gold and Cameco Corporation.
for Pharmasintez, and from 1997 to 1998 he of Polymetal Management Company Mr Homeniuk received an MSc from the worked at the Irkutsk Tea-Packing Factory in 2009, having been Chief Engineer University of Manitoba and is a member of as a legal advisor and acting head of the at Gold of Northern Ural from 2007 to the Ontario Society of Professional Engineers, legal department.
During 2004-2005 he was a mining the Canadian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy from the Law School of Irkutsk State superintendent at the Okhotsk Mining and and the Prospectors and Developers University in 1995.
Exploration Company, and in the preceding Association of Canada.
He is an Honorary Professor of the Kyrgyz Mining Institute.
Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 73 Appendices Financial statements Governance Business review Overview
