Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 19 Strategic Focus 2 Profitable growth through web development and the multi-channel approach Customer require access to an increasing amount of design The introduction of this prototyping service was the first of data and legislative information, the latest product easily many new online proposition service enhancements as we Customer demands of accessible online through best-in-class search, access to begin to build a holistic virtual ecosystem.
This ecosystem discussions and views of their peers through social media, isthe backbone of our virtual workspace, which will allow the web are increasing and an array of tools to simplify the design and buying EDEs to have their own personal space that can be used processes.
These needs converge in the environment we are tostore and share information and communicate easily creating under the element14 brand, leveraging the pioneering withother members.
at an extraordinary element14 community site which we launched in June 2009, While customer needs are global, local language and but drawing it closer to our transactional environments as part rate, even by todays contentremains important.
This year we launched three of our rebranding journey.
newlocal language websites as we entered the markets standards.
Its no longer We have developed industry leading solutions that increase ofThailand, Taiwan and South Korea.
This takes our total the efficiency of the buying and design processes including number of websites to 48, with 33 of these in local language, multi-channel order history: eQuotes, an online quoting tool: with local content.
In addition, our element14 community just a basic tool to iBuy, an eProcurement solution for our small and medium hasan embedded language translator which allows customers: and DesignLink, a CAD software interface.
customers to communicate across the language barrier place an order, it is the Weare continuing to innovate, bringing new functionality to withease.
In order to ensure we are as working together our community, user ratings and reviews to our transactional andsharing the same messaging on our websites around environment where they sites, and our continuing work to provide a true online working theworld, much of the topical design information and environment for EDEs.
Along with the new version of EAGLE, productdata is produced in our two global technology come to do more and this year we launched a global online rapid Printed Circuit centres based in Bangalore and Chengdu, as is the on-site Board PCB prototyping solution which can be accessed live chat technical support.
more of their work, and directly from element14.
The element14 brand, and the merging of our community and transactional websites, is central to industry leadership within their demands in many the web world as well as our ability to drive market share gains.
As we exited the year 51.1% of our sales came via ways exceed those e-channels and over 1.5 million customers visited our online community during 2011, with the level of community placed on a business interaction and participation growing over 20% quarter-onquarter.
This year we also rebranded all of our Asia Pacific businesses to element14, the first step in Premier Farnell toconsumer website.
moving to a single global brand.
Our plans in 2012 will see us continue to leverage the element14 name and the significant online marketing benefits of a single brand to accelerate our transformation around the web.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 20 Strategic Focus 2 Profitable growth through web development and the multi-channel approach Ensuring the community stays fresh and innovative in its achievements in 2011 functionality is an important part of creating an engaging Priorities in 2012 community.
The online communitys engagement was Significant growth of the element14 EDE community, with In addition to the ongoing successful convergence of increasing by over 47% quarter-on-quarter as we ended close to 50,000 customers now registered on the community our element14 online community and our transactional theyear and it is clear that the element14 name continues and the site receiving over 1.5 million visits from customers websites, we will continue our branding journey as we toresonate within the EDE community.
Features like The Ben in 2011, with 500,000 visits in the fourth quarter alone.
move to the element14 brand across North America.
Heck Show have been viewed over one million times, while Increased the penetration of eCommerce channels Develop further propositional enhancements and the academia community on the site, element14 on campus, to51.1%of total sales by the fourth quarter, with innovative marketing initiatives to continue the journey has been adopted as a leading research tool for students approximately 32.5million monthly page views on our towards 70% of sales coming via eCommerce.
attwo universities in Xian, China, a city that is at the heart transactional websites.
ofelectronics education in China and that has an estimated Investing in our online marketing expertise Search 220,000 engineering students graduating from its universities Integration of CadSoft EAGLE functionality into element14, Engine Optimisation SEO and Search Engine each year.
including an online prototyping service.
Marketing SEM as it becomes the prime route toacquire new customers.
Towards the end of the year we held our inaugural Web Successful launch of our first region to provide the full Advisory Board, a group which has been formed to help element14 brand experience, converging community and Further improvements to our websites browsing shape our strategy and bring further innovation.
environment, functionality and usability as well as includes eight external experts in the fields of digital search performance and key online transactional Increased penetration of the iBuy tool, with sales from iBuy in marketing, Search Engine Optimisation SEO, the mobile processes.
All guided by customer research to ensure Europe and Asia Pacific up 278.7% and 132.2%, respectively, weband social media as well as a number of our own talented we are making the right enhancements to our online year-on-year.
In North America the tool has been live for one eCommerce leaders.
This team from all over the globe will user experience.
year, and in the fourth quarter of 2011 sales from iBuy in the help focus on new trends to meet the rapidly changing needs region were up 15.6% up on the prior quarter.
Continue to shape our organisation around the web, of our customers as well as further enhancing our customer while capitalising on the cost efficiencies that the web offering and multi-channel approach.
Through introducing the offers as a transactional channel.
Web Advisory Board, Premier Farnell is taking the necessary steps to ensure that the Group stays appraised of the latest Leverage the Web Advisory Board to bring new online trends as the Companys sales via eCommerce innovation to our market and ensure our digital offering approach the 70% milestone in some regions.
remains at the forefront of the high service industry.
In 2012 our leadership of the digital space will continue to grow.
As a transactional force and vibrant community our webproposition is increasingly becoming an online place ofwork that meets the needs of EDEs across the globe.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 21 With all change comes opportunity and Premier Farnell has an innovativevision services beyond product The Changing World of the EDE Today EDEs work with many different technologies in the design As someone who has over 30 years experience as an EDE and As more and more rooms are launched, the way in which the virtual ofelectronics and they often specialise to focus on different aspects technology supplier to the global EDE community, I understand workspace and subsequently the EDE ecosystem takes shape will of a design.
At a high level you can group EDEs and their design the changing world of the EDE.
With many relationships among intuitively start the EDE on the design path and then bring the EDE expertise into three sections.
First there are electronic hardware theleading ecosystem and services partners, I am so excited back throughout the development process.
This revolutionary work design engineers who are responsible for the design, layout and to be one of the principle architects focused on defining how undoubtedly solidifies Premier Farnell as one of the first companies testof a products electronic hardware.
Secondly, there are software Premier Farnell capitalises on the opportunities presented by an EDE will consult as they look for a partner who can support design engineers who write the operating software, drivers and theseimportant changes.
As a leader of the services beyond throughout the design cycle right up until the design moves into applications for electronic systems.
Finally, there are programmable product 1,000 day programme, I work closely with a global virtual highvolume manufacturing.
chip designers who look after the design of programmable logic that is team who all work in differing aspects of our business operations.
Next year is set to be an exciting one as our services beyond often at the heart of driving modern electronic embedded systems.
Together not only are we able to develop concepts and solutions product initiative allows us to meet more of the EDEs needs at each that meet the ecosystem needs of EDEs, but simultaneously we However, no matter what area of design an EDE specialises in, stage of the design cycle.
In short, our enhanced proposition of aredriving a cultural identity that is required to provide significant things are always changing.
So it is offering the EDE more than just product is rapidly moving element14 value to theEDE.
important that we at Premier Farnell, as an electronics distributor towards becoming the only online environment where EDEs will start supporting EDEs, understand these changes if we are going With all change comes opportunity and Premier Farnell has an and end their working day.
tocontinue to support this most innovative and important innovative vision.
The Company is uniquely positioned with our customersegment.
broad line card of EDE suppliers and with our web presence through element14, a single, online collaborative portal where EDEs can Design complexity is dramatically changing the way an EDE work and interact within a virtually connected community.
The silicon components are becoming the addition of a virtual workplace, element14 is sure to maintain moreand more commoditised and increasingly it is software its position as a leading provider of solutions to the global EDE thatisthe critical design driver.
The EDE must rely on key community.
ecosystemand services partners if the project is to be completed on time and with high quality ecosystem and services partners By beginning to create different areas, or rooms, within a virtual are suppliers that provide software and engineering services.
workspace that address all aspects of the design process, this year Thecomplexity of modern electronics design often dictates Premier Farnell has taken another evolutionary step forward with thatanEDE uses packaged software and hardware solutions its proposition.
These rooms introduce the EDE to solutions from asastarting point intheir design.
leading global suppliers that are focused on development platforms, development tools, operating systems and stacks, CAD tools, Another source of change for the EDE is the internet.
This has simulation tools, test equipment and PCB prototyping services become the primary source of information for the EDE.
Indeed, in 2011 we have launched rooms that offer the concept, design, development, and into manufacturing, the EDE a selection of CAD tools, including our own EAGLE software, internet provides the EDE with a wealth of information in product and rapid PCB prototyping services.
Many new additions are development.
The challenge is how to efficiently and quickly planned in the year ahead as we build out our virtual workspace with gatherthis information.
the launch of rooms that offer EDEs support for vertical markets, analog design, Radio Frequency RF design, Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA design and other key technologies.
David Adams See more case studies online: Head of Technology http: annualreport2011.
