Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 54 Market Position andReputation MDD trades through several brands including element14, Customer relationships Supplier relationships Farnell and Newark.
As their product portfolios and customer The MDD businesses have a customer base comprised of The MDD businesses work with over 2,500 suppliers, stock bases are diverse, the precise market positions of these approximately two million customer contacts.
The customer approximately 400,000 products, and offer access to more brands are hard to quantify.
However, all of the brands have a contacts are typically electronic design engineers, than four million other products.
Suppliers are attracted to high level of recognition and prominence within their particular maintenance and repair engineers or procurement theDivisions ability to leverage multi-channel solutions-based markets.
The businesses which carry these brands are true specialists.
They represent a diverse spectrum of private technology marketing to seed new products to market, its multi-channel operations with online and paper-based andpublic organisations, covering 156 industries and large and global customer base with a proposition that product information, marketing programmes and relationship areasofcommerce.
No single customer represents continues to attract new customers and its capability to management.
The success of these programmes within their morethan2% of Group sales.
distribute all supporting design information to end customers.
key market segments, as well as their brand reputations, is Our suppliers also benefit from our ability to provide insightful reviewed through regular market surveys.
The Group has continued to invest in its Customer data on what ultimately drives customer choice in the earliest Relationship Management CRM systems within its phase of design through sophisticated suites of web keyMDDbusinesses this year.
This kind of intelligent information and data can areimportantin growing the business understanding helpour suppliers when making future business decisions ofcustomers needs and enabling the business to offer ontechnology and end market focuses for example.
specificcustomers the services that they most value.
TheGroup also has a suite of web diagnostic tools which The supplier base is balanced, offering customers around the improves our understanding of customers purchasing globe a breadth of products and technology solutions from needs, web technology requirements and product many different suppliers, while also offering deeper product preferences and also provides a unique insight into the ways ranges from some key suppliers with whom the Division has in which customers work.
All such information is extremely strategic alliances and improved commercial terms.
valuable to us as we continually look to innovate and invest inour proposition to meet customers desires and needs.
The MDD businesses manage relationships with customers primarily through e-centric channels like our websites.
Although as a multi-channel organisation the businesses alsouse catalogues and conversations with customers, bothby phone and face-to-face.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 55 Across element14, Farnell and Newark the portfolio of At the year end the Group held 214.7 million of inventory Distribution network and inventory suppliers is managed by an international team.
The largest initsbusinesses excluding 5.0 million of TPC inventory The Marketing and Distribution Division has operations suppliers within this portfolio include many global premium shown in assets of disposal group held for sale, of which in34countries.
These are supported by a network of brands for whom integrated, go-to-market strategies are 199.3 million was in the MDD businesses.
distribution centres that enable the Division to ship products developed, including innovative eSupplier strategies.
During Inventory is managed on a line-by-line basis, utilising anywhere in the world within one to three days.
99.6% of the year, the Division continued to build its proposition to best-in-class forecasting and stock monitoring IT systems.
allorders are dispatched on the day they are placed and design engineers, securing new distribution agreements with There-ordering of most products is automated, enabling received the next day.
The network is comprised of seven prestigious suppliers including Analog Devices in Asia Pacific purchasing teams to manage order quantity, delivery or primary distribution centres: and TDK in North America to further improve our technology demand exceptions.
Order fill rates are among the highest offering.
Many of these new suppliers develop new, emerging US Gaffney South Carolina and Springboro Ohio inthe industry, in line with the Groups commitment to technologies that are in very high demand from EDE serviceexcellence.
The Division aims to increase stock UK Leeds and Preston customers.
The Division also secured additional territorial turnsthrough the use of ever more intelligent systems, extensions with existing suppliers to support our emerging Mainland Europe Lige Belgium seamless supply chain integration with suppliers, and businesses in Asia Pacific, Brazil and Eastern Europe.
elimination of any non-moving stocks.
Asia Singapore Elsewhere within the Division, supplier relationships are The Division uses a variety of third-party carriers to ship Australia Sydney managed at a business level, enabling specific customer orders.
It has a strategic relationship with UPS, its principal needs to be met by sourcing, for example, locally branded These are supplemented by satellite warehouses in other carrier, responsible for approximately two-thirds of its products, or value-brand products from Asia.
locations including Mexico, Brazil and China.
Collectively, worldwide deliveries each day.
thisnetwork handles an average of 22,000 orders per day andstocks some 400,000 products with access to another four million more.
Technology systems are therefore central todelivering high service.
The network is managed by a globalsupply chain team that shares best practice between locations and drives a programme of continuous improvement in accuracy, efficiency and service.
