Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 32 Strategy This work clearly identified the need to build on our Thiswork validated the core strategic pillars once again, foundations of high service distribution to target the key butalso identified that, as we successfully transformed At the outset of our strategy four customer segment of Electronic Design Engineers EDE, the thebusiness to focus on EDE, eCommerce and emerging years ago, we completed a full migration of our business online, geographic expansion with markets there was an opportunity to build on that work particular focus on China, India and Eastern Europe, together withover 20 carefully chosen new focus areas, for example global review to determine the with a continuing focus on the profitable core of our historic green technology or the provision of services beyond product.
Maintenance Repair and Operation MRO business.
Over the All ofthese areas are fully complementary to our underlying markets and opportunities which course of the last four years we have successfully executed proposition and over the last 12 months we have begun that strategy, through the global recession, and delivered on todeliver initiatives born from these focus areas as we we would target to generate our commitments.
We have communicated both regularly and increasingly differentiate our business.
transparently on progress against key objectives and metrics, profitable growth.
As part of the strategic journey, through the last four years to both our internal and external stakeholders.
In addition, wehave also addressed our global brand strategy, based through the last 18 months we have built on the foundation onthe core philosophy that brand should represent the ofthat strategy to truly differentiate Premier Farnell, building commitment and promise of an organisation as manifest sustainable competitive advantage and winning market share.
toeach stakeholder group through its proposition.
Critically, To help combat changes in the global economic climate, ourbrand strategy has also been about reinventing Premier throughout the four years, our strategy has been regularly Farnell for the digital, social media web world, which is why reviewed by the Premier Farnell Leadership Council PFLC our rebranding began with the highly successful launch of and the Board.
Unlike many organisations, while some theelement14 community in June 2009.
A single global reshaping of our business was necessary through recession, brandbrings obvious efficiencies to the organisation, but our underlying strategy proved successful and helped most importantly it optimises our ability to acquire customers tooptimise available growth and market share through andwin market share on a global basis.
In February 2010, challenging market conditions.
As we emerged from recession welaunched an element14 online store in North America, this year, that strategy left us perfectly placed to accelerate targeting smaller design engineering businesses.
In August growth, as the EDE segment bounced back, in part driven 2010, as part of our internationalisation strategy we launched byeconomic stimulus packages in areas like green energy.
new businesses in Thailand, Taiwan and South Korea under the same element14 brand.
Most recently, in October 2010, A full strategic review took place in the second half of our entire Asia Pacific region was rebranded as element14 to calendar year 2009 to plan forward into the second three coincide with the launch of a greatly enhanced market-leading years of Harriet Greens leadership as CEO, leveraging internal customer proposition in the region, including a doubling of expertise nearly 1,000 employees participated in various locally held inventory and best-in-class delivery times.
We are ways as well as external advice from suppliers, investors, carefully planning our next moves with the element14 brand to customers and extensive work on macro market trends.
optimise market impact and share gain as we adopt it globally.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 33 79% sales growth our sales growth in Greater China in 2011 was 79.0% Overall, the assumptions which underpin our strategy, Focus on web and eCommerce Our Indian business has grown strongly since the acquisition together with ongoing focus on accelerated execution provide This part of our strategy provides design engineers, of Hynetic Electronics in January 2008.
With over 3,500 our business with a high level of resilience, which is manifest maintenance and repair engineers and purchasing engineering colleges and an estimated 450,000 engineers in our stable gross margin, strong profitability and market professionals with a fast and efficient channel to access graduating in India each year, the growth opportunity within share gains.
thesolutions that they seek an online place of work that the Indian market is significant, and this year sales in India combines access to products, information, community, grew 70.0% on the prior year.
Focus on EDE software and technology solutions.
Central to the strategy is Electronic Design Engineering Growth in both Greater China and India has been accelerated anattractive market which offers above average gross The web also offers Premier Farnell a lower cost to serve by the relaunch of the businesses with an enhanced customer margins and growth rates.
Through providing an industry channel compared with more traditional sales channels.
leading high service proposition together with an increasingly Aswe transition a greater percentage of our business online, The expansion of the European Union and the highly rich offering of design solutions, EDEs truly appreciate the this efficiency has allowed us to redirect our investment into fragmented nature of these new markets also offer growth value of our model and reward us with loyalty and high proposition enhancements.
Our operations in Eastern Europe have purchase frequency.
We set a goal for this part of the strategy that we will achieve progressed strongly and with full year sales growing 68.3% The global EDE market consists of customers involved in 50%70% of our MDD revenue via eCommerce by the end of on the prior year.
We are now serving 16 countries in Eastern thedesign of electronic products and components.
Twenty-one regions achieved that target, and our target Europe and have more than 12,000 active customers, 54% customers have similar service requirements wherever they now is for more than 70% of our business to be accounted for ofthose being EDEs.
are located around the world a broad product offering, latest by eCommerce by the end of 2013.
As we exited 2011, 51.1% This part of the strategy was targeted to exit the first three technology, technical support, accurate design and legislative of MDD sales came via eCommerce.
years at 20% of the Groups revenue and we achieved 21.6%.
information and reliable and prompt delivery which means internationalising our model In the next three years this is targeted to grow to 30% and we we can leverage our global organisation to meet those needs.
Throughout the recession, Greater China, India and much of exited this year with 22.9% of Group sales coming from our Increasingly EDEs also want to collaborate and discuss their Eastern Europe continued to deliver growth for us, reinforcing developing markets.
work through social media, a trend which led us to launch the that they were the right territories to enter at the beginning of pioneering element14 community in 2009.
All three regions emerged from recession ahead of community with commerce is a trend we expect to increase of the global market, and remain key to our success.
and is central to our brand and eCommerce strategies.
The Chinese market for small volume electronics is We set a goal for this part of our strategy that 50% of MDD estimatedat over 1 billion annually and growing at a rate revenue would come from EDE customers by the end of 2010 faster than Chinese Gross Domestic Product GDP.
It is a and in many regions we exceeded that goal.
That journey highly fragmented market offering significant market share continues and we are now aiming for 50%70% of our opportunities to us.
Our sales growth in Greater China in 2011 business to come from EDE by the end of our 2013 financial was 79.0%.
In the final quarter of 2011 EDE sales accounted for 53.7% of sales from our electronics distribution businesses.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 34 Strategy continued 11.3% underlying return on sales of 11.3%, up from 9.1% last year strategy and leverage existing technology and business bedelivered through the system investments that we are Initiatives to drive operational and cashefficiencies process programmes to accelerate the automation of many making.
We took a significant step forward towards achieving Since we began to implement our global strategy, we have internal operations.
A clear example of this can be seen in this goal in 2011, having ended the year with a working capital seen significant growth in our levels of eCommerce sales thesignificant upgrade we are making to our warehouse to sales ratio of 23.9%.
asaproportion of our total sales.
We have seen that the management software to improve efficiencies in the webis becoming the transactional channel of choice for our warehouses as well as our ongoing work to ensure that Key Performance Indicators customers.
Accordingly, we have continued to invest in the wehave the appropriate customer contact infrastructure infrastructure to support this channel as it offers a chance inour major markets to maximise efficiencies.
In 2006 we began a three-year journey to transform our forus to drive efficiencies throughout our business.
organisation through focusing on the EDE customer segment, The benefit of these actions, plus the other efficiency driving sales via the web, internationalising our business These efficiencies come from a number of actions that we programmes and the inherent benefit of the continued change model and driving profitable MRO growth.
Over these three have undertaken.
These include one-touch order processing: in transactional activity to lower cost channels, underpin our years we tracked our transformation and the execution of whereby orders placed via e-channels are processed targeted return on sales of between 12% and 15%.
In 2011, we ourstrategy through the same internal and external KPIs, automatically until they are ready to be picked in the made good progress towards this target in achieving a full year which have been embedded across all of our businesses warehouse.
Using technology such as Optical Character underlying return on sales of 11.3%, up from 9.1% last year.
andaligned with our incentive and compensation plans.
Recognition OCR and advanced telephony to automate ourtransactional processes in this way improves our In order to finance the first three years of our strategy, we This year we began the next phase of our transformation serviceefficiency and reduces cost by cutting down the implemented a number of programmes to reduce our working which we have named the next 1,000 days.
Through timeit takes to get the order picked and packed as well capital before the impact of currency movements, including executing our core strategy and breathing new life into asenabling us to take out infrastructure cost.
Reducing more flexible arrangements with certain suppliers, purchasing ourproposition with the introduction of a number of new thenumber of organisational layers between the Chief products for our global distribution centres in the lowest cost strategic initiatives we are continually driving change within Operating Officer COO at Premier Farnell and the customer regions, and enhanced product life cycle management.
is another example of how we are driving efficiencies.
Wecommitted to reducing working capital as a percentage The importance of our next 1,000 day journey is clear and Asaweb business we have a vast amount of increasingly ofsales by two percentage points from 27.1% to 25.1%, itiscritical that we ensure all of our KPIs are consistently highquality information and analytics available to us, which asaving which would pay for the required incremental communicated with transparency.
Outlined below are our we can use to guide us in the running of our organisation.
Weended the first three years of the strategy updated KPIs, based on how we envisage the shape of the Itisthis information and the way in which it is distributed witha working capital to sales ratio of 25.2%, just outside business will change over the next three years.
Our past year throughout our business which is allowing us shape our ourtarget.
Havingachieved a working capital to sales ratio achievements relative to these KPIs are outlined in more detail internal organisation in a more efficient way.
of25.2% in2010, even with sales considerably lower than on pages 14 and 15 of this report.
in2009, webelieve that there is further opportunity to Over the course of the first three years of our transformation reducethis ratio and release further cash over the course we permanently reduced our operating costs by 16 million ofthe next three years.
Accordingly, the target ratio by the asa result of these efficiencies and process improvements.
endof 2013 isfor asales to working capital ratio of 22%.
Ourfocus over the last 12 months has been to continue Thiswill be achieved through a combination of the existing todrive further efficiencies as our entire business moves programmes, which willdeliver further benefits as sales towards 70% of their sales coming via eCommerce.
This will recover, new programmes and from efficiencies that will remain a key area for us as we move through our 1,000 day Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 35 With our successful programmes to drive improved cash Responsibility index and, as we continue to enhance our Our 1,000 day Key Performance Indicators efficiency embedded in our business and continuing to own sustainability practices, we aim to achieve and retain Unchanged from 2010 deliver benefits we have lowered our target working capital the highest Platinum Plus level in the BiTC Corporate We will continue to target sales per day growth of 6%8%.
to sales ratio to be less than 22%.
Responsibility index as part of our 1,000 day strategy.
This is a combination of our focus on the EDE market sector ThisKPI is featured in Companys Sustainability Report Our ongoing focus to move forward as a web based which has an estimated growth rate of 6%8%, and the which can be accessed online at http: annualreport2011.
business, together with the growing online trends in the higher growth developing international markets, offsetting the premierfarnell.
com sustainabilityreport wayEDEs work, has led to us increasing the target for estimated 0%3% growth in the late cycle global MROmarket.
MDDsales through eCommerce channels to 70%.
Our gross margin stability is a clear differentiator in our Environmental impacts Growing our business in the worlds developing markets will industry and as we move forward we will continue to deliver We recognise the advantage for businesses in managing be critical to future success as these markets continue to a stable gross margin, reflecting the quality of business theirenvironmental impacts.
As part of the evolution of our grow at rapid rates specifically within our target segments.
weserve and the value that customers attribute to our strategy, we will seek to help the global focus on reducing As we increase our international footprint we have raised proposition while also providing a key platform to deliver carbon emissions from energy consumption through our goal to 30% of total sales to come from the worlds operational gearing.
becoming the industrys leading distributor for green developing markets.
We remain committed to increasing the effectiveness of technologies.
In addition we remain committed to ongoing New for 2011 investments in our operational assets and in recognition initiatives aimed at reducing the environmental impact of the At the heart of our strategy is the business focus towards ofthis we will continue to target a return on net operating Groups existing business, demonstrating our own industry the high-growth EDE market sector.
At the start of the year assets of greater than 30% for the Group.
The actions being taken to address we set our goal of 50%70% of MDD Americas and MDD ourcarbon footprint and other sustainability issues are Over the next three years we remain committed to Europe and Asia Pacific sales to come from the EDE sector.
outlined in our comprehensive Sustainability Report, in improving the profitability and cash flow performance whichwe address the impacts that our business has on A growing MDD active customer base is at the core of our ofourbusiness and we will continue to target a free theenvironment and the people that we engage with, ability to deliver on many of our business objectives, reflects cashflow to sales ratio of 6%.
andthewaythat we manage these to build competitive the attractiveness of our proposition and facilitates our As a service business, our results are achieved through advantageand grow trust.
The report can be found online at market share gain.
Therefore we have set a new target of ourpeople and having an actively engaged employee http: annualreport2011.
com sustainabilityreport a6% per annum growth rate in the MDD active customer baseis critical to the success.
To this end we will continue and a summary of the key data is printed on page 56 of base, defined as the number of customers who have to target an annual employee engagement score that thisreport.
transacted with us in the last six months.
exceeds the benchmark for high performing companies.
We have set a new target to achieve a Google Page Rank Revised from 2010 score of seven for the element14 community, providing Increasing our profitability and sales growth through the aclear and true reflection of the sites importance and operational efficiencies in our business is at the forefront relevance within the EDE sector.
offocus and for the next phase of our strategy we have We benchmark our sustainability performance through increased our target return on sales to 12%15%.
theBusiness in The Community BiTC Corporate
