Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 80 Directors Report Principal activities and business review The Directors recommend that a final dividend of Directors A detailed review of the Groups activities and the 21.7million, equivalent to 6.0 pence 2010: 18.8 million, The names and biographical details of the Directors who held development of its business, together with an indication of equivalent to 5.2 pence per ordinary share be paid on office at the date of this report appear on pages 62 and 63. likely future developments, the main trends and factors likely 22June 2011 to those shareholders on the register of In accordance with the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code to affect future performance and a description of the principal members at the close of business on 27 May 2011.
An interim all ofour Directors, other than as detailed below, will retire at risks and uncertainties it faces, are set out on pages 25 to 61 dividend of 15.9 million, equivalent to 4.4 pence per ordinary the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company and which constitutes the Business Review and forms part of this share was paid on 20 October 2010, making a total for the offer themselves for re-election.
Information about environmental matters, employees year of 37.6 million or 10.4 pence 2009: 34.0 million, has been carried out during the course of the year in respect and social and community issues appear on pages 56 to 60, 9.4pence per ordinary share.
The Premier Farnell Executive of all of the Directors offering themselves for re-election and with more detail provided in the Companys Sustainability Trust holds ordinary shares in the Company acquired in the their performance continues to be effective and all continue Report available at http: annualreport2011.
market in order to meet obligations under the Premier Farnell todemonstrate commitment to their roles.
com sustainabilityreport Performance Share Plan or to provide similar employee benefits.
The trustees have waived the right to receive The following Directors will not offer themselves for re-election: The principal activity of the Group remains unchanged and is dividends in respect of the ordinary shares held by the Trust.
the distribution of electronic, electrical and industrial products S ir Peter Gershon, who as announced on 1 February 2011 to the design, maintenance and repair sectors.
Post balance sheet event will retire with effect from the close of the Companys Since the year-end the Group has completed the sale of the Annual General Meeting on 14 June 2011: and As described in the Business Review, the Group does not entire issued share capital of TPC Wire & Cable Corp TPC have significant reliance on any individual customer or M ark Whiteling, who as announced on 1 March 2011 to Pfingsten Partners LLC, for a total cash consideration of supplier and therefore there are no contractual or other isleaving the Company in August 2011 to pursue US$43 million subject to a working capital adjustment paid arrangements that are essential to the Groups business.
incash on completion on 31 January 2011.
The provisional pre-tax gain is 16.8 million.
The trading results of TPC were Profit and dividends The Company has initiated searches for successors not material to the Group.
The Groups operating profit for the financial year was tobothroles in order to ensure smooth and effective 112.1million 2010: 72.7 million excluding restructuring transitionsof responsibilities.
Share capital costsof 7.6 million and a net one-off income from changes Details of the changes in the issued, ordinary share and Thomas Reddin was appointed to the Board on to the Groups North American pensionplans of 6.3 million.
preference share capital of the Company during the year are 30September 2010.
In accordance with our Articles The Groups profit for the financial year attributable to ordinary set out in notes 15 and 19, respectively, to the Consolidated ofAssociation, he will retire at the forthcoming Annual shareholders was 66.2million 2010: 37.5 million.
Preference shares are not classified GeneralMeeting of the Company and offer himself for asequity for financial reporting.
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the Company will William Korb retired from the Board with effect from the close be seeking authority to purchase its ordinary and preference of the Companys Annual General Meeting on 15 June 2010. shares.
Authorities were previously granted at the Annual General Meeting in 2010, but expire at the close of the forthcoming meeting.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 81 During the financial year ended 30 January 2011 the Company The articles contain certain restrictions on the transfer of Financial instruments provided indemnities to each of its Directors in accordance ordinary and preference shares and on the exercise of voting Information on the Groups financial risk management with the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association rights attached to them, including where the Company objectives and policies and on the exposure of the Group providing for the indemnification of Directors out of the hasexercised its right to prohibit transfer following the torelevant risks in respect of financial instruments is set assetsof the Company to the extent permitted by law.
omission oftheir holder or any person interested in them outunder the heading Treasury Operations on page 46 Theseindemnities constitute qualifying third-party indemnities toprovide the Company with information requested by andinnote 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006 and remain itinaccordance with Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006.
Supplier payment policy inforce at the date of approval of this report.
Holders of preference shares are entitled to receive notice The Groups operating companies are responsible for of, but not attend or vote at general meetings of the Additional information relating to Directors remuneration, agreeing terms and conditions under which business Companyother than in limited circumstances.
service contracts and interests in the Companys shares transactions with their suppliers are conducted.
Payments isgiven in the Remuneration Report on pages 85 to 95.
Rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors tosuppliers are made in accordance with those terms, Thedetails of Directors interests in the Companys shares are set out in the articles.
Changes to the articles must be provided that suppliers also comply with all relevant terms form part of this report.
approved by shareholders passing a special resolution.
At 30 January 2011, the amount the Group TheDirectors powers are conferred on them by UK owed its suppliers represented 32 working days purchases Share capital and control legislationand by the articles.
The Company is a holding company Details of the Companys issued share capital are set out and does not have any trade creditors.
innotes 15 and 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Directors authority to effect purchases of the The Companys authorised share capital comprises ordinary Companysshares on its behalf is conferred by resolution Product research and development shares of 5 pence each in nominal value and cumulative ofthe shareholders and renewed annually at the Companys The Groups product research and development activities convertible redeemable preference shares of 1 each in Annual General Meeting.
arerestricted to the development of new or enhanced nominal value.
As at 30 January 2011, the ordinary shares products for Akron Brass.
Akron Brass is part of the Groups There are no agreements between any Group company andpreference shares represented 82.3% and 17.7% Industrial Products Division.
During the year the Industrial andany of its employees or any Director of the Company respectively of the Companys total share capital.
Products Division expensed 2.2 million 2010: 1.7 million which provide for compensation to be paid to the employee onproduct research and development.
The rights attached to the Companys ordinary shares and orDirector for termination of employment or for loss of office itspreference shares, in addition to those conferred on their as a consequence of a takeover of the Company, other than In addition, the Group is constantly striving to provide new holders by law, are set out in the Companys articles of provisions that would apply on any termination of employment.
and improved solutions to customer service.
The advances association the articles, a copy of which can be obtained inour web offering, whether through our transactional sites The Companys multi-currency bilateral bank facilities contain on request from the Company Secretary.
A summary of the orthe further development to the element14 eCommunity, provisions allowing the lending banks to terminate the facilities rights attached to the preference shares appears in note 15 which provides EDEs with access to colleagues, suppliers in the event of a change of control.
and experts globally, are good examples of this.
During the year the Group expensed 4.4 million 2010: 2.9 million The trustees of the Premier Farnell Executive Trust an employee inthese areas.
benefit trust may vote or abstain from voting shares held in the trust in any way they see fit.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 82 Directors Report continued Charitable and political donations materialand access to a wide range of external materials place in many of the Companys locations around the world In the US, the Group has an ongoing policy of donating delivered in partnership with a leading business school.
toallow access to the Groups intranet for those who do not certain items of inventory to charitable organisations.
Acomprehensive induction module forms part of every normally work using personal computers.
An all employee Inaddition, during the year the Group made charitable newemployees introduction to the Company.
A formal engagement survey was again conducted during the year, donations in cash of 57,000. jobgrading system exists across the Group to assist providing a mechanism for detailed feedback on many remuneration practices as well as career development aspects of what it is like to work for the Company.
The survey Further details of the Groups charitable activities appear andorganisational planning processes.
The Company has gives an opportunity for employees to address queries, intheSummary Sustainability Report section of the introduced an online system of thank yous and reward comments and issues directly to our Chief Executive.
BusinessReview on page 60 and in the Companys points exchangeable for goods, services or donations to Thisresulted in 2,600 comments to the Chief Executive onlineSustainability Report.
These points, given through thisyear.
The survey results showed encouraging progress the iCan system, are allocated at the discretion of managers inall aspects of employee engagement and there are further The Groups policy is not to make contributions to and colleagues as a celebration and reward for exceptional detailsof the results of this survey on page 53.
performance or effort and serve to increase employee employees have the benefit of the askharriet email function Employment satisfaction and engagement.
to pose questions and comments confidentially to the The Group places great emphasis on optimising the ChiefExecutive.
There is further information on leader and employee contribution made by employees at all levels around the development as well as on the Companys other initiatives During the year a wide cross-section of the workforce had world.
A Group-wide performance review process is in its toattract, retain, motivate and engage its employees, on theopportunity to participate in the implementation of the twelfth year of operation.
Having been substantially revised pages 51 and 52.
Groups business strategy through participation in the Premier and made available online in 2008, this review cycle is now Farnell Leadership Council.
This forum consists of quarterly participated in by all employees globally.
It has been reworked Employees are informed of the performance of the Group meetings at which the strategy and key issues related to and enhanced during each subsequent year to reflect anda structured communication programme allows itsimplementation are discussed.
As well as the permanent thehighperformance attributes which the Group promotes.
factorsaffecting their employment to be discussed and members of the Council, each meeting is attended by Thesystem is also used to capture commitment to the foremployees to take an active part in the implementation individuals invited to contribute as subject matter experts Companys code of ethics and the volunteering opportunities ofstrategy.
To reinforce the culture of high performance, orbecause of their high performance and potential.
Further in which employees take part as part of their ongoing thecreation of which the entire Group participates in, all details on the Premier Farnell Leadership Council can be development.
The Group continues to invest in the employees attended Kick-Off meetings at the beginning of found on page 64. development of its employees, maintaining its programme thefinancial year which provided them with the opportunity oftailored training programmes for first line supervisors, tounderstand their individual role in delivering the Companys Working in close co-operation with elected representatives managers and leaders of people which includes 360 degree strategy.
All employees also attend the Companys Global from its European operating companies, the Groups feedback.
Specific employee development programmes Green Days where employees worldwide have the opportunity European Works Council The Premier Farnell European aredesigned on the basis of identified individual and to put questions to the Groups senior management on all Forum is in its eleventh year of operation.
The Forum organisational needs to underpin a culture of high aspects of the Companys performance, plans and strategy.
providesan arena for the exchange of relevant and performance.
In addition, all employees are entitled to Acomprehensive cascade process ensures that information appropriate information and constructive dialogue spendan hour every week on personal development on the Companys performance is made available to coincide betweenmanagement and employees on European issues.
The content available through the Groups online with its quarterly results announcements.
Cyber cafs are in learning centre includes customised internal course Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 83 The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications Environment Independent Auditors foremployment from disabled persons, with regard to The Group recognises the importance of responsible Resolutions to reappoint  LLP theirparticular aptitudes and abilities.
Efforts are made to environmental management and its obligation to protect asAuditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their continue the employment of those who become disabled theenvironment.
The Group therefore gives high priority remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual during their employment.
Training, career development toallenvironmental matters.
Further information appears in General Meeting of the Company.
andpromotion are, as far as practicable, identical for all the Summary Sustainability Report section of the Business Disclosure of information to auditors employees according to their skills and abilities.
The Group Review and more detail is provided in the Companys Each of the Directors confirms that so far as he or she is consistently seeks to recruit, develop and employ throughout Sustainability Report available at http: annualreport2011.
aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the the organisation suitably qualified, capable and experienced premierfarnell.
com sustainabilityreport Companys auditors are unaware and that he or she has taken people, irrespective of age, race, gender, religion or sexual Substantial shareholdings all steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director in orientation.
The Company is fully supportive of the benefits At 15 April 2011 the Company had been notified, pursuant order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit ofdiversity in the workplace and has started to target diversity tothe Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and information and to establish that the Companys auditors are improvements across the Group.
Further information on Transparency Rules, of the following notifiable voting aware of that information.
diversity across the Group can be found in the Summary rightsinits ordinary share capital: Sustainability Report section of the Business Review at pages Annual general meeting 56 to 60 or available at http: annualreport2011.
% The notice convening the Companys 2011 Annual General com sustainabilityreport.
Employees of the Company also Meeting at 2528 Old Burlington Street, London W1S 3AN Newton Investment 4.97 offered contributions to the consultation process for on14 June 2011 at 10.30 am is set out in a separate Blackrock Inc 10.06 theDavies Report on Diversity in the Boardroom and one document issued to shareholders.
ofour senior female executives is involved in the FTSE 100 Blackrock UK 3.02 The Directors Report for the year ended 30 January 2011 Cross-Company Mentoring Programme which promotes Prudential PLC 8.16 comprises these pages 80 to 84 and the other sections and thedevelopment of women for Board appointments.
pages of the Annual Report cross-referred to above, which Standard Life Investments Ltd 10.01 Employees participation in the Groups performance is sections and pages are incorporated by reference.
Capital Group International 8.27 encouraged through the Groups UK savings related share By order of the Board option scheme, other share related reward schemes and by Fidelity International 4.87 the provision of cost-effective share dealing services.
Steven Webb Legal & General plc 4.03 Company Secretary Artemis Investment 4.86 Farnell House Old Mutual Asset Managers UK Ltd 4.60 Forge Lane Leeds LS12 2NE 19 April 2011
