Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 22 Strategic Focus 3 Profitable growth through internationalising our business model Throughout the four years, and through recession, these Eastern Europe has continued to perform above expectations, territories have continued to grow strongly and now provide with a particularly strong performance in new customer Four years ago when asolid platform for further expansion.
In addition, we have acquisition, growing its customer base 63.2% on the prior more recently made web-based entries into Taiwan, Thailand year.
We now have customers located across 16 countries, we evaluated our and South Korea to expand our regional footprint further.
including serving customers in locations as far afield as Vladivostok, Tallinn and Plovdiv.
Our business model of At the beginning of our strategy we had limited, sub-distribution expanding our reach across Eastern Europe through growing markets for strong operations in these markets, predominantly focused on the our virtual footprint remains highly efficient, with 68.1% of the MRO sector, but the growth opportunity in the EDE sector regions sales coming via eCommerce as we exited the year.
growth opportunities, we was clear.
That EDE opportunity has increased, particularly inChina and India, with the technology focus driven by Our approach to each market tailors our offering to meet invested in the developing economic stimulus packages, particularly in the alternate itsspecific needs, while continuing to leverage our global energy and energy harvesting electronic markets.
expertise and best practice to deliver exactly the proposition required in each country.
Over the course of the first three markets of China, India Our business today is truly international, with 78.4% of years of our strategy, we drove our developing markets to our2011 sales outside of the UK, with MDD operations account for 19.8% of Group sales, in line with our strategic and Eastern Europe.
in34different locations, including a regional head office in goal of 20%.
As a consequence of this strong performance Singapore where our upgraded distribution centre opened and such an individual approach towards these developing inAugust 2010 with best-in-class software management markets this year we raised our target to 30%.
As we closed systems and product handling practices.
The Asia Pacific out the first year of our 1,000 day journey our developing business is a thriving multicultural organisation, with over markets accounted for 22.9% of Group sales.
600employees and sales growth levels reaching 34.4% year-on-year.
The launch of the new element14 proposition inOctober 2010 further accelerated progress, drawing the whole region together under our new brand and launching anindustry leading proposition.
Early signs from our Augustlaunch into Taiwan, Thailand and South Korea arealsoencouraging.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 23 Strategic Focus 3 Profitable growth through internationalising our business model achievements in 2011 Priorities in 2012 Launched the element14 brand and new customer Leverage the new Asia Pacific proposition to accelerate proposition into Asia Pacific, rebranding all of our market share gains and customer acquisition.
Develop and grow the new entry businesses in Taiwan, Nearly doubled the range of locally stocked products Thailand and South Korea.
inAsia Pacific to 122,000 with an unrivalled next day delivery proposition to almost every part of Asia Pacific.
Drive accelerated market share gains in Eastern Europe through continuing to invest in our talent in the region Launched businesses in Taiwan, Thailand and South Korea.
while leveraging our virtual footprint and industry Eastern Europe now has more than 12,000 active customers, leading service offering.
and grown the percentage of EDE customers to 54%.
Enhance our customer segment approach to vertical Added 7,100 customers in Greater China, 2,400 in India end markets, particularly in China and India.
Drive towards the target of 30% of total revenue from Combined year-on-year web sales growth of 118.8% for our developing international markets.
ourbusinesses in the emerging markets of Greater China, India and Eastern Europe.
Developing markets accounted for 22.0% of Group sales in2011.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 24 Ourachievements in the year ahead will be even greater transforming Asia Pacific Commerce, Community and a Single Brand As one of only four global high service distributors operating in the During and following the launch of our businesses in Thailand, As the digital marketing manager for Asia Pacific, for me this electronics technology market, Premier Farnell is well positioned to Taiwan and South Korea we began to invest in our service offering yearrepresented many things, both professionally and personally.
take advantage of the growth opportunities across the Asia Pacific in the region.
We significantly enhanced our inventory profile, taking Professionally, the experience of being involved in so much work region.
That is why in 2006 we took the strategic decision to enter our locally stocked number of products from 60,000 to 122,000 that is designed to improve the business ability to meet the needs the fast growing Asian markets of China and India.
We then spent tobuild the broadest locally held inventory of technology products ofcustomers has been inspiring.
The power of working within the next three years growing scale across Asia through investing in region.
We made noticeable improvements in our customer aglobal team to execute and embed all of this work has proven inand leveraging the power of our EDE high service proposition.
experience and customer relationship management capabilities.
tomethat no goal is insurmountable.
And in galvanising this leap forward with our proposition we Fast forward three years and we began financial year 2011 My own belief and the belief of the entire team who have and investedin new warehouse management software and logistics as amajor distribution player in the Asian electronic markets, whocontinue to be part of our Asia Pacific business, is that which strengthened our high service capabilities to such an extent havingdelivered a Compound Annual Growth Rate of 13.5% in througha sense of inspiration from what we have achieved this we could begin to offer an unrivalled next day delivery proposition our AsiaPacific sales over the last three years.
Such growth led year, ourachievements in the year ahead will be even greater.
toalmost every part of Asia Pacific, including 130 Chinese cities.
to exciting plans for the Asia Pacific business over the course of theyear, as we prepared to take an evolutionary step forward In conjunction with the launch of our new industry leading inourtransformation by the fusing of commerce, community proposition we turned our revolutionary branding journey into andbusiness under a single brand.
reality, as we rolled out a complete rebranding to element14 across our Asia Pacific operations.
This milestone saw all eight remaining We took the first step in this journey in August 2010, as we websites across the region merge commerce and community, as enteredthe high service distribution markets in Thailand, Taiwan the original transactional websites were fused with our element14 and South Korea.
Through leveraging the power of the web and community.
The associated Search Engine Optimisation SEO and the element14 brand we became the first electronics distributor Search Engine Marketing SEM benefits when you have a single to merge commerce with community with the launch of three new brand and you are a web business where 56.8% of total sales come locallanguage websites.
These websites offer EDEs in Thailand, via eCommerce are huge.
The strength of the element14 brand, Taiwan and South Korea a unique and differentiating proposition.
combined with the investments made in our proposition in region, will enable us to accelerate our growth in Asia Pacific as we target todouble the size of the business as part of our 1,000 day strategy.
Selene Chin Digital Marketing Manager See more case studies online: http: annualreport2011.
