P Pr re em miie er r F Fa ar rn ne elll l A An nn nu ua all R Re ep por ort t a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 11 1 2 27 7 The High Service Distribution Market High service distributors meet the distribution needs of operating in this space, with the remaining 80% served twomain engineering customer groups, EDEs and MRO bysmall and medium-sized local competitors.
This 80% Premier Farnell is a high service engineers.
EDEs are engaged in the conceptualising, ofthe market represents a significant growth opportunity distributor operating within designing, prototyping and low volume production of forthe Group, a subject which is referred to in more detail newelectronics products.
amarket and competitive maintain, operate and repair the installed product base The overall size of the global electronics distribution market ofelectronic equipment.
High volume distributors handle landscape that have continued isapproximately 200 billion, of which the high service thesupply of large quantities of components for scheduled element is estimated at 17 billion.
The chart below shows manufacturing of electronic equipment.
toevolve over the past year.
thelife cycle of an electronic design from prototyping Premier Farnell is a high service distributor operating within through to the end of its useful life.
Premier Farnell principally amarket and competitive landscape that have continued operates in the two circles identified.
toevolve over the past year, although both remain very fragmented.
Around 20% of the total available market is served by Premier Farnell and three other global players Product life cycle Manufacturer direct Volume distribution Volume distribution EDE MRO Premier Farnell Manufacturer Premier Farnell Student Prototype Small OEM Service Maintenance Repair Large OEM R&D Pilot Broad customer base Engineers Purchasing professionals Engineers Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 28 The High Service DistributionMarket continued Customer demand for a wide breadth of stocked product, Both Newark and Farnell offer customers a very broad range Growth in electronics information and software and technology solutions that can of products for use in electronic equipment, with a strategic MDD supplies a variety of industries across a number of be accessed immediately through an online environment, focus on the design part of the product life cycle.
Not only does no customer account hasincreased in importance in recent times.
We have the1950s, the pervasion of electronics into everyday life formore than 2% of sales, no supplier accounts for more continued to invest in these critical areas of our proposition hasincreased steadily and the aesthetics as well as the than5% of product.
We support a huge range of customers during the downturn, while many of the smaller more local functionality of these products has become increasingly inover156 different industries.
distributors have not been able to do so.
As a consequence important, creating more design work.
As the awareness these competitors are finding it increasingly challenging ofindividual and corporate carbon footprint increases, This diversification of geography, customer segments and whentrying to meet customer needs and expectations.
redesign around power management and energy efficiency suppliers limits the Companys exposure to regionalised Asone of only four global distributors able to meet these has also grown.
This leaves us well placed to pick up exacting requirements in key areas, the opportunity for onavailable market growth whether that is in a specific Our EDE strategy is even more relevant in todays world.
Over Premier Farnell to leverage its high service proposition geography or a vertical market segment.
The global the course of the past year the behaviours seen in the EDE towinnew customers and gain market share is significant.
electronics design market is forecast to continue to grow well market sector have continued to support our strategic focus, in the coming year after a year of significant growth in 2011.
Farnell has a strong position in many European markets, presenting us with much opportunity to deliver growth.
Our Newark is one of the leaders in North America and EDE sales growth was significantly higher than MRO sales There are many market segments that are delivering growth element14in Asia Pacific is fast becoming a market growth throughout the year and we remain confident in our within the electronics industry, with some set to experience leaderacross the region.
EDE strategy continuing to deliver a growth rate above the heightened growth levels over the coming year.
For example, overall electronics market.
The level of maintenance and it is estimated that globally the solar technology market will The other businesses within MDD, namely CPC and MCM, repair activity varies by geography, reflecting the indigenous grow at a Compound Annual Growth Rate CAGR of 28.0% operate primarily on a national basis in their home markets manufacturing environment, and tends to be tightly tied to to 2014.
It is reported that Electronics Design Automation UK and Ireland, and North America, respectively and are thegeneral level of economic activity a fact which has been EDA is set to achieve a CAGR of 9.7% to 2015, while the focused on a particular subset of the overall electronics exacerbated this year by the global economic environment.
forecasted average annual growth rate for the optoelectronics distribution market.
Medical electronics, sensoring, and wireless CPC and MCM supply electrical and electronic ranges, communications markets are further examples of technology suchas audio-visual and security products, to very broad segments that are set to experience significant growth in the customer bases, from specialist retailers and small next 12 months.
The level of general economic activity also exerts some influence on the sales performance of these businesses.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 29 element14 the convergence of commerce and community in the digital world markets has continued to be strong over the past year and Structural growth opportunities Industry efficiencies this is a trend we expect to continue throughout 2012.
The strength of our strategy provides much opportunity for With mounting pressures on industry in the US and Western We are using technology and the web as a way to differentiate usto grow our business organically and, with 80% of the Europe to become more efficient and cut fixed cost bases, our proposition, increase our competitiveness and highservice distribution market being served by small and purchasing professionals are turning to their distributors for demonstrate industry leadership.
Design engineers are early medium-sized distributors, there is further opportunity for more assistance than ever before.
adopters of new technology and they seek to do business usto drive organic profitable growth through market share Many organisations are streamlining or outsourcing their with companies that can meet their needs as they evolve.
The barriers to entry within our industry continue procurement to reduce the total cost of purchasing and drive With element14 we have embraced social media, the Web 2.0 torise, as the web and a global supply chain increase in efficiencies in their own supply chains.
In order to achieve revolution and the convergence of commerce and community importance for customers when selecting their distribution thiscustomers are combining the reduction of inventory and in the digital world.
By doing this we have begun to create a partners.
We continue to invest in our content rich web ordering closer to their point of need with the purchasing of workplace where our customers, suppliers and industry environments and global supply chain as we look to drive product in lower cost geographies.
Premier Farnells MDD experts can share information, collaborate and converse on market share gains from our small and medium-sized businesses are well positioned to serve these customers.
element14 is just one example of our innovative competitors.
Within Premier Farnell we term this opportunity Weoffer a reliable supply chain that provides late ordering advances having a pronounced effect on both our market the T80 or Target80, named after our programme which is capabilities and a next day delivery service.
We have share gains and competitive advantage by increasing the aimed at offering a superior customer experience compared continued to invest in the worlds developing markets and barriers to entry in the high service distribution space.
to that of our smaller competitors.
ourability to create operating efficiencies for customers, by As well as the structure of our market, our strategy has The structural nature of the high service distribution market reducing the number of suppliers that customers deal with identified the EDE market as a high growth sector, while our clearly represents a significant opportunity for the Company and offering a myriad of additional services, is best-in-class.
rich web environment continues to attract new customers.
to grow market share, underpinned by a competitive In 2011 we significantly enhanced our portfolio of e-centric There are also the burgeoning electronic design industries advantage from its innovative web environments, widespread services aimed at providing our customers with increased inChina, India and Eastern Europe where our businesses customer reach and global supply chain expertise.
In addition to eQuotes, our complete continue to take advantage of the strong export and domestic webegan our strategic transformation and measuring market online quoting solution, and iBuy, our free online procurement markets.
In addition to China, India and Eastern Europe, share results at the beginning of our business agenda we solution, we can now offer customers access to new design thisyear we entered the high service distribution space in have increased our share of the high service distribution services such as rapid prototyping and electronic Bill of Thailand, Taiwan and South Korea, leveraging the power market by close to one percentage point.
The strength of Materials BoM generation from within their Computer Aided ofthe web and the element14 brand to become the first ourestimated market share performance in 2011 gives us Design CAD software.
The rapid adoption levels that these electronics distributor to merge commerce with community confidence that the opportunity to drive organic growth from tools have received are indicative of how strongly this type inthese regions.
These regions, as in China, India and Eastern within our markets remains significant.
ofinnovation resonates with our customer base.
Europe, have attractive features in terms of their web adoption levels and the scale of their electronics industries.
This made Thailand, Taiwan and South Korea a natural selection for the Group to further its internationalisation and accelerate its plans to drive significant organic growth within the worlds emerging markets.
The growth seen in our developing international Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 30 The High Service DistributionMarket continued The Energy using Products EuP Directive looks at the energy Environmental influences Customer proposition consumption of a product from mining the raw material right Environmental legislation in the electronics industry is a Our proposition for the EDE customer is based on an through to its recycling at end-of-life.
Recently this was  field which presents many challenges extensive esoteric product offering with availability for renamed the Energy related Products Directive ErP and for our customers and our suppliers.
shipment that day or the next day, the integrity of the global willpull more products in scope.
Obligations known as supply chain, accurate technical information to support their Implementing Measures are what will drive compliance.
The European Union Restriction of Hazardous Substances work and the provision of services, software and technology RoHS legislation restricts the use of certain hazardous The Batteries Directive restricts the use of mercury and solutions essential to EDEs and the design environment.
substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment EEE and cadmium in batteries, while also putting measures in place to Allofwhich make Premier Farnell a distributor of choice for late in 2010 a recast to the original directive was approved to encourage the more efficient design of equipment containing EDEs, a customer set who typically have high service needs.
be published in the spring of 2011.
In addition to many other batteries, as well as targets around the collection and amendments, eight years from that date RoHS will become EDE customers heavily utilise the web in their work, far recycling of batteries.
Finally, the REACH regulations impose open scope and include all electrical and electronic beyond simple product searches, and the development of a tighter controls over the use of thousands of chemicals in equipment not captured in current categories, unless solution-based approach to our website is central to our EDE Europe to establish the flow of specific safety data through the specifically excluded.
The web, and element14 in particular, is where our supply chain.
The collection of obligatory information remains customers research and communicate on new technologies, a challenge and another area where Premier Farnell is a leader.
RoHS substances are restricted to complement the ease of discuss and review products and interact with each other on recycling, re-use and recovery at the end of a products life All of these pieces of legislation have become important design complexities and decisions.
By recognising, valuing under the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment WEEE considerations for new design work and affect our customers and supporting that usage we firmly believe we have begun Directive.
Beyond Europe, countries such as China, United immediately.
Premier Farnell provides industry leading todifferentiate our business and proposition.
States, Korea, Australia and India early stages are all looking guidance, interacts at government level and provides support to implement their own versions of RoHS, with others to follow.
Our EDE customer experience is built on: and information on this critical area for EDEs.
This continues to be a strong area of differentiation for our MDD businesses E ase of product identification, selection and ordering and one which customers clearly value.
fromachoice of channels including call centres, web, fieldsales teams and printed catalogues.
W eb fundamentals of speed, simplicity of use and searchcapability.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 31 eSupplier strategy aligned to engineers needs for rich web-centric content An online community combining industry collaboration, Insightful data on emerging technologies and Suppliers technical content and design resources and tools within evolvingcustomer trends from a suite of sophisticated MDD constitutes a powerful marketing and support capability aweb 2.0 environment.
for our franchised supplier partners to reach end users and, A broad in-stock product portfolio that includes the majority Customer acquisition and life cycle management specifically, to reach EDEs around the world.
The Division of the worlds leading suppliers and latest technologies.
programmes in new and emerging markets managed hasthe ability to seed the design side of the market with byknowledgeable local teams.
suppliers innovative new components and supporting Fast and highly reliable logistics model.
This seeding of new technologies and tomorrow or when needed.
Collaboration within the element14 community where EDEs design information to the design engineering community is access all the technical information, products, software and Full suite of supporting technical information and particularly valuable to suppliers since components specified technology solutions they need to complete their designs.
in the early phase of a design will be required in large volumes when that design goes into production.
Global product marketing activities, with multi-channel Value-adding services such as 24 5 technical support, solutions-based marketing across 48 transactional websites.
environmental and legislative guidance for the electronics Our multi-channel approach to the market is an effective industry as well as design software and solutions.
means of ensuring that our large, dispersed and global Innovative global eSupplier strategy that is aligned to customer base can reach us, wherever and whenever engineers needs for rich web-centric content.
Reduced customer transaction costs through efficient theywant to.
The nature of element14 presents exciting processes such as online quoting and eTools like iBuy.
Fast and reliable distribution from local stock, close to the opportunities for suppliers to further understand the customer for high service, small quantity service excellence.
emergingtrends within their end markets and the choices The customer experience demanded by our MRO customer customers are making in the earliest phases of design.
base is service led: meaning much of our EDE work can Professional distribution partner capable of supporting a beleveraged to significantly enhance our MRO customer myriad of different customers and markets all over the globe.
Through our online community we offer suppliers the ability proposition.
Maintenance and repair engineers require tocommunicate and engage with their target customer base.
We are committed to ensuring that our product offering is accurate technical information to provide confidence in The community can also provide them with insightful data tailored to our customer base.
It is our intention to continue to product selection, superior logistics and multi-channel tohelp them better understand the desires of EDE and MRO add further suppliers and products into our stocked inventory capabilities that allow them to transact at anytime, from users of their products.
to enhance our product portfolio for the EDE customer and anylocation.
develop our MRO product offering for the profitable MRO Suppliers benefit from: market segments.
Seeding of the latest technologies to design As an innovative distribution partner, our suppliers understand engineersglobally.
that they can expect a strong high service proposition on their Accelerating the time-to-market for new technologies behalf, wherever their product or information can meet a through web-based real-time New Product Introduction customers needs.
