Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 16 Strategic Focus 1 Profitable growth through focusing on EDEs globally The demand for electronics in more end products is rising, The investments we continue to make in building such a while the importance of aesthetics and environmental holistic, industry leading proposition means we are able to The world of the EDE compliance is driving an increase in the redesign of meet more of an EDEs needs.
This is reflected in our EDE electronics.
The speed-to-market requirements in the modern active customer base growing 7.5% year-on-year as we is changing rapidly.
design world are also placing greater pressures on our core concentrated on leveraging our powerful proposition to EDE customer group as they strive to take their designs from deliveraccelerated market share gains and help to ensure concept through to creation as quickly as possible.
Electronics is becoming change is presenting us with much opportunity to develop During the year we enhanced the design support we provide solutions and enhance our proposition to meet the evolving increasingly ubiquitous EDEs through our own technical services department.
We are needs of EDEs and win market share.
continuing to invest to provide our engineering customers across all aspects of life.
Designs have to work first time and comply with the latest nomatter where they are in the world, with 24 hour, five day legislation, as well as reflecting market focus on miniaturisation, aweek access to our own dedicated technical support team.
green technology and the demands of aesthetics.
In this We have also introduced live chat as another method for climate the needs of the EDE go beyond the component customers to communicate with our own engineers, as we they require a wealth of data and information, design tools, look to build a technical offering which fully complements software and, increasingly, the views of their global peers to ourgrowing suite of services within our EDE ecosystem.
Once the pressure on time-to-market Ouracquisition of CadSoft, developer of the EAGLE CAD isfactored in, the opportunity for meeting all those needs in software, has enabled another step towards offering asingle converged web environment is clear.
The element14 engineers a holistic solution to meet all their needs no matter brand and our enhanced proposition are delivering just that what stage of the design cycle they are at.
EAGLE and its high service access to all the latest products, design and ongoing development is just one aspect of our next 1,000 day legislative information and the leading global EDE community.
services beyond product programme which is focused on introducing new technology or service based propositional enhancements that meet the needs of EDEs as they move through the design cycle.
Indeed, towards the end of the year we launched a new service that combines the power of element14, the Eagle software and our franchise relationship with Pentalogix to allow customers to order a prototype directly from their virtual design environment.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 17 EDE customers depend on our high service model to get their achievements in 2011 products to them exactly when they need them.
Our delivery Priorities in 2012 service is best-in-class, with 99.6% of our orders delivered O ur full year sales growth in the EDE sector outperformed Leveraging the convergence of community, information either the same day or the next day, supported by our our sales growth in the MRO sector by 20.8 percentage and transaction under the element14 brand to drive distribution facilities located in seven different locations points, while EDE sales accounted for 52.5% of our customer acquisition and loyalty.
However, to ensure we remain at the distribution business sales.
This is within our target range forefront of our industry, we hold numerous customer focus of 50%70%.
Accelerate our services beyond product initiative groups to ensure we stay in touch with and listen closely to tocreate and launch a holistic ecosystem for design M arket launch in Asia Pacific of our enhanced value the needs of our customers.
This helps us to understand the engineers that offers EDEs the solutions and services proposition and the first convergence of community and challenges they are facing today and into the future.
It also they require at each stage of the design cycle.
transactional web offerings under the element14 brand.
helps us to understand how we can meet those needs and where best to invest when developing our proposition to drive Build on our work in 2011 to draw together design O ngoing development of the element14 EDE community, market share growth.
tools, software and partners into a truly collaborative with close to 50,000 registrants and over 1.5 million workspace for EDEs.
customers visiting the site in 2011.
This has helped drivea7.5% year-on-year increase in our EDE active Focus on customer acquisition in the worlds customer base.
developing markets and key high growth vertical markets globally, such as lighting, solar and wind S uccessful integration of CadSoft and the market whilealso targeting universities to attract tomorrows launchoffurther enhancements to the EAGLE software, engineers to the element14 brand.
inconjunction with the launch of a rapid prototyping serviceaccessible from within an EDEs CAD environment Provide our supplier partners with rich insights into or directly on element14.
customer behaviour from our global online environment as we seed the market with their latest technology and A dded 72,500 new EDE products to our stocked range, supporting information.
43new suppliers, and nearly doubled the locally stocked range in Asia Pacific to 122,000.
Ensure efficient and cost effective stocking processes are in place, purchasing products around the world, S uccessfully enhanced our technical support services making the most of Premier Farnells global footprint.
andglobal technology centres, located in Bangalore and Chengdu, with over 200 technical experts now employed Continue to invest in technical skills, software and within the organisation globally.
services to build a global brand with EDEs.
Engage with customers and suppliers to find new ways to reduce our environmental footprint.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 18 Electronics is helping to combat the challenges posed by climate change green technology Helping EDEs design aSustainable World Our EDE customers are intrinsically involved in the design of information.
We have also taken significant steps to demonstrate During 2012, the Green Technology programme and its team technology which is used in the development of sustainable energy the positive impacts that innovation in electronics can have in members will further embed element14 in the minds of EDEs solutions.
Their ingenuity with electronics is helping to combat the combating environmental challenges.
By partnering with the United focused on sustainable design.
Through the continued growth challenges posed by climate change and the accelerating depletion Bank of Carbon in a scheme to develop access to renewable and of ourgreen community within element14 and a portfolio of of the worlds natural resources.
sustainable technologies to a remote area of Tanzania we have transactional websites geared towards serving these vertical embraced the notion that innovation in electronics can be applied markets, Premier Farnell will make great strides in increasing As part of its 1,000 day strategy and in recognition of the rapid globally to become a major part of the solution to climate change.
itsengagement with those EDEs who are constantly using expansion observed within such areas like renewable energy and innovation and electronic design to solve real-world challenges.
energy harvesting, at the start of the year Premier Farnell launched As a team member I am able to access information and content that its Green Technology programme.
In taking the first steps towards is at the forefront of everything we do to make Premier Farnell, a true For me, working within a team which is so focused on helping building a compelling green technology proposition, the members leader in Green Technology.
One of the most exciting opportunities ourcustomers and suppliers apply the power of technology of the Green Technology team have begun to tailor Premier Farnells is that there is immense potential in India.
For example, the installed totheresolution of major issues such as climate change is high service proposition to support EDEs working in vertical market capacity for solar technology in India is expected to grow at an incrediblyexciting and rewarding.
segments such as wind and solar.
Through developing transactional estimated Compound Annual Growth Rate CAGR of 134% for the microsites, working with suppliers who specialise in the green next two years.
Most recently, I have been leading a work stream on arena and by providing EDEs with access to a global community solar market research within India to truly understand the dynamics and market specific design information, we are able to deepen behind our customers segmentation, analyse the needs of EDEs ourrelationship with customers in the green technology space.
and develop a unique go-to-market proposition to ensure that as a distribution partner Premier Farnell is at the forefront of this market In enhancing the Groups online services proposition for EDEs, the segment in India.
In addition, being part of a next 1,000 day global Green Technology team have partnered with Emerald Publishing project team has also seen me embrace technology in my everyday to offer registered users of our online community, element14, free working life.
This has helped me cross geographical boundaries access to the latest academic research from over 3,000 institutions without increasing my own carbon footprint through using such globally on alternative energies and sustainable technologies, tools as video conferencing, online document sharing clouds and further cementing our position as a vital resource for cutting-edge interactive digital communication portals.
Navin Honnavar Marketing Manager See more case studies online: http: annualreport2011.
