Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 10 Strategic Overview with Laurence Bain At the core of the business is our ethos of high service The assumptions that we made four years ago, at the distribution: delivering a vast range of products quickly inception of the strategy, have proved correct both through Premier Farnells strategy andreliably from stock without minimum order quantities, recession and in the way in which growth returned to our accompanied by an array of value added services which earn business: the EDE market sector outperformed the MRO proved itself through the loyalty of our customers.
Increasingly, we are expanding market sector and was first to return to growth: the web is the that proposition, and the proportion of the design cycle channel of choice for our key customer segments the only therecession and this whichwe support, with new-to-market products, information, environment that can truly meet their needs for a complete software and technical solutions.
However, these will remain offering of information, product and community with both a grounded in our core service expertise.
low cost to serve and a huge opportunity to add value and the year in delivering a swift developing international markets remain our fastest growing.
At the heart of our strategy are four foundational pillars that and strong recovery.
are focused towards driving profitable growth: With more than two million customer contacts in 156 industries and with over 3,500 suppliers, we service a diverse The key EDE customer segment: Itis a simple but powerful range of end market segments, reducing our exposure and allowing us to focus the execution of our strategy on market Our transformation to a web-centric business: growth opportunities.
framework which Expansion into the worlds rapidly growing As the time-to-market for new designs accelerates, and developingmarkets: has drawn together ourcustomers have to respond to legislation and global Continuing focus on the profitable MRO market segments.
competition, they are looking for a supplier partner who the organisation and understands and anticipates their needs.
They are also After the first three years of the strategy we had successfully looking for a single source to serve as many of those needs transformed many parts of the organisation in these four aspossible.
Ultimately, our customers want a partner that can successfully delivered areas and, with those pillars in place, we were in a position continuously help them right through the design cycle, from toaugment our customer proposition with innovative and the initial stages of research and concept to final prototyping differentiating additions like the element14 community for increased market share.
and small volume production, providing everything they need design engineers.
Through the last 12 months, further work in one place.
Our proposition increasingly meets these needs has been completed to bring new enhancements to market and, through a deep customer understanding, we have and to implement our global brand strategy.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 11 122,000 products held in region in Asia Pacific pioneered new solutions, online and off, moving into As part of our transformation we have continued to invest Our strategy was developed in order to realise the profitable community, software and services to cover even more of the inour customer and supplier proposition, strengthening growth opportunities in specific markets, and although we design cycle.
Our acquisition of CadSoft in September 2009 ouroffering to better meet the needs of our customers primarily discuss it in relation to our Marketing and Distribution and the subsequent development of the EAGLE design tool anddrivemarket share gains.
Through the first four years Division MDD which accounted for 92% of our revenue, we toincorporate a rapid prototyping service through Premier ofthe strategywe have added 345,000 new products to have seen our Industrial Products Division IPD adopt some Farnells distribution network have further enhanced the ourportfolio, 155new suppliers and we now have over 200 of its elements and sharing of best practice is encouraged proposition we can offer.
in-house technical specialists to support the unique needs through our global ways of working.
In Asia Pacific we have materially We are a high service, high-performance business and our The strength and clarity of our strategy and focus on executing enhanced our local proposition in the last 12 months employees are central to that performance.
We continually on each element, ensures that all employees understand their aheadofrelaunching our Asia Pacific operations under evaluate our structure to ensure that it is appropriate to role in delivering our continued business success.
We have more than doubled the support growth, developing talent from within or hiring in rangeof products held in region to 122,000, we offer industry thebest skills from the market, but all the while focused on leading next day delivery across nearly the entire region, engaging our teams in the strategy.
We continue to involve 24 5customer support, and the convergence of community diverse talent from across the business in strategy and and transactional websites under the single element14 brand.
innovation workshops, and many of the new 1,000 day strategic programmes we have built are driven by global We have 48 websites globally in 33 local languages, and cross-functional teams which include over 150 volunteers.
theyreceive an average of 32.5 million page views per month.
The teams are structured to balance business needs with Ourelement14 community website continues to go from thedevelopment aspirations of the individuals involved strength to strength, with close to 50,000 registered users andhave proved a rich way to grow our future talent.
In our andaround 1.5 million customers visiting the site during annual all-employee survey this year 93.1% of our employees theyear: 500,000 of those customer visits came in the fourth responded, which is significantly above the high-performance quarter alone.
Inaddition, The Ben Heck Show, our online benchmark.
Questions about our strategy scored extremely television show onelement14, recently surpassed one million highly and indicated an underlying confidence and optimism views.
Together with web innovations like iBuy, our innovative in our performance, with 65% of respondents believing our eProcurement tool, and eQuotes, our service that provides business would improve in the next 12 months.
online quotes in a timely manner, we are carving out competitive differentiation and truly leading the digital space.
