Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements 49 Induction, information and support New directors receive a full induction to the company.
This consists of information covering the operations of the Board as well as meetings with the Board, Chief Executive and other executive directors.
All non-executives have direct contact with the companys senior management between Board meetings and also visit the companys operations in order to familiarise themselves with its activities and to meet and engage with staff.
Shareholders are given the opportunity to meet with new directors upon request or at the next Annual General Meeting AGM following their appointment.
The company has directors and officers liability insurance in place, and details of the policy are given to new directors on appointment.
Formal procedures are in place to enable individual Board members to take independent advice where appropriate.
Conflicts of interest A director has a duty to avoid a situation in which he or she has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the company.
Formal procedures are in place to ensure the Boards powers of authorisation of conflicts or potential conflicts of interest of directors are operated effectively.
The Board determined that during 2011 these procedures were enforced and adhered to appropriately.
Risk management and internal controls The corporate governance process in Premier is designed to determine the nature and level of risk that the company is willing to take in pursuit of its strategy and that any risks taken are soundly managed and that the system of internal controls is effective.
Any system of internal control can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that material financial irregularities will be detected or that the risk of failure to achieve business objectives is eliminated.
Business management system Internal controls within Premier are governed by the business management system BMS.
This system is composed of the policies, standards, procedures, processes and guidelines for every function required to carry out Premiers business including risk, HSES, corporate social responsibility, operations, exploration, business development, finance and other business support services.
Corporate group functional management systems are complemented by local management systems within the business units which are designed to supplement corporate policies, standards, procedures, processes and guidelines with those specifically required in order to operate and manage the business under local conditions and in compliance with local laws and regulations.
The BMS is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to meet our business objectives.
The effectiveness of the BMS is a function of both the adequacy of the system and compliance with the system.
Premiers audit and review programme includes specific scope to review adequacy of and compliance by component business unit and functional management systems at appropriate regular intervals.
The annual cycle of monitoring in Premier culminates in the completion of declarations by business unit and functional management confirming compliance with the groups BMS, as well as identifying enhancements as part of a continuous process for improvement of the effectiveness of management systems.
Risk management Premier believes that risk management is just part of good management which leads to quality decision making and achievement of targets for growth of the business.
The risk management process is central to Premiers BMS.
Since the appointment of a Group Audit and Risk Manager in 2010, Premiers risk management system has been further developed in accordance with the risk management principles and guidelines of ISO 31000 Risk Management Principles and Guidelines.
The processes developed by the company cover all key elements of ISO 31000: Architecture Strategy Core process Continuous improvement cycle Risk protocols 50 Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Risk management and internal controls continued In early 2012, Det Norske Veritas DNV carried out an assessment of the extent to which Premiers risk management system is aligned with ISO 31000 and found that Premier had a well structured system of risk management that was strongly aligned.
The core process for risk management lies at the heart of the system framework: Establish context Risk Monitor and assessment review Risk treatment This core process is used to manage the spectrum of risks which Premier face from strategic, geopolitical and other external risks to operational, financial and organisational risk.
The context for risk management is established by development and communication of strategy, growth targets, team performance deliverables and key performance indicators KPIs.
A systematic process for identification and assessment of risk is undertaken across the company business units and functions.
Regular workshops are undertaken with input from independent consultants with specialist knowledge and from dialogue with our partners to assist with risk identification and assessment and risks are reviewed on a regular basis to ensure that new risks or exposures as a result of changes in the business or the business environment are captured.
A standard matrix of impact versus likelihood is used to assess risks at all levels in the organisation.
Appropriate consideration is given to risk dependency and amalgamation of similar specific risks across the organisation.
Risks are categorised according to a scale of major, medium, minor and escalated to the appropriate level.
Risk treatment includes risk acceptance or tolerance and active risk reduction measures.
Risk appetite objectives are defined and action plans are implemented.
Particular attention is given to safety and environmental factors to ensure that residual risks are at a level that is as low as reasonably practicable.
The status of risks and progress with risk treatment plans are monitored continuously and reviewed periodically via performance reviews, workshops, audits and risk assessments.
The architecture of the organisation provides the framework for defining the accountability and responsibility for risk identification and management and links the Board and Audit and Risk Committee to the Executive Committee and functional and business unit management structure and enables risks to be escalated and managed at the appropriate level.
The Group Audit and Risk Manager is responsible for the risk management system and the overall running of the process.
The risk protocols are the policy, procedures and processes documented as part of the risk management system and key tools used in the process.
The corporate risk register is the primary tool for risk management in Premier.
The register is a web-based tool which is updated at regular intervals.
The register facilitates recording of functional and business unit risks, together with their assessment, definition of existing and new treatment plans for control and mitigation and assignment of responsibility at the appropriate level in the organisation.
A cycle of continuous improvement to the risk management system within the organisation is adopted and regularly reviewed with both the Executive Committee, via regional and functional performance reviews, and the Audit and Risk Committee.
As already noted, Premiers risk management process has been developed significantly over the past two years in accordance with the risk management principles and guidelines of ISO 31000.
Initiatives are in hand to further embed risk management in the groups culture and business processes.
Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements 51 Risk management and internal controls continued Audit and review The effective operation of internal control procedures is reviewed by planned audits.
An annual programme of audit and review is agreed between functional and business unit management and approved by the Audit and Risk Committee.
The programme adopts a risk based focus and includes audit of management system effectiveness and control as well as targeting key operational, financial and organisational delivery milestones.
A process of business control reviews has been developed and implemented across the group.
This process is designed, inter alia, to provide assurance to the Board that Premier is embedding effective risk management into its operations.
Significant findings from each review are presented to the Audit and Risk Committee.
A rolling three-year plan to cover all operations is in place.
In addition, where we are the operator, audits of joint venture operations are carried out by our joint venture partners.
Where one of our partners is the operator, we participate in audits of these joint venture partners.
The business management system, risk management processes and programme of audits and reviews provide the Board with reasonable assurance that appropriate controls are in place to provide effective management of business risks and to safeguard the groups assets from inappropriate use or from loss and fraud.
Communication with shareholders Communication with shareholders is given significant attention.
Extensive information about the groups activities is provided in the Annual Report and Financial Statements, the Half-Yearly Report, Trading Updates and Interim Management Statements, all of which are available to shareholders.
There is regular dialogue with institutional investors through meetings, presentations and conferences, general presentations to analysts and investors for the full-year and half-yearly results which are broadcast live via the companys website as well as other ad hoc investor events.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director, who are the directors responsible for dealing with shareholders, ensure that other members of the Board receive full reports of these discussions.
com also provides detailed information on the groups activities.
In accordance with current regulations, the company uses its website as its default method of publication for statutory documents to reduce printing costs and help benefit the environment.
All shareholders are offered the choice of receiving shareholder documentation, including the Annual Report, electronically or in paper format, as well as the choice of submitting proxy votes either electronically or by post.
All new shareholders receive hard copies of statutory documents until they elect, or are deemed to have elected, otherwise.
The company promotes the use of online shareholder services at www.
On this website, shareholders are able to access their shareholding and to update their address or submit queries on their account directly to the companys registrars.
Shareholders also have the ability to vote online prior to the 2012 AGM.
The share portal also encourages shareholders to register to receive communications by e-mail, rather than by post, thus further reducing the number of documents printed and distributed.
Shareholders who have registered receive an e-mail notifying them when the company has added a statutory document to its website.
For each new registration processed, the company will donate 1 to PURE the Clean Planet Trust, a UK charity dedicated to combating climate change.
The company has posted guidelines on its website, advising shareholders of how to deal with potential share scams, where shareholders may have received unsolicited phone calls offering to buy Premier shares at a higher price than their market value, or concerning alternative investment matters, where callers may have stated they work for a subsidiary of, or on behalf of, the company.
The company does not retain the services of any such business for these purposes, and shareholders are advised to be extremely wary of any unsolicited advice or offers.
Enquiries from individuals on matters relating to their shareholding and the business of the group are welcomed and are dealt with in a timely manner.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM to discuss the progress of the group.
By order of the Board S C Huddle Company Secretary 21 March 2012
