34 Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements FINANCIAL REVIEW continued Financial risk management million Commodity prices The Boards commodity pricing and hedging policy continues to be to lock in oil and gas price floors for a proportion of expected future production at a level which ensures that US$ 486 investment programmes for sanctioned projects are adequately funded.
Floors are purchased for cash or via collars, funded by selling caps at a ceiling price.
This policy has OPERATING provided sensible downside protection for the company over the period since 2008 and CASH FLOW going forward into 2012, during which time over US$1 billion will have been invested in new development projects.
The requirement for future hedging for 2013 and beyond will be considered as new projects are sanctioned, taking into account expected future operating cash flows of the group and the size of the relevant investment programme.
At year-end, a total of 1.8 million barrels of Dated Brent oil were hedged via collars for the period to end 2012 with an average floor price of US$40.0 bbl and an average cap of US$100.0 bbl.
In addition 2.1 million barrels of Dated Brent oil were hedged through forward sales for 2012 at an average price of US$105.3 bbl.
This volume represents approximately 32 per cent of the groups expected liquids working interest production over the period.
162,000 metric tonnes mt of HSFO, which drives our gas contract pricing in Singapore, was subject to collars covering the period to mid-2013 with a cap of US$500.0 mt equivalent to around US$85.0 bbl.
An additional 132,000 mt have been sold under monthly forward sales contracts for 2012 at an average price of US$622.0 mt.
These two hedges cover approximately 28 per cent of our expected Indonesian gas working interest production for 2012.
During 2011, embedded oil price collars for 3.2 million barrels and fuel oil collars for 120,000 mt expired at a cost of US$119.1 million 2010: US$8.1 million, including forward sales cost which has been offset against sales revenue.
Oil hedge collars are incorporated within the pricing terms of physical offtake agreements, avoiding the requirement to revalue them.
A credit of US$28.0 million 2010: US$18.2 million arises in respect of past mark to market provisions for oil hedges which have now expired.
Gas price hedging is still required to be marked to market as the hedges are held by counterparties independent of physical product sales.
A credit of US$6.0 million 2010: US$20.4 million arises in respect of such mark to market movements, resulting in a total credit to the income statement of US$34.0 million in respect of commodity contracts 2010: US$38.6 million.
Foreign exchange Premiers functional and reporting currency is US dollars.
Exchange rate exposures relate only to local currency receipts and expenditures within individual business units.
Local currency needs are acquired on a short-term basis.
During the year, the group recorded a loss of US$0.4 million on such short-term hedging 2010: US$0.4 million.
In 2011, the group also issued 75.0 million long-term senior loan notes which have been hedged under a cross currency swap in US dollars at a fixed rate of US$1.423:.
Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements 35 Interest rates million Although the groups borrowing facilities are defined in floating rate terms, substantially all current drawings have effectively been converted to fixed interest rates using the interest rate swap markets.
On average, therefore, the cost of drawn bank funds for the year was US$ 5.2 per cent.
Mark to market movements on these interest rate swaps amounted to 661 US$6.4 million 2010: US$12.1 million, which was charged to other comprehensive income.
CAPITAL Cash balances are invested in short-term bank deposits and AAA rated liquidity funds, INVESTMENT subject to Board approved limits and with a view to spreading counterparty risks.
Insurance The group undertakes a significant insurance programme to reduce the potential impact of the physical risks associated with its exploration, development and production activities.
In addition, business interruption cover is purchased for a proportion of the cash flow from producing fields for a maximum period of 18 months.
Due to exceptionally bad weather in December, the Banff FPSO which handles Kyle production lost its anchors and the risers were damaged severely.
As a result, the Banff FPSO has been removed from its location while repairs are assessed.
It is currently unlikely that production from the Kyle field will recommence in 2012 and a claim for business interruption insurance is being processed.
Going concern The group monitors its capital position and its liquidity risk regularly throughout the year to ensure that it has sufficient funds to meet forecast cash requirements.
Sensitivities are run to billion reflect latest expectations of expenditures, forecast oil and gas prices and other negative economic scenarios in order to manage the risk of funds shortfalls or covenant breaches and to ensure the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
$ 1 Despite economic volatility, the directors consider that the expected operating cash flows of the group and the headroom provided by the available borrowing facilities give them CASH AND confidence that the group has adequate resources to continue as a going concern.
As a UNDRAWN result, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 2011 Annual Report FACILITIES and Financial Statements.
