IT IS OUR POLICY TO SUPPORT SOCIAL INVESTMENT THAT CONTRIBUTES TO THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS OF THE COMMUNITIES AND COUNTRIES WHERE WE OPERATE.
This means working in partnership with professional social development organisations, government agencies and local NGOs to ensure our investment addresses relevant and material issues in a rigorous manner with positive impacts on society.
Our investment is increasingly focused on the development of local capacity and educational initiatives that deliver social and economic returns for both local communities and host governments.
We also contribute to local infrastructures and disaster relief initiatives.
Recent examples include: Indonesia: Premier has now built a total of six kindergartens that enrol around 400 children in six remote villages in the Anambas regency.
Premier has also developed several infrastructure projects at the request of the Anambas local government, including construction of public health centres, libraries and school classrooms.
Two of the multi-functional buildings we supported in 2010 were completed and handed over to local government in 2011.
UK: In 2011, Premier partnered with the Cyrenians, a charity providing a range of services for homeless people, to refurbish its training suite and kitchen facilities in Aberdeen.
The centre is used for residential courses to help reintegrate homeless individuals into society.
The centre offers computer training and access for those looking to develop their resumes, use e-mail facilities and apply for jobs.
Vietnam: Our community investment programme continues to be guided by the national socio-economic plan, with goals and programmes related to economic growth, poverty reduction, job creation, education and vocational skills development.
In 2011, for the second year in a row, Premier Oil Vietnam received the Saigon Times Top 40s Award for environmental excellence and CSR programmes.
We also formalised our commitment to provide adolescents with enhanced vocational employment opportunities by researching and publishing a directory of vocational training institutions in Ho Chi Minh City that offer free or subsidised training and guidance on career choices to disadvantaged young people.
Premier Oil Vietnam has a long-term partnership with Friends for Street Children FFSC in Ho Chi Minh City.
In 2011, in celebration of first oil from the Chim So field, we announced our intention to fund the FFSC Binh Tho Development Centre for the life of the Chim So field.
The centre provides education, vocational training and healthcare to 145 disadvantaged children from poor families, and focuses mainly on equipping younger children to integrate into junior public high schools.
FFSC also supports older children to find meaningful and respectful employment in roles such as accounting, photography, sales and skilled factory and office work.
Paul Dennis HSE and Security Manager It is our policy to support social investment that contributes to the sustainable development goals of the communities and countries where we operate.
20 Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements OPERATIONS REVIEW By Neil Hawkings Operations Director Production, development and reserves Average working interest production for the full-year was 40.4 kboepd 2010: 42.8 kboepd.
Our North Sea business faced challenging conditions due to extended unplanned downtime on key producing assets at the Balmoral, Scott and Wytch Farm fields.
However, the yearend target of 60 kboepd was achieved following the return to full production at the UK fields and the start-up of new Asian projects during the fourth quarter.
Production in other areas remained steady, with strong gas demand and good production performance in both Pakistan and our existing fields in Indonesia.
The Chim So development in Vietnam was completed and first oil production was achieved safely and on budget through the Lewek EMAS floating production, storage and offtake vessel FPSO, with reservoir and well performance exceeding expectations.
In Indonesia, the Gajah Baru development was completed with successful installation of a new central processing platform on schedule and budget.
The gas export equipment was tied into the existing subsea West Natuna Transportation System pipeline to deliver gas to Singapore.
On the same block the Anoa Phase 4 project, to upgrade compression facilities and increase production capacity, has been sanctioned.
The project will be completed in 2013 accessing a further 200 billion cubic feet bcf of reserves for export.
Development activities continued on the Huntington field in the UK with the completion of Phase 1 of the subsea installation and drilling of one injection and three production wells.
The upgrade of the Voyageur FPSO is now being progressed and the operator is expecting first oil in the fourth quarter of 2012.
The East and West Rochelle subsea fields in the UK North Sea were unitised Premier equity 15 per cent in order to facilitate a fast track development programme via the Scott platform host production facility.
The field achieved final project sanction with the Department of Energy and Climate Change DECC approving the field development plan in the second half of 2011.
Subsea facilities fabrication and offshore construction on the host Scott platform is progressing to schedule with first gas and condensate anticipated in the fourth quarter of 2012.
