PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Board of Directors Executive Directors: Independent Non-executive Directors: Simon Heale age 58 Alex Kanellis Richard Harvey age 61 Mr Heale was appointed a Non-executive Group Chief Executive age 46 Mr Harvey was appointed a Non-executive Director of PZ Cussons Plc in January 2008 Mr Kanellis has a Phd in mechanical Director of PZ Cussons Plc in January 2010 and is Chairman of the CSR Committee engineering.
He joined PZ Cussons in 1993. and took up the position of Chairman and a member of the Nomination, He was appointed Managing Director of the on 1 July 2010.
A Fellow of the Institute Remuneration, Audit and Group Risk Groups business in Thailand in 1998 before of Actuaries, Mr Harvey became group Committees.
A chartered accountant, becoming Managing Director of Indonesia chief executive officer of Norwich Union Mr Heale has worked in a variety of senior in 2001.
He was appointed to the Board in plc in 1998 and subsequently group chief positions for multi-national companies in 2003 as Regional Director of Asia becoming executive of Aviva plc, initially branded America and the Far East and spent five Chief Executive in June 2006.
Mr Kanellis CGNU, after the merger of Norwich Union years as chief executive of the London is a member of the Nomination, Group Risk with CGU.
He has worked extensively Metal Exchange.
Mr Heale is now a nonand CSR Committees.
overseas in both mature and emerging executive director of The Morgan Crucible markets and was chair of the Association Company Ltd, Kazakhmys plc, Marex Chris Davis of British Insurers from 20032005.
Since Financial, Coats plc, senior non-executive Commercial Director age 49 retiring from Aviva plc in 2007, Mr Harvey director of Panmure Gordon & Co Ltd and a After working in senior sales and marketing has spent time in Africa supporting trustee of Macmillan Cancer Support.
roles for various consumer goods charitable initiatives and has also worked companies, Mr Davis joined PZ Cussons on other projects to accelerate business James Steel age 51 from the BTR Nylex Group in 1993 and development in Africa, including work for Mr Steel has been a Non-executive Director became Managing Director of the Groups the Africa Progress Panel and the World of PZ Cussons Plc since October 2005. business in Australia in 2001.
He is a non-executive director of He is currently managing director of appointed to the Board in 2006 as Regional Jardine Lloyd Thompson Plc.
Mr Harvey is corporate finance at Arbuthnot Securities Director of Africa and became Group the Chairman of the Nomination Committee Ltd having previously worked in investment Commercial Director in 2008.
Mr Davis and a member of the CSR and Group banking at Citigroup and Schroders.
He is a member of the Group Risk and Risk Committees.
started his career at Price Waterhouse CSR Committees.
where he qualified as a chartered Derek Lewis age 66 accountant.
Mr Steel is Chairman of the Brandon Leigh Mr Lewis has been a Non-executive Remuneration Committee and a member Group Finance Director age 40 Director of PZ Cussons Plc since June 2004. of the Nomination, Audit, Group Risk and Mr Leigh qualified as a chartered accountant A retired solicitor and former partner CSR Committees.
He joined of Addleshaw Goddard LLP, Mr Lewis PZ Cussons in 1997 and was appointed specialised throughout his professional to the Board as Group Finance Director in career in advising on corporate and 2006.
Mr Leigh is a member of the Group commercial matters.
Mr Lewis is the Senior Risk and CSR Committees.
Non-executive Director and a member of the Nomination, Remuneration, Audit, Group John Pantelireis Risk and CSR Committees.
Supply Chain Director age 57 Mr Pantelireis was appointed an Executive Professor John Arnold age 67 Director of PZ Cussons Plc in 2005 and John Arnold is Emeritus Professor of is a member of the Group Risk and CSR accounting and financial management at Committees.
He has worked in a variety Manchester Business School and has been of senior positions for PZ Cussons both in a Non-executive Director of PZ Cussons Plc Nigeria and the UK and spent three years as since January 2007.
A chartered accountant, Supply Chain Development Director prior to his previous experience includes spending his appointment to the Board.
12 years as director and dean of Manchester Business School.
Professor Arnold is currently chairman of the co-operative performance committee of co-operatives UK, a member of the Council of the Greater Manchester Chamber, Chairman of Feelgood Theatre Productions and an academic adviser to Ashridge and to IBSISCTE Business School in Lisbon.
Professor Arnold is Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Group Risk Committee and a member of the Nomination, Remuneration and CSR Committees.
