PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Regional overview Our diverse geographical spread has ensured that the Groups successful track record of profitable growth continues with our strategy of local brands for local markets enabling us to tailor our product offering appropriately in each territory to suit local consumer needs and economic conditions.
Where we operate 02 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Africa remains the Groups largest market and in Nigeria, our biggest single market, we continue to operate in four categories: Personal Care, Home Care, Electricals and Food & Nutrition.
Our knowledge of the African markets and our strong supply chains continue to generate further opportunities for growth.
With a growing population of 155 million The Personal and Home Care businesses Furthermore, during 2011 we have people, Nigeria is Africas most populous have established local brands, with established a food ingredients joint country and accounts for approximately ongoing brand renovation programmes venture with Wilmar International and 17% of the African population.
Presidential leading to continued maintenance and groundwork has been completed for elections were completed in April 2011 growth of our market positions.
the construction of a palm oil refinery providing a positive political platform to which should be completed by the end build on, whilst economically the country The Electricals business is number 1 in of the 2012 calendar year.
This, along benefits from high oil prices which help to the core refrigerator and freezer market with a related consumer products build foreign exchange reserves to fund and is broadening its consumer reach business which will manufacture and future investment and have led to GDP through the expansion of Coolworld market branded oils and spreads, growth rates of circa 7% in recent years.
retail outlets in both Nigeria and Ghana.
will provide future growth in the category over the coming years.
Our operations in West Africa are the most Our Food & nutrition operating units, diverse of any of our regions, with four undertaken with our joint venture partners, Whilst Ghana and Kenya are smaller key categories in Personal Care, Home Glanbia plc and Wilmar International, markets than Nigeria, our established Care, Electricals and Food & Nutrition.
have expanded during the year: businesses and brands are well placed to In our established nutritional beverages benefit from anticipated future growth in business there have been further these countries and the wider region.
launches of UHT products under the core Nunu and Yo!
brands and the new Bliss branded products.
Revenue and operating profit m Personal Care Home Care Electrical Food & Nutrition 220.7 268.4 358.7 325.2 339.1 42.2 41.0 39.5 33.6 26.1 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Operating profit before exceptional items 03 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Regional overview continued The Asian markets in which we operate provide a naturally balanced portfolio geographically, offering both mature and emerging markets with excellent opportunity for growth.
Indonesia is the fourth most populous As well as the Indonesian market, re-launched during 2010 11 and this has led country in the world with a population of the Group has operations in the to a further strengthening of our number 237 million, currently growing at a rate of more mature Australian market with 1 position and improved profitability.
The economy is the leading positions in both the dish care In Australia, brand renovation has seen largest in South East Asia, with GDP growth and fabric care categories: and in the launch of new products in the core rates of around 6% and consistent growth Thailand and the Middle East markets dish and fabric care segments whilst in GDP per capita over the last decade.
which, although less established, also Original Source has also been launched present opportunities for growth.
as part of the strategy to grow our Our distribution network in Indonesia, a presence in the personal care category.
diverse geographical market, enables the Brand renovation continues to be the leading Cussons Baby brand and other driver to maintaining and increasing market personal care brands, to be delivered share across the region.
In Indonesia, the to consumers throughout the region.
Cussons Baby range has been completely Revenue and operating profit m Personal Care Home Care Baby Care 107.2 116.0 135.0 165.6 176.1 17.5 13.0 10.2 10.2 9.8 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Operating profit before exceptional items 04 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Our markets in Europe comprise a diverse range of products and locations, with the core Personal Wash, Home Care and Food & Nutrition brands in the UK, Poland and Greece, supplemented by the newly formed Beauty Division based in London.
During the year the UK business has been The Beauty Division, operating out of is now benefiting from innovation in the reorganised into a core Washing and offices in Covent Garden, is focused on UK Washing and Bathing Division which Bathing Division and a Beauty Division.
The Sanctuary, Charles Worthington can be replicated in the Luksja brand and St Tropez brands.
The consolidation and through the roll out of the Carex The Washing and Bathing Division, of the three brands as one strategic and Original Source brands which have operated out of Manchester, focuses on business unit including the ability to now been launched into the market.
the Imperial Leather, Carex and Original benefit from the distribution footprint Source brands.
The Personal Wash of each existing business, will provide In Greece, the core olive oil and spreads Centre of Excellence facilitates range the platform for future growth.
business provides the consumer with renovation and product development a range of quality products under the while the best in class manufacturing In Poland, we have a core fabric care Minerva and Horio brands, along with a facilities at Agecroft produce higher business and a growing personal wash growing cheese business offering a range quality products with improved margins business.
The personal wash business of Feta cheeses and related products.
as a result of increased output.
Revenue and operating profit m Personal Care Home Care Beauty Food & Nutrition 217.8 235.8 288.1 280.8 305.5 49.6 46.2 40.9 32.6 30.3 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Operating profit before exceptional items 05 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Our Corporate Social Responsibility principles Our values Our people Great Team of People is one of PZ Cussons Courage four global strategic pillars and we are.
We challenge convention, proud of our talented and committed team ourselves and each other of over 8,000 employees.
The leaders of the Company place the well-being,.
We have the strength, willingness development, performance, views and and determination to initiate, ideas of all employees as high priority.
In make things happen and to carry 2011 we carried out our very first global them through employee opinion survey.
All employees were given the opportunity to tell us Accountability how they felt about various aspects of.
We are all champions of working for PZ Cussons in a confidential questionnaire, managed by Towers Watson.
We take responsibility for We were delighted that 80% of our achieving our objectives employees chose to take part in the survey,.
We do what we say we shall do in factories, depots, offices and retail.
We do what is right, not merely outlets across the PZ Cussons globe.
The what is expected Company donated 1 to Unicef on behalf.
We act with openness, integrity of every employee that took part.
It was and trust fantastic to see that our engagement.
We ask for help, admit to our scores in many categories were similar mistakes and put things right or above Towers Watson norms across a number of countries and functional areas.
However we also have improvements to Networking make in many areas and the leadership team.
We are one Company across have made a commitment to employees all functions and geographies, that the Company will respond to and working towards a common act on the feedback that was provided.
goal through co-operation Across our units, Managing Directors and teamwork have committed to action plans and employees are working with management Drive teams to deliver improvements and new.
We are relentless in our pursuit initiatives.
We look forward to giving of success employees the opportunity to take part.
Together, we approach each in a progress survey in November 2011. day with the energy, passion and persistence to exceed expectations Great Team Survey Oneness.
We are all PZ Cussons people.
We treat each other with respect regardless of status.
We act professionally and together we celebrate our success with understated pride.
We are quiet achievers 06 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility At PZ Cussons we believe passionately in Business conduct doing good business.
It is something we We demonstrate ethical have been doing for over 125 years and it is behaviour in all our business a key part of our culture and who we are.
activities and in all our dealings with third parties We do not believe that there need be any conflict or inconsistency between being Health and Safety a successful profitable organisation and, We provide safe working at the same time, running our operations environments for all our in such a way that they have a positive impact on society.
On the contrary, we employees, contractors believe that socially responsible conduct and visitors is value enhancing for our shareholders and all of our other stakeholders.
Local community We recognise our Ensuring the sustainability of our business is responsibilities to society and, important for our employees, our investors in particular, to the local and the communities and economies communities in which we within which we work.
We are committed way we do business and how we affect to enriching the lives of our everything around us and taking proactive steps to make improvements is vital for local communities the long-term future of PZ Cussons.
Our employees In 2010, we launched our Big 6 principles.
We treat each other with respect These are the six key areas in which we and all employees have the right believe our operations have the greatest to expect that their dignity will be potential impact either favourable or fully respected in the workplace adverse upon our stakeholders.
This year we have embarked on a Big 6 Healthcheck Product testing across every part of the Group to identify The health and safety of our what we are doing well and what we can improve.
Alongside this, we launched consumers is our paramount a campaign to give our employees the consideration.
We will never opportunity to tell us what they think.
compromise it for any reason We believe that doing good business The environment is not only the right thing to do, but is We are committed to protecting clearly in line with our values and strategic the environment for the benefit focus.
We aim to always remain true of our employees and the public to our core values and to continue to at large be a company which our shareholders, consumers, wider communities, employees and their families can be proud of.
