Other statutory information Principal activity Political and charitable contributions QinetiQ Group plc is a public limited company, listed on the QinetiQ does not make political donations to parties as that term London Stock Exchange and incorporated in England and Wales would be commonly recognised.
The legal definition of that term with registered number 4586941. is, however, quite broad and may have the effect of covering a number of normal business activities that would not commonly be QinetiQ Group plc is the parent company of a Group whose perceived to be political donations, such as sponsorship of events.
principal activities during the year were the supply of technical support, training, test and evaluation, and know-how to customers These may include legitimate interactions in making MPs and in the global defence, aerospace and security markets.
Customers others in the political world aware of key industry issues and include government organisations, such as the UK MOD and the matters affecting QinetiQ, which make an important contribution US DoD and a range of other government and commercial to their understanding of QinetiQ, the markets in which it operates customers globally.
During the last financial year this expenditure amounted to no more than 15,000 2010: 15,000.
Research and development Charitable donations during the year across the Group amounted One of the Groups principal business streams is the provision to 196,900 2010: 114,100. of funded research and development R&D for customers.
The Group also invests in the commercialisation of promising Share capital technologies across all areas of business.
As at 31 March 2011 the Company had allotted and fully paid The majority of R&D-related expenditure is incurred on behalf of up share capital of 660,476,373 ordinary shares of 1p each with customers as part of specific funded research contracts.
R&D costs an aggregate nominal value of 6.6m including shares held by are included in the income statement and R&D income is reflected employee share trusts and one Special Share with an aggregate within revenue.
In the financial year, the Group recorded 395.0m nominal value of 1.
2010: 425.6m of total R&D-related expenditure, of which Details of the shares issued during the financial year are shown 382.0m was customer-funded work 2010: 418.3m.
In the year to 31 March 2011, 13.0m 2010: 7.3m of internally The rights of ordinary shareholders are set out in the Articles of funded R&D was charged to the income statement.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive 2010: 0.6m of late-stage development costs was capitalised the Companys reports and accounts, to attend and speak at and 2.2m 2010: 3.0m of capitalised development costs was General Meetings of the Company, to exercise voting rights in amortised in the year.
person or by appointing a proxy and to receive a dividend where Policy and practice on payment of suppliers declared or paid out of profits available for such a purpose.
The policy of the Group is to agree terms of payment prior to The Special Share is held by HM Government through the commencing trade with a supplier and to abide by those terms Secretary of State for Defence and it confers certain rights under based on the timely submission of satisfactory invoices.
In the the Articles of Association which are detailed in note 33 on page financial year to 31 March 2011 the Group has implemented a 92.
These include the right to require certain persons with a policy of agreeing payment terms of not less than 60 days with material interest in QinetiQ to dispose of some or all of their suppliers, except in exceptional circumstances.
At 31 March 2011, ordinary shares on the grounds of national security or conflict of the trade creditors of the Group represented 24 days of annual interest.
The Special Share may only be held by and transferred to purchases 2010: 28 days.
At any time the Special Shareholder may require QinetiQ to redeem the share at par and if wound up the Special Shareholder would be entitled to be repaid capital before other shareholders.
Any variation of the rights attaching to the Special Share requires the written approval of the MOD.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 45 Corporate governance Other statutory information continued On 5 February 2009, QinetiQ US Holdings, Inc. formerly known Change of control significant agreements as QinetiQ North America, Inc. as Borrower and the Company The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling as Guarantor entered into a Note Purchase Agreement to issue the counter parties to require prior approval, exercise termination, US$62m 7.13% Senior Notes due 5 February 2016 and US$238m alteration or other similar rights in the event of a change of control 7.62% Senior Notes due 5 February 2019.
Under the terms of the of the Company or if the Company no longer remains a UK agreement, if either 1 the MOD ceases to retain in its capacity company: as Special Shareholder its Special Shareholders Rights: or 2 there The Combined Aerial Target Service contract is a 20-year is a change of control of the Company, the Notes must be offered contract awarded to QinetiQ by MOD on 14 December 2006. for prepayment within 21 days of the change of control.
The The terms of this contract require QinetiQ Limited to remain a prepayment date would be no later than 45 days after the offer UK company which is incorporated under the laws of any part of prepayment by the Company.
of the UK or an overseas company registered in the UK and that at least 50% of the Board of Directors are UK nationals.
The Major shareholders terms also contain change of control conditions and restricted At 26 May 2011, being the latest practicable date prior to the share transfer conditions which require prior approval from HM issuance of this report, the Group had been notified of the Government if there is a material change in the ownership of following shareholdings in accordance with the Vote Holder QinetiQ Limiteds share capital, unless the change relates to and Issuer Notification Rules, which form part of the FSAs shares listed on a regulated market, with material defined as UK Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules: being 10% or more of the share capital.
Additionally, there are Artisan Partners 13% restrictions on transfers of shares to persons from countries Ruane, Cunniff & Goldfarb, Inc. 11% appearing on the restricted list as issued by HM Government.
Fidelity International Ltd 5% The Long-Term Partnering Agreement LTPA is a 25-year Fidelity Management and Research Company 5% contract which QinetiQ Limited signed on 28 February 2003 Schroders 5% Investec 5% to provide test, evaluation and training services to the MOD.
This contract contains conditions where the prior approval of Allotment purchase of own shares HM Government is required if the contractor, QinetiQ Limited, At the Companys AGM held in July 2010, the shareholders ceases to be a subsidiary of the QinetiQ Group, except where passed resolutions which authorised the Directors to allot such change in control is permitted under the Shareholders relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal value of Agreement to which MOD is a party.
4,403,174 2,201,587 pursuant only to a rights issue, to The Company is party to a multi-currency Revolving Credit Facility, disapply pre-emption rights up to 5% of the issued ordinary with a US$250m tranche and a 118m tranche, provided by the share capital and for the Company to purchase ordinary shares Groups six global relationship banks and expiring 4 February 2016. up to 10% of its ordinary share capital.
Equivalent resolutions Under the terms of the facility, if there is a change of control of will be laid before the 2011 AGM.
the Company, any lender may request by not less than 60 days During the year, the Company provided funding to the trustees notice to the Company, that its commitment be cancelled and all of its employee share schemes to make market purchases of outstanding amounts be repaid to that lender at the expiry of such the Companys ordinary shares to cover future obligations under notice period.
outstanding share-option and other share-based awards.
Further On 6 December 2006, QinetiQ US Holdings, Inc. formerly known details are disclosed in note 34 on page 93. as QinetiQ North America, Inc as Borrower and the Company as Guarantor entered into a Note Purchase Agreement to issue US$135m 5.44% Senior Notes due 6 December 2013 and US$125m 5.50% Senior Notes due 6 December 2016.
Under the terms of the agreement, if either 1 the MOD ceases to retain in its capacity as Special Shareholder its Special Shareholders Rights: or 2 there is a change of control of the Company: and 3 in either case where there has been a rating downgrade, or where there are no rated securities unless a rating of at least investment grade is not obtained within 90 days of the change of control, the Notes must be offered for prepayment by the Company within 21 days of the change of control.
The prepayment date would be no later than 45 days after the offer of prepayment by the Company.
46 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Restrictions on transfer of shares Annual General Meeting As outlined in note 33 on page 92, the Special Share confers The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held on Tuesday, 2 certain rights under the Companys Articles of Association to August 2011 at 1.00pm, at The Auditorium, JP Morgan Cazenove, require certain persons with an interest in QinetiQs shares 20 Moorgate, London EC2R 6DA.
Details of the business to be which exceed certain prescribed thresholds to dispose of some proposed and voted upon at the meeting is contained in the or all of their ordinary shares on grounds of national security or Notice of the Annual General Meeting which is sent to all conflict of interest.
shareholders and also published on the Companys website www.
Articles of Association By order of the Board Save in the respect of any variation to the rights attaching to the Special Share, the Company has not adopted any special rules relating to the amendment of the Companys Articles of Association other than as provided under UK corporate law.
Employee Share Scheme Jon Messent Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited acts as trustee in respect of Company Secretary all ordinary shares held by employees under the QinetiQ Group plc Share Incentive Plan the Plan.
Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Cody Technology Park Limited will send a Form of Direction to all employees holding Ively Road shares under the Plan, and will vote on all resolutions proposed Farnborough at general meetings in accordance with the instructions received.
Hampshire GU14 0LX In circumstances where ordinary shares are held by the corporate 27 May 2011 sponsored nominee service, Equiniti Corporate Nominees Limited will send a Proxy Form to all shareholders utilising such corporate nominee service, and will vote on all resolutions proposed at general meetings in accordance with the instructions received.
Auditor KPMG Audit plc has expressed its willingness to continue in office as auditor and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Statement of disclosure of information to auditor The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors report have confirmed that, so far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and the Directors have taken all the steps they reasonably ought to have taken as Directors to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 47
