Governance Mark Elliott Leo Quinn Non-executive Chief Executive Chairman 62 Officer 54 Board Appointment to Board Appointment to Board Appointed Non-executive Chairman in March 2010: Appointed Chief Executive Officer in of Directors Non-executive Director between June 2009 and November 2009.
Committee Memberships Committee Memberships Member of the Compliance Committee, Member of the Remuneration Committee, Nominations Committee and Security Committee.
Compliance Committee and Nominations Expertise Committee.
Leo was Chief Executive Officer of fide La Rue plc Expertise between 2005 and 2009.
Before that he was Chief Mark was previously General Manager of IBM Operating Officer of Invensys plcs Production Europe, Middle East and Africa and sat on IBMs Management Division.
Prior to that time, he spent Worldwide Management Council.
Mark currently 16 years with Honeywell Inc, in a variety of senior serves as a Non-executive Director on the boards management roles in the USA, Europe, the Middle of Reed Elsevier Group plc in respect of which he East and Africa.
Leo was formerly a Non-executive is also Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Director of Tomkins plc.
Reed Elsevier NV and G4S plc.
The Board considers that Marks extensive experience in the technology services sector, both in the US and Europe, coupled with his exposure to a variety of industry sectors on the boards of FTSE listed companies, is a valuable asset to the Group in terms of leadership and addressing the strategic issues affecting the Group.
Sir David Lees Deputy Chairman and Senior David Mellors Independent Chief Financial Non-executive Officer 42 Director 74 Appointment to Board Appointment to Board Appointed Chief Financial Officer in August 2008.
Appointed Deputy Chairman and SID in August 2005.
Committee Memberships Committee Memberships Member of the Security Committee.
Chairman of the Compliance Committee and Nominations Committee: Member of the Audit Expertise Committee and Security Committee.
David was previously deputy Chief Financial Officer Expertise of Logica plc.
David has also held the position of Chief Financial Officer of Logicas international Sir David is currently Chairman of the Court of the division covering operations in North America, Bank of England: he has also been a member of Australia, the Middle East and Asia and, prior to the UK Panel on Takeovers and Mergers since June that, he was the Group Financial Controller.
Sir David joined GKN plc in 1970 and had experience included various other roles with CMG held the position of Group Finance Director, Chief plc, Rio Tinto plc and Price Waterhouse.
David is a Executive and Executive Chairman before becoming member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants Non-executive Chairman in 1997 until his retirement in England & Wales.
Other notable roles include being a member of the National Defence Industries Council between 1995 and 2004.
Chairman of Courtaulds plc from 1996 to 1998, a Non-executive Director of the Bank of England between 1991 and 1999, and Chairman of Tate & Lyle plc from 1999 until 2009.
From 2001 to 2006, he was Non-executive Joint Deputy Chairman of Brambles Industries plc and Bramble Industries Limited.
Sir David is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & For more information go to Wales.
The Board considers that Sir Davids detailed www.
com understanding of corporate governance and the City and its institutions, and his industrial experience, significantly enhance the operation of the Board.
26 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors report: Business review Directors report: Corporate governance Financial statements Admiral Edmund P. Giambastiani Jr. Colin Balmer Noreen Doyle US Navy retired Non-executive Non-executive Non-executive Director 64 Director 62 Director 63 Appointment to Board Appointment to Board Appointment to Board Appointed Non-executive Director in February 2003.
Appointed Non-executive Director in October 2005.
Appointed Non-executive Director in February 2008.
Committee Memberships Committee Memberships Committee Memberships Chairman of the Security Committee: Member of the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee: Member of the Compliance Committee.
Compliance Committee, Nominations Committee Member of the Audit Committee Expertise and Remuneration Committee.
Expertise Between 2005 and 2007, Ed was the second Expertise Noreen sits on the Board of Credit Suisse Group highest ranking military officer in the United States, Colin served as Managing Director of the Cabinet Zurich and is a Non-executive Director of Newmont having served as the seventh Vice Chairman of Office from 2003 until his retirement in 2006.
Mining Corporation Denver where she is chair the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
A career nuclear-trained Previously, he was Finance Director of the MOD, of the Audit Committee, and Rexam plc where submarine officer, Eds distinguished service has with responsibility for QinetiQs privatisation and she is chair of the Finance Committee.
Prior to her also included assignments as Special Assistant to the subsequent investment by Carlyle as part of the appointment in 2001 as First Vice President of the the CIAs Deputy Director for Intelligence, Senior PPP Transaction.
Colin has extensive experience European Bank for Reconstruction and Development Military Assistant to the US Defense Secretary and across the MOD and has been a member of the EBRD, Noreen was head of Risk Management.
Commander, US Joint Forces Command.
He also Foreign and Commonwealth Offices Audit and Previously Noreen had a distinguished career at served as NATOs first Supreme Allied Commander Risk Committee.
He is currently on the Board of the Bankers Trust Company now Deutsche Bank in Transformation.
After retirement and until October Royal Mint, chairing its Audit Committee.
The Board corporate finance and leveraged financing, with 2009, he served as the Non-executive Chairman considers that Colins extensive knowledge of the a concentration in oil, gas and mining.
The Board of the Board of Directors for Alenia North America development of QinetiQ throughout its publicconsiders that Noreens extensive international Inc.
He currently is a Non-executive Director of private partnership, and his in-depth understanding business experience, particularly in the areas of the Boeing Company, SRA International Inc and of the working of Government, particularly the UK corporate finance, risk management and banking, Monster Worldwide Inc, and serves in a pro-bono MOD, provides the Board with a unique insight is of significant benefit to the Board.
capacity on a number of US Government advisory into the issues facing Government in delivering boards and panels.
The Board considers that Eds its procurement objectives and partnering with extensive knowledge of the US defence and security industry suppliers.
domain significantly enhances the operation of the Board, as QinetiQ continues to pursue its strategy of developing its US platform in the defence and security technology sector.
Admiral Sir James Jon Messent Burnell-Nugent Paul Murray Company Secretary Non-executive Non-executive and Group General Director 61 Director 49 Counsel 47 Appointment to Board Appointment to Board Appointment Appointed Non-executive Director in April 2010.
Appointed Non-executive Director in October 2010.
Appointed as Company Secretary and Group General Counsel in January 2011.
Committee Memberships Committee Memberships Expertise Member of the Compliance Committee, Chairman of the Audit Committee and Member Remuneration Committee and Security Committee.
Jon joined QinetiQ from Chloride Group where he held a similar role.
He has a background in legal Expertise Expertise private practice as well as company secretarial Sir James commanded the aircraft carrier HMS Paul is currently a Non-executive Director and experience in other FTSE250 companies.
Invincible and three other ships and submarines Audit Committee chair at Royal Mail Holdings plc.
during a 37-year career in the Royal Navy which He is also a Director at Knowledge Peers plc and culminated in his appointment as Commander-inis a Trustee of Pilotlight.
He was previously Senior Chief Fleet.
In between operational duties he served Independent Director of Taylor Nelson Sofres plc, a in several appointments in the MOD and gained Non-executive Director of Thomson SA and Tangent cross-Whitehall experience while on secondment Communications plc, and has also been Group to HM Treasury.
The Board considers that Sir James Finance Director of Carlton Communications plc and expertise in the Government contracting domain, LASMO plc.
The Board considers that Paul brings a particularly with the UK MOD and HM Treasury, broad range of experience in finance and corporate is highly beneficial in the context of QinetiQs governance from a cross section of industries, all of Government sourced operations.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 27
