Remuneration Report continued DILUTED EffECT Of RESTRICTED SHARE AND SHARE OPTION SCHEMES Number At 31 December 2011 of shares Total issued share capital 91 717 070 Outstanding share options under the Share Option Scheme capable of being exercised 617 884 Outstanding share awards under the Restricted Share Scheme capable of vesting 850 577 Outstanding matching share awards TSR will be measured over the three months before the start and under the Co-Investment Plan capable the three months before the end of each performance period.
of vesting 46 577 Awards will vest on a straight-line sliding scale for performance between these points.
Enlarged issued share capital 93 232 108 Maximum percentage of share capital A post-vesting retention period requires that at least 50% of the issued to satisfy vestings 1.7% after tax value of an award vesting must be held for a minimum period of one year.
share usage and dilution The company currently intends, as far as possible, to use existing shares to satisfy the vesting of awards granted under the Restricted Share Scheme and matching awards granted under the Co-Investment Plan and an employee benefit trust was set up for a dilution limit of 15% in 10 years for all plans but the company this purpose.
As at 31 December 2011, no ordinary shares were has, for several years, and expects to continue to operate within a held by the employee benefit trust.
dilution limit of 10% in 10 years for all plans.
To the extent that it is not possible to use existing shares to satisfy Service contracts the vesting of awards granted under the Restricted Share Scheme Both Dr DM Bristow and Mr GP Shuttleworth agreed updated and matching awards granted under the Co-Investment Plan, service contracts in June 2011 under which the company and the company currently intends to issue new shares to satisfy the each executive director can terminate the contract by giving six vesting of awards.
The employment relationship can be ended immediately by either party making a payment in lieu of The following table sets out the dilutive effect on the share capital notice, equivalent to the base salary payable for the notice period.
if all outstanding awards granted under the Restricted Share The executives duty to mitigate will be taken into account on Scheme and matching awards granted under the Co-Investment termination.
Plan capable of vesting did vest.
For completeness, this table also sets out the dilutive effect on the share capital if all outstanding Any retirement benefit due from contributions made by the options granted under the companys Share Option Scheme in executive directors to the companys provident fund may also be which executive directors do not participate capable of being paid out on termination.
External directorships Both the Restricted Share Scheme and the Co-Investment Plan Executive directors may accept external appointments as noncontain a dilution limit of 10% in any 10 year period for all plans executive directors of other companies, subject to the boards and as at 31 December 2011 the company had 2.9% available under this limit.
The companys share option scheme contains consent, and would normally retain any fees received.
HISTORICAL TSR PERfORMANCE GROWTH IN THE VALUE Of A HYPOTHETICAL 100 HOLDING SINCE DECEMBER 2006 fTSE 100 INDEX COMPARISON BASED ON 30 TRADING DAY AVERAGE VALUES 136 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | Annual Report 2011
