Audit Committee Report continued The committee makes recommendations to the board in relation Internal audit to the appointment, re-appointment and any changes to the During 2009, the company appointed a chartered accountant external auditors.
BDO LLP were appointed in 2007 and served who is responsible for monitoring the groups compliance with as external auditors for the group for the 2011 financial year and respect to Sox and internal audit and reporting findings to the their appointment will be recommended to shareholders at the audit committee.
The head of internal audit has direct access and April 2012 annual general meeting.
Taking into account the output responsibility to the audit committee and attended four meetings of the audit committees review of the groups external auditors during the year to discuss the reports submitted, Sox and internal independence and objectivity, and, the effectiveness of the audit audit projects during the year and the proposed internal audit plans.
During the year, the head of internal audit also met with members process, together with other relevant review processes conducted of the audit committee without management present.
The head throughout the year, the audit committee was satisfied that it could of internal audit works across the group with responsibility for make a recommendation to the board to propose to shareholders reviewing, evaluating, developing and providing assurance on the the re-appointment of BDO LLP.
There are no contractual adequacy of the internal control environment, operating efficiency restrictions on our ability to appoint alternative auditors.
The board and risk identification and management across all of the groups has established a policy that, going forward, the groups external operations.
The internal audit functions mandate, terms of audit will be subject to a tender process every five years, to ensure reference and annual audit coverage plans were approved by the that the group continues to receive high quality and cost effective audit committee during the year.
During 2011, the internal audit function has focused on various The audit committee meets regularly and this includes quarterly group activities and operations, covering a variety of financial, meetings which are used to consider and approve the companys operational, strategic and compliance related business processes.
The external auditors are regularly invited to No significant weaknesses were identified as a result of risk attend meetings to report on their activities.
The audit committee management and internal controls reviews undertaken by internal also meets with the external auditors, independent of the executive audit during 2011.
The executive management continues directors or management.
Such a meeting took place in both to undertake regular reviews of various parts of the groups October 2011 and January 2012 following the presentation of a operations and details of their reports are submitted to the audit report by the BDO audit partner.
committee and board for comment when necessary.
During 2012, a formal internal audit plan which has been approved by the audit The audit committee reviewed and updated its terms of reference committee will be executed across the operations using internal during the year.
The new terms of reference can be accessed via resources and supplemented through the engagement of external the groups website.
During the year, as a result of work performed in connection The audit committee assessed the effectiveness of the group with the companys US Annual Report on Form 20-F for the internal audit function during the year, finding that adequate year ended 31 December 2010, , the work had been undertaken providing effective assurance around companys previous external auditors were paid US$21 903 financial processes and controls in relation to the Sox work performed in the year, and that the internal audit function has 2010: US$20 903.
 were not engaged had full access to all areas of the group and is of good standing to provide any non-audit services in 2011 or 2010 respectively.
