Variable performance-linked pay will be a major element Executive remuneration principles of each executive directors total remuneration package.
The remuneration committees overriding objective is to ensure Variable pay will be a combination of annual cash bonuses that the companys executive remuneration policy encourages, and longer term incentives based on performance over reinforces and rewards the delivery of sustainable shareholder 3 to 5 years and payable over 4 to 6 years.
We aim to ensure that our pay arrangements are fully aligned the achievement of short term key business measures within with our approach to risk management and take into account our the year and long term sustainable business growth.
obligations in respect of environmental, social and governance Performance criteria will be demanding and include both policies.
Our guiding principles are as follows: financial and strategic non-financial measures to encourage The company competes for management skills and talent in and reward superior performance.
an international market place in the global mining industry.
Alignment between the interests of executive directors Competitive reward attracts executives of the highest and shareholders should be encouraged by delivering a calibre and supports the flexibility and mobility required to work in the companys key operational jurisdictions West, significant proportion of total remuneration in company Central and East Africa.
The company benchmarks each shares.
Executive directors are encouraged to build up and element of remuneration and the total remuneration package retain a shareholding through a company share ownership in comparison to a range of different comparators the policy.
FTSE 100, FTSE mining and comparable international gold Decisions on executive directors pay are taken in the context mining companies.
of pay and conditions across the company as a whole.
REMUNERATION STRUCTURE SUMMARY Element Policy Details base Competitive base salaries to attract and Benchmarked in comparison to FTSE 100, salary retain high calibre executives, based on FTSE mining and comparable international gold personal performance profile and relevant mining companies.
The remuneration committee reviews base salaries Base salary is the only material element of with effect from 1 January each year.
The company does not fund any pension contributions.
annual Designed to encourage and reward performance measures for 2011 bOnus superior performance on an annual basis.
The performance measures used to determine the Target and maximum annual incentives annual bonus covered the same categories for both the are determined as a percentage of base executive directors as follows: salary.
Financial measures Part of the annual bonus is compulsorily Role-specific operational financial performance deferred into shares see deferred bonus targets overleaf.
Role-specific strategic non-financial targets Safety performance measures for 2012 The performance measures will cover the same categories for 2012.
