Audit Committee Report continued safeguarding and management of the groups cash resources Treasury management and funding programmes, approval of counterparties and relevant In the current economic climate cash management is a key focus transaction limits, ensuring the most competitive return on surplus for the group.
The role of group treasury is to manage and monitor cash resources, and the monitoring of all significant treasury our external and internal funding requirements and financial activities undertaken by the group.
The group uses conventional risks in support of our strategic objectives.
Treasury activities financial instruments to manage these risks.
are governed by policies and procedures approved by the audit committee, most recently at the October 2011 audit committee In 2011, the focus of the treasury committee was managing meeting.
counterparty risk with banks where the group places cash deposits, recognising the considerable increase in the groups A treasury committee, chaired by our chief financial officer, meets cash resources as well as the volatility of the banking system in on a monthly basis to review treasury activities.
The group treasury policy ensures surplus cash is placed receive management information relating to treasury activities.
with institutions with credit ratings of: The committee recommends group policy, relating to all aspects A and higher, on strict terms concerning placement duration of funding, management of interest rate and foreign exchange maximum 3 months with no more than 5% of total funds exposures, hedging and other financial risk management, which is or US$25 million the lower of being placed with any one submitted to the group audit committee bi-annually for approval.
institution: or It also coordinates relationships with banks, rating agencies and AAand higher, on strict terms concerning placement other financial institutions.
The committee monitors all significant duration maximum 3 months with no more than 20% of total treasury activities undertaken by group companies and ensures funds or US$100 million the lower of being placed with any compliance with group policy.
Credit ratings and market information are reviewed on a continuous The overall objective of the treasury committee is to effectively basis to ensure the treasury committee is abreast of information manage credit risk, financial risk, liquidity risk, foreign currency pertaining to the management of group cash resources, and the risks and other market risks in accordance with the groups group has employed the services of a Fiduciary Deposit Service to strategy.
Other responsibilities of the treasury committee include improve the flow and quality of market information.
