Gold Market Overview Gold outperformed most asset classes and again proved its importance in portfolio construction, providing liquidity when needed and acting as a risk management vehicle by serving as a currency hedge.
Continuing turbulence in the financial markets has been good for gold, which marked the eleventh consecutive year of price increases.
Gold ended 2011 up 10% in US dollar terms at US$1 531 oz on the London PM fix.
September 2011 saw a record high of US$1 896 oz after the metal had traded above US$1 900 oz intraday, and the average gold price for the year rose by 28%.
The deterioration of the Greek financial system and its potential impact on other European economies, the possibility that the US could technically default on its government debt and the rating agencies downward revision of sovereign debt in Europe and the US, resulted in upward pressure on the gold price.
For the first time, the United States lost its AAA rating.
DECLINING OPPORTUNITIES IN THE GOLD INDUSTRY Annual Report 2011 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | 19 Gold Market Overview continued Concerns over the long term value of most currencies and fears Turning to gold supply, GFMS estimates that gold mine production that the Eurozone may break up, also underpinned the increase in increased by less than 4% in 2011.
Grades in the industry are the gold price.
Ultralow short term interest rates further contributed under strain and new discoveries have dropped significantly to currencies lack of appeal.
Scrap supply has fallen for the second consecutive year, despite the substantial increase in the gold price.
Research by Gold Fields Mineral Services GFMS shows that Following a decade of producer dehedging, net producer hedging jewellery demand dropped by 1.9% during the year but proved to was recorded in 2011, although very marginal.
be resilient given the increase in the gold price, with strong demand coming from China.
Jewellery fabrication in China increased by Looking ahead, there are numerous forces at play which should 16%.
Industrial demand showed a slight decline as the higher price further support the gold price.
Stronger physical demand emerged resulted in some substitution.
Central banks which became net as the price retreated from its record high levels.
Financial markets purchasers of gold in 2009 increased their buying activity in 2011 still face considerable risks in the short to medium term, particularly resulting in Net Official Sector purchases increasing an estimated in Europe where the sovereign risk crisis and the potential impact on fivefold year on year.
The bulk of the buying came from emerging the banking sector remain to be fully resolved.
Some of the leading economies and reflects a growth in foreign currency reserves world economies continue to grapple with high unemployment and a move to diversify these.
Investment demand remained the and low growth.
Low interest rates and further quantitative easing dominant driver behind the gold price during the year and investors therefore remain on the table for the immediate future, raising the continued to access the market through bars, coins, ETFs and possibility of inflationary pressures in many economies.
Although physical demand fell by 7%, the higher tension in the Middle East remains high and continued interest gold price resulted in the value of demand increasing by 21%.
from Central Banks should be supportive of gold.
TO BE UPDATED WITH 2010 Source: Kankou Moussa Gold Bank Mali JEWELLERY DEMAND FOR GOLD PROVED RESILIENT GIVEN THE INCREASED GOLD PRICE Randgold ownership 75% 20 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | Annual Report 2011
