Tongon Gold Mine continued The Tongon mine is located within the Nielle exploration permit in the north of Cte dlvoire, 55 kilometres south of the border with Mali.
Tongon SA is owned by an Ivorian company, Socit des Mines fide Tongon SA, of which Randgold has an 89% interest, the government of Cte dlvoire 10% and 1% is held by a local company.
Tongon is an open pit mining operation and employs the four standard mining practices of drill, blast, load and haul.
Tongon has a ten year Life of Mine LOM with mining taking place crushers and conveyors, as well as on the grid power supply and from two main pits: South Zone SZ and the smaller North Zone the general completion of the camp and project.
Both the SZ and NZ pits have potential for more reserves.
Mineral resources and ore reserves Considering the difficult socio-political environment at the The geological models for the SZ and NZ were updated with beginning of the year, the mines achievements were outstanding.
additional grade control and diamond drilling completed during the Gold production was 250 390 ounces, while gold sales were year.
This, together with the higher gold price used to declare 271 922 ounces.
This included some ounces produced in resources and reserves, indicated that the pits could potentially 2010, which the mine was unable to sell due to the political deepen due to additional inferred resources.
Notwithstanding the crisis, the mine successfully resources have therefore increased by 9% from 4.22Moz in 2010 operated throughout the period, and although the completion of to 4.60Moz in 2011.
Additional drilling will be completed in 2012 to construction was delayed, the mine completed the final projects convert this resource to reserves.
and connected to the national electricity grid in December 2011.
Gold sales amounted to US$425.1 million and total cash costs Operations per ounce were US$557 oz, resulting in a profit from mining Mining AnD PlAnning activity of US$273.7 million.
Capital expenditure during the year In 2011, the bulk of the mining activity took place in the SZ pit.
Underground mineral resources are those insitu mineral resources below the NZ US$1 500 oz pit shell reported at a 2.0g t cut-off.
Mineral resources were generated by Mr Babacar Diouf and Mr Mamadou Ly, both officers of the company, and supervised by Mr Jonathan Kleynhans, an officer of the company and competent person.
Open pit mineral reserves are reported at a gold price of US$1 000 oz and 1.39g t cut-off and include dilution and ore loss factors.
NZ open pit mineral reserves were calculated by Mr Samuel Baffoe, an officer of the company, under the supervision of Mr Onno ten Brinke, an officer of the company and competent person.
SZ open pit mineral reserves were calculated by Mr Nick Kingaby, an external consultant and competent person.
Attributable gold Moz refers to the quantity attributable to Randgold based on Randgolds 89% interest in the Tongon gold mine.
See comments and US disclaimer on page 74 of this Annual Report.
