Key risks EXTERNAL RISK KPI Impact Policies and systems Mitigation risK: gOld price VOlatility realised gold Earnings and cash flow Long term financial The group constantly monitors the market price volatility from sudden or strategy and monitoring.
The internal treasury significant declines in the gold Treasury policies.
monitoring and discussing the gold price which are reported to the executive committee and the board.
Forecasting and budgeting assumptions relating to commodities are prudent and monitored by the board and executive committee.
risK: cOuntry risK total Inadequate monitoring of Policies to ensure that Successful relationships with governments, shareholder in-country political instability the group is meeting senior in-country officials and other return and changes to political the terms of its agreed key external stakeholders are built and performance environment may impact the and signed licences maintained.
This includes delivering on ability to sustain operations.
In and adherence to agreements.
The group country monitoring and actively monitors regulatory and political stakeholder management developments as well as the country risk policies.
risK: cOrpOrate, sOcial and enVirOnMental respOnsibility total Poor management of Social and environmental Attention is placed on maintaining sound shareholder stakeholder, community and policies.
Commitment relations with local communities and to improvement of working with these groups to enhance these return government expectations relationships.
The groups environmental performance and the lack of corporate communities.
Regular and social responsibility may communication with committee, under the chairmanship of the lead to the inability to sustain stakeholders.
CEO, continues to address these issues operations in the area and and reports quarterly to the board.
Review impact the groups ability to of stakeholder relations at executive expand into other regions.
Regular dialogue with the affected communities by senior executives.
