Variable performance-linked pay will be a major element Executive remuneration principles of each executive directors total remuneration package.
The remuneration committees overriding objective is to ensure Variable pay will be a combination of annual cash bonuses that the companys executive remuneration policy encourages, and longer term incentives based on performance over reinforces and rewards the delivery of sustainable shareholder 3 to 5 years and payable over 4 to 6 years.
We aim to ensure that our pay arrangements are fully aligned the achievement of short term key business measures within with our approach to risk management and take into account our the year and long term sustainable business growth.
obligations in respect of environmental, social and governance Performance criteria will be demanding and include both policies.
Our guiding principles are as follows: financial and strategic non-financial measures to encourage The company competes for management skills and talent in and reward superior performance.
an international market place in the global mining industry.
Alignment between the interests of executive directors Competitive reward attracts executives of the highest and shareholders should be encouraged by delivering a calibre and supports the flexibility and mobility required to work in the companys key operational jurisdictions West, significant proportion of total remuneration in company Central and East Africa.
The company benchmarks each shares.
Executive directors are encouraged to build up and element of remuneration and the total remuneration package retain a shareholding through a company share ownership in comparison to a range of different comparators the policy.
FTSE 100, FTSE mining and comparable international gold Decisions on executive directors pay are taken in the context mining companies.
of pay and conditions across the company as a whole.
REMUNERATION STRUCTURE SUMMARY Element Policy Details base Competitive base salaries to attract and Benchmarked in comparison to FTSE 100, salary retain high calibre executives, based on FTSE mining and comparable international gold personal performance profile and relevant mining companies.
The remuneration committee reviews base salaries Base salary is the only material element of with effect from 1 January each year.
The company does not fund any pension contributions.
annual Designed to encourage and reward performance measures for 2011 bOnus superior performance on an annual basis.
The performance measures used to determine the Target and maximum annual incentives annual bonus covered the same categories for both the are determined as a percentage of base executive directors as follows: salary.
Financial measures Part of the annual bonus is compulsorily Role-specific operational financial performance deferred into shares see deferred bonus targets overleaf.
Role-specific strategic non-financial targets Safety performance measures for 2012 The performance measures will cover the same categories for 2012.
Annual Report 2011 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | 127 Remuneration Report continued REMUNERATION STRUCTURE SUMMARY continued Element Policy Details deferred One third of annual bonus is compulsorily claw back provisions bOnus deferred into shares Deferred bonuses are subject to claw back in the event One third of any annual bonus earned is of a misstatement of the report and accounts on which compulsorily deferred and paid in shares they were based.
Deferred bonuses may be matched under the Co-Investment Plan see below.
cOTo reward sustained performance relative The extent of the match depends on the inVestMent to global peers.
performance of the companys TSR compared plan Each year an executive director may with the HSBC Global Gold Index over a 3 year choose to commit both their deferred performance period.
bonus and further shares suject to a cap to the Co-Investment Plan.
Match for awards made in 2011 Committed shares must be retained for The match was 0.5 shares for each 1 share 3 years and may be matched, depending committed for performance equalling the on relative total shareholder return TSR performance of the HSBC Global Gold Index rising performance, over 3 years.
to 1 for 1 for beating the index by 10 percentage points or more on an annual compound basis.
Match for awards to be made in 2012 The match will be 0.4 shares for each 1 share committed for performance equalling the performance of the HSBC Global Gold Index rising to 1 for 1 for beating the index by 10 percentage points or more on an annual compound basis.
Match for awards to be made in 2013 The match will be 0.3 shares for each 1 share committed for performance equalling the performance of the HSBC Global Gold Index rising to 1 for 1 for beating the index by 10 percentage points or more on an annual compound basis.
restricted rewards sustainable long term performance share scheMe - 2011 2011 perAwards of shares are made annually under Focus on operational and financial performance fOrMance the Restricted Share Scheme, determined measures rewards delivery of key strategic shares as a percentage of base salary.
imperatives to build the company for the future.
Awards vest after 3, 4 and 5 years Performance periods of 3, 4 and 5 years ensure subject to the achievement of stretching sustainability of growth.
operational and financial performance The year post-vesting retention period further targets.
Four separate measures of business The maximum annual award of shares is 200% growth, each weighted equally: of salary for the CEO and 100% of salary for the Additional reserves including reserve CFO.
replacement Absolute reserves excluding reserve replacement Absolute TSR EPS growth A post-vesting retention period requires that at least 50% of the after-tax value of an award must be held for a minimum period of 1 year.
2012 2012 No change No change 128 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | Annual Report 2011
