Transparent and two-way consultation is fundamental to our resettlement process.
GrievanCe MeChaniSM Our policies are designed to maintain community structures wherever possible and ensure that we compensate fairly in Randgold has a grievance procedure in place that all members of mitigation for any adverse effects on the community where they the local community can access if they believe that they have been cannot be avoided.
On the ground in many of the places we work unfairly treated or discriminated against.
The procedure has been financial compensation is not considered best practice.
In the set up using guidance laid out by the IFC Performance Standards vast majority of cases we have a policy of a like for like asset and the Equator Principles.
This process aims to maintain a replacement.
peaceful social atmosphere in the case of a non-work related disagreement.
A total of 395 grievances were registered at our our perforManCe five major sites through our grievance mechanism in 2011 Refer to In 2011, we spent an attributable US$18 million US$41 million on the table below.
In total, 97% of these grievances have now been a 100% basis on RAP implementation.
In all cases those people resolved with the remaining 11 under review at the time of writing.
who were relocated moved to an improved socio-economic situation, while maintaining their neighbourhood relationships in Resettlement their new homes and farms.
Large areas of land are required to manage a successful gold mine and that unfortunately can mean some people must be displaced.
The Tongon resettlement process began in 2008 and, despite At Randgold, we are committed to minimising involuntary the complexities caused by the ongoing legacy of the recent civil resettlement and, where it does need to take place, to ensuring war, the successful resettlement of more than 400 people, their resettled people have their standard of living improved, or at least restored.
We conduct our resettlement process in full consultation with the affected parties and in accordance with legislative FAMILIES SELECTING ThEIR hOMES TO bE bUILT AT KOKIzA requirements.
We are guided by the IFCs Performance Standards in regards to land and resettlement.
our approaCh The focus for our resettlement process is the affected person.
Transparent and two-way consultation is fundamental to our resettlement process and a public participation process PPP is the starting point for all our resettlement activity.
PPPs use the locally elected community committees as a key mechanism for discussing options, alongside radio broadcasts, meetings with tribal and religious leaders and open forums attended by the CEO.
The results of the PPP are incorporated in a RAP which is also put forward for further consultation.
at 31 Dec 2011 Number Number Operation of grievances resolved Loulo 3 2 Morila 1 1 Tongon 6 5 Gounkoto 7 7 Kibali 378 369 T he relatively high number of grievances is due to the fact that Kibali is still in the construction phase and this includes claims made as part of the RAP currently underway.
GRIEVANCE MEChANISM 2011 RESETTLING ThE RIGhT wAY AT GOUNKOTO Annual Report 2011 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | 87
