Sustainability Report Managing impacts: Driving developments At the heart of Randgolds business philosophy is our belief that our activities should benefit all our stakeholders, including our workers as well as the governments and people of our host countries.
In effect, this means that we acknowledge society as a stakeholder and that we take our investment in social equity as seriously as our investment in the discovery, development and operation of our mines.
Our primary goal is sustainable profitability, but in order to achieve that, we also have to create and nurture sustainability in every part of our business, from the safety of our mines to their impact on the environment.
Over the years, we have forged mutually beneficial partnerships with governments, communities and local businesses who share our long term commitment to sustainable economic, environmental and social solutions.
It is these partnerships that enabled us to commission and operate the Tongon mine successfully in a country emerging from the ravages of a civil war and to advance the giant Kibali project so rapidly, in the process resettling what will eventually be some 17 000 people with their cooperation.
Our care for the community is also evident at Morila, where we are developing a range of agribusinesses to support the local people when the mine eventually closes down.
Over the years, Randgold has created some 8 000 jobs directly and in partnership with sub-contractors as well as economic opportunities for many more people.
We have contributed more than US$1 billion in taxes, royalties and dividends to the governments of our host countries.
This past year, we have again invested substantially in social welfare projects, and made significant progress in reducing our dependence on fossil fuels, using water more efficiently and developing power sources, in conjunction with regional utilities, that will be cheaper as well as greener in the long run.
While we can look back with a measure of satisfaction on the advances we have made in managing environmental, social and governance issues, we fully realise that there is no room for complacency, and we will continue to benchmark ourselves against best global practices as we expand and enhance our sustainability practices and policies.
Ultimately, the success of a business is not just measured in its most recent profits and its current share price: the truly successful business, particularly in Africa, must also be a responsible corporate citizen, a good neighbour and a productive member of society.
Mark Bristow Chief executive 76 Achieved in 2011 More than US$700 million in economic value created for the benefit of employees, shareholders, host States and communities 95% of operational staff from the country of operation Zero lost time injuries for Morila mine in Mali: winning the INPS AbOUT ThE SUSTAINAbILITY REPORT Malian Industry Safety Award 70% decrease in HIV prevalence rate among people signing up for voluntary testing at mine clinics Targeted for 2012 Obtain OhSAS 18001 safety accreditation at Loulo and Tongon This section highlights the key sustainability challenges facing our business, how we are addressing them and some of our achievements in this field from 2011 a year of strong Obtain ISO 14001 financial and operational performance coupled with significant environmental accreditation improvements against most of our non-financial indicators.
at Gounkoto and Tongon Sustainability is of growing importance to all our stakeholders and we are committed to reporting what we do, as well Roll out Morila agribusiness as monitoring performance against both our values and internationally accepted sustainability standards including initiative to the community: the 10 sustainable development principles of the International establish a cooperative Council on Mining and Metals ICMM, World Bank Operational Guidelines, OECD Convention on Combating Bribery, the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights and the Conclude Mine Level Dodd-Frank Act.
Agreement MLA with Real consultation with employees, local communities, Tongon union governments, NGOs and the investment community has played a vital role in guiding our progress to date and will Progress Kibali community continue to be the backbone of our future development.
We resettlement to final stage welcome feedback and seek to expand our consultation and disclosure to our broader stakeholder community.
Advance sustainable power solution at Massawa Improve safety and reduce LTIFR by 10% Annual Report 2011 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | 77 Managing impacts: Driving developments continued Randgolds major operations and projects Mali Gross National Income per head: US$1 123 Life expectancy at birth: 51.4 years Expected years of schooling: 8.3 years Population below national poverty line: 47.4% loulo mine Ownership: Randgold owns 80%, the State of Mali 20%.
Status: First gold produced in November 2005.
The Loulo mine comprises three open pits, Yalea, Gara and Loulo 3, and two underground operations, Gara and Yalea.
The open pit operations are mined by contractors.
Morila mine Ownership: Randgold owns 40%, AngloGold Ashanti 40%, the State of Mali 20%.
Status: First gold poured in October 2000.
Open pit mining has ceased and processing of ore stockpiles will continue until 2013, although the mine has recently completed a study potentially extending the mine life by approximately five years.
The development of a sustainable agricultural business in the area and other land rehabilitation measures are underway.
Gounkoto mine Ownership: Randgold owns 80%, the State of Mali 20%.
Status: First gold produced in June 2011.
Gounkoto is located 25 kilometres south of Loulo and is an open pit mine, with the ore treated through the Loulo plant.
Cte divoire Gross National Income per head: US$1 387 Life expectancy at birth: 55.4 years Expected years of schooling: 6.3 years Population below national poverty line: 42.7% tongon mine Ownership: Randgold owns 89%, the State of Cte dIvoire 10%, a local company 1%.
Status: First gold produced in December 2010.
Tongon is an opencast mining operation that commenced in April 2010.
It employs the standard mining practices of drill, blast, load and haul.
deMoCratiC republiC of ConGo Gross National Income per head: US$280 Life expectancy at birth: 48.4 years Expected years of schooling: 8.2 years Population below national poverty line: 71.3% Kibali project Ownership: Randgold owns 45%, AngloGold Ashanti 45%, Sokimo a State controlled entity 10%.
This large gold deposit formerly Moto is located in the northeastern DRC.
Preconstruction of the mine started in the middle of 2011 and operations are expected to start in 2012, with first gold expected in Q4 2013.
SeneGal Gross National Income per head: US$1 708 Life expectancy at birth: 59.3 years Expected years of schooling: 7.5 years Population below national poverty line: 50.8% Massawa project Ownership: Randgold will own 83.25%, the State of Senegal 10%, a Senegalese joint venture partner 6.75%.
Randgold will have operational control.
The Massawa project is situated in eastern Senegal, about 650 kilometres southeast of the capital city of Dakar and 90 kilometres due west of the Loulo mine in Mali.
The project is at prefeasibility stage with the focus being on continued exploration to expand the resources and enhancing the power options for the project.
Source for country data: UNDP Human Development Report 2011 78 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | Annual Report 2011 Sustainability at all stages Gold mining is a complex activity and the sustainability challenges that need to be managed vary depending on the social and environmental context of each mine.
For example, water management issues in Mali where water is an extremely limited resource, are very different to those in the DRC which often has an oversupply of water.
Wherever possible throughout this Sustainability Report we try to explain these site specific differences and explain how we manage those challenges.
Another layer of complexity to consider relates to the different stages of the mining life cycle.
RANDGOLDS APPROACh TO SUSTAINAbILITY AT ALL STAGES OF A MINES LIFE exploration Implement environmental management programmes M ake smallest possible social and environmental impact.
EMPs, mitigating impacts on social and biophysical Priority to establish good community relations.
Set up grievance mechanism and emergency response plan for all community concerns.
operational Locally staffed exploration teams consider potential Human capital management takes priority ensuring social and environmental issues in their research.
respect for workplace rights, employee development and a healthy and safe workplace.
feaSibility Full and independent social, public health and Priority given to employment from most affected environmental baseline studies, included in environmental communities, followed by host country nationals.
and social impact assessments ESIAs.
Optimisation of use of energy, water and other natural Site-specific plan for environmental management resources, with regular monitoring to check compliance produced in compliance with IFC Performance and track improvements.
Boost waste management resources to cope with Launch public participation programmes to outline all increased consumption levels.
likely positive and negative impacts to local communities.
Continuous rehabilitation of land wherever possible.
Clearly advertise and manage grievance mechanisms.
Discussions with host governments on issues such as Ensure sufficient financial resources set aside to meet infrastructure and security.
Draw up resettlement action plans RAPs as required.
ConStruCtion CloSure Launch recruitment process prioritising directly affected Ensure economic and social infrastructure in place to communities.
maintain the long term health of the communities.
Aptitude testing for construction workers to help Put into practice viable economic strategies, such as our parachute into skilled work at operational phase.
Increase communications with local communities.
Extra training for local people, previously employed at Allocate budgets to local committee for community the mine, to enable alternative employment and ensure development projects.
financial support to start alternative livelihoods.
Implement environmental management system EMS Land remediation and restoration using indigenous plant in full, with regular monitoring and quarterly updates to species as detailed in original baseline studies.
