Directors # Philippe Litard 63 Graham P Shuttleworth 43 Non-executive chairman Financial director and chief financial officer Appointed a Randgold director in 1998 and chairman in 2004, Joined Randgold as chief financial of cer and financial director in his experience in corporate and project finance with UBS, the July 2007 but had been associated with the company since its International Finance Corporation and World Bank spans 30 years, inception, initially as part of its management team involved in listing mainly in the minerals business and in Africa.
Previously a director the company on the LSE in 1997, and subsequently as an adviser.
of the Oil, Gas and Mining Department of the IFC, he then served A chartered accountant, he was a managing director and the as managing director of the Global Natural Resources Fund from New York-based head of metals and mining for the Americas in the 2000 to 2003.
Now an independent consultant and a promoter of global investment banking division of HSBC before taking up his mining and energy investments, he is also a director of CellMark AB new position at Randgold.
At HSBC he led or was involved in a wide of Sweden and serves on the board of trustees of the Rochambeau range of major mining industry transactions, including Randgolds Foundation in Washington DC.
Nasdaq listing, and subsequent equity offerings.
D Mark Bristow 53 Norborne P Cole Jr 70 Chief executive Senior independent non-executive Chief executive since the incorporation of Randgold, which was Started working for the Coca-Cola Company as a eld representative founded on his pioneering exploration work in West Africa.
Has in the USA in 1966 and advanced steadily through the organisation, subsequently led the companys growth through the discovery becoming chief executive of Coca-Cola Amatil in Australia in 1994, a and development of world-class assets into a major gold mining position he held until 1998.
Under his leadership, Coca-Cola Amatil business with a market capitalisation of more than US$10 billion.
grew into the second largest Coca-Cola bottler in the world.
Now Has also played a signi cant part in promoting the emergence of a based in San Antonio, Texas, he serves on the boards of a number sustainable mining industry in Africa.
A geologist with a PhD from of US companies including Papa Johns International Inc.
Became Natal University, South Africa, has held board positions at a number a director of Randgold in May 2006. of global mining companies and is currently a non-executive director of Rockwell Resources International.
4 9 67 12 3 5 8 # Chairman of governance and nomination committee Chairman of audit committee Photographed on site at the board meeting at Kibali mine in January 2012.
Chairman of remuneration committee 1 Robert Israel, 2 Karl Voltaire, 3 Kadri Dagdelen, 4 Mark Bristow, Member of governance and nomination committee 5 Andrew Quinn, 6 Graham Shuttleworth, 7 Philippe Litard, Member of audit committee $ 8 Norborne Cole Jr and 9 Christopher Coleman.
Member of remuneration committee 4 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | Annual Report 2011 $ Christopher L Coleman 43 Andrew J Quinn 58 Independent non-executive Independent non-executive Co-head of banking and treasury and a managing director of Retired from his position as CIBC head of mining investment banking Rothschild, chairman of Rothschild Bank International in the for Europe and Africa at the end of 2011 after 15 years in the role Channel Islands and serves on a number of other boards and and more than 35 years experience of the mining industry.
With a committees of the Rothschild Group, which he joined in 1989.
A BSc Hons in mineral exploitation Mining Engineering from Cardiff BSc Econ graduate from the London School of Economics, he University, he began his career in Anglo Americans gold division in served as a non-executive director of the Merchant Bank of Central 1975, holding various management and technical positions in South Africa from 2001 to 2008.
Was appointed to the Randgold board Africa, and worked brie y for Greenbushes Tin in Australia before in November 2008. joining Mining Journal in 1982 as editor of its gold publications.
In 1984 he entered the financial services industry with James Capel later HSBC Investment Banking, thereafter joining CIBC in 1996.
Kadri Dagdelen 57 He serves as non-executive chairman of Pursuit Dynamics plc.
He Independent non-executive joined the Randgold board in November 2011.
A professor and head of the Department of Mining Engineering at the Colorado School of Mines, USA, he began his professional $ Karl Voltaire 61 career as a mining engineer at Homestake Mining Co now Barrick Independent non-executive Gold Corporation and was the technical services manager when he left for academia in 1992.
With a PhD in Mining Engineering and an A graduate in mineral resources engineering from the Ecole des ME in Geostatistics he has been involved in numerous research and Mines in Paris, he holds an MBA and a PhD in economics and consulting projects worldwide, also serving on the board of directors finance from the University of Chicago.
He started his career as of the Society of Mining, Exploration and Metallurgy in the USA for a mining engineer in Haiti and subsequently spent 23 years in the six years and chairing other professional societies that support the World Bank Group in Washington DC, the bulk of these at the mining industry.
He joined the Randgold board in January 2010. International Finance Corporation IFC where his last position was that of director of global financial markets.
Subsequently he was director of the Of ce of President at the African Development Bank.
Robert I Israel 62 He was the CEO of the Nelson Mandela Institution from 2005 to Non-executive 2009, and is currently a member of the Board of Trustees of the African University of Science and Technology.
Was appointed to the Currently the managing partner of One Stone Energy Partners, a Randgold board in May 2006. private equity fund focused on the oil and gas industry, he was previously a partner at Compass Advisers, a transatlantic strategic advisory and private investment rm, and before that head of the energy department of Schroder & Co Inc.
He holds an MBA from Harvard and a BA from Middlebury College, and his experience in corporate finance, especially in the natural resources sector, extends over more than 30 years.
Joined the Randgold board in 1997.
