CTE DIVOIRE REGIONAL EXPLORATION the geological and structural interpretation to vector into potential Cte dIvoire targets for follow-up work.
no anomalism was recorded from the With the commissioning of the tongon mine, the exploration focus contact with the sediments.
shifted to the evaluation of satellite targets and the discovery of potential stand-alone targets within the companys extensive Saraba permit portfolio countrywide.
saraba is a four kilometre long target featuring a 30ppb gold in soil anomaly located to the east of Kawsara and four kilometres TONGON MINE LEASE NIELLE PERMIT south of Massawa.
it was defined following generative work which Drill programmes, including 111 RC holes for 10 983 metres on the indicated that previous studies had only tested the volcaniclastic near mine targets of tongon West, sekala, seydou and Jubula have package to the west, while the major contact between the defined a geological potential of 480 000 ounces at 1.48g t with an volcaniclastics and sediments host of both Massawa and Delya average strip ratio of 8:1.
Geological models have been compiled remained untested.
to allow block models and pit optimisations to be calculated.
A RAB programme of 2 000 metres was completed to test the A phase of deep diamond drilling five holes was completed below lithological contact and coincident soil anomaly.
Gold assay results the base of the southern Zone Us$1 200 resource pit to test for confirm a bedrock source to the soil anomalism as a geological possible extensions of the mineralised lodes.
All holes intersected model, with the grade averaging 0.5g t and a best intersection the hydrothermal system but the structures hosting mineralisation of 6 metres at 3.96g t. follow-up work in 2012 will vector into were narrow and weakly altered.
the best results include modelled geological as well as structural targets within the four tnD357 - 10 metres at 1.99g t and tnD358 - 20 metres at 1.44g t. kilometre strike.
Mineralisation is associated with brecciated zones with silicification and arsenopyrite.
further diamond drilling will be completed during Regional potential 2012 to convert inferred mineral resources to indicated within the Along with the RAB programme, the resource triangle was Us$1 000 reserve pit.
reviewed to focus on the potential for a non-refractory deposit for the Massawa project.
these include east Mandinka, a large geochemical anomaly along the northern part of the MtZ, and KB A detailed analysis of the tongon lease resource triangle was completed to highlight untested areas of prospectivity both within in the Mako Belt.
other targets being reviewed within the belt are a 15 kilometre radius of the plant and throughout the nielle permit.
nouma, Missira, soma, Mariama, KC south and Rheina.
Annual Report 2011 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | 65 Exploration review continued By reviewing the updated regional geology, new soil geochemistry in the west, regional sampling highlighted an eight kilometre long and airborne geophysical electromagnetic and magnetic data northsouth to northeast trending, plus 25ppb gold in soil anomaly and combining this with previous work, 10 new targets have been which constitutes the new fargolo target.
this locates at the identified and will be the focus of work during 2012, providing contact between granite and volcanics.
in the north of the permit, further exploration opportunities for both the tongon mine and for the ouahri south target is coincident with a five kilometre long, expanding Randgolds footprint in northern Cte divoire.
north-northeast trending, plus 25ppb gold in soil anomaly.
followup work is still required on these targets.
DIOUALA the Diouala permit locates directly north of nielle and Regional soil sampling over the nafoungolo target locating consolidates Randgolds groundholding on the senoufo Belt up over the nogbele granite, west of the oleo shear highlighted a to the international border with Burkina faso.
exploration work northeast trending anomaly over an eight kilometre strike which has progressed rapidly through the year following the airborne has been followed up with detailed soil sampling.
this trend geophysical survey in 2010. continues across the border into Burkina faso, where it meets the nogbele target which hosts 1.2 million ounces at 2.2g t within the in the east of the permit, following regional and detailed soil sampling together with regolith and geological mapping, a first nogbele granite.
phase of air core drilling was completed to test the Dabokiri target, located in the 25 kilometre long Kokoriko-satolo structural corridor.
BOUNDIALI this reconnaissance drilling targeted the lithological contacts, the Boundiali permit covers 1 314km and locates approximately dilational zones and belt margin structures that coincide with soil 60 kilometres west of nielle and is host to numerous gold in soil anomalies.
A total of 173 holes for 6 265 metres was completed.
no work has been done here since 2009 but in the the lithologies intersected include sheared and quartz veined fourth quarter of 2011 field activities were resumed, firstly by way andesite, argillite shale, granite granodiorite and diorite.
Common of a reintroduction to the local authorities and population.
this alteration phases are limonite, silica, sericite and biotite.
Although was followed by a general reconnaissance of the permit geology the results are only anomalous in gold 0.1g t to 0.8g t, the objective and known targets before a mapping programme was initiated.
at this stage is to identify a continuous zone of anomalism in which the identification of four anomalous corridors will be the focus of follow-up work programmes can be built.
While integrating drill results from the air core programme, work REGIONAL PERMITS will progress on the unexplored targets identified within the permit.
Randgold has a further four permits in northern Cte divoire these targets lie on the continuation of structures which host the totalling 1 900km: Dabakala, Mankono, tiorotieri and Koussai nogbele, stinger and ouahiri deposits of the Banfora project in Burkina faso.
Datekro, where exploration will start in 2012.
