the faraba resource locates along a five kilometre anomalous Senegal corridor and further work will evaluate this structure during 2012.
MASSAWA the Massawa gold project locates within the Kounemba permit in MALI SOUTH eastern senegal which geologically lies within the 150 kilometre in line with its policy of partnering with local stakeholders, long Mako greenstone belt.
the Mako greenstone belt comprises Randgold concluded the nimissila joint venture which covers a mafic-ultramafic and felsic volcanic rocks intruded by granitoids.
A groundholding to the immediate south of Bougouni in the centre regional crustal scale shear zone, the Main transcurrent shear Zone MtZ with a northeast-southwest trend, exploits the lithological of the Mali south area and involves three permits totalling 670km: contact between the Mako and the Dial-Dalma supergroups nimissila 270km, Bogo 150km and Madina 250km.
this and is the host structure to mineralisation at Massawa.
ground is contiguous with Randgolds Dinfola permit.
At Massawa, a total strike length of 8.5 kilometres has been drilled, it is associated with the intersection of a northeast belt parallel but only a 4 kilometre portion of this has been evaluated for the structure and a northwest transfer fault.
Geologically the area is present mineral resource modelling and has been drill tested to underlain by biotite rich sediments which are often shallow dipping a 50 metre by 50 metre spacing to vertical depths of 640 metres.
with numerous small stocks and bosses of granodiorite and shows there are two main zones of mineralisation, northern and Central.
similarities to the setting of the Morila mine.
the geological model they are part of the same northeast trending mineralised structure, is one of intrusion related gold.
it is an area that has seen no which has been offset by northsouth belt discordant structures.
modern exploration with the only previous work being regional soil Geological logging of core and interpretation confirms that the sampling completed 30 years ago.
mineralised system occurs at a volcanic sedimentary contact, where a prominent and continuous lapilli tuff sequence acts as A new regional soil sampling programme has been completed.
the average bedding strikes 020 degrees and the results identify seven regional anomalies with gold values dips 60 to 76 degrees to the west.
Graded-bedding is common above 20 parts per billion ppb.
Multi-element data is pending and suggests the sequence is overturned.
the host sequences and this will be integrated with the gold results to prioritise areas have been intruded by felsic dykes, gabbros and granitic bodies, for follow-up geochemistry in 2012. particularly in the Central area.
Mineralisation is hosted in a variety of rocks including: greywackes, volcaniclastics and both mafic gabbros and felsic intrusives.
the mineralised system is however structurally controlled and deformation is essentially brittleductile.
the alteration assemblage is composed of sericite, silica, carbonate, pyrite and arsenopyrite.
Gold mineralisation formed in two phases: an early phase was composed of fine disseminated pyrite and arsenopyrite while the later stage is a shallow level gold system where quartz-stibnite and a large range of antimonybearing minerals host coarse native gold.
the current measured and indicated resources for the project are 3.18 million ounces at 2.65g t with additional inferred resources of 0.42 million ounces at 3.92g t. Metallurgical results have confirmed that the Massawa deposit is of a refractory nature with sub-microscopic and invisible gold locked up in the crystal lattice of arsenopyrite.
no drilling was completed on the deposit in 2011 to allow time for the full evaluation of the metallurgy and development strategies.
exploration has Annual Report 2011 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | 63
