Chief Executives Review T wo new mines help deliver record production and profit F ifth and largest mine development underway at Kibali F oundation laid for next growth stage In Randgolds planning, 2010 was the year of consolidation which would lay the foundation for a year of growth in 2011.
So it has proved to be, despite some very FORECAST GROUP CONSOLIDATED PRODUCTION substantial operational and developmental challenges.
Reaping the benefit of past investments in growth, notably from our new mines at Tongon and Gounkoto, Randgold posted some significant markers during the year.
These included: Record annual profits with a year-on-year increase of more than 250%.
A fourth-quarter profit which exceeded all previous annual profits.
Record annual production with a year-on-year increase of more than 50%.
Cash growth of 33% despite US$448 million expenditure on capital projects.
The Kibali project was advanced to the brink of development and its scale enlarged.
Production capacity is being increased through the new crusher project at Gounkoto and the third mill expansion at Loulo.
On track for further growth Our flagship Loulo-Gounkoto complex continued to feel the impact of the slower than planned build-up of the feed grade, but benefited greatly from the contribution of Gounkoto which, incidentally, was fast-tracked from discovery to production in just over two years.
The critical issue at Loulo is to step up the ore delivery at the Yalea and Gara underground mines and get started on the construction of backfill plants at both sites.
To achieve this, we have spent much of the past year clarifying our underground strategy and producing a new geotechnical design, as well as a solid plan and schedule for the next two years.
This includes the establishment of footwall drives on every level to create flexibility until the arrival of the backfill material in mid-2013.
In the meantime, 40% of the reserve required to achieve the 2012 plan has already been developed and GROWING OUR BUSINESS PROFITABLY 8 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | Annual Report 2011
