SHORT TERM VS LONG TERM PAY MIX fOR 2012 COMPENSATION PACKAGE AT TARGET AND MAXIMUM PERfORMANCE The mix of short and long term performance-linked remuneration, Executive remuneration under target and maximum performance scenarios, is illustrated in structure Of reMuneratiOn the table above.
Total remuneration is benchmarked against a comparator group of the company and benchmarks each element of its remuneration reMuneratiOn Of Other seniOr executiVes and the total remuneration package in comparison to FTSE 100, The remuneration committee has oversight of remuneration FTSE mining and comparable international gold mining policies for the senior executives below the main board, and applies the principles of transparency, clarity and alignment of companies.
For 2011, the remuneration of the executive directors reward with performance.
To support the alignment of interests with those of shareholders, An annual bonus opportunity with the requirement to defer the company has in the past granted share options to executives one third of any bonus earned.
below the board instead of annual incentives.
A Co-Investment Plan rewarding relative performance over three years subject to investment by the executive.
Having recognised the size and growth of the company, the remuneration committee extended the Restricted Share Scheme Participation in the Restricted Share Scheme, rewarding to executives below the main board.
Awards of restricted shares operational performance over 3, 4 and 5 years, with a further are not made annually, but rather on an ad hoc basis as and one year post-vesting retention requirement.
when new projects or key events warrant it or when new senior executives are recruited.
Further, the remuneration committee is currently considering extending the Co-Investment Plan to senior executives below the main board, in line with the existing rules of the plan.
This will further enhance the link between pay and long term value creation and recognises the significant value the executive team as a whole has created over the years.
fixed remuneration Fixed remuneration comprises only base salary.
No pension contributions are funded by the company.
Fixed remuneration represents less than 30% of each executive directors remuneration package based on target performance and the expected values of share awards.
The relative weight of fixed and variable remuneraation, under target and maximum performance scenarios is illustrated in the the table on the top of the following page.
base salary Base salaries are determined by the remuneration committee, taking into account the performance of the individual.
The company executiVe directOrs reMuneratiOn also benchmarks each element of its remuneration and the total The total executive directors remuneration for the year ended remuneration package in comparison to FTSE 100, FTSE mining 31 December 2011 was US$9 315 356 2010: US$10 284 745. and comparable international gold mining companies.
