Chief Executives Review continued Essentially, Randgold is committed to reducing its reliance on The foundation of future growth fossil fuels, moving down the cost curve in power generation At this time of the year, we publish our latest Annual Resource and at the same time becoming greener.
Tongon has given us and Reserve Declaration see page 72 of this report as well as the experience of working with Cte dIvoires multi-country our updated five-year production forecast, which appears in the graph on page 8. power utility and hydrogeneration at Kibali will be the next step in the development of our new energy platform.
We also In an industry which is struggling to maintain production intend to work with other governments and utilities in West profiles, Randgold can demonstrate its ability to grow output Africa so that we can plan together for the regions future into a rising gold price.
We can do so not in the hope of ounces power requirements.
yet to be bought or discovered but on the back of reserves built up organically by our exploration teams and effectively Focus on sustainability already banked.
Growth in production and profit is not the only requirement for a sustainable mining operation.
A high standard of care for Our production profile shows the effect of rising grades at occupational health and safety as well as the environment is Loulo-Gounkoto as well as the impact Kibali is expected to also essential, and is therefore an integral part of Randgolds have as a long-life, high grade gold mining complex, to stand management systems.
beside Loulo as the future drivers of our growth.
It also indicates that we have moved the Massawa project out to 2016 to give us time to find a power solution for the treatment The Morila joint venture holds both the ISO 14001 of its metallurgically complex ore.
Behind Massawa is a long environment and OHSAS 18001 occupational health and pipeline of constantly evaluated and prioritised targets found safety certifications.
Loulo has an ISO 14001 certification by our exploration teams, traditionally Randgolds main growth and its occupational health and safety system will be drivers.
audited for OHSAS 18001 certification in the first half of 2012.
The environmental and occupational health and safety Driving costs down the curve management systems at Gounkoto and Tongon will also be Production for 2012 is estimated at 825 000 to 865 000 ounces, audited for certification in 2012.
Kibali will be ISO 14001 a 19% increase over 2011 at the lower end of the range, at a certified only after construction has been completed but the total cash cost, after royalties, of less than US$650 oz.
Costs earlier implementation of OHSAS 18001 is being considered remain one of our key concerns, and we plan to drive these in view of the safety risks involved in the construction work.
down to the US$500 oz to US$550 oz range by 2014 through a continuing focus on controls and efficiencies and with the help of rising grades and production.
The commitment to sustainability is also ingrained in our employment policies.
As a matter of principle we employ a Another aspect of this cost reduction drive is our new power very high proportion of local nationals wherever we operate, strategy.
Apart from Tongon, all our operations currently and we insist that our contractors do the same.
have to generate their own power, consuming millions of litres of diesel each month.
At the Loulo power plant, which At Tongon, for example, 328 of our 356 employees are Ivorians, also supplies Gounkoto, medium-speed generators capable many of them from local villages, while the contractors of running on the cheaper heavy fuel oil HFO have been complement of 1 155 includes 1 108 national personnel.
Our installed and the complex is planning to switch to HFO in the other operations have similar profiles.
This emphasis on local course of this year.
Kibalis main power supply will come from employment creates jobs in remote and often deprived areas: run-of-the-river hydrogeneration and we are investigating the more important, it transfers valuable skills which will open up possibility of tying Massawa into one of the hydroprojects planned in Senegal or neighbouring Mali.
future opportunities for these people.
