Remuneration Report continued fIXED VS VARIABLE PAY MIX fOR RANDGOLDS 2012 COMPENSATION PACKAGE AT TARGET AND MAXIMUM PERfORMANCE When setting base salaries, the remuneration committee also Other benefits takes into consideration the requirement for extensive travel Executive directors can elect to receive other benefits including, and time spent at the companys operations in Africa.
This is medical aid and group life insurance, funded out of their base salary.
Where appropriate, executive directors may be provided considered critical to the effective management of the companys with other benefits such as security services while travelling for business.
work and the cost of membership of professional associations.
At 31 December 2011, the annual base salaries of the executive Variable remuneration directors were as follows: Variable remuneration represents the major proportion of each CEO Dr DM Bristow US$1 500 000 executive directors remuneration package.
CFO Mr GP Shuttleworth 390 000 In 2011, variable remuneration of the executive directors comprised: Following a review of all aspects of the remuneration packages of An annual bonus opportunity, coupled with the requirement the executive directors, it has been decided that for a second year to defer a third of bonus earned.
in a row there will again be no increase in the base salary of the Participation in a Co-Investment Plan rewarding performance CEO for 2012. over three years.
Performance shares awarded under the Restricted The remuneration committee reviewed the CFOs remuneration Share Scheme, rewarding performance over 3, 4 and levels and concluded that his basic salary and annual bonus 5 years, with a further one year post-vesting retention potential remain relatively low in the light of his experience and requirement.
contribution to the company as well as in the context of pay for equivalent roles in his peer group and the industry.
The CFOs annual bOnus annual base salary will therefore, increase by 10% to 429 000 The annual bonus plan encourages and rewards superior with effect from 1 January 2012.
This follows an increase of 18% performance on an annual basis.
Executive directors are eligible to last year.
receive an annual bonus, subject to the achievement of stretching performance criteria.
The remuneration committee sought the views of our largest institutional shareholders and voting guidance services before The performance metrics are intended to reward the achievement deciding on the increase.
of challenging strategic and financial targets that contribute to the creation of sustainable shareholder value.
Each year, the retireMent benefits remuneration committee reviews and may make adjustments to Executive directors can elect to sacrifice up to 20% of their base the criteria used for measuring performance taking into account salary to contribute to a defined contribution provident fund.
The the strategic objectives of the company for the year, before the company does not make any further contribution to the fund.
metrics and targets are agreed for the cycle.
Performance is measured against the HSBC Global Gold Index for each tranche of the restricted share awards.
No vesting occurred on 1 January 2011 in respect of Dr DM Bristows shares over the preceding 12 month period, as the companys performance fell below that of the index over the performance period.
However, US$1.2 million is included in the figures above for Dr DM Bristow, in line with the accounting requirements.
Similarly, no vesting occurred on 2 September 2011 in respect of Mr GP Shuttleworths shares over the preceding 12 month period, as the companys performance fell below that of the index over the performance period, however, US$1.1 million is included in the figures above for Mr GP Shuttleworth.
132 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | Annual Report 2011 annual bonuses for executive directors annual bonuses for executive directors CEO CFO The annual bonus for the CEO for 2011 was based on the The annual bonus for the CFO for 2011 was based on the achievement of the following performance criteria: achievement of the following performance criteria: Performance ProPerformance Procriteria Measurement portion criteria Measurement portion Financial Financial performance performance Part A EPS growth 15% Part A EPS growth 15% F inancial Cost per Financial Cost per performance ounce performance ounce Part B of gold sold 15% Part B of gold sold 15% Operational Growth in 3 year Operational Capital Part C average absolute Part C expenditure control 15% reserves 15% Operational Production of Operational Part D gold ounces 15% Part D Inventory control 15% Strategic outputs Individual strategic Strategic outputs Individual strategic Part E outputs as agreed Part E outputs as agreed with the remuneration with the remuneration committee 30% committee 30% S afety Improvement in Safety Improvement in Part F lost time injury Part F LTIFR 10% frequency rate LTIFR 10% The annual bonus payable to the CFO for achieving target The annual bonus payable to the CEO for achieving target performance has been increased from 75% to 100% of base performance will remain unchanged at 150% of base salary.
The maximum bonus payable to the CFO for achieving maximum bonus payable to the CEO for achieving outperformance outperformance has also been increased from 150% to 200% of will also remain unchanged at 300% of base salary.
Both increases will be effective from 1 January 2012 and, as with the CFOs base salary increase, the increased opportunity levels are in recognition of the CFOs increase in experience and relatively low total remuneration compared to his peer group and the industry.
The remuneration committee sought the views of the largest No bonus is payable to executive directors in respect of individual institutional shareholders and voting guidance services before strategic outputs for a level of achievement below 70%.
Notwithstanding the changes made this year, the CFOs target total cash annual base pay annual target bonus opportunity and total direct compensation annual base bonus payments in respect of 2011 pay annual target bonus opportunity expected value of LTIs Based on performance achieved against targets during the continues to be relatively low for equivalent roles in the peer group and the industry.
2011 financial year, the remuneration committee determined that Dr DM Bristow and Mr GP Shuttleworth should receive bonus payments of US$3 096 000 and US$674 861 respectively which amount to 206% of salary and 108% of salary respectively.
CFO CEO The determination of the bonus for the CFO for 2011 took account The determination of the bonus for the CEO for 2011 took account of the following performance metrics: of the following performance criteria: Financial performance EPS for the year was US$4.13 Financial performance EPS for the year was US$4.13 Part A an increase of 262%.
Financial performance Cost per ounce of gold sold was Financial performance Cost per ounce of gold sold was Part B US$716, an increase of 2%.
Operational Capital expenditure was 105% of Operational Growth in 3 year average Part C b udgeted level.
Operational Number of months inventory Operational Production of gold ounces was Part D decreased by 3%.
Strategic outputs Individual strategic outputs as Strategic outputs Individual strategic outputs as Part E agreed with the remuneration Part E a greed with the remuneration committee achieved of 88%.
Safety Improvement in the LTIFR was Safety Improvement in the LTIFR was Part F 18%.
Annual Report 2011 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | 133 CO-INVESTMENT PLAN SUMMARY Remuneration Report continued deferred annual bonuses The deferral of annual bonus encourages and rewards superior performance on a sustained basis.
One third of any annual bonus earned is compulsorily deferred and paid in shares after three years.
Deferred bonuses may be matched under the CoInvestment Plan see below.
and maintaining efficient and safe operations.
The remuneration committee believes that, against that background, success can Deferred bonuses will be subject to claw back in the event of a best be measured by the companys total shareholder return misstatement of the report and accounts on which they were performance against the HSBC Global Gold Index.
Global Gold Index is a  index calculated in US dollars, representing mining companies in 21 countries.
long term incentives for 2011 The company also focuses on longer term value and long term If after 3 years, the TSR performance of the company equals the incentives for executive directors which comprise, on an annual performance of the HSBC Global Gold Index, then the committed basis: shares may be matched on a stepped scale, as shown in the table Participation in a Co-Investment Plan rewarding performance below.
The maximum level of matching is 1 for 1. over three years.
Performance shares awarded under the Restricted Share A level of achievement of 10% compound growth per year above Scheme, rewarding performance over 3,4 and 5 years, with the HSBC Global Gold Index is considered to be a stretching level a further one year post-vesting retention requirement.
of performance and the remuneration committee considers this target to be challenging in the context of the companys historical Awards outstanding under Co-Investment Plan and the Restricted sustained outperformance of the market.
Share Scheme are detailed in the table on page 138.
The companys performance compared with the performance of co-investment plan the HSBC Global Gold Index over the last five years is displayed in Rewards sustained performance relative to global peers over a graph on page 135. a three year period.
The Co-Investment Plan was approved by shareholders in May 2011.
The companys performance compared with the performance of the FTSE 100 over the last five years is displayed in a graph on Each year, one third of any annual bonus earned is compulsorily page 136. deferred and an executive director may also choose to commit further shares to the Co-Investment Plan.
The maximum commitment which may be made in the Co-Investment Plan is 200% of base salary by the CEO and 100% of base salary by the THREE YEAR TSR PERfORMANCE PER ANNUM CFO.
Committed shares must be retained for three years and may be matched, depending on relative TSR performance over three years against the HSBC Global Gold Index.
Level of matching on committed shares In 2011 the CEO committed 38 456 shares to the Co-Investment Plan and was granted a matching award over a maximum of 38 456 awards Awards Awards Compound made made made shares.
The CFO committed 8 121 shares to the Co-Investment growth per annum in 2011 in 2012 in 2013 Plan and was granted a matching award over a maximum of 8 121 shares.
Below the index nil Nil Nil The gold mining industry is capital intensive, cyclical and long term.
Equal to the index 0.5 for 1 0.4 for 1 0.3 for 1 Outstanding performance comes from finding and accessing Index 2% 0.6 for 1 0.52 for 1 0.44 for 1 high quality resources, successfully developing new projects Index 4% 0.7 for 1 0.64 for 1 0.58 for 1 Index 6% 0.8 for 1 0.76 for 1 0.72 for 1 Index 8% 0.9 for 1 0.88 for 1 0.86 for 1 Index 10%, or higher 1 for 1 1 for 1 1 for 1 134 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | Annual Report 2011 VESTING Of RESTRICTED SHARE SCHEME The award of performance shares under the Restricted Share Scheme for the CEO and the CFO for 2011 will vest subject to the achievement of the following performance targets: Level of vesting Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 additional reserves including reserve restricted share scheme replacement Each year, awards of performance shares are made under the Less than Less than Less than Restricted Share Scheme, which was approved by shareholders in Nil 18% 24% 30% July 2008.
Awards are determined as a percentage of base salary, 50% 18% 24% 30% with the maximum annual award being 200% of base salary for the 100% 30% 40% 50% CEO and 100% of base salary by the CFO.
absolute reserves Awards vest after 3, 4 and 5 years subject to the achievement excluding reserve of operational and financial targets.
Four separate measures of replacement business growth are used, each weighted 25%: Less than Less than Less than Additional reserves including reserve replacement Nil 3% 4% 5% Absolute reserves excluding reserve replacement 50% 3% 4% 5% EPS growth Absolute TSR 100% 15% 20% 25% The performance measures for the Restricted Share Scheme have all been selected on the basis that they are among the companys key performance indicators and drive shareholder value.
The Level of remuneration committee also believes that executive directors vesting After 3, 4 and 5 years should be focused on delivering absolute returns to shareholders and hence the vesting of some of the shares is linked to this.
eps growth Nil Less than 20% per annum The remuneration committee also believes that the performance 50% 20% per annum necessary for awards to vest towards the upper end of these ranges is stretching.
They should not, therefore, be interpreted as 100% 30% per annum providing guidance on the groups expected performance over the relevant periods.
Each year, when considering new awards under absolute tsr the scheme, the remuneration committee will review and may Nil Less than 8% per annum make adjustments to the metrics and targets which the vesting of 50% 8% per annum new awards granted under the Restricted Share Scheme will be subject to, prior to the grant of such awards taking into account 100% 12% per annum the strategic objectives of the company for the relevant periods.
The metrics and targets will remain unchanged for 2012.
EPS growth will be measured as a cumulative compound annual growth rate over each 3, 4 and 5 year performance period.
HISTORICAL TSR PERfORMANCE GROWTH IN THE VALUE Of A HYPOTHETICAL US$100 HOLDING SINCE DECEMBER 2006 HSBC GLOBAL GOLD INDEX US$ COMPARISON BASED ON 30 TRADING DAY AVERAGE VALUES Annual Report 2011 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | 135
