AUDITORS fEES US$ 2011 2010 reason to believe that the group and company will not be a going concern in the foreseeable future based on forecasts and available Audit services 598 519 729 318 cash resources.
The viability of the company and the group is Non-audit services - - supported by the Annual Financial Statements.
The group has operated a code of ethics, which has recently been updated, since its United Kingdom listing in July 1997.
The code the framework of the detailed audit committees terms of reference.
includes specific reference to the companys financial managers The audit committee has implemented a policy that non-audit and the chief executive officer.
A copy of the revised code is services may not be provided by the external auditors.
available on the companys website www.
The audit committee has also agreed that going forward External audit there will be a tender process for external audit services The groups external auditors are BDO LLP and the audit committee at least every five years.
A copy of the audit committees monitors the external auditors independence and the objectivity terms of reference is available on the companys website and effectiveness of the audit process.
This is undertaken within www.
KEY ITEMS DISCUSSED IN 2011 Key audit committee agenda items discussed during 2011 included the following: Meeting Items discussed January 2010 annual and fourth quarter preliminary results announcement Accounting policies and recent accounting pronouncements External audit report Non-audit services policy Risk factors, Sox and litigation reports Internal audit strategy March Approval of the Annual Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 Approval of the Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended 31 December 2010 May First quarter results announcement External audit report Policy for tender of the role of external auditors after five years Risk factors, Sox and litigation reports Treasury policy update Internal audit update Capital expenditure process review from internal audit august Second quarter results announcement Risk factors, Sox and litigation reports Risk management update and risk review OctOber Third quarter results announcement Risk factors, Sox and litigation reports External audit planning and engagement External audit partner rotation Annual Report 2011 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | 115
