Massawa Gold Project continued The Massawa project is located approximately 700 kilometres south east of the capital city of Dakar and some 90 kilometres due west of Randgolds Loulo mine in Mali.
Randgold owns 83.25% of the project with a local company holding 6.75%.
The State of Senegal will have a non-contributory 10% share of any mine developed on the property.
In 2011, the further advancement of the Massawa project Prefeasibility study continued with an emphasis on ongoing exploration.
A decision The initial prefeasibility study completed on the open pit mineral was taken during the year to delay the finalisation of the feasibility reserves in 2010 has been updated using a reserve gold price of study, and to focus instead on two key aspects of enhancing the US$1 000 oz, a resource price of US$1 500 oz and 2011 input projects economics: namely, the refractory nature of the ore and costs.
In this regard, work on the analysis of the ore characterisation was completed and a definitive power strategy has been developed.
The financial analysis of the project The ore at Massawa is refractory in nature and there are two distinct was updated on the back of new reserves and resources.
metallurgical domains that correlate well with the mineralisation styles identified.
Gold mineralisation formed in two phases: an Mineral resources and ore reserves early phase composed of fine disseminated pyrite and arsenopyrite Massawa lies within the Kedougou-Kenieba erosional inlier which is while the later stage is a shallow level gold system where quartzunderlain by Lower Proterozoic Birimian  stibnite and a large range of antimony-bearing minerals host sequences.
Regionally it is located on the plus 150 kilometre long northeast southwest trending Main Transcurrent Shear Zone coarse native gold.
The late high grade domain contains 66% free which is a significant transcrustal dislocation between the Mako gold, with the remainder being contained within sulphide.
The Supergroup basaltic flow rocks, minor intercalated volcaniclastics, broader disseminated sulphide domain has minimal free gold with and ultramafic sub-volcanic intrusions and the Diale-Dalema the majority of gold encapsulated in the pyrite and arsenopyrite Supergroup volcano-sedimentary to sedimentary rocks within sulphide lattice.
For both styles the refractory gold is a major the Kedougou-Kenieba inlier.
Mineralisation at Massawa locates in component of the deportment and this gold will be recoverable various lithologies but is structurally controlled within anastomosing only by means of a preoxidative step.
shears which converge to the north.
Underground mineral resources are those insitu mineral resources below the US$1 500 oz pit shell of the North 2 deposit reported at a 2.0g t cut-off.
Mineral resources were generated by Mr Babacar Diouf, an officer of the company and competent person.
Open pit mineral reserves are reported at a gold price of US$1 000 oz and 1.1g t cut-off and include dilution and ore loss factors.
Open pit mineral reserves were calculated by Mr Onno ten Brinke, in his capacity as an independent consultant, and reviewed by Mr Rodney Quick, an officer of the company and competent person.
Attributable gold Moz refers to the quantity attributable to Randgold based on Randgolds 83% interest in the Massawa gold project.
See comments and US disclaimer on page 74 of this Annual Report.
