Morila Gold Mine continued The Morila mine is situated 280 kilometres south east of Bamako, the capital of Mali.
The mine is a joint venture between Randgold 40%, AngloGold Ashanti 40% and the State of Mali 20%.
Randgold has been operating Morila since February 2008.
Under its stewardship the mine was successfully converted from open pit mining to a stockpile treatment operation during 2009.
The Morila mine produced 248 635 ounces of gold during 2011 and Rehandling Services MARS, a subsidiary of Dragages & at a total cash cost of US$782 oz which included a stockpile Travaux Publics DTP, is conducting the rehandling activities.
Profit from mining increased by 48% year on year to US$197.6 million attributable: US$79.1 million PROCessing and the success of this operation was once again reflected in the The plant was upgraded in 2004 to treat 360 000 tonnes per month dividend of US$190 million which was distributed to shareholders.
4.3Mtpa and by the end of 2011, through a process of efficiency initiatives, throughput had increased to 4.55Mtpa.
In spite of low Morila was originally planned to close during 2013 but with the successful completion of the feasibility study into the treatment of grade ore being treated since the move to processing the lower mineralised waste and tailings, the operation is now expected to grade stockpiles in the second quarter of 2009, good gold recoveries continue up to 2021. have been consistently achieved due to improved oxygen plant availability, effective control of the leach parameters, the increase in Rehabilitation activities on waste rock stockpiles were completed the gravity recovery and the oxygenation system upgrade.
and a total of 44 hectares were rehabilitated during the year.
engineeRing Mineral resources and ore reserves The management team had another excellent year.
Engineering As the open pit mining has been completed, the Morila mineral resources and reserves comprise only the ore stockpiles to be availability remained high at 93.2% despite some unplanned rehandled for the rest of the mine life.
The inferred resources downtime associated with the SAG mill gearbox changeover in are made up of 2.05Mt at 0.79g t of mineralised waste MW and October and November.
Ongoing maintenance has continued 42.43Mt at 0.45g t of Tailings Storage Facility TSF materials.
including installing additional fuel lines to reduce downtimes and permit annual cleaning of fuel lines.
Refurbishment of the secondary Operations crushers was undertaken to replace the main shafts and top shell ReHAnDling assemblies.
Planned maintenance using the Pragma system helped In April 2009, Morila management successfully converted the mine from an open pit operation to a stockpile treatment facility.
Mining to further enhance the maintenance programme.
Ore stockpiles resources are reported at a US$1 500 oz gold price and reported at a 0.57g t cut-off.
TSF resources are reported at a US$1 500 oz gold price and reported at a 0.19g t cut-off.
Mineral resources were generated by Mr Adama Kone, an officer of the company, under the supervision of Mr Jonathan Kleynhans, an officer of the company and competent person.
Stockpile mineral reserves are reported at a US$1 000 oz gold price and reported at a 0.88g t cut-off.
Stockpile mineral reserves were calculated by Mr Stephen Ndede, an officer of the company and competent person.
Attributable gold Moz refers to the quantity attributable to Randgold based on Randgolds 40% interest in the Morila gold mine.
See comments and US disclaimer on page 74 of this Annual Report.
