the rest is expected to be exposed by the middle of the year.
It is The final development plan has been signed off by the Randgold also encouraging to note there have been material improvements board and has now been presented to the investment committee in availability and throughput rates in the plant, which augur well for of the board of our joint venture partners, AngloGold Ashanti.
the intended increase to 4 million tonnes per annum once the mill In the meantime, the Kibali joint venture board has approved expansion is complete.
the expenditure of US$80 million over the next three months to maintain the projects impressive momentum.
Looking ahead, despite some disappointments, the LouloGounkoto complex still offers everything we expected it to deliver: The plan envisages a two-year first phase which will see the start a rising grade, a higher throughput and a consequent increase in of open pit mining and the completion of the metallurgical plant, gold production to more than 600 000 ounces per year, with real one hydropower station and the back-up thermal station, the cash costs decreasing to the US$500 oz to US$550 oz level.
tailings storage facility, all shared infrastructure and the relocation programme.
The second phase will run concurrently with the first Tongon did very well in the first six months of the year but but will extend over four years, focusing mainly on the underground stuttered in the latter half when issues related to the completion development and the remaining hydropower stations.
This is of the construction programme and the difficulty of mining through expected to bring the underground into production by the end of and feeding widely variable transitional ore were exacerbated by 2014, with steady state achieved a year later.
the failure of the mill girth gear.
Throughput is now back up to the specified level but there is still some way to go to optimise Since we acquired Kibali, then known as Moto, just over two years the flotation and other circuits.
The difficulties Tongon has ago, we have moved quickly to optimise and advance the project.
In experienced in no way diminish the teams enormous achievement addition to substantially increasing its scale, we have obtained the in successfully commissioning the mine, and producing more than local communitys buy-in for the extensive relocation programme 250 000 ounces of gold for the year, in a complex socio-political two of the 14 affected villages have already been resettled in the environment.
model village of Kokiza created a road network which includes a link to international ports, acquired four hydropower licences, In its current incarnation as a rock treatment business, Morila ordered the long-lead items, selected the contractors and finalised had another stellar year, increasing its production, passing the the operational strategies.
With the groundwork done, everything 6 million ounce mark in total output and achieving zero lost time is now in place for us to start building what is expected to be one injuries.
The Morila team has proposed a number of options of the largest gold mines in Africa.
for increasing the operations life, including the processing of the tailings dumps, which has been approved by the board.
A project for establishing a sustainable agribusiness for the local communitys benefit after Morilas eventual closure is far advanced.
All systems go for Kibali It has been a year of rapid progress for Kibali, where preparatory work has been completed and construction is underway.
The updated feasibility study completed at the beginning of 2012 doubled the reserve and pointed to a much larger operation than originally envisaged, with five open pits, one underground mine, a 6 million tonne per annum processing plant and four hydropower stations, backed up by a thermal power station.
First gold is scheduled for the end of next year.
