The governance and nomination committee reviewed the Diversity experience and contributions of existing board members The board confirms its commitment to the advancement of women and agreed that a candidate be sought with the necessary on the board itself and within the company and its operations in independent financial and international market experience.
Accordingly, the committee sought to identify potential candidates who met the identified specifications.
Given the criteria The board in its role as overseer of an African focused gold mining identified by the board in determining the requirements needed by company realises that gender is just one aspect of diversity that it a candidate, it was decided not to make use of a search agency or has to address.
Operating in deeply rural areas of Africa means to advertise the position.
After consideration of several candidates, that the company has the challenge of uplifting the communities and following an interview process led by the chairman, directly affected by the respective mining projects, as well as the Mr AJ Quinn was proposed as a prospective candidate.
inhabitants of the countries in which the mines are located.
In Mr Quinn was invited to join the board at its October addition, the company is cognisant of the fact that many of the meeting held at the Tongon gold mine.
The majority of societies in which it operates are highly patriarchal and thus the directors met Mr Quinn over the period leading up to his policy of recruiting local women requires an attitudinal shift.
Mr Quinn made a presentation to the board as has become the practice when a person is formally considered Our employment policy is centred firstly on local community for nomination.
At the same time Mr Quinn had the opportunity recruitment, followed by suitable candidates nationally, then to interact with representatives from some of the companys by regional selection and only if the skills cannot be sourced in major shareholders who were visiting Tongon.
Mr Quinn this manner does the company recruit on an expatriate basis.
was duly appointed to the board on 1 November 2011.
A Its success rate in ensuring that suitable candidates are able to biography of Mr Quinn appears on page 5 of this report.
In operate effectively requires an active programme of mentoring.
In conjunction with the rest of the board and in compliance with addition, Randgolds existing mines are used as training grounds the companys articles, Mr Quinn will be subject to election at for new staff joining other operations.
The Morila mine has served the companys next AGM.
as a shining example of the success of this process with plant personnel from both the Loulo and Tongon mines being trained All members of the board have letters of appointment which will be on an operating plant facility ahead of their relocation to their available for inspection at the companys registered office and at permanent place of employment.
The success of this diversity programme can be seen in the fact At its November meeting, the committee reviewed the key policies that the company operates branch offices in Mali, Senegal, Burkina and charters within the group.
The board charter along with the Faso, Cte dIvoire and the Democratic Republic of Congo and in terms of reference of the board committees are published on each of these, the country manager is a local citizen, with only one the companys website.
All key group policies were reviewed at being a new recruit, having joined following the Moto acquisition.
the November board meeting and, where it was felt necessary, Similarly the executive committee includes five mine managers, of amendments made.
whom four are nationals, and totals 24 persons, two being women and eight being West or Central Africans.
It was agreed that in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code all directors would stand for re-election at each Operational restructuring in 2010 saw the appointment of two new future AGM.
The West African operating officer was Annual Report 2011 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | 141
