Economic development: Growing together Mining has a potentially huge contribution to make to sustainable economic development through the creation of jobs and prosperity and the payment of taxes and royalties.
By creating value for stakeholders we benefit as a business and grow together with the countries in which we operate.
The industry also plays an important role in the creation of secondary businesses, the development of infrastructure and the transfer of technical skills.
We believe that less developed countries derive great benefit from the presence of responsible, world-class companies and we hope that our success will encourage other leading global companies to invest there.
This section gives a consolidated picture of the economic value contributed by Randgold in 2011, including taxes, duties, and dividends paid to governments and We hope that our investment in countries through local community budgets, infrastructure and other benefits.
It also sets out our current approach to engaging with local suppliers and success will encourage partners for mutual economic benefit.
other leading global our approaCh companies to invest.
Our philosophy of partnership with the African countries in which we operate means that all our projects are geared towards mutual benefits.
As well as driving profits for the company and tax revenues for our host countries, Randgolds mining projects create a series of local economic benefits including employment, revenue for local businesses and funding for community development projects.
Our aim is to build capacity in the countries where we operate, and we hope we can play a part in kick-starting national economies using mineral wealth.
We also understand the risks involved in African investments and all our projects are preceded by a qualitative assessment combining governance, geological prospectivity, commercial infrastructure, environmental and social as well as other potential country risks.
Where possible we work with governments and international agencies such as USAID to ensure that as much social tax proceeds as possible return to those local communities most affected by our mines.
82 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | Annual Report 2011 In Mali we have contributed more than US$1 billion dollars to the Treasury through taxes and other payments.
Our procurement policy is to form mutually beneficial relationships In Mali, where our oldest mines exist, we have now contributed with the best local suppliers.
This enables us to build trust on more than US$1 billion dollars to the Treasury through taxes and the ground and also learn more about the business culture of the other payments.
In the case of the Morila mine, the State of Mali countries where we are operating.
has received almost twice as much as have either of the joint venture partners.
our perforManCe The economic value statement and graph below show how our Wherever possible and feasible, we procure goods and services policy of creating value for all stakeholders has translated this from local suppliers.
By doing so, Randgold stimulates the local year into more than US$167 million in taxation and dividend economy.
Our main supplier of hydrocarbons in Mali and Cte payments to host governments attributable portion, and more dIvoire is Ben & Co Holdings, which has become one of the biggest than US$18.6 million in direct community investment attributable fuel delivery businesses in the region.
In 2011, several small and portion.
medium size steel and tank manufacturers were identified within Cte dIvoire and use of these for sourcing construction materials The information in the economic value statement below has been is actively pursued.
During 2011, Tongon spent US$52.4 million extracted from the financial statements and underlying accounting or one out of each six dollars of its total costs on local suppliers of records, except as stated.
However, this non-GAAP information goods and services.
Where local suppliers are not able to meet is intended to summarise the overall contribution of the group our needs we encourage international service providers to partner to its stakeholders and is not intended to replace or provide an with leading African companies and pass on their expertise.
So alternative to the IFRS financial statements.
we invited multinational supply chain managers to work with our logistics partners Multilog formerly Afrilog to train their employees in stock control mechanisms.
ECONOMIC VALUE STATEMENT developinG new infraStruCture As a gold mining company, we are frequently the major catalysts for the year ended 31 Dec behind some vital infrastructure projects in the countries where US$000 2011 2010 we operate.
These include power stations, roads, electrical lines, water and sanitation.
Improved infrastructure provides the necessary foundation to supply our mines as well as driving attributable portion economic growth for local communities.
economic value generated Gold sales 1 127 086 484 553 Our strategy is to leverage the sustainable development benefits of Interest received 1 015 1 304 Profit from sale of assets - 19 300 these investments as much as possible.
For example, a key focus Sundry income 4 360 3 333 for national energy policy in the DRC is the construction of hydroGovernment portion of Morila electric power stations throughout the country.
These will increase dividends 50% 19 000 13 500 Total economic value generated 1 151 461 521 990 economic value distributed TOTAL TAXES AND DIVIDENDS TO hOST COUNTRIES or to be distributed Operating costs 367 306 217 669 Exploration and corporate expenditure 43 925 47 178 Finance costs 3 597 5 270 Employee salaries, wages and other benefits 66 324 45 723 Sundry 3 231 6 697 Payments to providers of capital Dividends 18 221 15 346 Payments to governments C orporate tax, salary taxes, custom duties, dividends, etc.
167 351 77 030 Community investment 18 641 963 total economic value distributed or to be distributed 688 596 415 876 economic value retained and re-invested 462 865 106 114 This amount represents 50% of the dividends paid to the State of Mali, and is also included Payments to Government.
The State of Malis attributable portion of the Morila operation is not included in the Randgold financial statements.
