Executives Profiles Tahirou Ballo Paul Gillot Mine manager Gounkoto Group metallurgist and deputy GM capital projects Paul has 22 years operational and management experience in the A mining economist engineer with 18 years experience, mainly mining industry, working in various process related management in Mali.
Has started his professional mining experience as roles.
Subsequently moved into the projects arena, with the short planner with BHP at Syama mine and served as mining recent commissioning of the Tongon mine.
Responsible for all the superintendent from 1999 for Randgold at Syama.
In 2010, was groups metallurgical activities, at the operating mines as well as promoted to operations manager for Randgold at Loulo mine and the projects.
then to Gounkoto general manager in 2011.
Paul Harbidge Chiaka Berthe Group GM exploration GM Loulo A geologist with over 19 years experience, mainly in Africa, having A graduate of Malian National School of Engineering with a previously worked for Rio Tinto, Anglo American and Ashanti masters degree in Geological Engineering, he has more than 15 Goldfields, he joined Randgold in 2001.
He was appointed group exploration manager in 2004. years experience in the industry.
Was appointed general manager of the Loulo-Gounkoto mining complex in 2012.
Is a member of Bill Houston the Australian Institute of Mine and Metallurgy AusIMM and the Group GM human capital Geostatistical Association of South Africa GASA.
Has a masters degree in human resources management and 31 years experience in HR and organisational development.
Luiz Correia Joined Randgold in 1992 as group training and development GM Tongon manager, and headed the group human resources function from A metallurgist with 26 years experience in the gold mining 1996 to 2008, when he moved to his current position.
industry, he has a BSc Eng as well as a BCom degree.
He joined Willem Jacobs Randgold in 2005 and in 2006 was appointed operations manager GM operations Central and East Africa responsible for the mining, planning, processing, maintenance With a BPL Hons and DCom, he is a seasoned executive.
Having and engineering functions at Loulo.
He was appointed to manage served as a director of listed and private companies in the areas Tongon in 2010. of mining, engineering and manufacturing in Southern, Central and Eastern Africa for the past 16 years, he joined the group in Ted fide Villiers January 2010.
Group GM mining A mining engineer, he has extensive experience in gold and base Adama Kone metal mining operations, mining contracting and consulting.
He GM Morila Joined Randgold in 1996 responsible for the grade control section joined Randgold in December 2010, with executive responsibility at the Syama gold mine.
In 2000, he moved to the Morila mine for the groups rapidly expanding mining operations and has been where he served in various positions in the mineral resources tasked with ensuring a consistent production stream.
department, becoming manager of that department in 2006.
Prior to joining Randgold, he worked as a field geologist for BHP Minerals Tania fide Welzim Exploration, following the completion of a geological degree at the Group financial manager National School of Engineers in 1991.
Tania was appointed group financial manager in April 2009 having served previously as group financial controller.
She is a chartered Victor Matfield accountant with 13 years experience in finance including 11 years Group GM corporate finance in the mining industry.
She is responsible for the groups financial A chartered accountant, he was appointed corporate finance manager in 2001.
Prior to that he served as financial manager of reporting and procedures.
the Syama mine and of the Morila project.
David Haddon Philip Pretorius General counsel and secretary Group human resources executive Qualified as an attorney in 1984.
He has overseen the administrative Joined Randgold in 2008, bringing with him 22 years human obligations of Randgold since its incorporation and assumed resources experience with the last 17 years spent dealing secretarial responsibility when it listed on the London Stock Exchange exclusively with the West African gold mining industry.
This continued with the subsequent listing on Nasdaq and postgraduate diploma in management practice, he has been for the various corporate and related activities since then.
involved in establishing various gold mining projects in West Africa.
14 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | Annual Report 2011 Chris Prinsloo Lois Wark Group GM commercial and supply chain Group GM corporate communications Qualified as a chartered secretary and has 38 years experience A member of the Randgold team since its inception who assumed in the mining industry including finance, capital projects, management of the cartography department in 1995, she is administration and supply chain management.
Appointed as responsible for the coordination of the groups communication and commercial manager in 2002, responsible for group accounting, investor relations programmes as well as for the management of supply chain management plus the risk management and Seven Bridges.
She holds a diploma in land surveying: Cadastral insurance portfolio.
Rod Quick Louis Watum Group GM evaluation GM Kibali gold project and country manager DRC A geologist with 18 years experience in the gold mining industry, he A metallurgist with 22 years experience in base metals, coal and joined Randgold in 1996.
He has been involved in the exploration, gold processing, he has an MSc in Chemical Engineering.
He evaluation and production phases of the Morila, Loulo and joined Randgold in 2009 and was appointed GM and country Tongon projects.
Having served as the Somilo resource manager manager responsible for: Building and leading the Kibali team: since 2006, he was given his new responsibilities for all project communicating with the DRC government and local authorities: development and evaluation in 2009 and has been responsible for directing and managing Kibali business: and delivering on the Gounkoto and Kibali feasibility studies.
strategies, objectives and the Kibali business plan.
Mahamadou Sam Samak Charles Wells Group regional manager West Africa Group GM sustainability A professor of company law at the University of Mali, Mahamadou Has an MSc in Environmental Biotechnology and 14 years was instrumental in writing the Malian mining legislation.
He is experience in environmental management, predominantly the resident executive manager in Mali and is responsible for within mining and heavy industries.
Having previously worked government liaison and legal counsel for the Francophone region.
for Randgold as the environmental officer during the Morila construction, he has more recently managed the environmental Ngolo Sanogo and social impact assessments ESIA for Tongon, Gounkoto and GM Mali Kibali as an independent environmental consultant before rejoining Has a masters degree in economics from the National School the group.
of Administration of Bamako as well as several management, accounting and financial qualifications.
Qualified as an auditor Martin Welsh in 1992 before joining BHP Mali in 1995.
Appointed materials General counsel and secretary designate manager in 1998 and management accountant in 2001 at the After qualifying as a solicitor in Scotland in 1998, he gained his Syama mine.
Following the sale of Somisy SA in 2004, joined experience working in the City of London with Dickson Minto WS Randgold as Mali financial controller.
He was appointed Mali and Linklaters LLP acting on numerous international corporate general manager in March 2009. and finance transactions before laterally joining the Jersey office of Ogier where he acted for Randgold.
He joined Randgold in John Steele 2011 to assist the companys legal and administrative function Technical and capital projects executive and will assume the company secretary position with effect from Responsible for the successful construction and commissioning 1 April 2012. of Randgolds Morila, Loulo, Tongon and Gounkoto mines and currently leads the team developing the new Kibali mine in DRC.
As well as heading the capital projects function within Randgold, he continues to provide operational oversight as well as supplying engineering due diligence expertise to the group.
Samba Toure GM operations West Africa Joined Morila gold mine in 2000 and held various responsibilities, culminating in the appointment in 2007 as the mine chief executive.
Under his leadership, the mine was run successfully, delivering on its promises.
In 2010, promoted to group operations GM for West Africa.
With the experience gained in mining during the past 12 years, he is destined to continue adding value to the companys increasing operations portfolio in West Africa.
