the faraba resource locates along a five kilometre anomalous Senegal corridor and further work will evaluate this structure during 2012.
MASSAWA the Massawa gold project locates within the Kounemba permit in MALI SOUTH eastern senegal which geologically lies within the 150 kilometre in line with its policy of partnering with local stakeholders, long Mako greenstone belt.
the Mako greenstone belt comprises Randgold concluded the nimissila joint venture which covers a mafic-ultramafic and felsic volcanic rocks intruded by granitoids.
A groundholding to the immediate south of Bougouni in the centre regional crustal scale shear zone, the Main transcurrent shear Zone MtZ with a northeast-southwest trend, exploits the lithological of the Mali south area and involves three permits totalling 670km: contact between the Mako and the Dial-Dalma supergroups nimissila 270km, Bogo 150km and Madina 250km.
this and is the host structure to mineralisation at Massawa.
ground is contiguous with Randgolds Dinfola permit.
At Massawa, a total strike length of 8.5 kilometres has been drilled, it is associated with the intersection of a northeast belt parallel but only a 4 kilometre portion of this has been evaluated for the structure and a northwest transfer fault.
Geologically the area is present mineral resource modelling and has been drill tested to underlain by biotite rich sediments which are often shallow dipping a 50 metre by 50 metre spacing to vertical depths of 640 metres.
with numerous small stocks and bosses of granodiorite and shows there are two main zones of mineralisation, northern and Central.
similarities to the setting of the Morila mine.
the geological model they are part of the same northeast trending mineralised structure, is one of intrusion related gold.
it is an area that has seen no which has been offset by northsouth belt discordant structures.
modern exploration with the only previous work being regional soil Geological logging of core and interpretation confirms that the sampling completed 30 years ago.
mineralised system occurs at a volcanic sedimentary contact, where a prominent and continuous lapilli tuff sequence acts as A new regional soil sampling programme has been completed.
the average bedding strikes 020 degrees and the results identify seven regional anomalies with gold values dips 60 to 76 degrees to the west.
Graded-bedding is common above 20 parts per billion ppb.
Multi-element data is pending and suggests the sequence is overturned.
the host sequences and this will be integrated with the gold results to prioritise areas have been intruded by felsic dykes, gabbros and granitic bodies, for follow-up geochemistry in 2012. particularly in the Central area.
Mineralisation is hosted in a variety of rocks including: greywackes, volcaniclastics and both mafic gabbros and felsic intrusives.
the mineralised system is however structurally controlled and deformation is essentially brittleductile.
the alteration assemblage is composed of sericite, silica, carbonate, pyrite and arsenopyrite.
Gold mineralisation formed in two phases: an early phase was composed of fine disseminated pyrite and arsenopyrite while the later stage is a shallow level gold system where quartz-stibnite and a large range of antimonybearing minerals host coarse native gold.
the current measured and indicated resources for the project are 3.18 million ounces at 2.65g t with additional inferred resources of 0.42 million ounces at 3.92g t. Metallurgical results have confirmed that the Massawa deposit is of a refractory nature with sub-microscopic and invisible gold locked up in the crystal lattice of arsenopyrite.
no drilling was completed on the deposit in 2011 to allow time for the full evaluation of the metallurgy and development strategies.
exploration has Annual Report 2011 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | 63 Exploration review continued concentrated on the evaluation of satellite deposits to provide Manja Manja is located in the northsouth sabodala corridor 14 kilometres 2 million ounces of non-refractory material to supplement the ore northwest of Massawa and approximately 13 kilometres southeast feed from Massawa.
An anomalous structural pattern characterised by northeast structures interplaying with northsouth and northwest Satellite targets structures, it is host to a 5 kilometre by 4 kilometre plus 50ppb gold A Geographic information systems Gis prospectivity analysis in soil anomaly.
five RAB lines were completed over a 2.2 kilometre was completed for the Mako Belt.
the analysis was based on strike length.
the lithologies intersected include gossanous tuffs the current model for Massawa which includes lithological units intercalated with mafic volcanic units which have been intruded of contrasting competencies along a major fluid pathway such as by felsic dykes.
the RAB drill results outline a broad altered and the MtZ.
several other such fluid pathways were identified using low grade anomalous zone including: MJRAB011 - 18 metres at the airborne geophysical electromagnetic data.
the exercise 0.55g t: MJRAB74 - 12 metres at 0.57g t: MJRAB75 - 39 metres delineated several new untested targets, three of which ranked at 0.21g t: MJRAB76 - 33 metres at 0.23g t: and MJRAB77 - very highly.
36 metres at 0.20g t. RC drilling was completed towards the end of 2010 and the in the final quarter of 2011 a further phase of 7 000 metres of RAB beginning of 2011 over the priority targets of sofia, Delya, Bakan drilling was completed testing four targets along the MtZ.
the modelling of geology, structure, alteration and gold assay results identified the potential Samina for 3 million ounces but at a low grade of 0.87g t. Preliminary samina locates in the 10 kilometre long corridor between Massawa metallurgical bottle roll testwork returned good recoveries in the and Delya along the MtZ.
soil sampling defined several northeast range of 75% to 97%, apart from Delya which returned 40% and trending gold in soil anomalies.
the main trend coincides with has a similar refractory nature to Massawa.
While the grade is low the Massawa structure 2.6 kilometres long to the west and with the Delya structure 2 kilometres long to the east.
the target is the results support the prospectivity of the region.
underlain by a large package of volcaniclastics and andesitic tuffs intruded by gabbro in the west and silicified rocks chert and subsequently a Rotary Air Blast RAB programme was completed gossan bands in the east which correlate with the soil anomaly on on the next level of targets in the resource triangle: sofia south, the Delya structure.
Detailed geological and structural mapping Manja, Galama, sira and Makana east.
combined with a rock sampling has been completed.
Phase 1 RAB drilling has started with 10 RAB lines spaced 0.5 to 1 kilometre Sofia South apart for 2 700 metres.
Gold assay results are pending.
located within the sabodala corridor 10 kilometres west of Massawa, sofia south is the southern extension of the sofia Kaya-Kaldou corridor target.
it is defined by a plus 3.5 kilometre long discontinuous Kaya-Kaldou forms a 9.5 kilometre long corridor along the MtZ northeast trending soil anomaly with values up to 1 000ppb.
the and hosts a strong linear gold in soil anomaly of plus 50ppb that geology is composed of andesitic tuff, volcano sediments, felsic is so far untested by drilling.
A detailed geological and structural intrusives and deformed and altered gabbro with disseminated map has been completed and highlights a wide package of pyrite.
four widely spaced 800 to 1 400 metres RAB lines volcaniclastics to the west and greywackes alternating with pelites totalling 4 160 metres were completed to follow the southern to the east, a setting similar to that of Massawa.
continuity of the sofia main structure.
Gold assay results returned encouraging intersections: ssRAB008 - 27 metres at 3.86g t Phase 1 RAB drilling was completed by the end of 2011 with a including 3 metres at 28.8g t: ssRAB009 - 27 metres at 0.28g t: total of 3 700 metres drilled over five lines.
Gold assay results ssRAB011 - 12 metres at 0.23g t: and ssRAB045 - 6 metres at outline two parallel, broad anomalous envelopes in the grade 1.48g t including 3 metres at 2.85g t. follow-up drilling will be range of 0.2g t to 1g t between 30 and 100 metres within the volcaniclastics package.
these results are being integrated with completed in 2012.
