Report of the Governance and Nomination Committee continued Women in Randgold Randgold is an equal opportunity company focused on developing local African skills through tertiary and on the job training and development as well as preferentially partnering with local businesses.
Our recruitment strategy hinges on the principle of local in-country recruitment as a priority.
Only where suitable skills are not available locally will we recruit first from other African countries and then, as a last resort, from other an internal promotion of the former Morila mine general manager, non-African sources.
ranking him and the group regional manager West Africa as the groups two most senior national executives.
As with our drive to build local national managers and executives we also have made progress in developing Succession planning women in our various management teams.
We have a The committee continued to review the companys succession number of women in key executive and senior managerial planning procedure.
During the year the committee held positions and this includes several national women who discussions with the CEO about succession planning for his hold key positions on our mine management teams.
The committee considered the job description of Similarly we continue to make progress in introducing the CEO and reviewed the natural resources market, analysing women into positions which traditionally have been male where external candidates could be sourced.
Similarly, given the domains and this constitutes a major advance in the chairmans length of service the committee has started a process patriarchal societies of West and Central Africa.
of reviewing the succession planning parameters for this position.
Likewise, in conjunction with the CEO, discussions were held regarding those internal staff members whom the committee felt had the necessary expertise to fill the CEO position on a short or long term basis.
The committee looks at succession planning further down the organisation and in this regard the CEO presented the committee with his current succession plans for his senior executives, indicating where successors to key positions could be sourced.
The committee was encouraged to find that in most instances succession was available internally.
The committee believes that the process of having senior executives attend board meetings and make specific presentations to the directors provided a reference point against which to measure senior management.
In addition, with the board visiting the various operations, directors had the opportunity to see senior management operating in their own environment.
