REMUNERATION STRUCTURE SUMMARY continued Element Policy Details shareExecutive directors are required to build Both the CEO and CFO hold more than 200% of hOlding and retain a minimum shareholding of base salary in the companys shares.
pOlicy 200% of base salary in the companys shares from vested long term incentives.
retireMent Funded entirely by the executive director No change.
benefits from their base salary.
Other Main benefits funded from base salary.
Executive directors may elect to participate in benefits a medical aid scheme or group life insurance, funded from the executives base salary.
Where appropriate to the business or jurisdiction, the board may authorise the provision of security services while travelling.
serVice Notice periods of 6 months.
Termination payments based on salary only.
cOntracts The executives duty to mitigate will be taken into account on termination.
Effective communication with shareholders on the Remuneration committee remuneration policy and the remuneration committees work the rOle and cOMpOsitiOn Of the reMuneratiOn on behalf of the board.
cOMMittee During the 2011 financial year, the members of the remuneration The remuneration committee is committed to the principles committee were Mr NP Cole Jr Chairman, Mr CL Coleman and of accountability and transparency, and to ensuring that Dr K Voltaire.
remuneration arrangements align reward with performance.
The remuneration committees responsibilities are set out in its terms The current members of the remuneration committee are of reference, which can be found on the companys website independent non-executive directors in line with the independence www.
These cover: requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Remuneration policy and its specific application to the executive directors, as well as its general application to the reMuneratiOn cOMMittee Meetings senior executives below the main board.
The remuneration committee met five times during 2011, and The determination of levels of reward for the executive attendance is set out in the following table.
At the invitation of directors.
the chairman of the remuneration committee, the chairman of Providing guidance on evaluating the performance of the the board attended five meetings and the CEO attended four CEO, management development plans and succession meetings, although neither was in attendance when matters planning.
associated with his own remuneration were considered.
The Awards made under the Restricted Share Scheme and the remuneration committee meetings were also attended by the Co-Investment Plan.
Annual Report 2011 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | 129 Remuneration Report continued REMUNERATION COMMITTEE MEETINGS ATTENDANCE Meetings Members Appointed attended NP Cole Jr Chairman 1 Aug 06 5 5 CL Coleman 2 Feb 09 5 5 K Voltaire 29 Apr 08 5 5 During the year, the remuneration committee also received independent external advice from Ashurst LLP, Fulbright & Jaworski, Ogier and Towers Watson.
The services to the company and is a member of the Remuneration companys lawyers are: Ashurst LLP in the United Kingdom, Fulbright & Jaworski in the United States and Ogier in Jersey.
Consultants Group which oversees the voluntary code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the Towers Watson has been appointed by the remuneration committee to advise on executive remuneration, provides no other United Kingdom.
KEY ITEMS DISCUSSED IN 2011 Remuneration committee agenda items included the following: Meeting Items discussed January Executive directors remuneration levels versus FTSE 100 and FTSE mining and comparable gold mining company benchmarks.
Market practice and the structure of executive directors remuneration arrangements, particularly long term incentives.
March The terms of the restructured executive directors remuneration arrangements.
Annual Bonus Plan performance conditions and awards for 2011.
The establishment of the Co-Investment Plan subject to shareholder approval and performance conditions.
The establishment of an Employee Benefit Trust.
The Restricted Share Scheme performance period, performance conditions and post-vesting holding period.
The annual bonuses for executive directors payable for 2010s performance and the performance measures and opportunities for 2011.
The 2011 AGM notice, to the extent that it addressed executive directors remuneration arrangements.
May Awards under the Restricted Share Plan to executive directors and participation by the executive directors in the Co-Investment Plan.
august 2011 AGM voting guidance services and shareholder feedback.
Forthcoming steps and events over next annual remuneration cycle.
OctOber 2011 AGM voting guidance services and shareholder feedback, UK pay trends, UK government consultations and new corporate governance guidelines.
The vesting of shares under the Co-Investment Plan.
Performance conditions under the long term incentive LTI plans.
Threshold vesting level under LTI plans.
The following other structural points were discussed: Share dilution Increased disclosure levels in the 2011 Remuneration Report Management remuneration The remuneration committees terms of reference Corporate governance requirements 130 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | Annual Report 2011
