Board of Directors and Executive Committee THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Andr Lacroix French Salvatore Caizzone Italian Was appointed a Non-Executive Director in Executive Vice President, RUMEA.
He is Group Chief Executive Joined in 1996, serving in several roles in Was appointed a Non-Executive Director of of Inchcape plc and Chairman of Good Italy, Russia & Baltics.
He was SVP Africa & the Company in December 1999 and became Restaurants AG.
He was previously Chairman Middle East region for eight years before Non-Executive Chairman in May 2003.
He is and Chief Executive Officer of Euro Disney, and being appointed EVP, Europe.
Salvatore is now a Director of The Gap Inc and a Director and has also held positions at Burger King Diageo, responsible for Russia & CIS, Middle East, Chairman of Williams-Sonoma Inc.
He was Colgate, PepsiCo and Ernst & Young LLP.
North Africa, Turkey and Sub-Saharan Africa Chairman of The Body Shop International plc and headquartered in Dubai.
until March 2008 and was formerly Chairman Graham Mackay British South African # and a Director of Gucci Group NV and of The Was appointed a Non-Executive Director in Liz Doherty British Robert Mondavi Corporation.
February 2005 and Senior Independent Director Chief Financial Officer.
He joined the Nomination Richard Cousins British Amedeo Fasano Italian Committee in November 2011.
He is Chief Was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Executive Vice President, Supply.
Executive Officer of SABMiller plc, one of the the Company in October 2009.
He is Chief Joined in 1997 as Supply Director Italy.
After worlds largest brewers with brewing interests Executive Officer of Compass Group plc, the the Reckitt & Colman and Benckiser merger, or major distribution agreements in over 60 worlds largest catering company.
He was, until he was appointed Manufacturing Director for countries across six continents.
He joined the 2006, Chief Executive Officer of BPB plc, having Central, South Western and Southern Europe then South African Breweries Limited in 1978 held a number of positions with that company Regions.
In 2002 he became Regional Supply and has held a number of senior positions since 1990.
He is a former Non-Executive Director North America and in 2003 SVP Supply within that Group.
He joined the Board of Philip Director of P&O plc and HBOS plc.
In 2007 he took Morris International Inc in October 2008. over the role of SVP Supply Developing Markets Liz Doherty British Judith Sprieser American # and in March 2009 Amedeo was appointed Joined the Company in January 2011 and Was appointed a Non-Executive Director as EVP Supply.
He previously worked for Pirelli was appointed to the Board as Chief Financial in August 2003 and has been Chair of the Tyres in multiple supply roles.
She was CFO at Remuneration Committee since June 2004.
Brambles Ltd for two years.
Prior to Brambles, Rob fide Groot Dutch She was previously Chief Executive Officer of Liz spent seven years at Tesco plc where she Executive Vice President, ENA.
Joined in Transora, Inc. an e-commerce software and was Group International Finance Director.
After international roles in marketing service company and Executive Vice President joined Tesco from Unilever plc, where she had and sales he became General Manager The formerly Chief Financial Officer of Sara Lee a 22-year career.
Liz served as a Non-Executive Netherlands, then SVP, Regional Director Corporation.
She is a Director of Allstate Director of SABMiller plc from 2006 until Eastern Europe and was appointed Global Insurance Company, InterContinental Exchange, stepping down from this role ahead of joining Category Officer, surface and dish before being Inc. Royal Ahold NV and Experian plc.
appointed EVP North America & Australia.
Warren Tucker British Rob is now responsible for North America, Dr Peter Harf German # Was appointed a Non-Executive Director in Central Europe, Northern Europe, Southern Joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director in February 2010.
He has been Chief Financial Europe and Western Europe and headquartered December 1999 and is the Deputy Chairman.
Officer of Cobham plc since he joined in 2003. in Amsterdam.
He served as Chairman of the Remuneration He is a chartered accountant and previously Committee until June 2004.
He has been the Gareth Hill South African held senior finance positions at Cable & Chief Executive Officer of Joh.
A. Benckiser Senior Vice President, Information Wireless plc and British Airways plc.
a privately held investment company, since Services.
He has been the Chairman of Labelux Member of the Audit Committee Information Systems Director at Arcadia Group since 2008 and Chairman of the non-profit Member of the Remuneration Committee Ltd.
Prior to Arcadia, Gareth was at IBM UK Ltd, DKMS Foundation since 1991.
# Member of the Nomination Committee Rex Trueform Clothing Ltd in South Africa and Arthur Andersen.
He is a qualified Kenneth Hydon British # chartered accountant.
Was appointed a Non-Executive Director in December 2003 and Chairman of the Audit Simon Nash British EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Committee in November 2006.
He is a Fellow Senior Vice President, Human Resources.
of the Chartered Institute of Management Joined in 2009 from Novartis Consumer Rakesh Kapoor Indian Accountants, the Association of Chartered Health, where he was Global Head of Human Chief Executive Officer.
Certified Accountants and the Association Resources, based in Switzerland.
Simon started Heather Allen Canadian of Corporate Treasurers.
He was the Senior his international career with Procter & Gamble Executive Vice President, Category Independent Director between February 2005 in detergent manufacturing, before moving Development.
Joined in 1996 from Procter and November 2006.
He retired as Financial into HR with Mars Confectionery in Slough.
She undertook a number of senior Director of Vodafone Group plc in July 2005 He moved to New York in 1993 with Kraft marketing roles in Eastern Europe, before and is currently a Non-Executive Director of Foods International and then on to Chicago as becoming Marketing Director USA in 1999.
She Tesco plc, Pearson plc and the Royal Berkshire HR Head of the office products subsidiary of was appointed General Manager Canada in NHS Foundation Trust.
Fortune Brands Inc. 2003 and joined the global head office in the Rakesh Kapoor Indian # UK in 2006 as Global Category Officer germ Joined the Board in September 2011 following protection, surface and personal care.
She was his appointment as Chief Executive Officer of appointed to her current role in May 2011. the Company.
He joined Reckitt Benckiser in Freddy Caspers German 1987 serving in various regional and central Executive Vice President, LAPAC.
In 2001, he became SVP, in 1997 as EVP for Eastern Europe.
Previously Regional Director Northern Europe and was at PepsiCo and Johnson & Johnson.
He held appointed EVP Category Development in various roles in Europe, US, Eastern Europe, 2006 with responsibility for global category Turkey and the global head office.
Freddy management, R&D, media, market research is now responsible for Latin America, North and strategic alliances.
Asia, South East Asia, and Australia and New Zealand, and headquartered in Singapore.
