Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors & Board reports 38 Board of Directors Steve Morgan, 58 Chairman Steve Morgan founded Redrow in 1974 and led the business from a small civil engineering contractor to become one of the UKs leading home builders.
He floated the Company in 1994 and eventually stepped down as Chairman in November 2000, returning to the helm in March 2009.
Steve is also Chairman of the Bridgemere Group of Companies, which includes Wolverhampton Wanderers, Carden Leisure and Trinity Aviation.
Steve is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Building and holds four Honorary Degrees.
A John Tutte, 55 Barbara Richmond, 51 Group Managing Director Group Finance Director John Tutte joined the Board of Redrow in July 2002.
In September 2009 he Barbara joined the Board of Redrow in January 2010.
Bringing with her a was promoted to Group Managing Director.
He qualified in civil engineering proven track record, with almost 20 years experience as Group Finance and has amassed more than 30 years experience within the industry, having Director at a number of UK listed companies including Inchcape plc, Croda previously held the position as Chief Executive of Wilson Connolly plc.
International PLC and Whessoe plc.
She has a strong background in both manufacturing and retail as well as having completed a number of major acquisitions and disposals throughout her career.
She is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and a graduate of the University of Manchester.
A A About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors & Board reports 39 Alan Jackson, 68 Debbie Hewitt, 48 Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Debbie joined the Redrow Board in August 2009.
She has a wealth of Alan Jackson joined the Redrow Board in August 2009.
He has a wealth of experience in executive and non-executive roles.
She is currently the experience in executive and non-executive roles and is currently the Non-Executive Chairman of Moss Bros plc and Non-Executive Director of Non-Executive Chairman of The Restaurant Group plc and Charles Wells Mouchel plc, HR Owen plc, Luminar plc, NCC plc and Domestic and General.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of Playtech plc.
She was awarded the MBE in 2011 for services to business and the public sector.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman of the Remuneration Committee A B C D E A B C E Paul Hampden Smith, 50 Graham Cope, 47 Non-Executive Director Company Secretary Appointed to the Redrow Board in August 2009.
Paul Hampden Smith is a Graham Cope joined Redrow as Head of Legal in November 2002 and was Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
He has been Group appointed Company Secretary two months later.
He has over 20 years Finance Director of Travis Perkins plc since 1996 and was previously experience in the housebuilding sector, either working in-house or for clients Chairman of the Audit Committee at DX Services plc and Polestar UK in private practice.
He qualified as a Solicitor in 1989 and is a member of the Limited.
Chairman of the Audit Committee A B C E Committee members key A C E Main Board member Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Nomination Committee B D Member of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee
