Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review 12 Our Business Model This summarises how we create value through our business.
Add value Strategic THE Source the right Committed during the supplier & REDROW land at the and skilled planning subcontractor WAY right price Redrow people process relationships Land Planning and design Relationships People Land is a key raw Redrow operates within The importance of Committed and skilled material for our business the constraints of an working closely with Redrow people are an and the quality of our ever changing planning suppliers and important element in land bank is a environment and it is subcontractors and the delivery of our fundamental element in increasingly important maintaining a strong business objectives.
delivering sustainable to have an supply chain are and profitable growth.
understanding and principles that have long Our employees bring a anticipation of planning been established within wide spectrum of skill Redrow has a clearly policy to allow us to Redrow.
sets and experience and defined strategy plan for the future.
are united by their encompassing: Over 80% of materials enthusiasm and Redrow monitors the used in the construction commitment to quality.
n Investment in planning environment of our homes are forward strategic land closely at national and procured under a There are opportunities opportunities where local level and has an national supply for employees to land can be acquired experienced planning agreement.
progress and fulfil their at a discount to open resource based within potential.
market value and its Divisional businesses Supplier and promoted through working to support land, subcontractor quality Redrow has an in-house the planning process technical and design and performance is training centre which teams to optimise monitored through six delivers bespoke n Investment in opportunities and monthly assessments.
courses, apprentice, medium term land returns.
graduate training and where we can add industrial placement value by resolving Redrow also has an programmes.
planning, technical experienced centrally and legal issues for based technical function landowners responsible for product development and n Purchase of design.
consented land with short term return opportunities Performance Indicators Performance Indicators Performance Indicators Performance Indicators n n n n Land bank years Forward land pull Purchases under Staff turnover rates through central contract n n No.
of plots with Training days n planning consent Standard cost by housetype n No.
of plots in n forward land bank Number of suppliers by material type About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review 13 Knowledgeable Targeted & QUALITY Quality customer Satisfied measured PRIDE of build focused sales customers marketing VALUE teams Build Marketing Sales Customers Outcome Quality of build Our marketing strategy Our sales teams are well Redrow understands At Redrow, we take pride underpins our ability to is currently focused on informed about the how important their in all we do.
deliver a quality home building brand attributes of our homes, home is to our to our customers.
awareness and ensuring the customer option customers and potential All these elements of our target market choices available and customers.
our business model Through our quality understands that we are the facilities in the combine to enable us to control processes and committed to delivering localities of our We aim to deliver a deliver value to our use of experienced quality family homes developments.
quality home and customers, shareholders subcontractors and site that we are proud to provide a high standard and other stakeholders.
Sales staff undergo of customer service endeavour to ensure our regular training and throughout the developments are a safe We use a variety of sales conferences are purchase process and environment for our media to deliver our held annually for all beyond.
contractors and message, including sales personnel.
employees to work and Redrow TV, targeted Homes are to deliver well built television advertising Sales performance by demonstrated to homes on programme.
campaigns and property development is customers by our sales portals.
monitored weekly as consultants and site A dedicated in-house part of our weekly managers prior to them health and safety team We undertake market performance reporting moving in and post operates across the research, encourage process.
completion feedback Group to ensure feedback from our and follow up appropriate health & customers and are procedures are in place.
safety standards are regularly developing our applied and we expect systems to better all our subcontractors measure the working on site to hold effectiveness of our the relevant marketing.
Construction Skills Certification Scheme card.
Performance Indicators Performance Indicators Performance Indicators Performance Indicators Performance Indicators n n n n n Average reportable No.
of outlets Customer satisfaction ROCE items per NHBC website and rates n n Private reservation EPS inspection Redrow TV n rate per outlet Customer n Operating margin n n Accident incident rate Marketing cost per recommendation n Visitor conversion n Operating cash flow sale rates rate n Capital turn n Visitors per outlet n Cancellation rate
