About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors & Board reports 57 Directors report The Directors have pleasure in presenting to the members their report and Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the the audited financial statements for the 12 months ended 30 June 2011. financial statements.
Principal Activities and Business Review The principal activity of the Group is residential development which includes Significant Interests mixed use development.
Redrow plc is a public listed company, listed on the London Stock Exchange and domiciled in the UK.
As at 7 September 2011, the Company has been advised of the following notifiable interests of 3% or more in its ordinary shares: Revenue and profit on ordinary activities before taxation from continuing operations are stated at 452.7m and 25.3m respectively.
of % of issued Name shares held share capital In the current environment, the Board considers that shareholders are best served by retaining cash within the business and therefore does not propose Bridgemere making a final dividend payment.
Steve Morgan 92,436,874 29.95% Toscafund 34,336,212 11.13% The information that fulfils the requirements of the business review can be Norges Bank 16,286,648 5.28% found in the Chairmans statement and the Operating review and Financial FIL Limited 15,450,460 5.00% review on pages 6 to 29.
This includes a review of the key risks facing the BlackRock Inc 15,277,577 4.95% business and a review of the key performance indicators of the business and Legal & General future developments.
Details of the financial risk management objectives Investment Management 12,146,138 3.93% and policies and associated risk exposure is given in note 14: Financial Risk Management.
Going Concern The persons set out in the table above have notified the Company pursuant The Directors have acknowledged the guidance on going concern and to Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of their interests in the financial reporting published by the Financial Reporting Council in October ordinary share capital of the Company.
At 7 September 2011, no change in these holdings had been notified nor, The current economic conditions and uncertainty in the housing market according to the registrar of members, did any other shareholder at that create uncertainties for the business, and a description of the Groups date have a notifiable holding of issued share capital.
principal risks and uncertainties and the arrangements to manage these risks are set out on pages 28 to 29.
The Groups business activities, together with Directors the factors likely to affect its future performance, are set out in the Business The Directors of the Company during the year and up to the date of signing review section on pages 6 to 37.
The Groups management of exposure to are listed on page 54 of the Directors Remuneration report and are also financial risk, including liquidity, interest rate risk and credit risk, is disclosed listed together with their biographical details on pages 38 and 39. in note 14 to the financial statements together with details of the Groups banking facilities and capital management policies and processes.
Formal appraisals of Executive Directors were undertaken during the financial year.
All the Non-Executive Directors underwent an annual As explained in the Financial review on pages 24 to 27, the Group maintains appraisal conducted by the Non-Executive Deputy Chairman.
adequate committed banking facilities which comprise an unsecured 200m revolving credit facility due to mature in December 2014.
As stated The Board confirms that Steve Morgan, John Tutte and Barbara Richmond, in note 14 to the financial statements, at 30 June 2011, the Group had who stand for re-appointment as Executive Directors, and Alan Jackson, 115m of undrawn committed borrowing facilities available.
Debbie Hewitt and Paul Hampden Smith who stand for re-appointment as a Non-Executive Directors, continue to be effective and demonstrate the The Directors have reviewed the Groups financial forecasts for the period to appropriate commitment to their roles.
30 June 2013 and associated financial covenants and have considered various downside sensitivities reflecting the potential impact of a further The Executive Directors have formal service agreements.
Termination of reasonably foreseeable deterioration in economic conditions.
This review their employment may be effected by 12 months notice given by the confirmed headroom within both financial covenants and facilities, subject Company except for Steve Morgan where the notice period is six months.
to the business undertaking identified mitigating actions which lie within The Non-Executive Directors have fixed term service agreements outlining the Groups control.
The principal sensitivity relates to the impact of market their duties and responsibilities.
conditions on profitability and in turn on the Groups net asset position relative to the covenanted level.
Details of Directors service agreements are given in the Directors Remuneration report on page 53.
After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors consider they have a reasonable expectation for stating that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue trading for the foreseeable future.
Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors & Board reports 58 Directors Interests Significant Agreements Related party transactions are disclosed in note 23 to the financial The Companys banking arrangements are terminable upon a change of statements.
A summary of remuneration provided to key management control of the Company.
There are no contractual or other arrangements personnel is provided in note 7c.
essential to the business which require disclosure under the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company are given in the Directors Remuneration report on pages 55 to 56.
There has been Independent Auditors no change in the Directors interests between 30 June 2011 and A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as 7 September 2011. external Auditors will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 3 November 2011.
Charitable and Political Donations The Group made no political donations but paid 568,000 in charitable Provision of information to auditors: donations during the year being 565,000 in respect of National charities In the case of each Director in office at the date the Directors report is and 3,000 in support of local charities.
The Group and its employees are approved, confirm that: actively involved in fundraising activities for specific charities.
The Group made a 564,000 donation during the year to the Morgan Foundation, a UK a so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of registered charity of which Steve Morgan is a trustee.
This is included within which the Companys auditors are unaware: and the charitable donations in respect of National charities noted above.
b he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in Employees order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to Redrow places considerable importance on the provision of training and establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
development: training@redrow, a purpose built in-house training facility at Tamworth, completed over 2,200 training days during the year ended Capital Structure 30 June 2011 including those which support the Group induction process.
The Company has an authorised share capital of 480,000,000 ordinary shares of 10p each of which 308,607,479 have been issued.
The Company The Group supports the employment of disabled persons wherever possible has one class of ordinary shares which carry ordinary rights to dividends through recruitment and by the retention and retraining of those who subject to the Companys Articles of Association.
Each share carries the become disabled during their employment.
right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
The Directors recognise the importance of good communications with No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital employees.
Companies within the Group are encouraged to make their and all issued shares are fully paid.
employees aware of the financial and economic factors affecting their respective companies and the Group.
This is assisted through the medium of Authority was given to the Directors at last years AGM to allot unissued regular management meetings, staff publications and the Redrow intranet.
shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 10,286,915 equivalent to approximately 33% of the Companys issued share capital.
Further authority Employee share ownership is encouraged through savings related schemes.
was given allowing the Company to make market purchases of its own shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 3,086,075 which was Creditor Payment Policy equivalent to 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at The Group values its relationships with suppliers and subcontractors.
As these authorities expire at the forthcoming AGM the policy to agree credit terms prior to commencement of trading.
Subject to Directors will be seeking new authorities as set out in the Notice of Meeting any items of genuine dispute, it is policy to pay creditors within the terms and as referred to below.
The Company had nil days purchases outstanding in respect of payments to suppliers 2010: nil.
Voting and Transfer of Shares The Companys Articles of Association do not contain any specific Research and Development restrictions on the size of a shareholders holding or on the transfer of The Group has a centralised Product Development Team charged with shares.
identifying and evaluating new construction techniques and products.
Environmental and sustainability issues play a prominent role in its The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that activities.
The charge to the income statement in respect of research and may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
development in the year was 0.3m 2010: 0.2m.
The Companys Articles of Association do not contain and the Company is Environment not aware of any restrictions on voting rights including any limitations on Redrow recognises its responsibilities to the community as a whole and has voting rights of holders of a given percentage or number of votes, deadlines adopted an environmental strategy which is a core part of the Groups for exercising voting rights and arrangements by which, with the Companys objectives.
Further details are provided in the Corporate responsibility review co-operation, financial rights carried by securities are held by a person other on pages 30 to 37 and also on our website at redrow.
than the holder of the securities.
About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors & Board reports 59 The voting rights attaching to the shares held by the Companys Employee Benefit Trust are exercisable by Abacus Trust Company Isle of Man, the trustee of the Trust.
Purchase of the Companys Own Shares Resolution 13 set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting seeks authority from shareholders for the Company to purchase up to 30,860,747 ordinary shares, an aggregate nominal amount of 3,086,075 which is equivalent to approximately 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at 30 June 2011.
The authority will expire at the end of next years Annual General Meeting and the resolution specifies the maximum and minimum prices at which the shares may be bought.
Other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall financial position of the Company will be taken into account before deciding upon this course of action.
In addition, the Company will be seeking approval to the waiver granted by the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers such that Steve Morgan will not have to make a general offer to other shareholders for all of their ordinary shares as a result of market purchases by the Company pursuant to the authority to be granted by Resolution 13.
Notice of Annual General Meeting Pages 95 to 99 set out the Notice of Annual General Meeting and details the resolutions proposed together with explanatory notes.
To the extent that the Directors report makes reference to information contained in other sections of the Annual Report, such information will be regarded as forming part of the Directors report.
By order of the Board Graham Cope Company Secretary Redrow plc Registered no.
