BUSINESS REVIEW 14 LExISNExIS RISk SOLUTIONS Risk Solutions is the most significant.
These groups are supported by a LexisNexis Risk Solutions shared infrastructure providing technology operations, data management, and other support functions including compliance provides data and analytics that and marketing.
A number of transactional support activities, including some financial processes, are provided from a shared enable its customers to evaluate services organisation managed by the LexisNexis Legal & Professional business.
The Legal & Professional business also and manage risks associated distributes Risk Solutions products into legal markets in the US and internationally.
with transactions and improve Insurance Solutions provides the most comprehensive performance.
combination of data and analytics to property and casualty P&C personal and commercial insurance carriers in the US to improve Risk Solutions is a leading provider of solutions that combine critical aspects of their business, from customer acquisition and proprietary, public and third-party information, analytics and underwriting to policy servicing and claims handling.
These solutions assist customers in solutions, including the USs most comprehensive personal loss evaluating, predicting and managing risk and improving history database C. L. U. E. help insurers assess risks and provide operational effectiveness, predominantly in the US.
important inputs to underwriting policy.
Recently introduced products include Data Prefill, which provides accurate Total revenues for the year ended 31 December 2011 were 908m.
information directly into the insurance workflow on customers, LexisNexis Risk Solutions is headquartered in Alpharetta, Georgia potential customers and their auto ownership, and Current Carrier, and has principal operations in Georgia, Florida, and Ohio, and has which identifies current or previous insurance as well as any 4,000 employees.
LexisNexis Risk Solutions is organised around market facing Business Services provides financial institutions with risk industry sector groups: insurance, government, screening, and management, identity verification, fraud detection, credit risk business services including the receivables management, management, and compliance solutions.
These include know financial services and corporate groups, of which insurance your customer and anti-money laundering products.
The business provides risk and identity management solutions for corporate customers in retail, telecommunications and utilities sectors.
Receivables management solutions help debt recovery professionals in the segmentation, management and collection of consumer and business debt.
The Risk Solutions business also provides identity verification and risk related information to the legal industry.
LexisNexis LexisNexis Anti-Money C. L. U. E. Data Prefill Laundering Solutions Most comprehensive US personal insurance Tool to automate insurance application Content and information for anti-money claims database process providing critical information laundering compliance, risk mitigation insurers need to quote and underwrite and enhanced due diligence a policy LexisNexis Accurint for Collections Accurint LE Plus Identity Management Integrated suite of tools for US law Range of solutions to help clients verify that The leading online US solution to help locate enforcement investigators an identity exists and authenticate individuals debtors quickly and accurately 57096 SAS p007-029.
indd 14 08 03 2012 08:58 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2011 15 government Solutions provides investigative solutions to US kind in the US market today.
LexisNexis Accurint is the flagship risk federal, state and local law enforcement and government assessment product, powered by the High Performance Cluster agencies to help solve criminal and intelligence cases and to Computing HPCC technology.
This technology enables Risk identify fraud, waste and abuse in government programmes.
Solutions to provide its customers with highly relevant search results swiftly and to create new, low-cost solutions quickly and Screening Solutions focuses on employment-related, resident efficiently.
In 2011, Risk Solutions launched an open-source and volunteer screening, with the largest segment being initiative called HPCC Systems to broaden usage, tap the pre-employment screening services offered across a number innovation of the development community and to more fully of industries including retail, recruitment, banking, and compete in the big data market.
Response to date has been very professional services.
positive, with press articles, website traffic, speaking invitations, During 2011, Risk Solutions sharpened its focus on its data and and source code downloads all significantly ahead of expectations.
analytics activities with the sale of the insurance software business, while Reed Elseviers acquisition of Accuity market opportunities complements and enhances Risk Solutions offerings in Risk Solutions operates in markets with strong long term anti-money laundering.
There has also been a continued focus underlying growth drivers: insurance underwriting transactions: on developing a pipeline of new solutions for selected adjacent insurance, healthcare and entitlement fraud: credit defaults markets, sectors and geographies.
and financial fraud: regulatory compliance and due diligence requirements surrounding customer enrolment and employment: The identity verification and risk evaluation solutions provided by and security considerations.
Risk Solutions utilise a comprehensive database of public records and proprietary information, which is the largest database of its REVENUE By foRmAt REVENUE By SEgmENt 908m 908m Print Other 4% Government Screening Electronic Insurance 96% Solutions Business Services 100% revenue in North America.
indd 15 08 03 2012 08:58 BUSINESS REVIEW 16 LExISNExIS RISk SOLUTIONS In the insurance segment, growth is supported by increasing Strategic priorities transactional activity in the auto and property insurance markets Risk Solutions strategic goal is to make businesses and and the increasing adoption by insurance carriers of more government more effective, through a better understanding sophisticated data and analytics in the prospecting, underwriting of the risks associated with individuals, other businesses and and claims evaluation processes, to determine appropriate risk transactions and by providing the tools to help manage those pricing, increase competitiveness and improve operating cost risks.
To achieve this, Risk Solutions is focused on: expanding efficiency.
Transactional activity is driven by insurance quoting the range of products across customer workflows: leveraging and switching as consumers seek better policy terms, stimulated our advanced technology capabilities: delivering innovative by increasing competition between insurance companies, high new products and expanding the range of risk management levels of carrier advertising, and rising levels of internet quoting solutions across adjacent markets: and addressing international and policy binding.
opportunities in selected markets to meet local risk management needs.
In screening, demand is driven mainly by employer hiring activity and, in receivables management, by levels of consumer debt and Business model, distribution channels and competition the prospects of recovering those debts.
Both of these markets Risk Solutions products are predominantly sold on a are linked to employment conditions in the US.
A number of factors transactional basis directly to insurance carriers and support growth for risk solutions in the financial services market, corporations, and primarily on a subscription basis to including new credit originations, continued high fraud losses, government entities.
stringent regulatory compliance requirements, and increasing anti-money laundering fines.
In corporate markets, demand is Risk Solutions and Verisk sell data and analytics solutions to supported by growth in online retail sales and continued high insurance carriers but largely address different activities.
Risk levels of credit card fraud.
Growth in government markets is Solutions principal competitors in commercial and government driven by the increasing use of data and analytics to combat sectors include Thomson Reuters and major credit bureaus.
criminal activity and fraud, and to address security issues.
Major competitors in pre-employment screening are Altegrity The level and timing of demand in this market is influenced by and First Advantage.
gRoWth IN IdENtIty VERIfIcAtIoN tRANSActIoNS gRoWth IN INSURANcE cLAImS tRANSActIoNS 17% 30% 2010 2011 2010 2011 Growth in identity verification transactions driven by customers across Increasing penetration of the insurance carrier workflow with uptake of our markets looking to verify individuals and businesses to comply with products to investigate claims, adjudicate them quickly and identify fraud regulations and prevent identity theft and fraud.
indd 16 08 03 2012 08:58 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2011 17 2011 2010 Change at constant Change m m Change currencies underlying Revenue 908 927 -2% 1% 4% Adjusted operating profit 362 354 2% 6% 12% LexisNexis Risk Solutions and LexisNexis Legal & Professional, previously combined as one LexisNexis business, have operated as two distinct businesses from 1 January 2011.
Comparative profit figures and growth rates are presented on a pro forma basis.
Screening solutions grew 3%, with growth slowing over the 2011 financial performance course of the year as operational improvements in sales force continued good growth in insurance data & analytics and effectiveness and increased penetration of the mid-size corporate business services reflects solid demand for our core products market were offset by a US hiring environment that weakened as and the successful extension of the range of services that we the year progressed.
Government solutions revenues declined as provide.
Screening revenues slowed in the second half reflecting the wind down of some lower margin one-off federal sales were hiring trends, and US federal government markets remained only partly offset by growth in state and local revenues, driven by under pressure.
increased focus on fraud, waste and abuse.
Underlying revenues and adjusted operating profits were up 4% Underlying costs declined 1% despite the business growth and 12% respectively.
and new product investment, reflecting cost savings, notably in technology, and from the successful ChoicePoint integration.
The insurance data & analytics business generated revenue The adjusted operating margin increased by 1.7 percentage growth of 7%, driven by the increasing adoption of solutions across points to 39.9%.
the insurance workflow from marketing through to claims handling that improve underwriting economics and operational efficiency.
outlook In November, LexisNexis Risk Solutions completed the sale of its In 2012, we expect good growth in insurance data and analytics infrastructure software business, focusing the insurance to continue, driven by sustained demand for core underwriting business on high value data and analytics.
products and growth from new products.
We expect business Business services achieved growth of 4%, reflecting good growth services to continue to perform well, supported by new product in credit scoring and anti-money laundering for the financial growth in financial services and corporate markets.
The screening services industry and e-commerce for corporate markets, solutions outlook is more uncertain given the US employment moderated by the effect of a softening in the US real estate market environment, and in government solutions, while federal budgets on the mortgage-related business.
remain under pressure, growth is expected from state and local government.
