govERnancE 52 BOARD DiReCtORS Board Directors Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors erik engstrom 48 Anthony Habgood 65 Mark elliott 62 Chief executive Officer Chairman Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Appointed: Chief executive Officersince2009.
Appointed: 2009 Appointed: 2003 Joined Reed elsevier as Chief executive Officer Nationality: British Nationality: American of elsevier in 2004 Other appointments: Chairman of Whitbread plc Other appointments: Chairman of QinetiQ Group Nationality: Swedish and of Preqin Holding Limited.
plc and a non-executive director of G4S plc.
Past appointments:Prior to joining Reed Past appointments: Chairman of Bunzl plc and Past appointments: Until his retirement in 2008, elsevier was a partner at General Atlantic of Mlnlycke Healthcare Limited and served as was general manager of iBM Global Solutions, Partners.
Before that wasPresident and Chief Chief executive of Bunzl plc, Chief executive of having held a number of positions with iBM, Operating Officer of Random House inc and, tootal Group plc and a director of the Boston including managing director of iBM europe, before its merger with Random House, Consulting Group inc.
Formerly non-executive Middle east and Africa.
President and Chief executive Officer of Bantam director of Geest plc: Marks and Spencer plc: Doubleday Dell, North America.
Began his National Westminster Bank plc: Powergen plc: career as a consultant with McKinsey.
Served and SVG Capital plc.
as a non-executive director of eniro AB and education: Holds an MA in economics from Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget SCA.
Cambridge University and an MS in industrial education: Holds a BSc from Stockholm School Administration from Carnegie Mellon of economics, an MSc from the Royal institute of University.
He is a visiting Fellow at technology in Stockholm, and gained an MBA Oxford University.
from Harvard Business School as a Fulbright Scholar.
Mark Armour 57 Robert Polet 56 Sir David Reid 65 Chief Financial Officer Non-executive Director Senior independent Director Appointed: 1996 Appointed: 2007 Appointed: 2003 Nationality: British Nationality: Dutch Nationality: British Other appointments: Non-executive director Other appointments: Chairman of Safilo Group Other appointments: Chairman of of SABMiller plc.
S. p. A. and a non-executive director of: Philip intertek Group plc.
Past appointments: Prior to joining Reed Morris international inc: Wilderness Holdings Past appointments: Was Chairman of tesco PLC elsevier as Deputy Chief Financial Officer in Limited: and William Grant & Sons Limited.
from 2004 to 2011, having previously been 1995, was a partner in Price Waterhouse.
Member of the supervisory board of Nyenrode executive Deputy Chairman until December education: Holds an MA in engineering from Foundation.
2003, and Finance Director from 1985 to 1997.
Cambridge University and qualified as a Past appointments: President and Chief Formerly Chairman of Kwik-Fit and a Chartered Accountant.
executive Officer of Gucci Group from 2004 non-executive director of fide Vere PLC, to 2011, having previously spent 26 years at Legal & General Group plc and Westbury PLC.
Unilever working in a variety of marketing and senior executive positions throughout the world, including president of Unilevers Worldwide ice Cream and Frozen Foods division.
indd 52 08 03 2012 07:56 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2011 53 Adrian Hennah 54 Lisa Hook 53 Marike van Lier Lels 52 Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Member of the Supervisory Board of Reed elsevier NV Appointed: April 2011 Appointed: 2006 Nationality: British Nationality: American Appointed: 2010 Other appointments: Chief Financial Officer Other appointments: President and Chief Nationality: Dutch of Smith & Nephew plc.
executive Officer of Neustar inc and a director Other appointments: Member of the supervisory Past appointments: Chief Financial Officer of of the Ocean Foundation.
boards of KPN NV, USG People NV, tKH Group invensys plc, having previously held various Past appointments: President and Chief NV and Maersk BV.
A member of various Dutch senior finance and management positions with executive Officer at Sun Rocket inc. Before that governmental advisory boards.
she was President of AOL Broadband, Premium Past appointments: executive Vice President and Developer Services.
Prior to joining AOL, and Chief Operating Officer of the Schiphol she was a founding partner at Brera Capital Group.
Prior to joining Schiphol Group, was a Partners LLC.
Previously Chief Operating member of the executive board of Deutsche Officer of time Warner telecommunications Post euro express and held various senior and has served as senior advisor to the Federal positions with Nedlloyd.
Communications Commission Chairman and a senior counsel to Viacom Cable.
Board committee Membership Ben van der Veer 60 Audit Committees: Reed elsevier Group plc, Reed Chairman of the Audit Committees elsevier PLC and Reed elsevier NV Remuneration Committee: Reed elsevier Group plc Appointed: 2009 Nominations Committee: joint Reed elsevier PLC Nationality: Dutch and Reed elsevier NV Other appointments: Member of the Corporate Governance Committee: joint Reed supervisory boards of AeGON NV, tomtom NV, elsevier PLC and Reed elsevier NV Siemens Nederland NV and Koninklijke Both of the executive directors are directors of Reed FrieslandCampina NV.
elsevier Group plc and Reed elsevier PLC and Past appointments: Chairman of the executive members of the executive Board of Reed elsevier NV.
board of KPMG in the Netherlands and a member of the management committee of the Mrs van Lier Lels is a member of the Supervisory Board of Reed elsevier NV.
All of the other non-executive KPMG international board until his retirement directors are directors of Reed elsevier Group plc and in 2008, having joined KPMG in 1976.
Reed elsevier PLC and members of the Supervisory Board of Reed elsevier NV.
indd 53 08 03 2012 07:56 govERnancE 54 CHAiRMANS iNtRODUCtiON tO CORPORAte GOVeRNANCe Chairmans introduction to corporate governance the Boards considered their policy on board diversity, Reed Elsevier is committed to including female representation on the Boards, and in September 2011 announced their aspirational goals regarding applying the highest standards the percentage of women they aim to have on the Boards.
of corporate governance in the Nominations Committee has continued to plan for the orderly succession of non-executive directors to the Boards, whichever jurisdiction it ensuring that there is progressive refreshing of the Boards whilst maintaining the right balance of skills, experience, operates.
Following the announcement that Mark Armour, Chief Financial Officer, would be retiring at the end of 2012, the the Board of Reed elsevier Group plc, Reed elsevier PLC and the Boards have put in place a process for the recruitment of Combined Board of Reed elsevier NV the Boards are responsible a successor.
for the governance of Reed elsevier and have put in place An external independent evaluation of the performance of the procedures which provide accountability, transparency, probity Boards, their committees and directors was undertaken.
and a focus on the sustainable success of Reed elsevier over the longer term.
A talent review of key executive positions was conducted during 2011. i believe that the Boards and their committees have a good combination of skills and experience and we continue to review the Audit Committees conducted a formal review during the balance of the Boards in our succession planning to ensure 2011 of the performance of the external auditors and the there is an appropriate balance of skills, experience, effectiveness of the external audit process and reviewed independence, knowledge and diversity on the Board.
the resources, budget and effectiveness of the internal audit function.
the reports of the committees on the following pages in this section explain the systems in place to ensure compliance with the Audit Committees received presentations from divisional applicable corporate governance policies in the areas of board CFOs within Reed elsevier on the finance organisation, finance composition including diversity and assessment of board priorities and risk management of their respective divisions, effectiveness, remuneration policy, systems of internal control updates from the Reed elsevier Group plc group treasurer on and risk management and relations with shareholders.
pension arrangements and funding, compliance with treasury policies and risk management and a presentation from the the main areas of focus concerning corporate governance during head of group taxation on tax policies and related matters.
2011 were: the following reports describe in more detail how Reed elsevier the Boards considered the changes introduced by the UK has applied the principles of good governance in the activities Corporate Governance Code published in May 2010, and i am of the Boards.
pleased to report that Reed elsevier fully complied with the new Code during the year.
anthony Habgood Chairman 15 February 2012 the following chart outlines areas of significant skills and expertise of the non-executive directors on the Boards.
Percentage of the non-executive directors executive board experience in a large international listed company 56 Knowledge of corporate governance issues for listed companies 89 Operational experience in Reed elseviers product markets 33 Operational experience in Reed elseviers main geographical markets 89 Marketing, customer relations 78 Operational experience with telecommunication computer technology, electronic publishing 56 Management of human resources, selection and remuneration of executives 89 Corporate social responsibility 89 Legal matters 78 Banking, tax and corporate finance 44 Financial and organisational audit 67 Corporate strategy and organisation 89 57096 SAS p051-062.
