BUSINESS REVIEW 26 REED BUSINESS INFORMATION marketing solutions, business to business magazines, online lead Reed Business Information generation services and community websites provide effective marketing channels for advertisers to reach target audiences is a provider of data services, and for industry professionals to access valued information.
business information and RBIs market leading data services include: ICIS, a global information and pricing service for the petrochemicals and energy marketing solutions to business sector: BankersAccuity previously Bankers Almanac and Accuity, a leading provider of reference data on the banking industry: professionals.
XpertHR, an online service providing human resources data, regulatory guidance, best practices and tools for HR professionals: Reed Business Information RBI provides data services, and Reed Construction Data, a provider of online construction data information and marketing solutions to business professionals to the North American construction industry.
in the Uk, the US, Continental Europe, Asia and Australia.
The major online marketing solutions include: totaljobs.
com, It produces industry critical data services and lead generation a major Uk online recruitment site: and Hotfrog, a global online tools, online community and job sites as well as business business directory.
Premier publishing brands include Variety magazines with market leading positions in many sectors.
in the US, New Scientist in the Uk and the Elsevier magazine in Total revenues for the year ended 31 December 2011 were 695m.
RBI is a global business headquartered in Sutton in the Uk and has In 2011, RBI continued to significantly reshape its portfolio, principal operations in Amsterdam in the Netherlands, Boston, addressing continued growth opportunities in data services and Los Angeles, Skokie Illinois and Norcross Georgia in the US as the accelerated migration of customer marketing spend to web well as Paris, Milan, Madrid, Bilbao, Sydney and Shanghai.
RBI has media while managing value from the remaining print businesses.
During the year RBI expanded the data services businesses with RBIs data services enable businesses and professionals to three significant acquisitions.
In January 2011, RBI completed the enhance productivity through quicker and easier access to transaction to take majority ownership of CBI China, the market insightful and comprehensive industry information.
Online leading petrochemical and energy information service in China, Global provider of news and pricing data to the Online aircraft and engine data used by A leading supplier of banking intelligence chemical and energy industries airline industry to inform decisions and to the global financial industry identify opportunities Construction data, building product Leading HR legal compliance and good Premier source of entertainment business information, cost data, market analysis practice toolkit news and analysis since 1905 and advertising channels to construction industry professionals Worlds leading science and technology Leading news and opinion magazine in the Uk generalist job website attracting over media brand Netherlands 3.7 million jobseekers and carrying over 125,000 jobs every month 57096 SAS p007-029.
indd 26 08 03 2012 08:58 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2011 27 bringing unrivalled coverage of the important and growing Strategic priorities Chinese and Asian chemicals and energy markets, strengthening RBIs strategic goal is to help business professionals achieve ICISs global position.
In June 2011, RBI acquired Ascend, a leading better outcomes with information and decision support in its provider of online fleet data and valuations to the aviation industry, individual markets.
Its areas of strategic focus are: further complementing RBIs existing data and content services and the growing the data services businesses: restructuring the business aerospace platform, Flightglobal.
In November 2011, RBI completed magazines and advertising driven portfolio, to develop online the acquisition of Accuity Inc. for a total cost of 343m.
Accuity is a services in key markets and support print franchises through leading US provider of online subscription-based data solutions brand extensions and redesign: and to realign the cost base with for the financial services industry which enable customers to revenue expectations and drive further organisational maximise the accuracy of their banking and payment transactions, effectiveness.
and to minimise the risk of non-compliance with government regulations in these transactions.
Accuity is being integrated with Business model, distribution channels and competition RBIs Bankers Almanac, to form BankersAccuity, establishing a Across the RBI portfolio, user and subscription revenues now global standard for payment efficiency and compliance solutions.
account for 62% of the total business with the remaining 38% derived from print and online advertising and lead generation.
RBIelectronic RBI continued to create value from its existing magazine brands, revenue streams now account for 51% of total revenue.
whilst exiting a number of titles including those in the computing, social care and road transport markets in the Uk and the Data services are typically sold directly on a subscription or construction market in the Netherlands.
RBI also sold the Uk transactional basis.
Business magazines are distributed on a paid QSS magazine subscription fulfilment business during the course or controlled circulation basis.
Advertising and lead generation of the year.
revenues are sold directly or through agents.
RBIs data services and titles compete with a number of publishers market opportunities on a service and title by title basis including: UBM, McGraw Hill The growing need for authoritative industry data and information is and Wolters kluwer as well as many niche and privately-owned driving demand for online subscription data services and providing competitors.
RBI competes for online advertising with other new opportunities.
Business to business marketing spend has business to business websites as well as Monster, Google and historically been driven by levels of corporate profitability, which other search engines.
itself has followed GDP growth, and business investment.
ELEctRoNIc REVENUE USER ANd SUBScRIPtIoN REVENUE 51% 62% 59% 46% 54% 38% 46% 44% 34% 30% 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Demand for online data services and marketing solutions drives increasing Increasing proportion of user and subscription revenues driven by organic proportion of online revenue.
growth in subscription businesses and portfolio change.
REVENUE By SEgmENt REVENUE By gEogRAPhIc mARkEt 695m 695m Rest of World Other business North America Data services magazines services Rest of Europe Major marketing solutions UK Netherlands Leading brands 57096 SAS p007-029.
indd 27 08 03 2012 08:58 BUSINESS REVIEW 28 REED BUSINESS INFORMATION 2011 2010 Change at constant Change m m Change currencies underlying Revenue 695 718 -3% -4% 1% Adjusted operating profit 110 89 23% 22% 15% RBI built on its existing data services offerings with three 2011 financial performance acquisitions made in the year.
The acquisition of a majority stake RBI returned to underlying revenue growth, with strong growth in CBI China brings a market leading petrochemical and energy in data services mostly offset by continued weakness in print information business to complement ICIS.
We made significant further progress on portfolio Accuity, acquired in November, with Bankers Almanac creates realignment with acquisitions in data services and disposals leading positions in payment efficiency, transaction compliance and of print magazine titles.
the majority of the margin increase bank counterparty assessment for the financial services industry.
reflects organic development, supported by our exits from Ascend, a leading provider of online aircraft and valuation data to low margin businesses.
the aviation industry, complements the Flightglobal aerospace business.
A number of disposals were also made during the Underlying revenues and adjusted operating profits were up course of the year, including Uk road transport and computing 1% and 15% respectively.
titles and the QSS magazine subscription fulfilment business.
The major data services businesses, which accounted for 25% of RBI revenues in 2011, delivered underlying revenue growth outlook of 9%, with strong growth in ICIS, Bankers Almanac and XpertHR, Good growth in data services is expected to continue in 2012 partially offset by Reed Construction Data serving the challenged offset by softness in print advertising.
RBI will have a full year US construction industry.
Online marketing solutions grew 2%, contribution from the recent acquisitions of CBI China, Ascend and driven largely by Totaljobs in the Uk online recruitment market, Accuity, partially offset by the effects of small disposals.
In the offset by weakness in lead generation businesses, BuyerZone and current economic environment, we remain cautious on the near Hotfrog.
Leading brands saw stable revenues, with online growth term outlook for advertising and marketing based revenues.
compensating for print advertising declines.
Other business magazines and communities saw an underlying revenue decline of 5% reflecting continued print advertising market weakness.
Underlying costs were down 2%, reflecting continuing measures taken to realign the cost base.
Adjusted operating margins increased 3.4 percentage points to 15.8%.
