BUSINESS REVIEW 18 LExISNExIS LEGAL & PROFESSIONAL Legal & Professional LexisNexis is a leading provider of legal and business information LexisNexis Legal & Professional and analysis to law firms, corporations and government throughout the US.
Electronic information solutions and provides legal, tax, regulatory and innovative workflow tools, developed through close collaboration with customers, help law firms and other legal and business news & business information and professionals make better informed decisions in the practice of law and in managing their businesses.
analysis to legal, corporate, In Research & Litigation Solutions, the flagship products for legal government, accounting and research are Lexis.
com and Lexis Advance, which provide federal and state statutes and case law, together with analysis and expert academic markets.
commentaries from sources such as Matthew Bender and Michie and the leading citation service Shepards, which advises on the LexisNexis Legal & Professional is a world leading provider of continuing relevance of case law precedents.
Through its suite content and information solutions for legal and other corporate of litigation services, LexisNexis additionally provides lawyers markets.
Serving customers in more than 100 countries, with tools for electronic discovery, evidence management, LexisNexis Legal & Professional provides resources and case analysis, court docket tracking, e-filing, expert witness services that inform decisions, increase productivity and drive identification and legal document preparation.
partners with law schools to provide services to students as part of their training.
Total revenues for the year ended 31 December 2011 were 1,634m.
LexisNexis Legal & Professional is headquartered In December 2011, LexisNexis released in the US the next iteration in New York and has principal operations in Ohio and New Jersey of Lexis Advance, an innovative web application designed to in the United States, in London and Paris in Europe, Canada, and transform how legal professionals conduct research.
Built on in several other countries in Africa and Asia Pacific.
It has 10,300 an advanced technology platform, Lexis Advance allows primary employees worldwide.
researchers within legal and professional organisations to find highly relevant information more easily and efficiently, helping LexisNexis Legal & Professional is organised through market them to drive better outcomes.
The release is the next step in a facing businesses, the most significant of which are Research series of Lexis Advance launches with future releases continuing to &Litigation Solutions and Business Solutions in the US and expand available content and add new innovative tools.
LexisNexis LexisNexis Europe, Africa & Australasia and LexisNexis Asia employs lawyers and trained editors with professional legal outside the US.
These are supported by global shared services backgrounds who review, annotate and update the legal content to organisations providing platform and product development, help ensure each document in its collection is current and linked operational and distribution services, and other support to other related documents.
This domain expertise combined with functions.
Lexis Lexis for Microsoft Office Lexis Library Integration of LexisNexis content, open web LexisNexis Uk flagship legal online product Unparalleled legal, news and public records search and Microsoft Office content for legal professionals Matthew Bender Lexis PSL Critical analysis, checklists, forms, and Premier citation service LexisNexis Uk legal practical practice guides authored by industry experts guidance service covering over 50 major practice areas SM Lawyers.
com JurisClasseur New online legal research tool that Leading website for consumers seeking legal Largest, most authoritative online legal transforms the way legal professionals information and counsel resource in France conduct research 57096 SAS p007-029.
indd 18 08 03 2012 08:58 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2011 19 the application of Reed Elseviers big data HPCC technology regulatory compliance, intellectual property management, and means LexisNexis is able to update its entire legal collection management of external counsel.
faster and more efficiently, while also identifying and linking In International markets outside the United States, LexisNexis content, thereby uncovering previously undiscovered serves legal, corporate, government and academic markets relationships between documents.
in Europe, Canada, Africa and Asia Pacific with local and In the US in 2011, LexisNexis launched LexisNexis Firm Manager, international legal, tax, regulatory and business information.
an online legal practice management application for solo The most significant businesses are in the Uk, France, Australia practitioners and small law practices.
Among other product and Canada.
releases, LexisNexis also released Early Data Analyzer which LexisNexis is focused across all its geographies on leveraging provides lawyers with early insight into the size and scope of best in class content and its market leading international online discovery and an updated version of Lexis for Microsoft Office product platform to deliver innovative electronic information which enables lawyers to conduct their Lexis searches within services and workflow tools to help legal and business Microsoft applications such as Word and Outlook.
professionals make better informed decisions more efficiently.
In 2011, LexisNexis rationalised its electronic discovery offerings Penetration of online information services is growing and print and divested the Applied Discovery business.
based products now account for less than 40% of LexisNexis total revenues outside the US.
LexisNexis Business Solutions provides law firms with practice management solutions, including time and billing systems, case In the Uk, LexisNexis is a leading legal information provider management, cost recovery and document management in its market.
It delivers a wide array of content and services, services.
LexisNexis assists law firms in their client development comprising an unrivalled collection of primary and secondary through Lawyers.
com, showcasing the qualifications and legislation, case law, expert commentary, and forms and credentials of more than one million lawyers and law firms precedents.
Its extensive portfolio includes Halsburys Laws in the US and internationally, and providing law firms with of England, Simons Taxes and Butterworths Company Law website development, search engine optimisation and other Service delivered through the Uks flagship online product web marketing services.
Other electronic products include Lexis Legal Intelligence, a resource on legal practice for lawyers, LexisNexis also provides its legal and information services to US and media monitoring and reputation management tools for government, corporate and academic customers, including news the corporate market such as the NexisDirect research tool.
and business information and public records.
In addition to Additionally, LexisNexis provides law firms with practice research and litigation services, capabilities for these customers management solutions.
include specialist products for corporate counsel focused on REVENUE By foRmAt REVENUE By gEogRAPhIc mARkEt 1,634m 1,634m Rest of World Print Other 25% Europe Electronic 75% North America 57096 SAS p007-029.
indd 19 08 03 2012 08:58 BUSINESS REVIEW 20 LExISNExIS LEGAL & PROFESSIONAL In France, LexisNexis is a provider of information to lawyers, Strategic priorities notaries and courts with JurisClasseur and La Semaine Juridique LexisNexis Legal & Professionals strategic goal is to enable being the principal publications, delivered through lexisnexis.
fr better legal outcomes and be the leading provider of productivity and in print.
These content sources are, as in the Uk, being enhancing information and information-based workflow solutions combined with new content and innovative workflow tools to in its markets.
To achieve this LexisNexis is focused on: building develop practical guidance and practice management solutions.
world class content: developing next generation product platforms, tools and infrastructure to deliver best-in-class In international markets in 2011, LexisNexis continued to roll out outcomes for legal and business professionals with greater Legal Intelligence.
Designed to match the way lawyers work, speed and efficiency: building client development and practice Lexis Legal Intelligence provides primary law, practical guidance, management tools enabling customers to be more successful learning and productivity tools in one place.
It reduces the time in their markets: international expansion and growth of online it takes to get the answers and documents lawyers need, helping products and solutions: increasing LexisNexis presence in to make practice more effective.
In the Uk, the practical guidance emerging markets: and improving operational efficiency.
service LexisPSL now has 13 practice areas including company, commercial, corporate, banking and finance, and will expand In the US, the focus is on the continuing development of the again in 2012.
A similar service has been launched in Australia, next generation of legal research and practice solutions as well with five practice areas in 2011.
In France, LexisNexis is as a major upgrade in operations infrastructure and customer completing the development of Lexis360, an innovative solution service and support platforms to provide an integrated and for legal professionals that combines semantic and federated superior customer experience across US legal research, search capabilities with practical guidance, legal concept litigation services, practice management and client development.
navigation and brand-leading JurisClasseur content.
Progressive product introductions, often based on the Lexis Advance platform, over the next few years will combine advanced In 2011, LexisNexis Legal & Professional strengthened its position technology with enriched content, sophisticated analytics and in key emerging markets including India.
LexisNexis released an applications to enable LexisNexis customers to make better initial version of Lexis India, an online legal research platform legal decisions and drive better outcomes for their organisations created specifically for the legal professionals and practitioners, and clients.
corporate counsels, legal researchers, academics and government institutions in India.
Outside the US, LexisNexis is focused on growing online services and developing further high quality actionable content and market opportunities workflow tools, including the development of practical guidance Longer term growth in legal and regulatory markets worldwide is and practice management applications.
Additionally, LexisNexis driven by increasing levels of legislation, regulation, regulatory is focusing on the expansion of its activities in emerging markets.
complexity and litigation, and an increasing number of lawyers.
Additional market opportunities are presented by the increasing Business model, distribution channels and competition demand for online information solutions and practice management LexisNexis Legal & Professional products and services are tools that improve the quality and productivity of research, deliver generally sold directly to law firms and to corporate, government better legal outcomes, and improve business performance.
and academic customers on a paid subscription basis, with Notwithstanding this, legal activity and legal information markets subscriptions with law firms often under multi-year contracts.
are also influenced by economic conditions and corporate activity, Principal competitors for LexisNexis in US legal markets are as has been seen with the dampening impact on demand of the West Thomson Reuters, CCH Wolters kluwer and Bloomberg, recent global recession and the somewhat subdued environment and Bloomberg and Factiva News Corporation in news and that followed in North America and in Europe.
Competitors in litigation solutions also include software companies.
Major international competitors include Thomson Reuters, Wolters kluwer and Factiva.
INtERNAtIoNAL LEgAL ELEctRoNIc REVENUE moBILE APP doWNLoAdS 55% 332% 53% 51% 46% 43% 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Growth in international outside US online solutions and workflow tools to Strong growth in the adoption and number of mobile apps.
help lawyers make better informed decisions more efficiently.
indd 20 08 03 2012 08:58 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2011 21 2011 2010 Change at constant Change m m Change currencies underlying Revenue 1,634 1,691 -3% -2% 1% Adjusted operating profit 229 238 -4% -4% -2% LexisNexis Risk Solutions and LexisNexis Legal & Professional, previously combined as one LexisNexis business, have operated as two distinct businesses from 1 January 2011.
Comparative profit figures and growth rates are presented on a pro forma basis.
2011 financial performance LexisNexis Legal & Professional revenues returned to Significant progress has been made in the development of next underlying revenue growth in 2011, and margins were broadly generation legal offerings with a number of new product releases flat as expected.
most of our legal markets have stabilised, during the course of the year including the latest release of and we stepped up new product launch activity.
LexisAdvance in December, targeting research intensive lawyers.
Initial feedback from the legal community has been very positive, Underlying revenues and adjusted operating profits were up 1% positioning us well for future product releases.
Underlying cost growth was 1% reflecting continued investment Our US research & litigation revenues returned to slight growth, in next generation legal offerings and sales & marketing, offset benefiting from a stabilisation in legal industry activity.
We by continued cost initiatives.
The adjusted operating margin was achieved good growth in lexis.
com searches and in new sales broadly flat at 14.0%.
of research and litigation tools and services to law firms, government and corporate legal customers.
Growth in practice outlook management tools was offset by continued but moderating In 2012 we intend to continue to introduce new products that will declines in news & business information to corporate customers, better serve our legal and corporate customer base.
However, and in web based listings.
legal markets remain stable but subdued, limiting revenue and International markets outside the US also returned to growth.
margin growth potential in the short term.
Electronic revenues grew 7% reflecting strong demand for legal tools and solutions, although this was largely offset by further print declines as format transition continued.
Print based products now account for less than 40% of revenue.
