governance 80 RepoRt of the Audit Committees Report of the Audit Committees This report has been prepared by the audit committees of the Reed elsevier Group plc Audit Committee fulfils this role in reed elsevier PLc and reed elsevier nv in conjunction with the respect of the publishing and information operating business.
audit committee of reed elsevier group plc the committees the functions of an audit committee in respect of the financing and has been approved by the respective Boards.
It provides activities are carried out by the supervisory Board of elsevier an overview of the membership, responsibilities and activities Reed finance BV.
the Reed elsevier pLC and Reed elsevier NV of the committees.
Audit Committees fulfil their roles from the perspective of the parent companies and both Committees have access to the Membership reports to and the work of the Reed elsevier Group plc Audit the Committees each comprise at least three independent Committee and the elsevier Reed finance BV supervisory Board non-executive directors.
the members of each of the Committees in this respect.
that served during the year are: Ben van der Veer Chairman of the the Committees have explicit authority to investigate any matters Committees, Lisa hook, sir david Reid, Lord sharman until his within their terms of reference and have access to all resources retirement in April 2011 and Adrian hennah from appointment and information that they may require for this purpose.
in April 2011. sir david Reid and Adrian hennah, both uK chartered accountants, and Ben van der Veer, a registered the terms of reference of each Audit Committee are reviewed accountant in annually and a copy of each is published on the Reed elsevier the Netherlands, are considered to have significant, recent and website, www.
Biographies of the members of each of the Committees are set out on pages 52 and 53 and details of the Principal activities number of meetings attended by each of the members are the Committees hold meetings five times a year: in January, provided on page 58. february, June, July and december, and reports on these meetings are made to the respective Boards at the next board meetings.
the Appointments to the Committees are made on the principal business of these meetings typically includes: recommendation of the Nominations Committee and are for periods of up to three years, extendable by no more than two January: review of critical accounting policies and practices, additional three-year periods, so long as the member continues and significant financial reporting issues and judgements arising to be independent.
details of the remuneration policy in respect in connection with the annual financial statements, including of members of the Committees and the remuneration paid to appropriateness of the going concern assumption: review of members for the year ended 31 december 2011 are set out in the risk management activities, compliance and internal control directors Remuneration Report on pages 63 to 79. effectiveness: reviewing and approving the internal audit plan: review of internal audit findings: review of the Reed elsevier responsibilities policy on auditor independence and the fees paid to the external the main role and responsibilities of the Committees in relation to auditor for audit and non audit services: review of information the respective companies are set out in written terms of reference technology security: and include: february: review of external audit findings: review and i to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the recommending for approval to the Boards of annual financial company, and any formal announcements relating to the statements, results announcement, annual report on companys financial performance, reviewing significant form 20-f and related formal statements: review of treasury financial reporting judgements contained therein: policy compliance: ii to review the companys internal financial controls and the June: monitoring and assessing the qualification, performance, companys internal control and risk management systems: expertise, resources, objectivity and independence of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the external audit iii to monitor and review the effectiveness of the companys process: agreeing the external audit plan: reviewing significant internal audit function: financial reporting issues and judgements arising in connection iv to make recommendations in relation to the appointment of with the interim financial statements: review of significant the external auditor and to approve the remuneration and external financial reporting and regulatory developments: terms of engagement of the external auditor: review of tax policies: review of compliance activities: review of report from external auditors on control matters: review of v to review and monitor the external auditors independence internal audit findings: and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant professional and July: review of critical accounting policies and practices, and regulatory requirements: and significant financial reporting issues and judgements arising in connection with the interim financial statements, including vi to develop and recommend policy on the engagement of the appropriateness of the going concern assumption: review of external auditor to supply non audit services and to monitor external audit findings: review and recommending for approval compliance.
to the Boards of the interim financial statements, results the Committees report to the respective Boards on their activities announcement and related formal statements: review of risk identifying any matters in respect of which they consider that management activities and internal audit findings: review and action or improvement is needed and making recommendations approval of the external audit engagement letters: review of as to the steps to be taken.
estimated external audit fees: 57096 SAS p080-082.
indd 80 08 03 2012 08:09 overview Business review financial review Governance Financial statements and other information reed elsevier Annual Reports and financial statements 2011 81 december: review of year end financial reporting and accounting v reviewed and approved the internal audit plan for 2011 issues: review of significant external financial reporting and and monitored execution, including progress in respect of regulatory developments: review of external audit findings to recommendations made.
Reviewed the resources, budget date: review of internal audit findings: review of the terms of and effectiveness of the internal audit function.
reference and effectiveness of internal audit: review of the terms vi received presentations from the Reed elsevier Group plc of reference of the Audit Committees.
vice president compliance on the compliance programmes, the Audit Committee meetings are typically attended by the Chief including the operation of Reed elseviers codes of conduct, financial officer, the Reed elsevier Group plc group financial training programmes, whistleblowing arrangements and controller, chief risk officer and director of internal audit, and procedures in respect of the uK Bribery Act requirements: audit partners of the external auditors.
Additionally, the managing from the Reed elsevier inc. general counsel on the director and senior representatives of the external auditors of management of data privacy, security and compliance: and elsevier Reed finance BV attend the July and february meetings from the Reed elsevier Group plc it security officer on of the parent company Audit Committees.
At least one meeting information technology security.
each year, the Committees meet separately with the external vii received updates from the Reed elsevier Group plc group auditors without management present.
At least once annually, the treasurer on pension arrangements and funding, compliance Chairman of the Audit Committee meets separately with the Reed with treasury policies and risk management, and on global elsevier Group plc chief risk officer and director of internal audit.
in discharging their principal responsibilities in respect of the 2011 viii received a presentation from the Reed elsevier Group plc financial year, the Committees have: head of group taxation on tax policies and related matters.
i received and discussed reports from the Reed elsevier Group ix received regular updates from the chief financial officer on plc group financial controller that set out areas of significance developments within the finance function.
in the preparation of the financial statements, including: review of the carrying values of goodwill and intangible x received presentations on a rotational basis from the chief assets for possible impairment, review of estimated useful financial officers of major businesses on the priorities for lives of intangible assets, accounting for pensions and related thefinance functions of those businesses and the risk assumptions, accounting for share based remuneration management and internal control activities.
and related assumptions, review of the carrying value of the external auditors have attended all meetings of the investments, accounting treatment for acquisitions and Committees.
they have provided written reports at the february, disposals and business restructuring, application of revenue June, July and december meetings summarising the most recognition and cost capitalisation policies, review of tax significant findings from their audit work.
these reports have been reserves and provisions for lease obligations, and the discussed by the Committees and actions agreed where necessary.
use ofthe going concern basis in the preparation of the financial statements.
external audit effectiveness ii reviewed the critical accounting policies and compliance the Audit Committees have the delegated responsibility for with applicable accounting standards and other disclosure reviewing the effectiveness of the external audit and overseeing requirements and received regular update reports on the independence and objectivity of the auditors.
Reed elsevier accounting and regulatory developments.
has a well established policy on audit effectiveness and independence of auditors that sets out inter alia: the iii received and discussed regular reports on the management responsibilities of each Audit Committee in the selection of of material risks and reviewed the effectiveness of the auditors to be proposed for appointment or reappointment at the systems of internal control.
As part of this review, detailed respective annual general meeting and for agreement on the internal control evaluation and certification is obtained from terms of their engagement and the scope of the annual audit: the management across the operating businesses, reviewed by auditor independence requirements and the policy on the internal audit and discussed with the Committees.
provision of non audit services: the rotation of audit partners and iv received and discussed regular reports from the Reed staff: and the conduct of meetings between the auditors and the elsevier Group plc chief risk officer and director of internal Audit Committees.
the policy is available on the Reed elsevier audit summarising the status of the Reed elsevier risk website, www.
management activities and the findings from internal audit the auditors are precluded from engaging in non audit services reviews and the actions agreed with management.
Areas of that would compromise their independence or violate any focus in 2011 included: project management of development professional requirements or regulations affecting their spend, particularly in relation to the significant product and appointment as auditors.
in general, the auditors may not provide infrastructure investment in the us legal business: a service which creates a mutuality of interest: places the auditor acquisition integration activities: regulatory compliance and in a position to audit their own work: results in the auditor acting in review of information security including the management of a capacity akin to that of a company manager or employee: or puts data privacy: business continuity planning: and continued the auditor in the role of advocate for the company.
the policy sets compliance with the requirements of section 404 of the us out specific services that may not be provided by the auditors.
sarbanes-oxley Act relating to the documentation and the auditors may, however, provide non audit services which do testing of internal controls over financial reporting.
indd 81 08 03 2012 08:09 governance 82 RepoRt of the Audit Committees not conflict with their independence, and where their skills and experience make them a logical supplier of the services, subject to pre-approval by the Audit Committee.
the Committees have, each quarter, reviewed and agreed the non audit services provided in 2011, together with the associated fees which are set out in note 3 to the combined financial statements.
the non audit services provided were in the areas of tax compliance, due diligence and other transaction related services.
the external auditors are required to rotate the lead audit partners responsible for the audit engagements every five years.
the lead engagement partner for Reed elsevier pLC has now completed his third year of auditing Reed elseviers financial statements and the lead engagement partner for Reed elsevier NV has completed two years.
Any decision to open the audit to tender is taken only on the recommendation of the Committees.
the external auditors have confirmed their independence and compliance with the Reed elsevier policy on auditor independence.
the Committees conducted an annual review during 2011 of the performance of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the external audit process for the year ended 31 december 2010.
As part of this process, the Committees reviewed the report on the external auditors by the Audit inspection unit of the uK financial Reporting Council issued in June 2011.
Based on these reviews, and on their subsequent observations on the planning and execution of the external audit for the year ended 31 december 2011, the Committees have recommended to the respective Boards that resolutions for the reappointment of the external auditors be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General meetings.
deloitte LLp and deloitte Accountants BV or their predecessor deloitte firms were first appointed respectively auditors of Reed elsevier pLC and Reed elsevier NV for the financial year ended 31 december 1994. in addition to the annual review of the performance of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process, at least every four years the Committees will consider whether the objectives of the audit would be better served through a formal tender process for the auditor appointment.
the effectiveness of the operation of the Audit Committees was reviewed as part of the effectiveness review of the Boards in february 2012.
Ben van der veer Chairman of the Audit Committees 15 february 2012 57096 SAS p080-082.
