Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2011 55 Structure and corporate governance Corporate structure the Boards of both Reed elsevier PLC and Reed elsevier NV have agreed, other than in special circumstances, to recommend equivalent gross dividends including, with respect to the dividend REED ELSEVIER PLC REED ELSEVIER NV on Reed elsevier PLC ordinary shares, the associated UK tax credit based on the equalisation ratio.
A Reed elsevier PLC ordinary share pays dividends in sterling and is subject to UK tax law with respect to dividend and capital rights.
A Reed elsevier NV REED ELSEVIER GROUP PLC Publishing and Information Businesses ordinary share pays dividends in euros and is subject to Dutch tax law with respect to dividend and capital rights.
the exchange rate used for each dividend calculation is the spot euro sterling LexisNexis LexisNexis Reed Reed exchange rate, averaged over a period of five consecutive business Elsevier Risk Legal & Business Exhibitions Solutions Professional Information days commencing on the tenth business day before the announcement of the proposed dividend.
ELSEVIER REED FINANCE BV Financing Activities Corporate governance compliance with codes of best practice Reed elsevier was created in January 1993, when Reed elsevier the Boards of Reed elsevier PLC and Reed elsevier NV have PLC and Reed elsevier NV contributed their respective implemented standards of corporate governance and disclosure businesses to two jointly owned companies, Reed elsevier Group policies applicable to companies listed on the stock exchanges of plc, a UK registered company which owns the publishing and the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and the United States.
the information businesses, and elsevier Reed Finance BV, a Dutch effect of this is that a standard applying to one will, where not in registered company which owns the financing activities.
Reed conflict, also be observed by the other.
elsevier PLC and Reed elsevier NV have retained their separate legal and national identities and are publicly held companies.
the Boards of Reed elsevier PLC and Reed elsevier NV which Reed elsevier PLCs securities are listed in London and New York, comprises an executive Board and a Supervisory Board, together and Reed elsevier NVs securities are listed in Amsterdam and the Combined Board support the principles and provisions of New York.
Following the merger of their respective businesses, corporate governance contained in the UK Corporate Governance Reed elsevier PLC and Reed elsevier NV entered into a Governing Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in May 2010 the Agreement to regulate their relationship, including the economic UK Code and those contained in the Dutch Corporate Governance interests of the parties and the composition of their Boards and Code issued in December 2008 the Dutch Code.
the principles those of Reed elsevier Group plc and of elsevier Reed Finance BV.
and provisions set out in the UK Code and the Dutch Code have applied throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2011.
Equalisation arrangements Reed elsevier PLC, which has its primary listing on the London Reed elsevier PLC and Reed elsevier NV each hold a 50% interest Stock exchange, has complied throughout the year with the UK in Reed elsevier Group plc.
Reed elsevier PLC holds a 39% Code.
Reed elsevier NV, which has its primary listing on the interest in elsevier Reed Finance BV, with Reed elsevier NV euronext Amsterdam Stock exchange, has complied throughout holding a 61% interest.
Reed elsevier PLC additionally holds a the year with the UK Code, and subject to limited exceptions as 5.8% indirect equity interest in Reed elsevier NV, reflecting the explained in the Reed elsevier NV Report of the Supervisory Board arrangements entered into between the two companies at the and the executive Board on pages 162 to 165, has applied the best time of the merger, which determined the equalisation ratio practice provisions of the Dutch Code.
the ways in which Reed whereby one Reed elsevier NV ordinary share is, in broad terms, elsevier PLC and Reed elsevier NV have applied the main intended to confer equivalent economic interests to 1.538 Reed principles of the UK Code are described below.
For further elsevier PLC ordinary shares.
the equalisation ratio is subject to information on the application of the Dutch Code by Reed elsevier change to reflect share splits and similar events that affect the NV, see the Corporate Governance Statement of Reed elsevier NV number of outstanding ordinary shares of either Reed elsevier published on the Reed elsevier website, www.
Business model Under the equalisation arrangements, Reed elsevier PLC As required by C. 1.2 of the UK Code, pages 4 to 28 describe the shareholders have a 52.9% economic interest in the Reed elsevier business and the progress made in 2011 against Reed elseviers combined businesses, and Reed elsevier NV shareholders other long term business priorities, aimed to deliver better outcomes than Reed elsevier PLC have a 47.1% economic interest in the for our customers and create value for Reed elsevier and Reed elsevier combined businesses.
Holders of ordinary shares shareholders.
in Reed elsevier PLC and Reed elsevier NV enjoy substantially equivalent dividend and capital rights with respect to their ordinary shares.
indd 55 08 03 2012 07:56 govERnancE 56 StRUCtURe AND CORPORAte GOVeRNANCe Relations with shareholders Board evaluation Reed elsevier PLC and Reed elsevier NV participate in regular in 2011 the Corporate Governance Committee appointed an dialogue with institutional shareholders.
Presentations are made external evaluator Consilium Board Review, who had no other by the Chairman, Chief executive Officer and Chief Financial connection with Reed elsevier, to carry out an independent Officer following the announcement of the interim and full year evaluation of the Boards effectiveness.
the external evaluator results and these are simultaneously webcast.
A conference call used questionnaires completed by all directors, had meetings with investors was also held following the third quarter interim with each of the directors and attended a meeting of the Boards.
two investor seminars on specific areas the Chairman also held interviews with each member of the of the business were held in 2011 which were also webcast and Boards to individually discuss board effectiveness and the review currently for 2012 two investor seminars are planned and these of the Chairman was led by the senior independent director.
the Chief executive Officer, the Chief operation and constitution of the Boards and their Committees Financial Officer and the investor relations team meet institutional were also evaluated and the findings reported to the Boards.
shareholders on a regular basis and the Chairman also makes the Committee and the Boards have fully reviewed and discussed himself available to major institutions as appropriate.
A trading the findings of the independent evaluation of the performance of update is provided ahead of the Annual General Meetings of the the Boards and their Committees and the individual directors.
the two companies and towards the end of the financial year through senior independent director also led the Committees review of the interim Management Statements.
the interim and annual results assessment as it related to the Chairman during which he announcements and presentations, together with the interim absented himself from the meeting.
Based on the assessments of Management Statements, investor seminar presentations and each director and on the board effectiveness review, the other important announcements and corporate governance Committee believes that the performance of each director documents concerning Reed elsevier, are published on the Reed continues to be effective and that they demonstrate commitment elsevier website, www.
in accordance with the to their respective roles in Reed elsevier.
provisions of the Dutch Code, Reed elsevier NV has adopted a bilateral shareholder contact policy, which is also published on the Committee also believes, based on the review, that the Boards the Reed elsevier website.
the Boards of Reed elsevier PLC and function effectively and collaboratively and with an appropriate Reed elsevier NV commission periodic reports on the attitudes level of engagement with management.
in seeking to further its and views of the companies institutional shareholders and the effectiveness, the Boards will work to ensure they achieve an results are presented to the respective Boards.
appropriate balance of focus among financial, operational and strategic matters at each board meeting, in line with the Both Reed elsevier PLC and Reed elsevier NV offer e-voting recommendations of the review.
facilities in relation to proxy voting at shareholder meetings.
the Annual General Meetings provide an opportunity for the Boards to communicate with individual shareholders.
the The Boards Chairman, the Chief executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Board of Reed elsevier PLC, the Combined Board of Reed the chairmen of the Board Committees, other directors and a elsevier NV and the Board of Reed elsevier Group plc are representative of the external auditors are available to answer harmonised.
All of the directors of Reed elsevier Group plc are questions from shareholders.
also directors of Reed elsevier PLC and are a member of either the executive Board or the Supervisory Board of Reed elsevier NV.
Board induction and information Reed elsevier NV may nominate for appointment to the On appointment and as required, directors receive training Supervisory Board up to two directors who are not appointed appropriate to their level of previous experience.
this includes the to the Boards of either Reed elsevier PLC or Reed elsevier provision of a tailored induction programme so as to provide newly Group plc.
Currently, one such director has been appointed appointed directors with information about the Reed elsevier to the Supervisory Board.
the names, nationality and businesses and other relevant information to assist them in biographical details of each director at the date of this report performing their duties.
Non-executive directors are encouraged appear on pages 52 and 53. to visit the Reed elsevier businesses to meet management and senior staff.
there is a schedule of matters reserved to the Boards and approved delegated authorities to the Chief executive Officer All directors have full and timely access to the information and other senior executives.
there is a clear separation of the required to discharge their responsibilities fully and efficiently.
roles of the Chairman and the Chief executive Officer which they have access to the services of the respective company is set out in writing.
secretaries, other members of Reed elseviers management and staff, and external advisors.
Directors may take independent the Boards of Reed elsevier PLC, Reed elsevier NV, Reed elsevier professional advice in the furtherance of their duties, at the Group plc and elsevier Reed Finance BV each comprise a balance relevant companys expense.
of executive and non-executive directors who bring a wide range of skills and experience to the deliberations of the Boards.
the in addition to scheduled board and board committee meetings held Boards review the independence of the non-executive directors during the year, directors attend many other meetings and site visits.
every year, based on the criteria for independence set out in the Where a director is unable to attend a board or board committee UK Code.
the UK Code does not consider the Chairman to be meeting he or she is provided with all relevant papers and information independent due to the unique role the Chairman has in corporate relating to that meeting and is able to discuss issues arising with governance.
Notwithstanding this, Anthony Habgood met the the respective chairman and other board members.
independence criteria contained in the UK Code when he was 57096 SAS p051-062.
indd 56 08 03 2012 07:56 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2011 57 appointed Chairman in 2009. the Boards consider all nonSupervisory Board of Reed elsevier NV provide that individuals executive directors other than the Chairman to be independent will serve for an initial term of three years, and are typically of management and free from any business or other relationship expected to serve two three-year terms, although the Boards may which could materially interfere with their ability to exercise invite an individual to serve for an additional period of three years.
the respective Articles of Association of Reed elsevier PLC and Notwithstanding that Mark elliott and Sir David Reid will at the Reed elsevier NV provide that all directors should be subject to time of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting have served on retirement at least every three years and are then able to make the Boards for nine years, they will both stand for re-appointment themselves available for re-election by shareholders at to allow for an orderly transition to newly appointed directors.
the subsequent Annual General Meetings.
Notwithstanding the Boards have determined that they remain independent in character provisions of the said Articles of Association, the Boards comply and judgement despite having served on the Boards for more than with the recommendations contained in the UK Code, and all nine years and there are also no relationships or circumstances directors seek re-election by shareholders annually.
which are likely to affect their independent judgement.
Board changes the Boards of Reed elsevier PLC and of Reed elsevier NV have Changes during the year in the composition of the Boards of Reed appointed Sir David Reid to act as senior independent director, elsevier PLC, Reed elsevier NV and Reed elsevier Group plc are who is available to meet with institutional shareholders and assist noted in the board attendance table below.
in resolving concerns in cases where alternative channels are deemed inappropriate.
the senior independent director also leads Following a recommendation from the Nominations Committee, the annual assessment of the functioning and performance of Adrian Hennah was appointed a non-executive director of Reed the Chairman of Reed elsevier PLC Chairman of the Supervisory elsevier PLC and a member of the Reed elsevier NV Supervisory Board of Reed elsevier NV.
A profile, which identifies the skills and Board at the respective Annual General Meetings in April 2011, experience of the non-executive directors of Reed elsevier PLC and was also appointed a non-executive director of Reed elsevier and the members of the Supervisory Board of Reed elsevier NV, Group plc.
Lord Sharman retired from the Boards at the is available on the Reed elsevier website, www.
conclusion of the Reed elsevier NV and Reed elsevier PLC Annual General Meetings in April 2011. in accordance with the Reed elsevier PLC and Reed elsevier NV shareholders maintain recommendation in the UK Code, all directors will retire from the their rights to appoint individuals to the respective Boards in Boards at the respective Annual General Meetings and, being accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of eligible, they will offer themselves for re-election.
Subject to this, no individual may be appointed account the assessment by the Corporate Governance Committee to the Boards of Reed elsevier PLC, Reed elsevier NV either of of the qualifications, performance and effectiveness of each the executive Board or the Supervisory Board or Reed elsevier individual director seeking re-election, the Boards have accepted Group plc unless recommended by the joint Nominations a recommendation from the Nominations Committee that each Committee.
Members of the Committee abstain when their director be proposed for re-election at the Annual General own re-appointment is being considered.
Meeting of the respective company.
As a general rule, letters of appointment in respect of non-executive directors of Reed elsevier PLC and members of the BoaRd attEndancE Reed elsevier PLC Reed elsevier NV Reed elsevier Group plc Date of Number of Number of Number of appointment meetings Number of meetings Number of meetings Number of cessation held whilst meetings held whilst meetings held whilst meetings Members during the year a director attended a director attended a director attended Mark Armour 6 6 6 6 7 7 Mark elliott 6 6 6 6 7 7 erik engstrom 6 6 6 6 7 7 Anthony Habgood 6 6 6 6 7 7 Adrian Hennah April 2011 4 4 4 4 5 5 Lisa Hook 6 6 6 6 7 6 Marike van Lier Lels n a n a 6 6 n a n a Robert Polet 6 6 6 6 7 7 Sir David Reid 6 5 6 5 7 6 Lord Sharman April 2011 2 1 2 1 2 1 Ben van der Veer 6 6 6 6 7 7 57096 SAS p051-062.
indd 57 08 03 2012 07:56 govERnancE 58 StRUCtURe AND CORPORAte GOVeRNANCe Elsevier Reed Finance Bv has a two-tier board structure comprising a Supervisory Board and a Management Board.
the Supervisory Board consists of Rudolf van den Brink Chairman, Mark Armour, Ben van der Veer and Marike van Lier Lels, with the Management Board consisting of Jacques Billy, Gerben fide Jong and Jans van der Woude.
Appointments to the Supervisory Board and the Management Board are made by elsevier Reed Finance BVs shareholders, in accordance with the companys Articles of Association.
ELSEvIER REEd FInancE Bv Number of meetings Number of held whilst meetings Members a director attended Mark Armour 3 3 Jacques Billy 3 2 Rudolf van den Brink 3 3 Gerben fide Jong 3 3 Marike van Lier Lels 3 3 Ben van der Veer 3 3 Jans van der Woude 3 3 Board committees in accordance with the principles of good corporate governance, the following committees have been established by the respective Boards.
All of the committees have written terms of reference, which are published on the Reed elsevier website, www.
Membership of each committee during the year is set out below.
audit committees: Reed elsevier PLC, Reed elsevier NV and Reed elsevier Group plc have established Audit Committees.
the Committees comprise only non-executive directors.
the Committees are chaired by Ben van der Veer.
A report of the Audit Committees, setting out their role and main activities during the year, appears on pages 80 to 82. audIt coMMIttEES Number of Date of meetings appointment held whilst a Number of cessation Committee meetings Members during the year member attended Adrian Hennah April 2011 3 2 Lisa Hook 5 4 Sir David Reid 5 3 Lord Sharman April 2011 2 2 Ben van der Veer 5 5 the functions of an audit committee in respect of the financing activities are carried out by the Supervisory Board of elsevier Reed Finance BV.
Remuneration committee: Reed elsevier Group plc has established a Remuneration Committee, which is responsible for considering the remuneration for the executive directors and the Chairman.
the Committee comprises only non-executive directors, and is chaired by Mark elliott.
ADirectors Remuneration Report, which has been approved by the Boards of Reed elsevier Group plc, Reed elsevier PLC and Reed elsevier NV, appears on pages 63 to 79. this report also serves as disclosure of the directors remuneration policy, and the remuneration and interests of the directors in the shares of the two parent companies, Reed elsevier PLC and Reed elsevier NV.
REMunERatIon coMMIttEE Number of meetings held whilst a Number of Committee meetings Members member attended Mark elliott 5 5 Anthony Habgood 5 5 Robert Polet 5 5 Sir David Reid 5 3 57096 SAS p051-062.
indd 58 08 03 2012 07:56 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2011 59 nominations committee: Reed elsevier PLC and Reed elsevier NV have established a joint Nominations Committee.
the Committee comprises only non-executive directors, and is chaired by Anthony Habgood.
A report of the Nominations Committee, setting out its role and main activities during the year, appears on page 62. noMInatIonS coMMIttEE Number of Date of meetings appointment held whilst a Number of cessation Committee meetings Members during the year member attended Mark elliott 5 5 Anthony Habgood 5 5 Lisa Hook April 2011 4 3 Sir David Reid 5 3 Lord Sharman April 2011 2 1 Ben van der Veer January 2011 5 5 corporate governance committee: Reed elsevier PLC and Reed elsevier NV have established a joint Corporate Governance Committee, which is responsible for reviewing ongoing developments and best practice in corporate governance.
the Committee is also responsible for assessing the performance of the directors and recommending the structure and operation of the various committees of the Boards and the qualifications and criteria for membership of each committee, including the independence of members of the Boards.
coRPoRatE govERnancE coMMIttEE Number of Date of meetings appointment held whilst a Number of cessation Committee meetings Members during the year member attended Mark elliott 4 4 Anthony Habgood 4 4 Adrian Hennah April 2011 3 3 Lisa Hook 4 4 Marike van Lier Lels 4 4 Robert Polet 4 4 Sir David Reid 4 4 Lord Sharman April 2011 1 1 Ben van der Veer 4 4 operating companies Internal control the Board of Reed elsevier Group plc is responsible for the system Parent companies of internal control of the Reed elsevier publishing and information the Boards of Reed elsevier PLC and Reed elsevier NV exercise businesses, while the Boards of elsevier Reed Finance BV are independent supervisory roles over the activities and systems of responsible for the system of internal control in respect of the internal control of Reed elsevier Group plc and elsevier Reed finance group activities.
the Boards of Reed elsevier Group plc Finance BV.
the Boards of Reed elsevier PLC and Reed elsevier NV and elsevier Reed Finance BV are also responsible for reviewing have each adopted a schedule of matters which are required to be the effectiveness of their systems of internal control.
brought to them for decision.
in relation to Reed elsevier Group plc the Boards of Reed elsevier Group plc and elsevier Reed Finance and elsevier Reed Finance BV, the Boards of Reed elsevier PLC and BV have each implemented an ongoing process for identifying, Reed elsevier NV approve the strategy and the annual budgets, and evaluating, monitoring and managing the more significant risks receive regular reports on the operations, including the treasury faced by their respective businesses.
these processes have been and risk management activities of the two companies.
Major in place throughout the year ended 31 December 2011 and up to transactions proposed by the Boards of Reed elsevier Group plc or the date of the approvals of the Annual Reports and Financial elsevier Reed Finance BV require the approval of the Boards of both Statements 2011.
Reed elsevier PLC and Reed elsevier NV.
the Reed elsevier PLC and Reed elsevier NV Audit Committees Reed Elsevier group plc meet on a regular basis to review the systems of internal control Reed elsevier Group plc has an established framework of and risk management of Reed elsevier Group plc and elsevier procedures and internal controls, with which the management Reed Finance BV.
of each business is required to comply.
Group businesses are required to maintain systems of internal control which are appropriate to the nature and scale of their activities and address all significant operational and financial risks that they face.
the Board of Reed elsevier Group plc has adopted a schedule of matters that are required to be brought to it for decision.
indd 59 08 03 2012 07:56 govERnancE 60 StRUCtURe AND CORPORAte GOVeRNANCe Reed elsevier Group plc has a Code of ethics and Business annual review Conduct that provides a guide for achieving its business goals and As part of the year end procedures, the Audit Committees and requires officers and employees to behave in an open, honest, Boards of Reed elsevier PLC, Reed elsevier NV, Reed elsevier ethical and principled manner.
the Code also outlines confidential Group plc and elsevier Reed Finance BV review the effectiveness procedures enabling employees to report any concerns about of the systems of internal control and risk management during the compliance, or about Reed elseviers financial reporting last financial year.
the objective of these systems is to manage, practice.
the Code is published on the Reed elsevier website, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business www.
Accordingly, they can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
the each division has identified and evaluated its major risks, the Boards have confirmed, subject to the above, that as regards controls in place to manage those risks and the levels of residual financial reporting risks, the respective risk management and risk accepted.
Risk management and control procedures are control systems provide reasonable assurance against material embedded into the operations of the business and include the inaccuracies or loss and have functioned properly during the year.
monitoring of progress in areas for improvement that come to management and board attention.
the major risks identified include business continuity, protection of it systems and data, Responsibilities in respect of the challenges to intellectual property rights, management of strategic and operational change, evaluation and integration of acquisitions, financial statements and recruitment and retention of personnel.
Further detail on the the directors of Reed elsevier PLC, Reed elsevier NV, Reed elsevier principal risks facing Reed elsevier is set out on pages 48 to 50.
Group plc and elsevier Reed Finance BV are required to prepare the major strategic risks facing the Reed elsevier Group plc financial statements as at the end of each financial period, in businesses are considered by the Board.
Reed elseviers Chief accordance with applicable law and regulations, which give a true Risk Officer is responsible for providing regular reports to the and fair view of the state of affairs, and of the profit or loss, of the Board and Audit Committee.
Working closely with business respective companies and their subsidiaries, joint ventures and management and with the central functions, the role of the Chief associates.
they are responsible for maintaining proper accounting Risk Officer is to ensure that Reed elsevier is managing its records, for safeguarding assets, and for taking reasonable steps to business risks effectively and in a coordinated manner across prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
the directors are the business with clarity on the respective responsibilities and also responsible for selecting suitable accounting policies and interdependencies.
Litigation and other legal regulatory matters applying them on a consistent basis, making judgements and are managed by legal directors in europe and the United States.
estimates that are prudent and reasonable.
the Reed elsevier Group plc Audit Committee receives regular Applicable accounting standards have been followed and the reports on the identification and management of material risks Reed elsevier combined financial statements, which are the and reviews these reports.
the Audit Committee also receives responsibility of the directors of Reed elsevier PLC and Reed regular reports from both internal and external auditors on elsevier NV, are prepared using accounting policies which comply internal control and risk management matters.
in addition, each with international Financial Reporting Standards.
division is required, at the end of the financial year, to review the effectiveness of internal controls and risk management and report its findings on a detailed basis to the management of Reed Going concern elsevier Group plc.
these reports are summarised and, as part of the annual review of effectiveness, submitted to the Audit the directors of Reed elsevier PLC and Reed elsevier NV, having Committee of Reed elsevier Group plc.
the Chairman of the made appropriate enquiries, consider that adequate resources Audit Committee reports to the Board on any significant internal exist for the combined businesses to continue in operational control matters arising.
existence for the foreseeable future and that, therefore, it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 2011 Elsevier Reed Finance Bv financial statements.
in reaching this conclusion, the directors of elsevier Reed Finance BV has established policy guidelines, Reed elsevier PLC and Reed elsevier NV have had due regard to which are applied to all elsevier Reed Finance BV companies.
the combined businesses financial position as at 31 December the respective Boards of elsevier Reed Finance BV have adopted 2011, the strong free cash flow of the combined businesses, Reed schedules of matters that are required to be brought to them for elseviers ability to access capital markets and the principal risks decision.
Procedures are in place for monitoring the activities of facing Reed elsevier.
the finance group, including a comprehensive treasury reporting system.
the major risks affecting the finance group have been identified and evaluated and are subject to regular review.
the controls in place to manage these risks and the level of residual risk accepted are monitored by the Boards.
indd 60 08 03 2012 07:56 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2011 61 A commentary on the Reed elsevier combined businesses cash flows, financial position and liquidity for the year ended 31December 2011 is set out in the Chief Financial Officers Report on pages 42 to 44. this shows that after taking account of available cash resources and committed bank facilities that back up short term borrowings, none of Reed elseviers borrowings fall due within the next two years.
Reed elseviers policies on liquidity, capital management and management of risks relating to interest rate, foreign exchange and credit exposures are set out on pages 46 and 47.
Further information on liquidity of the combined businesses can be found in note 18 of the combined financial statements.
the principal risks facing Reed elsevier are set out on pages 48 to 50.
US certificates As required by Section 302 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 and by related rules issued by the US Securities and exchange Commission, the Chief executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of Reed elsevier PLC and of Reed elsevier NV certify in the respective Annual Reports 2011 on Form 20-F to be filed with the Commission that they are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures and that they have: designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that material information relating to Reed elsevier is made known to them: evaluated the effectiveness of Reed elseviers disclosure controls and procedures: based on their evaluation, disclosed to the Audit Committees and the external auditors all significant deficiencies in the design or operation of disclosure controls and procedures and any frauds, whether or not material, that involve management or other employees who have a significant role in Reed elseviers internal controls: and presented in the Reed elsevier Annual Report 2011 on Form 20-F their conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures.
A Disclosure Committee, comprising the company secretaries of Reed elsevier PLC and Reed elsevier NV and other senior Reed elsevier managers, provides assurance to the Chief executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer regarding their Section 302 certifications.
Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 requires the Chief executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of Reed elsevier PLC and of Reed elsevier NV to certify in the respective Annual Reports 2011 on Form 20-F that they are responsible for maintaining adequate internal control structures and procedures for financial reporting and to conduct an assessment of their effectiveness.
the conclusions of the assessment of internal control structures and financial reporting procedures, which are unqualified, are presented in the Reed elsevier Annual Report 2011 on Form 20-F. 57096 SAS p051-062.
