BUSINESS REVIEW 22 REED ExHIBITIONS Reed Exhibitions organises market leading events that are Reed Exhibitions is the worlds relevant to industry needs, where participants from around the world come together to do business, network and learn.
Its leading events business, with over exhibitions and conferences encompass a wide range of sectors, including: broadcasting, TV, music & entertainment: building & 475 events in 34 countries.
construction: electronics & electrical engineering: alternative energy, oil & gas: engineering, manufacturing & processing: Reed Exhibitions portfolio of exhibitions and conferences serves gifts: interior design: IT & telecoms: jewellery: life sciences & 44 industry sectors across the Americas, Europe, the Middle East pharmaceuticals: marketing: property & real estate: sports and Asia Pacific.
In 2011 Reed Exhibitions brought together over & recreation: and travel.
six million event participants from around the world, generating billions of dollars in business for its customers.
In January 2012 Reed Exhibitions took full ownership of our joint venture, Alcantara Machado, Brazils leading exhibition organiser.
Total revenues for the year ended 31 December 2011 were 707m.
Reed Exhibitions is a global business headquartered in London market opportunities and has principal offices in Paris, Vienna, Norwalk Connecticut, Growth in the exhibitions market is correlated to business to Abu Dhabi, Beijing, Tokyo, Sydney and So Paulo.
Reed Exhibitions business marketing spend, historically driven by levels of has 2,800 employees worldwide.
corporate profitability, which itself has followed overall growth in GDP, and business investment.
Emerging markets and growth industries provide additional opportunities.
As some events are held other than annually, growth in any one year is affected by the cycle of non-annual exhibitions.
The worlds entertainment content market International machinery trade fair Event for the restaurant, hotel, caf and catering industries Premier global event for the travel industry The North American jewellery industrys Leading international exhibition for personal premier trade event care ingredients The worlds property market World platform for sustainable future One of the largest business gifts & home energy solutions fairs in China 57096 SAS p007-029.
indd 22 08 03 2012 08:58 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2011 23 Strategic priorities Business model, distribution channels and competition Reed Exhibitions strategic goal is to provide market leading The substantial majority of Reed Exhibitions revenues are from events in growth sectors, especially in higher growth geographies, sales of exhibition space.
The balance includes conference fees, that enable businesses to target and reach new customers advertising in exhibition guides, sponsorship fees and, for some quickly and cost effectively and to provide a platform for industry shows, admission charges.
Exhibition space is sold directly or participants to do business, network and learn.
To achieve through local agents where applicable.
Reed Exhibitions often this, Reed Exhibitions is focused on: driving organic growth by works in collaboration with trade associations, which use the leveraging global sector groups and technology platforms, events to promote access for members to domestic and export developing the portfolio through a combination of new launches, markets, and with governments, for whom events can provide strategic partnerships and selective acquisitions in high growth important support to stimulate foreign investment and promote sectors and geographies: and further developing websites, regional and national enterprise.
analytics and other online tools to enhance the exhibition Reed Exhibitions is the market leader in a fragmented industry, experience and add to customer return on investment in holding less than a 10% global market share.
exhibition organisers include UBM, Informa IIR and some of the In 2011, at a portfolio level, this strategy delivered 43 new events in larger German Messe, including Messe Frankfurt, Messe high growth sectors such as the Gift and Home industry in China, Dsseldorf and Messe Munich.
Competition also comes from Incentive Travel in the USA, and Smart Grids in Japan and industry trade associations and convention centre and exhibition Singapore, as well as further acquisitions to build out our leading hall owners.
position in Brazil, enter Mexico and Morocco, and increase our exposure to the Renewable Energy industry in the Uk.
In terms of systems and customer experience, Reed Exhibitions has continued to invest in developing its event web platform which is now used by more than 70% of events.
NUmBER of EVENt LAUNchES EVENtS IN EmERgINg mARkEtS 43 139 35 99 2010 2011 2010 2011 New event launches focusing on high growth sectors and geographies.
Significant increase in events taking place in high growth geographies through new launches and acquisitions.
REVENUE By foRmAt REVENUE By gEogRAPhIc mARkEt 707m 707m Other 2% North America Rest of World Face to face 98% Europe On an event location basis.
indd 23 08 03 2012 08:58 BUSINESS REVIEW 24 REED ExHIBITIONS 2011 2010 Change at constant Change m m Change currencies underlying Revenue 707 693 2% 1% 0% Adjusted operating profit 167 158 6% 4% 2% including Multiplus, serving the biofuels industry, and Expo 2011 financial performance Seguridad, extending our security sector portfolio into Latin the net cycling out of biennial shows held back growth in 2011.
In January 2012 Reed Exhibitions took full ownership of Excluding biennial cycling, underlying revenue growth was 10%, our joint venture, Alcantara Machado, Brazils leading exhibition with good growth across all geographies.
In addition to expanding our presence in this high was accelerated, and we have made a number of selective growth market, this will help to reduce the revenue impact of acquisitions which have increased our presence in high biennial cycling in future years.
Underlying costs were down 1%, reflecting tight cost control, Underlying revenues and adjusted operating profits were flat while funding the significantly increased launch programme and and up 2% respectively.
build out of global industry groups and information technology capabilities.
The adjusted operating margin was 0.8 percentage In Europe, underlying revenue grew 6% excluding biennial cycling, points higher than in 2010 at 23.6%.
with Mipcom and Mapic performing particularly well.
Mipim, ReedExhibitions largest individual show, returned to good growth outlook after experiencing a decline in 2010.
In North America underlying 2012 revenues will benefit from the net cycling in of biennial revenues grew 16% excluding cycling, with strong performances events.
2012 has started well, with good performances from across a wide range of events.
Outside Europe and North America annual shows, albeit with some signs of softness in European underlying revenue growth was 13% excluding biennial events, markets.
We remain alert to how changes in the macro economic including particularly strong growth in China, Brazil, Russia and environment may impact customer sentiment as the year the Middle East.
New launch activity was accelerated in 2011, leveraging our global sector groups and technology platform, with 43 new events, the vast majority of which were in faster growing markets and sectors.
indd 24 08 03 2012 08:58 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2011 25 IMAGE OF TOKYO SHOW Finetech Japan Reed Exhibitions Japan hosted a packed Finetech just one month after the devastating earthquake that hit the country in March 2011.
Finetech Japan is the worlds largest tradeshow in the field of liquid crystal and plasma display manufacturing, and is held in Tokyo each April.
