BUSINESS REVIEW 10 ELSEVIER content: review, publish, disseminate and preserve research Elseviers scientific and medical findings: and create innovative tools to help focus research strategies and improve their effectiveness.
information and tools help its Elsevier publishes over 240,000 new science & technology customers improve outcomes in research articles each year through some 1,250 journals, many of which are the foremost publications in their field and a science and health.
primary point of reference for new research.
The vast majority of customers receive these journals through ScienceDirect, Elsevier is the worlds leading provider of scientific and medical the worlds largest database of scientific and medical research, information and serves scientists, health professionals and providing access to over 10 million scientific and medical journal students worldwide.
Its objective is to help its customers articles, used by over 7 million researchers each year.
advance science and improve healthcare by providing world Elsevier also publishes over 700 new English language science class information and innovative solutions that enable & technology book titles annually, supporting bibliographic data, customers to make critical decisions, enhance productivity indexes and abstracts, and review and reference works.
online books are available on ScienceDirect, with over 1,000 online Total revenues for the year ended 31 December 2011 were books added each year.
Elsevier is a global business with principal operations Other major products include Scopus and Reaxys.
Scopus is the in Amsterdam, Beijing, Boston, Chennai, Delhi, London, Madrid, largest abstract and citation database of research literature in the Milan, Munich, New York, Oxford, Paris, Philadelphia, Rio fide world, with abstracts and bibliographic information on more than Janeiro, St. Louis, San Diego, Singapore and Tokyo.
Elsevier 45 million scientific research articles from 19,000 peer reviewed has 6,900 employees.
Scopus also has data Elsevier is organised around two market-facing businesses: on more than 24 million patents.
Reaxys is a leading solution for Science & Technology, which serves the scientific and technology synthetic chemists that integrates chemical reaction and communities, and Health Sciences, which serves the health compound data searching with synthesis planning.
Both of these businesses are supported by a global In December 2011, Elsevier acquired Ariadne Genomics a provider shared services organisation which provides integrated editorial of pathway analysis tools and semantic technologies for life systems and production services, product platforms, distribution, science researchers which will complement Elseviers efforts and other support functions.
to serve the needs of researchers in the pharma biotech sector.
Science & technology is the worlds leading scientific information A major challenge facing researchers and institutions is the ever provider.
It delivers a wide array of information and workflow growing amount of research and related information with limited tools that help researchers generate valuable insights in the time to identify and analyse what is most relevant.
To address this advancement of scientific discovery and improve the productivity challenge, Elsevier has been developing a suite of new products of research.
Its customers are scientists, academic institutions, that significantly improve the speed at which researchers are able research leaders and administrators, corporations and to find the most relevant information and analyse this information governments which rely on Elsevier to: provide high quality using the most innovative applications.
SciVerse Hub provides a The SciVerse platform combines content from Science Direct is the worlds largest database One of the worlds leading medical journals Elsevier products with a new discovery hub of scientific and medical research articles since 1823 and community developed applications Scopus is the worlds largest scientific Leading web-based chemical reaction Integrated, online resources that complement abstract and citation database workflow solution for industrial chemists Elseviers nursing textbook content SciVal provides research performance Premier life sciences journal with the Clinical decision support tool to identify areas tools for academic institutions and highest impact factor in biochemistry for improvement in medical practice funding intelligence and molecular biology 57096 SAS p007-029.
indd 10 08 03 2012 08:58 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2011 11 single search interface for accessing ScienceDirect, Scopus and such as Grays Anatomy, Nelsons Pediatrics and Netters Atlas of scientific web content.
In addition, SciVerse Application Marketplace Human Anatomy.
In addition to its local language publishing in & Developer Network enables researchers and third party many countries across the world, Health Sciences leverages its developers to build customised applications on top of Elseviers content and solutions into new markets through local language information and other data and analytics enhancing the utility of versioning.
In November 2011, ClinicalKey was launched in beta the underlying content.
allowing physicians to access the leading reference and evidence-based medicine in a single, fully-integrated site built Following a successful collaboration since 2007, Elsevier acquired to accommodate their clinical information workflows.
QUOSAs technological capabilities will raise the efficiency of the search and discovery process and will Elsevier is a leader in medical education and training resources, also allow researchers to manage information more efficiently.
particularly to the nursing and allied health professions.
From print and electronic books to virtual clinical patient care, Health Elsevier is continuing to develop the SciVal suite of products Sciences supports students, teaching faculties and healthcare that help academic and government institutions evaluate their organisations in education and practice.
A strong focus is on the research performance, determine research strategies and further development of innovative electronic services: the Evolve increase institutional efficiencies.
Leveraging bibliometric data, portal provides a rich resource to support faculty and students such as citations from Scopus, SciVal Spotlight helps institutions and now has 3 million registered users: Evolve Reach Health and governments to identify their distinctive research strengths, Education Systems Inc. provides online review and testing tools evaluate performance and increase the focus of their R&D for nursing and the allied health professions: Evolve Teach investments.
SciVal Funding assists researchers and institutions provides online resources and solutions to support faculty.
in identifying grants that are most relevant in their research areas.
SciVal Experts enables researchers to establish a directory of A growing area of focus is clinical decision support, providing experts in their area of interest, while SciVal Strata facilitates online information and analytics to deliver patient-specific performance benchmarking by research teams.
solutions at the point of care to improve patient outcomes.
Gold Standard provides critical information on drug interactions to health Sciences is a world leading medical information provider.
assist effective treatment: CPM Resource Center provides a data Through its medical journals, books, major reference works, driven framework to support nurses in undertaking procedures: databases and online information tools, Elsevier provides critical Nursing Consult provides nursing care guidelines in trauma and information and analysis on which its customers rely to base disease management: MEDai uses patient data and analytics to their decisions, to improve medical outcomes and enhance the help identify areas for improvement in clinical practice within efficiency of healthcare.
Health Sciences serves medical hospitals and lower costs for the payers of healthcare through researchers, doctors, nurses, allied health professionals preventative interventions.
In February 2011, Elsevier entered the and students, as well as hospitals, research institutions, emerging clinical decision support market in China through the health insurers, managed healthcare organisations and acquisition of Datong, a leading online provider of drug information pharmaceutical companies.
that helps Chinese hospitals to improve quality of care through Elsevier publishes over 700 health sciences journals, including better drug usage.
on behalf of learned societies, and, in 2011, 1,500 new health Elsevier also provides services to the pharmaceutical industry sciences book titles and clinical reference works were published through advertising and sponsored communications to the both in print and through ScienceDirect and other electronic specialist community it serves.
In 2011, Elsevier continued the platforms such as MD Consult.
MD Consult is a leading online restructuring of this business focusing more on the services clinical information service with more than 2,400 institutional which leverage Health Sciences core information and customers.
Flagship titles include market leading medical distribution platform.
journals such as The Lancet, and major medical reference works REVENUE By foRmAt REVENUE By gEogRAPhIc mARkEt 2,058m 2,058m Rest of World Print Other 37% North America Electronic 63% Europe 57096 SAS p007-029.
indd 11 08 03 2012 08:58 BUSINESS REVIEW 12 ELSEVIER market opportunities researcher productivity.
The SciVal suite of performance and The science and medical information markets have good long planning tools will continue to be expanded to help academic and term demand growth characteristics.
The importance of research government institutions target their research spend and improve and development to economic performance and competitive research efficiency and economic outcomes.
positioning is well understood by governments, academic In Health Sciences, priorities are to continue to enhance the institutions and corporations.
This is reflected in the long term quality and relevance of its content and actively manage the growth in R&D spend and in the number of researchers ongoing format shift from print to electronic information worldwide, leading to greater research output and publishing.
consumption by developing improved electronic solutions that Additionally, there is growing demand for tools that allow research add more value to its users and customers.
Additionally, Health to better target and improve the spend and efficiency of the Sciences continues to build out clinical decision support services research process.
to meet customer demand for tools that deliver better medical In health, market growth is also supported by demographic outcomes and lowers costs for payers, physicians and hospitals.
trends, with ageing populations that require more healthcare, Elsevier is also focused on increasing growth in emerging rising prosperity in developing economies with increasing markets through expansion of local publishing and versioning expectations of better healthcare provision, and the increasing of content and electronic services.
focus on improving medical outcomes and efficiency.
Business model, distribution channels and competition Given that a significant proportion of scientific research and Science and medical research is principally disseminated on a healthcare is funded directly or indirectly by governments, spending paid subscription basis to the research facilities of academic is influenced by governmental budgetary considerations.
The institutions, government and corporations, and, in the case of commitment to research and health provision does, however, medical and healthcare journals, also to individual practitioners remain high, even in more difficult budgetary environments.
Advertising and promotional revenues are derived from pharmaceutical and other companies.
Strategic priorities Elseviers strategic goal is to make valued contributions to the Electronic products, such as ScienceDirect, Scopus and MD Consult, communities it serves in advancing science, improving medical are generally sold direct to customers through a dedicated sales outcomes and enhancing productivity.
To achieve this, Elsevier is force that has offices around the world.
Subscription agents focused on: building world-class content: deepening its customer facilitate the sales and administrative process for print journals.
engagement to identify how better to help them achieve their Books are sold through traditional and online book stores, desired outcomes more efficiently and effectively: delivering wholesalers and, particularly in medical and healthcare markets, tools which link, analyse and illuminate content and data to help directly to end users.
customers make critical decisions and improve their productivity: Competition within science and medical publishing is generally on increasing its investment in high-growth markets and disciplines: a title by title and product by product basis.
Competing journals, and continuously improving organisational efficiency.
books and databases are typically published by learned societies In Science & Technology, priorities are to continually enhance and other professional publishers.
Workflow tools face similar the quality and relevance of research and reference content competition as well as from software companies and internal and expand data sets, while adding greater functionality and solutions developed by customers.
utility to SciVerse, ScienceDirect, Scopus and new tools to assist RELAtIVE ImPAct fActoR hEALth ScIENcES ELEctRoNIc REVENUE 1.06 40% 1.02 1.00 37% 0.96 0.96 32% 27% 24% 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Improvement in relative journal quality of Elseviers journal portfolio Growing demand for online information and analytics driven by increasing through attracting the highest quality research.
Relative impact factor is the average citation impact of Elsevier journal content compared to other publishers industry average 1.
Based on citation data from Thomson Reuters.
indd 12 08 03 2012 08:58 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2011 13 2011 2010 Change at constant Change m m Change currencies underlying Revenue Science & Technology 1,076 1,015 6% 4% 4% Health Sciences 982 1,011 -3% -2% 0% 2,058 2,026 2% 1% 2% Adjusted operating profit 768 724 6% 3% 4% electronic products grew well and now account for nearly 40% of 2011 financial performance revenues.
European pharma promotion declines have continued, Increasing global scientific and medical research activity and print book sales to individuals came under increasing supported good growth in research information and online pressure, reflecting the format shift to online, and lower tools.
health Sciences saw continued pressure on print book enrolment in US nursing and health profession career schools.
sales to individuals and European pharma promotion, but Our business in emerging markets, most notably India, China and achieved good growth in global medical research and clinical in Latin America performed well.
Underlying cost growth was 1%, reflecting ongoing emphasis on Underlying revenues and adjusted operating profits were up 2% process efficiencies and procurement savings offsetting business and 4% respectively.
growth and spending on new product development and sales & marketing initiatives.
Science & Technology generated underlying revenue growth of 4%.
Global research activity has continued to grow broadly outlook in line with long term historical trends, and Elsevier generated The customer budgetary environment remains broadly similar good growth in the volume of articles submitted and published to that seen last year with variations by both geography and in the year, and improved the quality of articles relative to other customer.
In research, we expect volume growth to continue, publishers as measured by citation share.
As academic research and the subscription renewal process for 2012 is well progressed.
becomes increasingly interdisciplinary and collaborative across In health, we expect the transition from print to electronic to geographies, Elsevier is providing information and analytical tools continue, with strong demand for electronic solutions offset by that help academic institutions to achieve better research outcomes.
Overall, modest underlying revenue growth is Sales of databases and tools grew strongly.
Health Sciences underlying revenues were flat.
Our global medical research business benefited from similar drivers to those in the Science & Technology research business, and online clinical decision support achieved double digit growth as healthcare customers look to achieve improved medical outcomes and increased efficiency.
