Board of directors The role of the Board is to provide entrepreneurial leadership and to review the overall strategic development of the Group.
Douglas Sutherland N Lance Browne A, N, R Chairman Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Douglas Sutherland was appointed Non-Executive Director of Regus on Lance Browne was appointed Non-Executive Director of Regus 27 August 2008 and was appointed Non-Executive Chairman on 18 May on 27 August 2008 and became Senior Independent Non-Executive 2010: he also serves as Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Lance is Chairman of Travelex China, was Chief Financial officer of Skype during its acquisition by eBay in Vice Chairman of Standard Chartered Bank China Limited and October 2005 and was also Chief Financial officer at SecureWave during Non-Executive Director of G3.
He was previously China Senior Advisor its acquisition by PatchLink in July 2007.
Prior to this, Douglas enjoyed a to the City of London, Chairman of China Goldmines plc, Non-Executive career with Arthur Andersen, serving as a Partner with management Director of IMI plc and Director of Business Development at Powergen responsibilities for over a decade.
Douglas is currently also a Director International HK.
of HosCo Kliniken S. r. l. and HosCo Gruppe S. r. l. Mark Dixon Elmar Heggen A, N, R Chief Executive officer Independent Non-Executive Director Chief Executive and founder, Mark Dixon is one of Europes best known Elmar Heggen was appointed Non-Executive Director of Regus on entrepreneurs.
Since founding Regus in Brussels, Belgium in 1989, he has 1 June 2010 and became Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on achieved a formidable reputation for leadership and innovation.
Elmar has extensive management experience and is Regus he established businesses in the retail and wholesale food industry.
currently Chief Financial officer and Head of the Corporate Centre at RTL A recipient of several awards for enterprise, Mark has revolutionised the Group, the leading European entertainment network, where he has held way business approaches its property needs with his vision of the various roles since 2000.
Elmar began his career at the Felix Schoeller future of work.
Group, becoming Vice President & General Manager of Felix Schoeller Digital Imaging in the UK in 1999.
Dominique Yates Alex Sulkowski A, N, R Chief Financial officer Independent Non-Executive Director Dominique Yates was appointed Chief Financial officer of Regus on Alex Sulkowski was appointed Non-Executive Director of Regus on 1 September 2011.
Previously he served as Chief Financial officer at 1 June 2010: he also serves as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Alex both LM Windpower, the  renewable energy has over 30 years of experience in international finance structures, private company and Symrise AG, the MDAX listed speciality chemicals equity, tax advice and real estate.
He is currently the Managing Director of company.
He also held senior positions at Imperial Tobacco Group plc, Third Millennium Investments SA and serves on the board of Taxand, the including Group Financial Controller, General Manager of France, largest global network of independent tax advisers.
Prior to this Alex Switzerland, Italy and Malta, and Group Business Development Director.
enjoyed a career with Arthur Andersen, responsible for the Belgium and He is a qualied chartered accountant.
Luxembourg tax practices, prior to joining Ernst and Young in 2002 as the Partner responsible for the Luxembourg tax practice and then serving as the Managing Partner of Atoz Tax Advisors from 2004 through 2009.
Notes A Member of the Audit Committee N Member of the Nomination Committee R Member of the Remuneration Committee www.
