16 HEALTHCARE We continue to invest in the future growth of the Group, by developing healthcare products that will help to reduce our reliance on the metal-cutting sector.
Like our metrology business we aim to develop innovative healthcare products that will significantly advance our customers operational performance by maximising research capabilities, reducing process times and improving the efficacy of medical procedures.
HealtHcare Markets Growth strategy Revenue Optical spectroscopy products that exploit the Raman effect As with its metrology business, a key focus for the Group is in a non-contact, non-destructive manner, to identify and developing technologies that provide patented products and 21.7m characterise the chemistry and structure of materials for methods, with 9.1m of expenditure on R&D and engineering analytical applications as diverse as pharmaceutical, forensic during the year.
Operating loss The regulatory requirements for healthcare products also Dental CAD CAM systems, consisting of 3D contact scanners, demand significant investment, but in turn make barriers to milling machines and software, used in the manufacture entry high for competitive products.
8.5m of high-quality crowns and bridges using zirconia or The Group is constantly looking at opportunities based on cobalt chrome.
core metrology technologies and expertise, so minimising Medical devices, surgical robots and planning software for technology risks.
This can be seen in the use of measurement Percentage of use in stereotactic neurosurgery for procedures including sensors, encoders and software for dental CAD CAM deep brain stimulation, , products, and with core engineering skills that allow the group revenue neuro-endoscopy and biopsy.
accurate identification of target positions and the delivery of medical devices deep within the brain for Close-fitting radio frequency coils that provide high-quality stereotactic neurosurgery.
images from MRI magnetic resonance imaging systems.
A focus is also on finding new markets for existing healthcare The development of molecular diagnostics systems for technologies.
A good example is the use of Raman automated multiplex diagnostic and clinical research systems, spectroscopy as a key component for the Groups emerging including fast, reliable and simplified disease identification.
molecular diagnostics business and its use in research 8% applications including cancer detection and IVF treatments.
The Group also actively considers acquiring businesses and or technologies that it feels are complementary to its existing healthcare products.
17 A Renishaw high-speed contact dental scanner in use at H2W, a UK dental laboratory, where it is used in the manufacture of high-quality zirconia dental frameworks.
18 HEALTHCARE CONTINUED 1 precisely what is needed invasive procedure to treat hydrocephalus and totally remove 1: Professor Decq and his team at the University University Hospital Henri Mondor the cyst.
It is repeatable, with an acceptable success rate and Hospital Henri Mondor, The Renishaw neuromate surgical robot faced its a very low morbidity rate.
No doubt, with increased endoscopic use a Renishaw neuromate surgical robot to carry toughest challenge when specified by Professor Philippe experience over the world, more and more colloid cysts will be out rapid endoscopic Decq, one of Europes most highly respected treated this way.
neurosurgeons, renowned internationally for his pioneering neuro-endoscopy techniques.
In addition to membership of Deep brain stimulation DBS treatment is effectively used neurosurgery societies worldwide and a past president of in disorders of the brain, such as chronic pain, dystonia or the 2007 World Congress of Neuro-Endoscopy, Professor Parkinsons disease.
It relies on precisely positioning electrodes Decq is Professor of Neurosurgery at the University of to target structures deep inside the brain: a mistake can be Paris XII and a neurosurgeon at the University Hospital fatal.
The inestimable value of neuromates stable, rigid Henri Mondor in Creteil.
His global pre-eminence in his platform is that it helps reduce the risk of human error in field is widely acknowledged and his insistence on the DBS procedures.
best possible surgical equipment is well known.
In his clinic, the professor and his team undertake Fondation Rothschild neuro-endoscopy, biopsies and research.
The endoscope he With interactive surgical planning and precise mechanical uses was specially designed and manufactured to Professor execution, the neuromate surgical robot also reduces the time Decqs own exacting specification.
With the precise accuracy of required for  SEEG, widely used the Renishaw neuromate, he has the extra flexibility to carry out in patients with refractive epilepsy.
Dr. Olivier Delalande, his investigations and endoscopic procedures rapidly typically paediatric neurosurgeon at Fondation Rothschild, Paris, has in just 15 minutes, allowing him to perform up to 12 procedures perfected the use of the Renishaw neuromate robot for SEEG a day with excellent results.
In our hands, he says, and neuro-endoscopic indications.
He states that the endoscopic management of colloid cysts is a minimally neuromate robot gives me control, confidence and consistency.
19 multiple targets in a single analysis.
Nucleic acids can be Operations are performed with the neuromate in a fraction of extracted from any biological sample and researchers dont the time it used to take with a mechanical frame.
This results in need to produce a culture: they can go directly from sample a considerable reduction in patient discomfort and anxiety to analysis in a matter of hours.
With a custom-built sample particularly important with children plus increased safety with processor and an analyser that can read 96 sample wells no occurrences of infection to date.
in around 15 minutes, the system makes the step up to The neuromate has a CE mark as a medical device in high-sensitivity multiplex detection simple and seamless.
Europe and Renishaw is applying for clearance for the system And DNA RNA can be extracted from any biological sample.
in the US excluding neuro-endoscopy.
This transformative technology can also be applied to several adjacent fields of research for many applications.
It service with a smile could be used to identify multiple infectious disease targets, for H2W example, in clinical disease research: pharmaceutical Today, fitting all-ceramic crowns, bridges and implants researchers could identify biomarkers for antibiotic resistance: is an important and rapidly growing part of clinical the food and drink industry could identify pathogens and dentistry.
At both IDS Cologne, the worlds largest trade genetically modified ingredients: and environmental agencies show for the dental industry, and at the Dental Showcase could use it to monitor water supplies.
The product is being held in Birmingham, laboratories showed great interest in the Renishaw dental CAD CAM system.
Combining offered to a select number of sites which conduct a significant accuracy, speed and low cost, it is becoming a serious amount of research so that they can see for themselves choice for dental professionals.
just how this multiplex technology compares with The system comprises a high-speed 3D scanner, powerful existing methodologies.
design and manufacturing software, and a new milling machine to produce frameworks for high-quality zirconia restorations.
This allows dental labs access to both in-lab and outsourced manufacturing options.
2 4 Either single-tooth or complex bridge frameworks can be manufactured direct from data provided by the scanner.
The 3D model can then be fine-tuned if needed before its sent to the milling system.
There its machined from zirconia a bio-friendly, exceptionally strong and aesthetically pleasing material that can be stained to match a patients teeth if desired.
In addition to zirconia Renishaw is also offering centrally manufactured Laser PFM crown and bridge frameworks.
5 3 Laser PFM is a high-tech alternative to traditional cast metal frameworks.
The additive process, sometimes called 3D printing, builds up each framework, layer by layer.
The material is strong, with a consistent quality and offers a stable price not available with precious metals.
H2W is one UK laboratory benefiting from the Renishaw system.
Owner Matthew Walton says, The best attributes of the system for me are the ease of use of both the CAD design features and the CAM setup, allowing me to get consistent results easily without having unnecessary complicated 2: A purpose-built robotic sample processor with a 4: Renishaws PulseTeq range of RF coils are simple touchscreen interface allows the automated designed to fit close to the body to provide highprocedures to follow.
This has allowed the digital side of our extraction of DNA RNA from any biological sample quality images from MRI systems including the business to grow dramatically and now at least 80% of our without the need to produce a culture.
analysis of the brain, chest, lungs, abdomen, work is made in this way.
3: Renishaw Diagnostics analyser utilises a highly sensitive form of spectroscopy known as surface 5: H2W uses a Renishaw dental milling machine enhanced resonance Raman scattering SERRS to machine dental restorations from zirconia, a recipe for scientific success to perform multiplex detection and automated a strong bio-friendly material that also gives a Renishaw Diagnostics analysis of a wide range of biological samples with more aesthetically pleasing result than metala high degree of sensitivity and specificity.
Renishaw Diagnostics Limited has launched its first RenDx research-use-only RUO multiplex assay system and is working towards the obtaining of CE marking for the system as an in vitro medical device in Europe and clearance in the US.
The ground-breaking system brings a new dimension to the work of many scientists across a range of disciplines, offering them a highly sensitive, specific and flexible tool to screen for
