8 METROLOGY Renishaw consistently realises its impressive potential to innovate.
This year weve developed a new range of process control solutions to assist the drive for lean manufacturing.
Now the next generation of products in metrology beckons and we are poised and perfectly placed to respond to the ever increasing demands on measurement speed and accuracy.
Throughout the following pages we look at some companies putting our technology to the best possible use.
metroloGy Markets Growth strategy Revenue Sensors, software and control systems for three dimensional A key focus is on developing technologies that provide co-ordinate measuring machines CMMs that allow the patented products and methods which support our product 267.0m highly accurate measurement of manufactured components strategies, with 28m expenditure on R&D and engineering and finished assemblies.
Operating profit Sensors and software for computer numerically controlled The current technology focus includes high-speed, highCNC metal cutting machine tools that allow the automation accuracy, error-corrected dimensional measurement systems: of setting and on-machine measurement operations, leading motion controllers with enhanced high-speed performance: to more productivity from existing machines and reductions in ultra high-resolution position feedback encoders and the 87.4m scrap and re-work.
development of novel approaches to materials analysis.
Position feedback encoders that ensure accurate linear and The Group is also developing market opportunities in a Percentage of rotary motion control in a wide range of applications from range of other industries based upon its core technologies, electronics manufacturing to food and print production.
to reduce reliance on its traditional metal-cutting group revenue customer base.
Precision styli that attach to probe sensors for CMMs and machine tools to ensure that accurate measurement data is To take advantage of growth markets, the Group continues acquired at the point of contact.
to develop its geographic spread to boost local sales and service, most notably in China where it now has nine offices.
Calibration and testing products to determine the positioning accuracy of a wide range of industrial and scientific Historically the Group has been very much a component machinery to international standards.
supplier, with its products integrated by machine builders.
In recent years a focus has been on offering more products and Innovative gauging technology that can greatly increase 92% services that are supplied direct to the end-user, increasingly throughput and reduce scrap rates, at a fraction of the cost positioning Renishaw as a solutions provider.
of an equivalent custom gauging system, including associated fixturing.
A good example of a product that represents several aspects of the growth strategy is the new Equator gauge High-speed laser measurement and surveying systems for image opposite, which transfers existing technologies use in extreme environments.
employed in the Groups dental systems to an entirely new Additive manufacturing and rapid prototyping systems that application for shop floor measurement.
The product offers allow the rapid manufacture of components as part of a a full measurement solution for end-users, and whilst many product development process or for full-scale production.
sales will be to existing metal-cutting customers, sizeable new opportunities are being seen for applications where Commercial and research solutions to materials technology historically no Renishaw products have been utilised.
challenges including diamond-like carbon coatings and shape memory alloys.
9 The new Renishaw Equator is a low-cost, versatile alternative to custom gauging, offering inspection of an unprecedented variety of manufactured parts.
It has been developed and proven on the shop floor in collaboration with industry-leading companies in multiple industries and applications.
10 METROLOGY CONTINUED In the relentless drive to reduce costs, shorten lead times and improve the quality of finished products, manufacturers are increasingly adopting the latest Renishaw technologies to keep machines running reliably, to maximise output from those machines and to significantly reduce the time taken to inspect finished components.
the best of both worlds Craig, the combination of REVO and MODUS provides good Future Advanced Manufacture future proofing and makes more sense than copying a Throughout industry there are increasing demands to competitors technology.
Now we can produce both tabular and measure more things more accurately, to maintain a visual inspection data by direct comparison with the original competitive edge and increase productivity.
In the aircraft CAD model to meet clients demanding criteria.
Surprisingly, industry, for example, lives depend on the absolute and thanks only to word of mouth, clients are now subaccuracy of the design and build of every component and contracting Future AM for final inspection and validation, every machine.
No one knows this better than world-class even though Future AM didnt make the original products.
 manufacturer, Future Advanced Manufacture Future AM.
On the strength of its reputation for excellence, this 1 company recently won a valuable contract to make titanium blades for a new propulsion system in the US.
However, their existing metrology tools werent up to the stringent validation process.
They therefore turned to Renishaw and our REVO five-axis measuring system for help.
Facing tight deadlines, Future AM used a REVO MODUS system at Renishaws facility while their own system was being installed.
REVO maximises throughput of new and existing CMMs by providing greater accuracy, faster measurement, more automation and new capabilities.
TM Renishaws new MODUS software was also employed.
Using computer aided design CAD driven programming, information that includes CAD files can be shared quickly and safely.
Its also possible to pick up and directly interrogate the CATIA V5 files.
As a result of the REVO MODUS duo Future AM were able to get every blade out on time, on budget and with no rejections even the spare test blades were validated OK, reported Craig Peterson, Managing Director of the company.
Consequently, our US client is considering offering us further work.
The REVO retrofit not only did the job, it improved Future AMs metrology departments final validation service by a massive 80% and opened up many new areas of business for the company.
For instance, says Craig, validating work on a high- 1: The REVO dynamic measuring head and probe system maximises the throughput of CMMs by providing greater precision imaging drum for our customer, Highwater Products, accuracy, faster measurement, more automation and new took an hour on the old machine.
The REVO only takes 10 capabilities.
At Future Advanced Manufacture it has reduced measurement times on this high-precision imaging drum from minutes.
Plus, the level of detail in the MODUS reports has one hour to just 10 minutes.
greatly improved the accuracy of our post-machining operation.
With Renishaws help Future AM can now also offer reverse engineering services to satisfy customers who dont have CAD or want items that were made pre-CAD.
Whats more, notes 11 2 3 4 2: Tods Aerospace is involved in the co-design and manufacture 3: Bob Young, CNC Manager for Tods Aerospace, believes that 4: The RMP600 compact touch probe incorporates Renishaws of several, major component parts for the AW159 Lynx Renishaws RMP600 high-accuracy touch probe has allowed patented RENGAGE high-accuracy strain gauge technology Wildcat, including the cockpit doors, the cargo doors and his company to take on more complex work and produce and transmits data to the machine tool control using many of the main fuselage panels.
parts at the required high quality, faster than ever before.
frequency hopping spread spectrum FHSS radio signal transmission.
Keepin this wildcat purring Tods Aerospace Tods also use the Renishaw probe for first article inspection Renishaw is helping Tods Aerospace in South West on every new civil aircraft flooring project.
England to maintain its quality standards as a preferred The RMP600 allows the company to take on more complex supplier to Agusta Westland, manufacturer of the AW159 work and produce high-quality parts faster than ever.
Were Lynx Wildcat the next-generation Lynx helicopter very happy with the accuracy and, in particular, the consequent earmarked for the UK military.
reduction in large, expensive scrap parts, explains Young.
Tods have long been involved in the design and The accuracy gains resulting from the RMP600 are echoed manufacture of major component parts for the aircraft.
The by Tods Quality Director Martyn Perks, who states, Digital parts include cockpit doors, cargo doors and main fuselage manufacture and design produces different sorts of tolerances panels all made from carbon composite.
Seeking to become and features.
Using traditional measuring equipment, like more agile and keep better control of lead times and quality, the micrometers and vernier calipers, doesnt really get us to the company invested in a Renishaw RMP600 wireless touch probe levels of quality, accuracy and checking that we require: and OMV Pro software to bring more manufacturing capability Renishaws RMP600 does.
To get the most from any new technology, those charged The RMP600 offers all the benefits of Renishaw touch with operating it must know precisely its capabilities.
The probes, as well as being able to measure complex 3D part Renishaw team has been fantastic, says Young, especially geometries on all sizes of machining centres.
One of the key with set-up and training.
Their engineers spent time with us, reasons for the purchase was to align the Wildcats cabin roof ensuring we knew what we were doing.
We looked at other and then machine it, says Tods CNC Manager Bob Young.
suppliers, but we werent convinced they could support us as This has proven very successful and we are now producing well as Renishaw could.
Without the probe we would not have This is a telling example of the pride we take, not just in been able to machine the roof as accurately nor have aligned innovation, but in providing the best possible service to our the jigs with such precision.
customers before and after any sale.
12 METROLOGY CONTINUED 1 radical new alternative to traditional dedicated gauging seem contradictory.
However, Eponsa firmly believe that Equator 1: An engineer at Spanish automotive parts Eponsa technology is the breakthrough they need to help them do it.
manufacturer Eponsa, The patented ground-breaking Equator system loads a wiper mechanism component onto its new marks the launch of Renishaws first gauging product line.
engineerings loaves and fishes Equator gauging system.
Lightweight, fast and highly repeatable, operators can use Sewtec Automation it with minimal training and push-button ease.
The lowHow just five machines have fed an 750% upswing in cost design is uniquely constructed and operated, production is a real success story both for Scotlands switching between parts in seconds making it ideal for Sewtec Automation and Renishaw.
flexible manufacturing processes or for accepting parts Sewtec is a world-leading supplier of production and from multiple machines.
And there is no need for packaging systems for the fast moving consumer goods market.
By instigating a new system of shift work and adding five new Equator has been tried, tested and fully proven on the shop HAAS machine tools fitted with Renishaw touch probes, theyve floor at a host of leading companies across a spectrum of produced something of an industry miracle.
At the end of 2009 industries and applications.
One of these companies is Eponsa, we had six CNC machine tools and did 140 hours of machining manufacturer of auto parts near Barcelona in Spain.
per week, explains Bernard Meehan, Managing Director.
Now, Equator could reduce waiting time to zero, says one of with the five new machines and the Renishaw touch probes, the companys engineers.
Eponsa has seen non-productive capacity has increased to a massive 1,180 hours every week waiting times slashed dramatically, yet with quality and an increase of 750%.
efficiencies maintained, thanks to Equator.
Its speed and Quality is critical to Sewtec and, in these challenging times, measurement capability ensures fast, comprehensive and fully so is reducing costs hence the move to carry out most automated gauging.
With the help of Renishaw probes, The Equator system includes user-friendly graphical engineers are able to maintain the basic function of a part and software, our MODUS Organiser.
Operators can choose yet cut costs, simply by approaching manufacture differently a programs and start checking parts in just a few seconds.
When concept widely known as value engineering.
the check is complete the operator can clearly see if the part For instance, spindle-mounted Renishaw touch probes has passed or failed, greatly reducing the load on Eponsas deliver feedback that enables the HAAS machines to use their quality department.
After indexing, machining can be related The pressure on automotive subcontractors to reduce costs to previously machined features.
Thus many parts can be while improving efficiency and quality at the same time might machined in an efficient one hit process, because after each 13 machining operation the probe adjusts offsets in seconds and 2 2 with total accuracy.
Jerry Elsy, Production Manager at Sewtec, adds, Previously it could take 1.5 hours to set a job that took 4.5 hours to machine.
Now we can do the same set-up in 10 minutes and free 1 hour and 20 minutes of productive, revenue-earning time.
Summing up the benefits of the HAAS Renishaw combination, Bernard Meehan said, Our CNC machines are now a very low-risk element of what can be a high-risk business.
With very low scrap and efficient flexible processes our business is thriving and we are well positioned to deliver full solutions to existing and new customers.
So Renishaw can not only help future-proof a precision engineering business, but help recession-proof it too.
worldwide acclaim for our Qc20-w telescoping ballbar In view of todays tight production schedules, time is more critical than ever.
The less downtime required for machine calibration, the less disruption to production and the more time and money thats saved.
And the more accurate the calibration, the higher the quality standard that can be maintained.
The QC20-W wireless ballbar scores on all these dimensions, making it a preferred choice on a global scale for the performance testing of CNC machine tools.
3 3 4 The QC20-Ws Bluetooth wireless technology allows a user to diagnose and quantify machine positioning errors quickly and give an overall circularity error value as per international standards.
For customers with existing capabilities, stress-free and competitively priced upgrades and upgrade kits ensure that the Renishaw ballbar is accessible to every customer at the right, and very competitive, price.
The facility to control machining processes so as to produce less scrap, rework, non-conformance and labour, plus fewer errors and lower fixture costs, is a massive benefit in any 2: The use of Renishaws spindle-mounted touch 4: Introduced at the end of 2009, the QC20-W wireless probes at Sewtec Automation has led to dramatic ballbar is allowing manufacturers to rapidly assess language.
Understandably, there are a host of testimonials from reductions in set-up times on its CNC machine tools, the volumetric performance of their machine tools, satisfied QC20-W customers around the globe.
Here is a increasing the time available for productive, revenuewithout compromising safe working practices.
Looking first to Scandinavia, Swedish machine tool service 3: Jerry Elsy, Sewtecs Production Manager, with components produced on its HAAS vertical and maintenance company NC Service are QC20-W machining centres all of which are fitted with enthusiasts.
Managing Director Peter Jonsson says that since Renishaw spindle and tool setting probes.
switching over to QC20-W the setup time has been greatly reduced.
Also, the ballbars wireless technology ensures safer operation because we can run the test from behind closed safety doors.
Service and maintenance provider Dave Wigmore of interferometry and calibration of machine tools services, we are Wigmore CNC is equally impressed, believing that QC20-Ws committed to using only the best equipment available.
I cannot accurate data analysis discloses machine errors that would imagine trying to do my job without QC20-W Michael typically go undetected.
With the QC20-W you have the option Schraufnagel, Owner and Chief Technician, Quality Tech of a repair instead of a costly ballscrew replacement, he notes, Services, Georgia, USA service and maintenance provider.
plus the ballbar helps foresee potentially expensive repairs that When I asked my maintenance team and production can then be addressed with corrective maintenance.
engineers what they thought of their new QC20-W ballbar, they The new QC20-W wireless ballbar allows me to rapidly replied QC20-W wireless ballbar is simple to use and always assess the volumetric performance of a machine, without gives straight forward no nonsense results.
Just brilliant compromising safe working practices.
As the only AS 9100 John Curtis, Assistant Maintenance Manager, Spirax-Sarco, UK certified company in the USA for on-site laser alignment, laser manufacturer of industrial plant.
The Bluetooth word mark and logos are owned by Bluetooth SIG, Inc. and any use of such marks by Renishaw plc is under license.
14 METROLOGY CONTINUED In motion control, Renishaws laser encoders, optical encoders and magnetic encoders are used for position feedback applications in industries as diverse as electronics, motorsports, bomb disposal, semi-conductors, food manufacturing and print production.
Here we look at applications below ground and out of this world.
1 1: Astrosysteme Austria has developed direct drive telescope Image courtesy of Wolfgang Promper mounts that offer similar tracking technology to that used by professional observatories but at an accessible price for keen amateur astronomers.
The mounts incorporate Star potential Renishaws TONiC angle encoders to control positioning accuracy down to an incredible 0.2 arc seconds.
Astrosysteme Austria The digital age has led to a quantum leap in astrophotography, making even the furthest galaxies accessible to professional astronomers and observatories.
Now, thanks to Astrosysteme Austria ASA, helped by Renishaw technologies, even keen amateurs can observe So this means that the torque motors ASA use direct drives and photograph these remote solar systems at an with no backlash can therefore operate to such accuracies.
Neither guiding nor ancillary support systems, such as adaptive ASA prides itself on making reference-class telescopes for optics, are needed.
Now, tracking operations can instantly the amateur that incorporate the latest astrophotographic BEKVTU BOE DPNQFOTBUF GPS EJTSVQUJPOT JODMVEJOH TPNFUIJOH BT technologies available.
The company consistently renders all fleeting as a brief gust of wind.
components, optical devices, automatic mountings and tracking Helped by the excellent tracking accuracy of Renishaw systems to precise professional requirements.
Of particular encoders, ASA mounts begin to pay for themselves pride are their ground-breaking Astrographs, fixed with direct immediately and can be used in the field and in any drive mounts that use similar tracking technology as remote-controlled operations.
With the help of Renishaw encoder systems, ASA This has been made possible by employing high-resolution has also successfully applied this technology to the semiRenishaw encoders mounted directly on the axes of the mount.
professional market, bringing extremely precise and affordable Previously, even the finest astronomical mounts relying solely on equipment to the world of amateur astronomy and mechanics couldnt solve the problems occurring during a astrophotography.
The professional market has benefited from common astronomical imaging session.
And well-engineered, our innovation in sustaining this precision at a much better cost.
electronic solutions available to professional observatories 5IF QPJOUJOH QSFDJTJPO PG PVS TZTUFNT SFBDI BSD TFDPOET came with a prohibitive price tag.
By choosing Renishaws over the whole night sky.
The tracking precision at 0.24 arc encoders ASA reduced the expense of such state-of-the-art seconds root-mean-square is sufficient to make extra guiding solutions without any compromise in performance at all.
Renishaw encoders have TM Renishaw TONiC encoders are verified electronically and been used in all our mount systems from the beginning, says enable rotary positioning to incredible accuracies.
owner and Managing Director of ASA, Egon Dberl.
15 2 3 4 TM 2: Nitzan Gonen, Factairs Design and Development Director, 3 The fibre-blowing machine incorporates two rugged non- 4: The TONiC range of super-compact non-contact optical pictured with the patented portable fibre-blowing contact magnetic encoders manufactured by Renishaws encoders offers speeds up to 10 metres per second and machine that his company makes for a leading Slovenian associate company RLS.
The encoders have to be resolutions down to 1 nm for both linear and rotary position telecommunications company.
able to operate reliably in wet and dirty conditions and to feedback applications.
where information really counts of the sheath, with one monitoring the rate at which the bundle Factair Ltd is threaded into the machine, and the other monitoring the rate With many countries moving to high-speed, fibre-optic at which the caterpillar belts are moving.
The fibre-blowing broadband, there is a significant challenge to replace the machines control unit counts the pulses from both encoders mass of existing underground cables quickly and easily.
and if the difference in count rate speed is outside the The replacement of cables is made particularly tolerance setting, it interprets the difference as slip and reduces challenging by the fragility of individual glass fibre strands the speed of the motors.
and of the sheathed fibre-bundles, which cannot be simply Nitzan Gonen, Factairs Design and Development Director, pushed or pulled into ducts.
explains, It was important to use non-contact encoders One telecommunications company has found that when because the fibre-bundles are un-spooled on-site from large threading a fibre-bundle into a sealed duct, air blown at high drums, which can be wet and dirty, if the weather and local pressure provides a lubricating effect and also helps to propel conditions are poor.
A non-contact unit means its more reliable the cable along.
The result is that far less force is required to and each encoder is expected to last indefinitely.
A full-contact thread the bundle, considerably reducing the risk of damage to encoder would probably need to be replaced often.
the fibres and potentially making the broadband upgrading He concludes, With the fibre-blowing machine the process quicker and easier.
distance engineers can feed the cable, without damaging the UK-based Factair, an expert in air compressor systems, sheath or fibres, has increased, from perhaps a few tens of won the contract to manufacture the patented, portable, metres, to thousands of metres.
field-based fibre-blowing machine, which, to meet weight restrictions for installation engineers, meant designing their own portable compressor.
The Factair machine uses caterpillar tracks to thread the fibre-optic bundle quickly into the duct, whilst introducing compressed air in order to drag the bundle.
Two Renishaw non-contact magnetic encoders supplied by RLS, Renishaws Slovenian associate company are incorporated to detect slippage that would damage the surface
