20 THE BOARD The Board of direcTors david snowden Terry Garthwaite sir david McMurtry John deer Norma Tang FCA CBE, RDI, FREng, FRS, FCA Solicitor Deputy Chairman, age 73, CEng, FIMechE Non-executive director, age founded Renishaw in 1973 Non-executive director, age 74, Company Secretary 64, formerly Group Finance with Sir David McMurtry.
was formerly Senior Partner Chairman and Chief Executive, Director at Senior plc, was He is responsible for group of KPMG in South Wales and age 71, invented the original appointed to the Board of manufacturing and is also appointed a director of the measuring probe in the Renishaw plc in July 2003. chairman of the overseas Company in July 2003. early 1970s and founded Terry is the chairman of the marketing subsidiaries.
He is the chairman of the Renishaw in 1973 with Audit committee.
In addition to his executive director of role as Chairman and Chief Brammer plc and Wilmington Executive, Sir David also Group plc.
has responsibility for group technology and is chairman of the Nomination committee.
21 audit committee remuneration committee with effect from 26th July 2010 Terry Garthwaite Chair David Snowden Chair David Snowden Terry Garthwaite Bill Whiteley Bill Whiteley Nomination committee with effect from 26th July 2010 Sir David McMurtry Chair Terry Garthwaite David Snowden Bill Whiteley Full biographical details are available at www.
com Ben Taylor allen roberts Bill Whiteley Geoff Mcfarland CEng, FIMechE FCA FCMA Group Engineering Director, Assistant Chief Executive, age 43, joined Renishaw in Group Finance Director, age The senior independent age 62, was appointed to 1994 and was appointed 62, was with Peat, Marwick, non-executive director, age the Board of Renishaw plc in to the Board in July 2002.
Mitchell & Co. before joining 62, was Chief Executive at 1987 and is responsible for He heads the group Renishaw in 1979.
Allen Rotork plc before he was group marketing, international engineering function and is heads group finance, business appointed a director of the operations, human resources also responsible for group systems and Wotton Company in June 2008.
Bill is and group quality.
Geoff is a Travel Ltd. also chairman of Spirax-Sarco reports to the Board on non-executive director of Engineering plc and Hill and corporate social Delcam plc.
Smith Holdings plc, and a responsibility matters.
non-executive director of Brammer plc.
