Board of directors John McAdam Age 63 Alan Brown Age 55 Peter Bamford Age 57 Richard Burrows Age 66 Chairman Chief Executive Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Committee memberships None Committee memberships Committee memberships Committee memberships Skills and experience Joined Rentokil Initial Member, Audit committee Member, Remuneration committee Chairman, Nominations committee as Chief Executive in April 2008.
Prior to Skills and experience Joined Rentokil Initial Skills and experience Joined Rentokil Initial Skills and experience Joined Rentokil Initial this, he was Chief Financial Officer of ICI as a non-executive director in July 2006. as a non-executive director in January as Chairman in May 2008 and prior to that from 2005 to 2008.
Before ICI, he spent 25 He was one of the key architects of 2008.
Significant international business had a successful executive career as Chief years at Unilever plc in various corporate, developing the global Vodafone brand as experience ranging from leading Executive of Imperial Chemical Industries operational and finance roles in the Chief Marketing Officer and director of successful manufacturing and service plc ICI from 2003 to 2008.
Prior to Unilever group in the UK, Europe, Taiwan Vodafone Group plc from 1998 to 2006. businesses in the drinks industry to joining ICI in 1997 he held a number of and China including Senior Vice President He brings extensive experience to the banking and financial services roles.
positions at Unilever, from 1974, within Finance, Unilever Food and Beverage board over the developing marketing Formerly Governor of the Bank of Ireland, Birds Eye Walls, Quest International and Europe and latterly Executive Chairman, agenda for Rentokil Initials brands.
joint Chief Executive and latterly a Unichema International.
He also held senior executive roles at non-executive director of Pernod Ricard Current external commitments and Current external commitments and Vodafone, including Chief Executive of SA France, Chairman and Chief Executive qualifications Chairman of United Utilities relevant qualifications A non-executive Northern Europe, Middle East and Africa of Irish Distillers and a director of CityJet Group plc and non-executive director of director of Intertek Group plc.
Barrister operations and Chief Executive of Ltd Ireland and Mey ki Turkey.
Rolls-Royce PLC, J Sainsbury plc and Sara and Chartered Management Accountant.
Prior to this he held senior Current external commitments and Lee Corporation USA.
Graduated from positions at Kingfisher plc and Tesco PLC relevant qualifications Chairman of British Manchester University with a first class and was a director of WH Smith PLC.
American Tobacco plc and Voicesage honours degree in chemical physics and, Current external commitments and Global Holdings Ltd. Non-executive after completing his doctorate, was relevant qualifications Chairman of director of Carlsberg A S Denmark.
SuperGroup plc, Chairman of MCPC-PRS Burrows is a graduate of Wesley College, Alliance Ltd known as PRS Music and of Dublin Ireland.
Six Degrees Technology Group Ltd. Alan Giles Age 57 Peter Long Age 59 Andy Ransom Age 48 William Rucker Age 48 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Executive Director Non-Executive Director Committee memberships Committee memberships Committee memberships None Committee memberships Chairman, Remuneration committee Senior independent director Skills and experience Joined Rentokil Initial Member, Audit committee from 2012 Member, Nominations Member, Remuneration committee as an executive director in May 2008.
Skills and experience Joined Rentokil Initial committee Member, Nominations committee Responsible for the Pest Control and as a non-executive director in February Skills and experience Joined Rentokil Initial Skills and experience Joined Rentokil Initial Ambius divisions and the group legal and 2008.
A leading UK corporate financier, as a non-executive director in May 2006. as a non-executive director in October M&A function.
He was responsible for bringing to the board a contemporary He has extensive commercial and strategic 2002.
Serving chief executive of a global Rentokil Initials Asia-Pacific businesses in financial market perspective as well as service industry experience, having led service business, TUI Travel plc, with over 2008 09.
Formerly a senior executive at bringing added expertise over company two major retail brand businesses through 50,000 employees and two global brands.
ICI 1987-2008 where he was responsible financing from his role as Chief Executive significant periods of change.
Formerly Led the creation of the TUI Travel Group for a number of group functions and of Lazard & Co. Ltd.
He joined Lazard in Chief Executive of HMV Group plc, executing a successful strategy of industry international businesses including ICIs 1987 from Arthur Andersen.
Managing Director of Waterstones, consolidation and organic growth with a regional and industrial divisions.
He served Current external commitments and a director of WH Smith PLC, and a focus on differentiated service offerings.
as the Executive Vice President of Mergers relevant qualifications Chief Executive non-executive director of Somerfield plc Previously held positions as non-executive and Acquisitions, General Counsel and of Lazard & Co. Ltd in the UK, Deputy and Wilson Bowden plc.
director of Debenhams plc and RAC plc Company Secretary and was responsible Chairman of Lazard LLC.
Chairman of Current external commitments and and Chief Executive of Sunworld Ltd. for a number of group functions.
Quintain Estates and Development plc relevant qualifications Chairman of Fat Current external commitments and Current external commitments and and Chairman of Crest Nicholson Holdings Face Group Ltd, a director of the Office of relevant qualifications Chief Executive of relevant qualifications No other Ltd. A Chartered Accountant.
Fair Trading and Book Tokens Ltd. TUI Travel PLC.
Mr Ransom is a graduate of Associate Fellow at Oxford Universitys Accountant.
Honorary visiting professor at Cass Business School.
26 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2011 Governance Governance Duncan Tatton-Brown Age 46 Jeremy Townsend Age 48 Paul Griffiths Age 59 Non-Executive Director Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Relevant qualifications Chartered Secretary Committee memberships Committee memberships None Chairman, Audit committee Skills and experience Joined Rentokil Initial Member, Nominations committee as Chief Financial Officer in August 2010.
Skills and experience Joined Rentokil Initial Formerly Finance Director of Mitchells & as a non-executive director in July 2005.
As Butlers plc, having been previously an a recently serving chief financial officer, he executive at J Sainsbury plc where he brings current and relevant experience of held various finance roles including the financial management of large Group Financial Controller, Corporate complex international service businesses Finance Director and Strategy Director.
having served most recently as Chief Prior to Sainsburys, he was employed Financial Officer of Fitness First Group Ltd by Ernst & Young, working in audit and and prior to that Group Finance Director of corporate finance.
Kingfisher plc, Finance Director of B&Q plc Current external commitments and and Chief Financial Officer of Virgin relevant qualifications Graduated from Entertainment Group.
Manchester University with a first class Current external commitments and honours degree in Management Science.
relevant qualifications No other A Chartered Accountant.
Angela Seymour-Jackson will join the board on 5 March 2012 and will be proposed for re-appointment at the annual general meeting: her biographical information is set out in the notice of annual general meeting.
On appointment she will join the remuneration committee.
Number of years appointed Director qualifications Jeremy Townsend 2 4 John McAdam Andrew Ransom 4 4 Alan Brown William Rucker 4 50% Finance 4 Richard Burrows 20% Science 20% Legal 5 Peter Bamford 10% Engineering Alan Giles 5 7 Duncan Tatton-Brown Peter Long 9 27 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2011 Governance the company secretary.
A summary of the main committees The chairman, chief executive and senior membership and activities is shown at the head of each independent director committee report.
The chairman and chief executive have separate roles and Agendas, papers and minutes of committee meetings are generally responsibilities and these are set out in the board governance provided to all board members.
Chairmen of committees update manual which is reviewed by the board annually.
the board following each committee meeting.
The nominations The chairman, John McAdam, is responsible for the leadership committee is chaired by John McAdam who, while not an of the board and its governance including the encouragement of independent director, is considered by the board to be the active debate and ensuring that each director has the opportunity appropriate person to chair the boards nominations committee.
to contribute fully and ensuring that all appropriate business is In addition to the principal board committees audit, remuneration brought to the board for discussion and decision.
and nominations the board operates a number of ad hoc committees.
The main ad hoc committee is the finance committee John McAdams duties which comprises the chairman, the chief executive, the chief Managing the board financial officer and three non-executive directors with relevant Timely information to directors financial experience.
This committee reviews matters concerning Setting the agenda and managing the boards time company financing and group treasury policy and makes recommendations to the board on financing matters.
Communication with shareholders Director induction, training and development Director attendance Board succession The attendance of directors at board and committee meetings Performance evaluation during 2011 is shown in the following table.
Audit Remuneration Nominations The chief executive, Alan Brown, is responsible for the day-to-day Directors Board Committee Committee Committee John McAdam 9 9 2 2 management of the company and for the execution of strategy as Alan Brown 9 9 approved by the board.
Executive directors, divisional managing Jeremy Townsend 9 9 directors and other key corporate executives report direct to the Andy Ransom 9 9 chief executive.
Duncan Tatton-Brown 9 9 6 6 2 2 Alan Browns duties Richard Burrows 8 9 6 6 Recommending strategy and strategic priorities William Rucker 8 9 6 6 Peter Long 6 9 6 6 2 2 Managing agreed strategies and strategic priorities Peter Bamford 8 9 6 6 Operational and financial performance Alan Giles 9 9 6 6 2 2 With the chief financial officer, explain performance Total number of meetings 9 6 6 2 to shareholders Executive management capability and development Board appointments, diversity, induction Peter Long and development The senior independent director is responsible for leading the nonThe boards policy is to appoint and retain non-executive directors executive directors annual review of the chairmans performance who can apply their wider knowledge and experience to their as well as acting as a sounding board for the chairman.
He is understanding of the companys affairs.
As mentioned in the available to shareholders in the event that they wish to discuss chairmans introduction, diversity considerations are among the governance matters with someone other than the chairman, the important factors considered by the nominations committee chief executive or the chief financial officer.
and the board when contemplating the future composition of the board.
Appointments to the board are made on the Board committees recommendation of the nominations committee and following a rigorous selection process.
In order to operate effectively and to give the appropriate level of attention to the range of matters required to be addressed There have been no changes to the board in the year under review by the board, tasks have been delegated to committees.
The but the company has an established process coordinated by terms of reference for the main committees are available from the group HR director for ensuring that appointment processes the companys website at www.
com or from to executive and non-executive positions include appropriate 28 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2011 Governance Governance training and induction, including spending time in the companys Board composition and dynamics were highly rated, subject to operations.
The company is mindful that ongoing training for bringing about greater diversity which was in progress.
Information executive directors and non-executive directors must be targeted provided to the board was highly rated as was strategic and to specific needs.
Where appropriate, directors participate in peer operational oversight.
Risk oversight was considered to have shown group discussion forums and seminars related to the commercial continued improvement.
The continued focus on securing the environment, for example relating to executive remuneration, operational performance of the City Link business was regarded as financial reporting or risk management.
The board and committees also agreed a number of practical enhancements to regular meeting content.
In response to the recommendations of the Davies Review on Women in boards published in 2011, the company published a formal statement indicating the boards aspiration to have a Director re-election minimum of two female representatives on the board by 2015.
Biographical information on the current directors is shown on As reported elsewhere, Angela Seymour-Jackson will join the pages 26 and 27 and in the notes accompanying the notice of the board as a non-executive director on 5 March 2012. annual general meeting.
Membership of the board has not changed during the year.
Angela Seymour-Jackson has been appointed a Succession planning director with effect from 5 March 2012 and will submit herself for re-appointment at the annual general meeting.
The board has considered executive and non-executive succession during the year.
The executive management team under the The companys articles of association give power to the board to chief executive has been strengthened significantly over the appoint and replace directors, but also require directors to retire last three years and now provides a strong pool of talent for the and submit themselves for re-election at the first annual general future development of the group.
There is no impending planned meeting following appointment.
The articles may be amended by succession requirement for executive management at board level special resolution of the shareholders.
but nevertheless the board has considered its contingency plans in In line with the provisions of the Code, all members of the board the event of unplanned circumstances as well as the longer term will submit themselves for re-election or re-appointment at the development potential of the executive team.
Service contracts and letters of With the exception of the requirement to address the lack of appointment for all directors are available for inspection at the diversity on the board, the board considers that there is registered office and will be available at the annual general meeting significant merit in retaining the boards current balance of on 1 May 2012.
A pro-forma of non-executive directors letters of talents and experience although succession issues are kept appointment is available on the companys website.
Non-executive director independence Board performance evaluation The continuing independence of non-executive directors is The board performance evaluation involved an external critical to their ongoing effectiveness over challenging executive independent facilitator engaging with the chairman and company management.
The independence of directors is reviewed as part secretary to set the context for the evaluation.
Respondents of the individual director performance evaluation process.
completed online questionnaires addressing the performance of The chairman, John McAdam, who joined the board in 2008, the board, committees, chairman and individuals.
The anonymity is not classified as independent because he participates in a of all respondents was ensured in order to promote an open and long-term incentive plan approved by shareholders at the time frank exchange of views.
The review addressed the following issues: of his appointment.
board composition, expertise and dynamics All other non-executive directors have been determined by the board support, time management and board committees board to be independent, having retained their independence of character and judgement, including Peter Long who has served as strategic, operational and risk oversight a director for more than nine years.
In making this determination succession planning and human resources the board has taken into account indicators of potential nonpriorities for change independence as set out in the Code.
No director took part in the boards consideration of their own independence.
The board considered the output from the review at a meeting earlier this year.
The findings indicated that the board and individual director performance were effective.
29 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2011 Governance Conflicts of interest procedure Governance across the group The company has a procedure in place to deal with the situation The combination of our shared values, a good governance process, where a director has a conflict of interest and as part of the clear roles and responsibilities and accountability, the principles process the board considers each potential conflict situation on its set out in the groups code of conduct and the groups policies particular merits.
The board maintains a register of authorisations and procedures form the operating framework within which all granted and the scope of any approvals given.
These potential colleagues are expected to work.
conflicts are not material either to the company or, the directors believe, to the other companies that are the subject of the potential Operating framework conflict.
The register of authorised conflicts is reviewed by the board periodically.
All of the approvals given have been situational and no circumstances of transactional conflicts have occurred.
The process for authorising potential conflicts is reviewed by the nominations committee annually.
THE CODE GOVERNANCE OF PROCESS CONDUCT Risk management and control statement VALUES The board is ultimately responsible for maintaining sound systems AND BEHAVIOURS of risk management and internal control and for reviewing their FUNCTIONAL ROLES AND POLICIES AND effectiveness.
The audit committee assists the board in meeting PROCEDURES RESPONSIBILITIES its obligations in these areas.
The board reviews the strategic risks facing the group and mitigating actions as part of its annual review CUSTOMER of strategy and operational risks.
The board gains its confidence PROPOSITIONS over the effectiveness of control processes through regular and transparent management reporting, through the governance processes of the group and from the external and internal assurance processes the output of which is reported to the audit committee and available to the board.
Through its monitoring and control processes, the board has conducted a review of the Company executive board effectiveness of the system of internal control during the year The chief executive chairs the company executive board comprising ended 31 December 2011.
The system is designed to manage, the heads of the groups operating divisions and of the finance, rather than eliminate, risk and can only provide reasonable and human resources and information services functions.
They meet not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
regularly to review performance, priorities and operational actions.
The companys approach to managing risk and ensuring an Biographical information on executive directors, Alan Brown, adequate internal control environment is in place and maintained Jeremy Townsend and Andy Ransom is provided on pages 26 to is provided on pages 15 to 18.
The process has been in place from 27 and information on other members of the company executive the start of 2011 to the date of approval of this report and has been board is shown in the table opposite.
It accords with the Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Guidance.
The effectiveness of the system of internal controls, including processes in relation to financial reporting and the preparation of the financial statements, has been reviewed by the audit committee.
Details are provided in the report of the audit committee on pages 34 to 36.
30 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2011 Governance Governance Company executive board 1.
Chris Broe Age 50 Group Marketing and Innovation Divisional Managing Director, Chief Information Officer 2 3 7 9 5 8 4 6 Director and responsible for City Link Skills and experience Appointed in August 1 2011.
He joined Rentokil Initial in June 2010 operations in Asia Skills and experience Appointed in initially as Programme Director before December 2011.
Previously at the Royal Skills and experience Appointed in quickly assuming responsibility as Mail Group since 2002.
From the end of October 2009, initially for operations in Textiles & Hygiene Divisional IT Director.
2010 he was a member of the Holdings the Asia and Pacific regions.
Formerly Prior to this he held a number of positions Board where he served as Chief Customer Managing Director of Unilever Food at Unilever, most notably as Vice Officer for Royal Mail Group responsible Solutions China and a member of the President, Global Application Services for the commercial direction of the UK Unilever Food Solutions Board for Asia, and CIO, Europe.
Letters, Parcels and International Business, Africa and the Middle East.
Prior to this Current external commitments and and driving an agenda of customer she held a wide range of positions with relevant qualifications No external centricity.
Previous roles include Managing Unilever in general management, commitments.
BA Hons in Business Director of Post Office Ltd and Managing sales, business development, project Studies and a postgraduate of Warwick Director of Parcelforce.
He also held management and research in China, Business School.
senior roles at RS Components UK Ltd. Vietnam, the Netherlands and the UK.
Current external commitments and Current external commitments and relevant qualifications No external relevant qualifications No external commitments.
PhD in Engineering from Cambridge University and BSc in Engineering from Huazhong University of Science and Technology, China.
Alan Brown Age 55 Group HR Director Divisional Managing Director, Divisional Managing Director, Chief Executive Textiles & Hygiene Services with Initial Facilities Please see page 26.
Skills and experience Appointed in November 2008.
Previously held positions responsibility for operations in Skills and experience Appointed in as Group HR Director at HomeServe plc: 8.
Formerly Group Director the Pacific Group HR Director at The AA Ltd and of Operations and prior to that CEO of Chief Financial Officer Skills and experience Appointed in April HR Director at Centrica Home and Road Integrated Services at Serco Group plc.
Previously worked for 28 years with Services.
Prior to this held a number of His previous career was with BOC Group, Unilever, having been Executive Chairman senior positions in HR and operations at holding managing director positions in in Australasia and prior to that the Group 9.
Andy Ransom Age 48 British Aerospace and United Biscuits.
Europe, China and South East Asia.
Head of IT and before that Managing Current external commitments and Executive Director He also worked for Nestl Ltd and GKN.
Director of the Foods business in Japan.
relevant qualifications No external Current external commitments and Please see page 26.
Current external commitments and commitments.
BSc Hons in Physics relevant qualifications A non-executive relevant qualifications Board member of from Southampton University.
director of N G Bailey Ltd. A Chartered the European Textile Services Association.
BSc Hons in Physics from Imperial College, London.
31 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2011
