Statement by the chairman and the chief executive dividends to shareholders and is recommending a final dividend Progress on key objectives in 2011 in respect of 2011 of 1.33p per share, payable to shareholders on Our four key objectives for 2011 were: the register at the close of business on 10 April 2012 to be paid 1.
The turnarounds of City Link and Textiles & Hygiene Benelux: on 15 May 2012.
This equates to a full year dividend of 2p per share, on a one third two thirds interim final basis.
The delivery of immediate, effective and surprising customer to pursue a progressive dividend policy going forward.
The delivery of consistent and profitable growth through People excellent customer retention and greatly improved marketing, sales and innovation capability: and In 2011 our colleagues have faced challenges from the economic environment as well as from operational issues and on behalf of the 4.
board we would like to thank them for their continued contribution.
Angela Seymour-Jackson will be joining the board as a non- 1a.
City Link executive director on 5 March 2012.
Angela has, until recently, Considerable progress has been made in City Link in 2011 in been the Chief Executive of the RAC and we look forward to the the areas of sales & marketing, operations, customer care and contribution she will bring to Rentokil Initial from her extensive contingency plans for key trading.
As a consequence, service levels service industry experience.
have been strong throughout the year, in contrast to Q4 2010.
We have however been disappointed by the financial performance Outlook for 2012 of the business with lower revenue per consignment and poor Our Operational Excellence strategy which focuses on capability productivity resulting in increased losses.
development across all functions is delivering increasing rates of Given the poor performance of the business in 2011 we have written revenue growth in the Pest Control, Hygiene, Textiles and Facilities off intangible assets at the 2011 year end relating to City Link.
The Services categories despite tough market challenges.
We are total write down amounted to 146 million of which 108 million particularly pleased with the rates of growth achieved towards the related to goodwill and 38 million related to customer lists.
end of Q4, which have continued into the early part of 2012.
The The new City Link leadership team brings a great deal of investment in rollout of the Olympic sales growth initiatives is likely successful UK Parcels industry experience to the business.
They however to limit profit growth in these categories to mid-single have begun to implement a comprehensive recovery plan which digits for the time being.
we expect to show material results by Q3 2012.
The plan targets City Link continues to disappoint.
While Q4 volumes grew 8% and productivity savings in excess of 20 million primarily through revenue by 0.5%, losses were 3.1 million greater than Q4 2010 driver productivity, supported by route and round optimisation and due to low productivity, driven in part by conservative resource a move to variable pay for subcontractors.
There are also initiatives planning for the Christmas period.
The financial performance to reduce trunking, warehouse operations and back office costs.
of the business will remain poor in H1 2012, however, we remain committed to resolving the key revenue and cost control issues facing this business.
We are encouraged by the immediate impact 1b.
Textiles & Hygiene Benelux of the new City Link CEO and CFO and by the quality of the The business performed consistently in line with plan, both improvement plan currently being implemented.
in revenue up 1.2% to 179.3 million and profit up 16.6% to Progress made across the rest of the group and continued strong 29.0 million.
Market conditions notwithstanding, we expect operating cash flows have given the board sufficient confidence the business to continue to perform well in 2012. to recommence dividend payments with a final dividend of In the Netherlands an extensive review of pricing was completed 1.33p per share.
The board is appreciative of the continued during H1 enabling the business to win a number of Government support of shareholders as we work to turn around Rentokil Initial.
Having taken some significant price reductions in 2009 and 2010 in order to get our pricing back in line with the market, during 2011 we have been able to pass on a number of price increases to customers, reflecting significant cost inflation and a more benign pricing environment.
John McAdam Alan Brown In Belgium the primary focus has been on improving the Chairman Chief Executive performance of the Hospital unit.
Management has been 1 March 2012 streamlined, plant productivity has increased and cost control measures have been implemented.
02 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2011
