Governance deliver a total reward package that is market aligned and Remuneration policy provides upside for exceptional business performance whilst The committee reviews the total reward packages of the executive being affordable directors and senior executives regularly to ensure ongoing encourage executive behaviours consistent with Rentokil effectiveness and competitiveness.
The committee takes advice Initials business values from Deloitte with market surveys prepared by Towers Watson.
The companys remuneration policy for the executive directors and senior colleagues is designed to: Total reward attract and retain the leadership talent necessary to drive and The remuneration policy is underpinned by a set of principles that deliver business growth, financial performance and other key are reflected in all elements of the executive total reward package, strategic priorities summarised below.
Further detail is provided in this report.
recognise and reward individual contributions to delivering long-term, sustainable business performance ensure alignment of executives with the overall shareholder objective of long-term value creation through linking a substantial part of the remuneration package to long-term performance targets Summary of remuneration policy Element Objective Principles and operation Performance measure Base salary To attract and Set after taking into account the market competitive range for Delivery against key personal retain the best companies of a similar size and complexity, individual skills and objectives.
experience, contribution to overall business performance, pay and conditions across the group and external market conditions.
Salaries are reviewed annually and set on 1 January.
Annual bonus To motivate Set at a market competitive level providing that target Group and divisional profit, cash Annual cash executives to financial, operational and personal targets are achieved.
flow, revenue and other key incentive deliver annual strategic performance targets.
financial, Recognises exceptional business performance and individual strategic and contribution to that performance.
The personal performance operational modifier that can both increase goals.
The structure is reviewed annually to ensure that it continues and decrease the bonus payout to support the businesss short-term and long-term goals.
is based on the outcome of the companys performance The annual bonus is normally paid in cash in March each year.
Maximum bonus opportunity of 100% of salary.
Personal performance modifier can increase this to 120% of base salary.
44 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2011
