Governance The 2008 Plan The companys policy in respect of the notice periods for the The 2008 Plan, approved by shareholders in 2008 was designed termination of executive directors contracts conforms to the to facilitate the appointment of John McAdam, chairman, Alan Code.
The committee is fully aware that under the Code, and Brown, chief executive, and Andy Ransom, executive director and acting within the contractual framework, it should take a robust to motivate them over a sufficient period to deliver a turnaround line over payments to departing directors.
On termination without in corporate performance.
notice other than by reason of resignation or unacceptable performance or conduct, executive directors are entitled to a The key features of the Plan were: payment equal to base pay and the value of benefits only for the an award to each participant of 7.5 million shares, with vesting duration of the notice period, subject to mitigation.
of the awards based on absolute share price performance The remuneration and contractual arrangements for the executive targets: directors and senior management do not contain any matters that until a minimum share price of 1.20 has been met over a are required to be disclosed under The Takeovers Directive.
sustained period, no shares will be earned.
At 1.20, 20% of the award would be earned, rising on a straight-line basis to full Pensions vesting at a share price of 1.80: Executive directors participate in defined contribution pension for achieving growth in market value between a share price of arrangements or receive additional gross salary in lieu of pension 1.80 and 2.80 further shares may be earned on a straight-line contributions from the company at the rate of up to 25% of base basis up to a maximum of a further 50% of the original award: salary.
Alan Brown and Andy Ransom received a cash supplement the performance condition will only be satisfied if the share in lieu of a pension contribution in 2011.
Jeremy Townsend price target is achieved over a sustained period, measured on participated in the companys defined contribution pension scheme the basis of an average share price over any 60 consecutive on the basis of 75% of the 15% of salary employer contribution to dealing days during the performance measurement period, which he is entitled under current group policy and received a cash demonstrating realisable value creation for shareholders: supplement for the balance.
A cash supplement in lieu of pension up to one-third of the award may vest following the end of the scheme contribution is not counted as salary for bonus purposes.
third year, two-thirds following the end of the fourth year and the final third following the end of the fifth year, based on the External appointments extent to which performance targets have been achieved, and Executive directors are entitled, subject to board approval of the any unvested portion of the award following the end of the specific appointment, to accept one non-executive directorship or fifth year will lapse.
similar appointment outside the company and to retain the fees in connection with such appointment.
The chief executive, Alan Vesting of 2008 Plan awards Brown, joined the board of Intertek Group plc on 15 April 2011 as a As discussed in last years report, during the first half of 2010 the non-executive director and his earnings during the year in respect companys share price achieved a 60 day highest average price of of the appointment were 32,000 which he has retained.
Both 130.82p and therefore under the terms of the plan 34.43% of the Alan Brown and Jeremy Townsend are directors of businesses run award vested with participants being entitled to receive a third of by members of their family for which they receive no remuneration the award i. e. 11.5% of the initial award or 872,828 shares including nor have any management involvement.
The second third will become capable of being released in May 2012 with the balance becoming Executive shareholding requirements capable of release in May 2013.
If the share price over a 60 day average period exceeds 130.82p before the end of the performance Recognising investors preferences for executive shareholding period in May 2013, further shares may be earned under this plan.
requirements, the company introduced shareholding guidelines No further awards may be made under this plan.
Executive directors will be expected to build if necessary, over a period of up to five years from appointment and subsequently maintain a holding of company shares with a Executive directors contracts market value equivalent to their annual salary.
The committee It is the companys policy that executive directors should have may take into account directors compliance with the shareholding rolling contracts subject to one years notice by the company.
The guidelines acknowledging any special circumstances that might current executive directors have rolling contracts which are subject apply when considering future long-term incentive awards.
to one years notice by the company and six months notice by the director.
Alan Browns and Andy Ransoms service agreements are dated 7 October 2008.
Jeremy Townsend has a service agreement dated 4 March 2010.
48 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2011
