Directors remuneration report to succeed in the long-term.
Success can only be achieved if the Membership company can attract, retain and motivate high quality people Alan Giles Chairman from 2012 to deliver the business performance shareholders expect.
This Richard Burrows requires levels and structures of remuneration that are appropriate to achieve these goals.
In carrying out its duties the committee will Peter Long Chairman to 2011 take into consideration the pay environment for all colleagues in On appointment on 5 March 2012, Angela Seymour-Jackson will the business.
The committee will keep under review legislative developments in Role and focus the UK over setting and reporting on executive pay.
The committee has responsibility for making recommendations Alan Giles to the board on the companys remuneration policy for the Chairman, Remuneration committee executive directors and the senior management population.
The committee also considers and determines specific remuneration packages for executive directors and senior Overview executives reporting to the chief executive and considers and This directors remuneration report sets out the companys authorises incentive arrangements, payments on termination approach to the remuneration of directors and the principles that of employment and related benefits to those individuals.
underpin it, together with details of the directors pay, employment During the year, the committees terms of reference were agreements, letters of appointment and interests in shares.
In amended to refer explicitly to the wider pay environment in producing this report, the remuneration committee aims to comply the company when dealing with executive pay to ensure that with best practice guidelines, including guidance produced by decisions in relation to executive remuneration are reasonable the Association of British Insurers and the National Association in this context.
All information disclosed in the directors Other attendees remuneration report is unaudited save where it is stated that the The chairman, the chief executive, the chief financial officer information is audited.
An ordinary resolution to approve the when required, the group HR director, the company secretary, directors remuneration report will be put to the annual general the committees independent advisers, Deloitte LLP.
The meeting on 1 May 2012. reward director also periodically attended meetings.
No individual is present during any discussion relating to their Responsibilities own remuneration.
In accordance with its terms of reference, the committee, which reports its findings to the board, is authorised to: make recommendations to the board on the companys Dear shareholder policy on executive remuneration and its cost: including the I am pleased to present the directors remuneration report for the remuneration of the chairman, the executive directors and the financial year ended 31 December 2011 for which we will be seeking senior management population approval from shareholders at the annual general meeting on determine the remuneration and incentive packages of 1 May 2012. executive directors and senior executives reporting to the chief As set out in the chairmans statement, 2011 has seen some executive, to ensure that they are appropriately rewarded for progress in addressing the issues facing Rentokil Initial.
We have their individual contributions to overall performance, giving full a strong executive team in place and our remuneration policies consideration to the matters set out in the Code and total reward approach ensure that the company is able to formulate remuneration policy with regard to the strategic attract, retain and motivate the leadership talent needed to deliver objectives and operational performance of the company the performance shareholders expect, now and in the future.
The remuneration committee continues to review executive formulate policy for the grant of awards options to executive remuneration, ensuring that it supports long-term business directors and senior executives to ensure that the appropriate direction, shareholder value creation and is aligned with our level of incentives is consistent with directors remuneration values of Service, Relationships and Teamwork.
policy The companys remuneration policies are designed to support approve awards to executive directors and senior executives, the delivery of the groups strategic objectives, specifically to including the consideration of quantum and performance ensure that there is the maximum possible alignment between conditions vesting arrangements and determine, in conjunction the interests of executive directors and senior colleagues with the with the companys auditors, whether such performance creation of value for shareholders and the ambition of the company targets have been satisfied 42 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2011
