Governance Responsibilities Audit committee report In accordance with its terms of reference, the committee, which Membership reports its findings to the board, is authorised to: Duncan Tatton-Brown Chairman monitor the integrity of the annual and half-year results and Peter Bamford interim management statements, including a review of the William Rucker significant financial reporting judgements contained in them: Role and focus review the companys internal financial controls and internal The aim of the committee is to ensure high standards of control and risk management systems: corporate controls, risk management, reporting and compliance monitor and review the effectiveness of the companys internal to enhance the effectiveness of control processes and to audit function: reduce risk and provide independent monitoring and challenge establish and oversee the companys relationship with to executive management.
the external auditors, including the monitoring of their Other attendees independence: and The chairman, chief executive, chief financial officer, external monitor matters raised pursuant to the companys auditors, director of risk and audit, divisional finance directors whistleblowing arrangements by rotation, company secretary and periodically: the group financial controller, the director of tax and other senior finance executives.
Terms of reference The terms of reference of the committee are available at www.
com or from the company secretary.
Dear shareholder The committees terms of reference were reviewed by the In addition to the regular process of reviewing and approving a committee during 2011 and a number of clarifications concerning range of matters relating to financial reporting the committee has Code of Conduct compliance oversight and the role of the groups this year overseen further improvements in the structure of the risk committee have been approved by the board.
The committees control environment, achieved partly through improvements in terms of reference take full account of the Smith guidance on the capability in the organisation but also through improved clarity role of audit committees.
and structure around processes and procedures.
The committee has also overseen an updating of the groups risk management and Governance strategic risk assessment process.
While the groups risk profile has Committee members are independent non-executive directors.
not changed the improvements have brought greater robustness Duncan Tatton-Brown and William Rucker are considered by the and clarity which have assisted the committee in discharging its board to have recent and relevant financial experience, details responsibility to support the board in its assessment of the overall of which are set out on pages 26 and 27.
The committee meets risk appetite of the group.
routinely four times a year and additionally when necessary and The committee also spent time looking closely at the control also meets the companys external auditors and internal risk and environment around change programmes underway in the group audit executives without executive directors present.
which, among other objectives, are designed to bring about over Membership and details of the number of meetings held and the next several years a further improvement in transactional attendance at meetings during the year are shown on page 28 accounting processes and related controls.
and during 2011 the committee met on six occasions.
The following report describes the committees responsibilities During the year, the committee has met with the external auditors and key tasks in the year which I hope shareholders will find helpful.
and the director of risk and audit without executives present.
The committee did not find it necessary to seek external advice during Duncan Tatton-Brown the year, other than through its dialogue with the auditors.
Chairman, Audit committee 34 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2011
