Governance The chief executive and chief financial officer lead monthly Relations with shareholders and quarterly business performance reviews with business unit management teams.
The groups change programmes are Engagement monitored by a programme board chaired by the chief executive.
The company places great importance on communications with The HR, finance and IT functions each has a governance structure shareholders, including with employee shareholders.
The chairman, that oversees the performance of the functions and the delivery of chief executive and chief financial officer make themselves functional change programmes to drive capability improvements.
available to shareholders at all appropriate times.
The company has The companys disclosure committee assists the chief executive a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders through one-toand the chief financial officer in fulfilling the boards responsibility one and group meetings, formal investor and analyst conference for the accuracy and timeliness of the disclosures made by the calls as well as ad hoc communications, where appropriate.
company whether in connection with its financial reporting Formal presentations are held after full year and half year results, obligations or on other matters.
to which investors and sell and buy side analysts are invited.
These The companys risk committee, chaired by the chief financial presentations are web-cast and any investor is able to hear the officer, has oversight of the groups risk and control function and presentation and related questions and answers via the companys reviews the risks the group is facing and the effectiveness of the website.
Accompanying slide presentations are hosted on the internal controls.
companys website as are recordings of meetings.
Conference calls for investors and analysts are hosted after the first and third The governance process in the business units comprises quarter trading updates, with typical levels of participation in the application of group and local policies and procedures, excess of 80 shareholders and analysts.
Investor roadshows are management oversight, the analysis and management of risk, all conducted after full year and interim results, involving extensive underpinned by the groups values and behaviours.
The operating investor meetings on each occasion.
The chairman and the senior framework, illustrated on page 30, is designed to ensure that independent director are available to attend meetings with decisions are taken at the right time by colleagues with appropriate investors, as required.
The company also provides opportunities authority, after considering all relevant factors from commercial to for private client investor presentations across the UK.
The group operates through locally constituted and governed legal entities in some 60 countries.
Corporate entities The company reviews and provides to the board material issued are managed in compliance with local law and regulation and by shareholder representative groups to ensure that shareholders under principles set out in the groups code of conduct.
views and preferences are taken into account.
The company sees the annual general meeting as an important Corporate responsibility opportunity for all shareholders to engage with the board over performance and other matters on the agenda for the meeting and The chief executive has board responsibility for all corporate encourages both private and institutional shareholders to attend.
responsibility matters which are reviewed at least annually by the board and by the company executive board.
A summary During 2011 the company held an Investor Day for shareholders of the groups corporate responsibility performance is set and the investment community giving an in depth review of out on pages 52 to 56 and more fully in the groups web-based activities of the pest control business.
corporate responsibility report which can be found at The board is briefed on the companys investor relations www.
com  introduction programme through a comprehensive quarterly report from the head of investor relations who is responsible for day-to-day communications with shareholders and the financial community as well as by periodic updates from the chief executive and the chief financial officer.
In addition, published broker reports are provided to the board.
The companys financial and investor relations advisers also maintain a regular dialogue with major shareholders and reports are provided to the board on investors views on key issues and management performance following major investor presentations of results.
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the company will distribute its printed annual report only to shareholders who have indicated to the company that they wish to receive it in that form.
The company will periodically canvas new shareholders on how they wish to receive their shareholder communications and did so in April 2010.
32 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2011
