Risk mapped to groups strategic thrusts High Medium Low Net risk Change after from Risk description What we are doing to manage and or reduce the risk mitigation 2010 Strategic thrusts Delivering Achieve service level targets Global metrics are defined for state of service see KPIs page 5 and are reviewed outstanding every month.
Reward and recognition schemes for front line colleagues are used customer to drive employee and customer engagement.
service Achieve or exceed customer satisfaction Customer care initiatives developed at City Link to be rolled out across the group in 2012.
Customer account management processes to be rolled out following successful trials in UK Pest.
Customer Voice Counts net promoter score surveys regularly undertaken across the group.
see KPIs page 5 Developing the Successfully deploy information systems The IT strategy is focused on supporting the business strategy across all divisions, capability of our and technology to support business and is formally reviewed by the board annually.
An information security policy organisation requirements and protect confidential is in place, monitored by regular self-assessment reviews.
and people information Roll out a sustainable pipeline of new Marketing and innovation is now under the leadership of a single management NEW innovation across the business team.
This will ensure innovation is developed from a global perspective and roll-out can be co-ordinated with greater effectiveness.
Recruit, develop and retain key staff Programmes are being implemented as part of Programme Olympic to drive standardised core employee processes and a global HR information system.
A new graduate recruitment scheme was implemented in 2011.
A global learning management system is in pilot.
Development of a professional sales Initiatives are under way in all divisions to improve sales capability and NEW capability across the business effectiveness.
A new global sales leadership team has been established to drive improved sales capability, training and develop new tools.
Delivering City Link turnaround is not delivered A number of broad initiatives have been undertaken to win new key accounts, operational invest in customer care and drive operational efficiencies.
See details on page 7. excellence in all our Recruit to Reward project fails to deliver HR processes are being globally defined and implemented on a rolling basis, processes NEW step-change in HR capability and starting with pilots in the UK, Spain, Australia, South Africa and North America.
and functions operations Progress is monitored by the Programme Olympic steering group.
Poor implementation of new accounting A global chart of accounts is being rolled out as key enabler to new systems.
NEW systems and processes Record to Report A rolling plan of new system implementation and upgrades has been agreed project results in loss of finance as part of Programme Olympic for 2012 and 2013 to drive further process transaction reporting capability harmonisation and efficiency.
Poor service scheduling and productivity Route optimisation techniques have been applied to businesses where efficient multiple service calls are a critical part of the business model City Link, Textiles & Hygiene and Pest Control.
For City Link specific innovations, see pages 2 to 7.
Operating at lowest Identify and execute cost saving Cost savings programmes are in place across all divisions and are monitored possible cost opportunities monthly.
An outline of current initiatives are described on page 4. consistent with our Poor supply chain management including An SKU rationalisation project is in progress within Textiles & Hygiene as a service objectives procurement pre-cursor to implementing a centralised warehousing and distribution model and delivering across Europe.
maximum cash Achieve operating cash flow targets Cash conversion targets and days outstanding debtors targets are set for all divisions and countries and are monitored monthly.
see KPIs page 5 Deteriorating ability to collect debts The level of debtors is monitored monthly see KPIs page 5.
The creditworthiness NEW due to weak economies impacting our of new customers and material existing customers is regularly reviewed.
Credit customers, especially governments limits are applied based on an assessment of risk.
Financial market risks foreign exchange Detailed policies are in place that require group Treasury to approve, oversee and risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, monitor all financial market risks.
Financial risks are explained in more detail in counterparty risk and settlement risk note 21 on pages 89 to 92.
Volatility in pension scheme funding Pension provision is via defined contribution schemes for all current employees.
obligations adversely impacts group The medium term funding of the now closed UK direct benefit scheme was profitability or cash flow agreed in 2011 page 21.
16 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2011 Business review Risks and uncertainties Net risk Change after from Risk description What we are doing to manage and or reduce the risk Strategic thrusts mitigation 2010 Delivering Win profitable new customers Programme Olympic includes several initiatives targeted at delivering profitable profitable growth growth including tele-appointing, bids and tenders management and online sales.
through organic These initiatives are supported by the development of cost-to-serve models to and acquisitive ensure competitive pricing of the service offering.
actions Upsell or cross-sell to existing customers Common sales processes, supported by new CRM technology, are being developed to share customer information and identify cross-selling opportunities.
Sales training and improved incentive schemes are being rolled out to help capture additional business with existing customers.
Retain profitable business when Initiatives to better monitor customer satisfaction and develop customer renewing existing customer contracts retention plans include benchmarking, market price research, a new cost to serve model, senior management involvement in re-tendering and contract renewal.
Generate profitable growth through Potential acquisitions and or strategic partners are regularly reviewed.
strategically relevant acquisition Dedicated M&A resource supports bids when opportunities arise.
joint venture Assurance risks Fraud, financial crime or material Group accounting policies and procedures are described on pages 63 to 70.
There accounting misstatement is a strong focus on regular financial controls testing, including self-assessment exercises each year, with independent testing by the external auditors.
Speak Up is available for confidential whistleblowing.
Health, Safety or Environmental breach The group Safety, Health and Environment board SHE is responsible for setting resulting in loss of life, litigation, financial SHE policies, processes and systems and monitoring their effectiveness.
External penalties or reputational damage certification and internal review ensure that SHE standards are maintained at an adequate level.
Non-compliance with local tax legislation The group tax director monitors all local tax issues above a threshold, and reporting requirement leading to material approves and monitors tax contingencies.
unprovided tax charge Breach of laws or regulations including Compulsory e-training for all managers on competition law and anti-corruption competition and anti-trust laws and laws.
Requirement to inform group legal director of all potential law breaches regulations which may give rise to litigation.
Loss of operational capability due to major The business continuity policy has been revised and is being implemented incident, e. g. fire, flood, terrorism, war, across the group.
Divisional policies are reviewed periodically.
political or civil unrest, kidnap, etc.
Failure to act responsibly and ethically Code of Conduct fully revised and rolled out in 2010 to all existing managers.
NEW towards colleagues, customers or Policy is included in the packs for all new starters.
E-learning programme under business partners i. e. failure to comply development, to be rolled out to all managers in 2012.
Speak Up hotline with the Code of Conduct monitored by group internal audit.
17 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2011
