Financial highlights 2011 Increase 2010 m decrease % m Revenue 2,544.3 1.9% 2,496.5 1 Adjusted operating profit 224.7 6.1% 239.3 1 Adjusted profit before tax 184.4 4.1% 192.3 Loss profit before tax 50.5 14.5 2 Operating cash flow 154.7 30.5% 222.7 3 Basic adjusted EPS 7.48p 4.2% 7.81p 1 before amortisation and impairment of intangibles excluding computer software, reorganisation costs and one-off items 2 cash flow before interest, tax, acquisitions, disposals and foreign exchange adjustments 3 earnings per share before the after tax effects of amortisation and impairment of intangibles excluding computer software, reorganisation costs and one-off items Description of business categories and activities Pest Control Interior plants Our Pest Control business provides pest control services in all The Ambius division provides interior plants landscaping, design major international markets.
It aims to satisfy the needs of both installation and maintenance services in North America, the UK, commercial and residential customers who seek protection from Australia and continental Europe.
health and financial risks and the reassurance that comes from dealing with the industrys finest service provider.
The business Facilities Services has leading market positions in the UK, continental Europe and Facilities Services comprise a number of related businesses North America.
including catering, cleaning, security, buildings M&E and statutory compliance.
The business provides fully integrated total facilities Hygiene management to government and commercial sector organisations The groups Hygiene business offers a dedicated and expert of all sizes across all business sectors.
The business operates in the hygiene service in the UK, continental Europe and Asia Pacific.
includes the provision and maintenance of products including air fresheners, sanitisers, feminine hygiene units, hand dryers, paper Parcels Delivery and linen towel dispensers, soap dispensers, toilet paper dispensers City Link is a UK leading premium express parcel delivery company and floor protection mats.
It also provides disposal of dental and providing high quality services across the UK and Ireland.
City Link medical waste, and deep cleaning and water hygiene services.
has been successfully delivering documents, parcels, pallets and freight throughout the world since 1969.
Textiles In our Textiles activities in Europe we specialise in the supply Other and launder of work wear, uniforms, clean room uniforms and Represents a number of small businesses outside of the above protective equipment.
The business offers a linen service categories.
for hotels, restaurants and hospitals.
The businesss largest countries of operation are France, Germany and Benelux.
