Report of the Directors The Directors present their Annual Report and the Group No Director has a service contract with the Company Accounts for the year ended 1 January 2012. requiring more than twelve months notice.
In accordance with the Code, all the Directors will be subject to re-election Results and dividends at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 17 May 2012.
The results for the year ended 1 January 2012 are presented under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs.
During the year the Audit Committee comprised the following The Report and Accounts are drawn up on a 52 week non-executive Directors: reporting basis ending on 1 January 2012 2010: 53 week reporting basis ending on 2 January 2011.
The results for the ff Simon Cloke Chairman year are set out in the consolidated income statement on ff Tony Hughes page 43.
This shows a Group profit after tax of 34.4m 2010: 40.1m.
As highlighted in the 2011 Interim Report, the Board During the year the Remuneration Committee comprised has decided that it is appropriate to rebalance the weighting of the following non-executive Directors: the payment of the dividend between the interim and final dividends.
An interim dividend of 4.0p per share was paid on ff Tony Hughes Chairman 12 October 2011.
The Directors propose a final dividend of ff Simon Cloke 6.5p per share, which is subject to approval at the Companys Annual General Meeting to be held on 17 May 2012.
Should During the year the Nominations Committee comprised this be approved, the final dividend will be paid on 19 July the following Directors: 2012, bringing the ordinary dividend per share payable in respect of 2011 to 10.5p 2010: 9.0p.
ff Tony Hughes Chairman ff Simon Cloke Principal activity ff Alan Jackson The principal activity of the Group is the operation of ff Andrew Page restaurants and pub restaurants.
Further information relating to the business, including a review of the years performance The Directors remuneration report, which includes details and planned developments, is given in the Chief Executive of Directors remuneration and interests in the Companys Officers review of operations on pages 6 to 11. shares and options, together with information on service contracts, is set out on pages 30 to 35. Business review The Company is required by the Companies Act to include a Directors shareholdings business review in this report.
The information that fulfils the The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company, requirements of the business review can be found in the all being beneficially owned, were as follows: Chairmans statement, Chief Executive Officers review of At At At 28 February 1 January 2 January operations and Group Finance Directors report on pages 4 2012 2012 2011 to 15, which are incorporated in this report by reference.
Executive Directors Directors Andrew Page 631,486 631,486 576,806 Full details of the Directors of the Company are given on Stephen Critoph 283,197 283,197 258,647 pages 16 and 17.
The Directors who held office during 2011 Trish Corzine 274,705 274,705 255,497 were as follows: Non-executive Directors Executive Directors Alan Jackson 400,191 400,191 400,191 ff Andrew Page Tony Hughes 400,000 400,000 91,476 ff Stephen Critoph Simon Cloke 15,000 15,000 ff Trish Corzine Details of the Directors share options are disclosed in the Non-executive Directors Directors remuneration report on pages 34 and 35.
The ff Alan Jackson closing mid-market price of the ordinary shares on 1 January ff Tony Hughes 2012 was 297.9p and the range during the financial year was ff Simon Cloke 254.9p to 335.0p.
In respect of 2011, each of the non-executive Directors Share capital structure excluding the Chairman is considered by the Board to be The Company has one class of shares, ordinary shares of independent.
Tony Hughes held the position of senior 1 28 8p.
The authorised share capital is 284,444,444 ordinary non-executive Director.
Alan Jackson transitioned from 1 shares of 28 8p.
As at 1 January 2012, the issued, called up executive Chairman to non-executive Chairman on 1 January and fully paid number of shares in issue was 200,245,088 2006 and following his tenure as an executive Director, is not shares.
There are no preference shares or special rights considered to be an independent non-executive Director as pertaining to any of the shares in issue.
defined by the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
18 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2011 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Following the 2011 Annual General Meeting the Directors Substantial shareholdings have had the authority to allot shares up to an aggregate At 16 February 2012 the Company had been notified of the nominal amount of 18,717,396 which represented following interests of 3% or more in the issued ordinary share approximately one third of the ordinary share capital of the capital of the Company: Company at the time the authority was given by shareholders.
Number % of issued This authority expires at the Annual General Meeting to be of shares share capital held on 17 May 2012 and it will be proposed to extend this Standard Life 10,925,116 5.46 authority updated for the current number of shares in issue BlackRock Inc 10,687,427 5.34 at the forthcoming Meeting.
The Directors have no present Old Mutual Asset Managers 10,556,442 5.27 intention of exercising this authority.
At the 2011 Annual Lloyds Banking Group 9,445,517 4.72 General Meeting the Directors were also provided with the M&G Investment Management Ltd 9,129,908 4.56 authority to allot shares for cash other than on a pre-emptive Aviva Investors 7,734,845 3.86 basis, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,807,609 F&C Asset Management plc 7,562,796 3.78 which represented approximately 5% of the issued share New Smith Asset capital at the time that the authority was given by Management LLP 7,516,765 3.75 shareholders.
This authority also expires at the Annual Ameriprise Financial Inc 7,475,466 3.74 General Meeting to be held on 17 May 2012 and it will be proposed to extend this authority updated for the current BAE Pension Fund Investment Mgmt 7,223,775 3.61 number of shares in issue at the forthcoming Meeting.
The Directors have no present intention of exercising this authority.
Legal & General Investment Management 6,934,465 3.46 In addition, following the 2011 Annual General Meeting, the Corporate governance Directors have the authority to make market purchases of shares in The Restaurant Group plc on behalf of the The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance and to observing the principles of corporate Company up to 19,965,222 ordinary shares which represented 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share governance contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code that was issued in 2010 by the Financial Reporting capital at the time of the Notice of the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
The minimum price that may be paid for such Council the Code for which the Board is accountable to 1 shareholders.
The maximum price is the higher of 5% above the average middle market quotation for the Statement of compliance with the UK Corporate ordinary shares for the five business days preceding the date of purchase and the higher of the price of the last Governance Code Throughout the year ended 1 January 2012, the Company has independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List at the time been in compliance with the provisions set out in the Code except for provisions concerning the number of Directors the purchase is carried out.
considered to be independent, and the independence of the Chairman who was previously executive Chairman before This authority expires at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and it will be proposed to extend this authority assuming the role of non-executive Chairman in January 2006.
The Company currently has two non-executive updated for the current number of shares in issue at the forthcoming Meeting.
As noted in the Chief Executive Directors who are considered to be independent, which is less than the 50% of the Board best practice guidance under Officers review of operations, the Directors will periodically review the capital structure of the Group to ensure there is an the Combined Code.
As a consequence the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committees comprise two non-executive appropriate framework to enable shareholder value to grow and to recognise the operational and financial gearing Directors rather than three as recommended by the Code.
The size and composition of the Board is regularly reviewed inherent in TRGs predominantly lease-based model.
to ensure that the effectiveness of the Board and performance of the Group is at a high standard.
The Group has entered into various contracts, including leases, during the course of ordinary business which may Statement about applying the principles of the Code be terminated in the event of a change of control of The Restaurant Group plc.
The Company has applied the principles set out in section 1 of the Code, including both the Main Principles and the supporting principles, by complying with the Code as reported above.
Further explanation of how the Main Principles have been applied is set out below and in the Directors remuneration report and the Audit Committee report.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2011 19 Report of the Directors continued The Board There is significant involvement from the non-executive The Boards role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of Directors.
This includes an ongoing dialogue with the the Company and Group within a framework of prudent and executive Directors including constructive challenge of effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and performance and the Groups strategy.
The Board reviews the Groups business model Directors are provided with sufficient information to allow and strategic objectives and looks to ensure that the them to monitor, assess and challenge the executive necessary financial and human resources are in place to management of the Group.
Comprehensive Board papers achieve these objectives, to sustain them over the long term including financial information are circulated to all Directors and to review management performance against these prior to Board meetings and, on a weekly basis, they receive objectives.
The Board also sets the Companys values and up-to-date trading information.
The non-executive Directors standards and manages the business in a manner to meet have the opportunity to meet without the executive Directors its obligations to shareholders and other stakeholders.
present, and this includes discussions of targets set and achieved by management.
The Board currently comprises the non-executive Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Group Finance Director, the All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Executive Director of the Concessions business and two Company Secretary and a procedure has been agreed for non-executive Directors.
Their biographies appear on pages the Directors in the furtherance of their duties to take 16 and 17 and these demonstrate a range of experience and independent professional advice, if necessary, at the expense sufficient calibre to bring independent judgement on issues of the Company.
On joining the Board there is a process of strategy, risk management, performance, resources and for Directors to receive training as to their role and its standards of conduct which is vital for the success of the requirements and for non-executive Directors to gain an Group.
Tony Hughes acts as senior independent nonunderstanding of the whole business.
Non-executive Directors executive Director and is available to shareholders if they have are actively encouraged to meet with operational management reasons for concern on which contact through the normal and to visit the Groups operations in order to enhance their channels is inappropriate or has failed to resolve an issue.
understanding of the Groups business, its brands, employees and processes.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are clearly defined.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and During 2011 there were eight Board meetings with full effectiveness of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer is attendance by Board members.
responsible for the strategic direction and operational management of the Group.
The Board meets on a regular Executive Directors are included in the annual performance basis and there is a formal schedule of matters specifically evaluation of all senior employees within the Group.
This reserved for its consideration.
This includes approval of the involves a comprehensive review of performance against annual budget and the three year business plan, approval of objectives and covers areas for future development through the interim and year-end Report and Accounts, review and appraisal documentation and meetings.
The non-executive approval of significant capital expenditure including Directors also meet in the absence of the Chairman to appraise development of new sites, significant disposals of assets the Chairmans performance in the light of his fee review.
and acquisitions or disposals of businesses.
The Company acknowledges the importance of developing Operational management are responsible for the day-to-day the skills of the Directors to run an effective Board.
To assist running of the Group and report on a regular basis on that in this, Directors are given the opportunity to attend relevant performance to the Board.
The Board is responsible for courses and seminars and to acquire skills and experience reviewing, challenging and approving the strategic direction of which may enhance their contribution to the ongoing the Group and monitoring operational performance.
The Board progress of the Group.
The Board and committees of the is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Board have been subject to a formal performance appraisal, Group and has access to the necessary information and training through an internal questionnaire, and the performance of all to enable it to discharge its duties.
All Directors are subject to members of the Board is considered as part of the annual election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their remuneration review process.
appointment, except where they are appointed by shareholders, and to annual re-election thereafter.
20 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2011 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Communications with shareholders Audit Committee Communications with shareholders are given high priority.
The Audit Committee consists of two non-executive The Chairmans statement, Chief Executive Officers review Directors.
During the year the Committee was chaired by of operations and Group Finance Directors report on pages Simon Cloke.
There are written terms of reference for the 4 to 15 include a detailed review of the business and the Chief Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee met twice during Executive Officers review of operations on pages 6 to 11 2011 with full attendance at each meeting.
A more detailed includes a review of planned future developments.
description of the work undertaken by the Audit Committee is included in the Audit Committee report on pages 36 and There is a regular dialogue with institutional investors 37.
Shareholders of the Company have the opportunity to including presentations after the Companys announcement re-appoint Deloitte LLP as external auditors of the Company of the year-end results, and at the half year.
Feedback from at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 17 May 2012. major institutional shareholders is provided to the Board on a regular basis and, where appropriate, the Board will take The Restaurant Group plc strategy steps to address their concerns and recommendations.
The Restaurant Groups key objective is to grow shareholder value and the strategy deployed to achieve this is to build a The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate business capable of generating long-term, sustainable and with private and institutional investors and welcomes their growing cash flows.
In pursuit of this we have built a scalable participation.
The Chairman aims to ensure that the chairmen business model which is focused on the growing casual of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and eating out market.
Nominations Committee are available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions, and for all Directors to attend.
We have targeted segments of this market which offer distinct barriers to entry and where we can be confident of delivering Remuneration Committee good growth in profits and cash flows and where there is The Remuneration Committee consists of two non-executive good potential for high returns on investment.
There are written terms of reference for the the Group to focus on edge and out of town leisure and retail Remuneration Committee.
There was 100% attendance of developments, rural and semi-rural pubs and our Concessions the two Remuneration Committee meetings held during 2011. business which operates principally on airports.
The Group The role of this Committee and details of how the Company operates in the expanding casual dining market, and our complies with the principles of the Code are set out in the offerings continue to provide good value for money in Directors remuneration report on pages 30 to 35. comfortable surroundings and excellent service from our dedicated teams.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee consists of the non-executive The Groups strategy is to deliver further organic growth Directors, the non-executive Chairman and the Chief through the roll out of our brands Frankie & Bennys, Executive Officer.
It met once during 2011 with full attendance Chiquito, Garfunkels and our Pub restaurant business.
There are written terms of reference for the We have a solid pipeline of sites for development, coupled Nominations Committee.
It is responsible for making with a strong focus on continuing to deliver like-for-like sales recommendations to the Board for the appointment or growth from our existing restaurants.
Our Concessions replacement of additional Directors and ensuring there is an business operates in a dynamic and complicated market appropriate balance and diversity of skills, experience, where our management teams have market-leading expertise knowledge and independence both now and in the future.
and a track record of innovation and improving sales It is also responsible for succession planning for the Group.
performance and the Group continues to look for The Board acknowledges the importance of diversity and opportunities to expand this division.
promoting equal opportunities throughout the Group.
Since 2003, at least 25% of the executive Directors have been The Restaurant Group plc risk factors female and currently over 40% of senior management within The Board of Directors regularly identify, monitor and manage the Group are female.
The Nominations Committee will have potential risks and uncertainties to the Group.
The list on the regard to the recommendations of the Women on Boards following page sets out what the Directors consider to be the report from Lord Davies published in February 2011 in its current principal risks and uncertainties, with an overview of deliberations on future appointments.
the mitigation process for these.
This list is not presumed to be exhaustive and is, by its very nature, subject to change.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2011 21 Report of the Directors continued Risks and uncertainties Mitigation process Adverse economic conditions and a decline in consumer Regular monitoring of performance and appropriate action plans confidence and spend in the UK Increased supply of new restaurant concepts into the market Concentration on segments offering higher barriers to entry and good growth prospects: regular monitoring of performance and appropriate action plans Impact of terrorism in key locations including airports Contingency planning and training: liaison with authorities and landlords in key locations Possible health pandemic that may cause customers to stay away Contingency planning and communication with employees or prevent restaurants being adequately staffed Lack of new site opportunities, and risks to existing Concession Dedicated property department focusing on new site agreements development, strong relationships with Concessions partners Failure to provide customers with brand-standard value for money Training, mystery diner visits, monitoring of customer feedback, offerings and service levels internal quality control testing Major failure of key suppliers to deliver products into restaurants Contingency planning for supply chain and suppliers Damage to our brands images due to failures in environmental Training of restaurant and pub teams: detailed health and safety health compliance in the restaurants or from contamination manual: regular internal and external auditing of all sites: auditing of products of supply chain and suppliers: health and safety incentives and awards The loss of key personnel or failure to manage succession Benchmarking of remuneration packages: analysis of staff planning turnover: performance appraisal and review system to retain existing talent: Long-Term Incentive Plan Increase in prices of key raw materials including foreign currency Rolling programme of securing longer-term contracts to mitigate fluctuations, wages, overheads and utilities short-term pricing fluctuations: energy efficiency programme Reversion of formerly sold or disposed leases following business Monitoring of sub-let properties: ongoing relationships with failure of new occupiers property agents Failure to meet banking covenants Signed facility agreement, monitoring of financial performance against covenant levels: banking relationships: significant levels of headroom against covenants Increased regulation of the food and beverage industry leading Monitoring of developments and liaison with external authorities to higher costs such as the Food Standards Agency and Department of Health Breakdown in internal controls through fraud or error, major failure Experienced staff in key roles: segregation of duties: internal of IT systems and external audit processes: Audit Committee role Changes to tax regime, including VAT, corporation tax and Ongoing monitoring in conjunction with external advisers income tax Further information on the management of risks highlighted above is provided in the Chief Executive Officers review of operations and Group Finance Directors report on pages 6 to 15.
22 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2011 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc key performance risks faced by the Group.
This process, which is regularly indicators reviewed by the Board, is carried out in conjunction with The Board of Directors and executive management receive a business planning and is documented in a risk register that wide range of management information delivered in a timely has been progressively enhanced during the financial year manner.
Listed below are the principal measures of progress and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and that are reviewed on a regular basis to monitor the Accounts.
Whilst acknowledging its overall responsibility for development of the Group.
the system of internal control, the Board is aware that the system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk Like-for-like sales of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide This measure provides an indicator of the underlying reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material performance of our existing restaurants, and highlights misstatement or loss.
successful development of our offerings to best match changing consumer demands over time.
There is no The Group has well-established procedures which have been accounting standard or consistent definition of like-for-like developed over many years which meet the requirements of sales across the industry, although the Group has applied a the Turnbull Guidance.
A key control procedure is the consistent basis of calculation across years for reporting day-to-day involvement of executive members of the Board like-for-like performance.
During 2011, the Group like-for-like in all aspects of the business and their attendance at regular sales increased by 3.25% which followed a 1% decline in 2010. management meetings at which performance against plan and business prospects are reviewed.
The Group has New sites opened established a monthly executive management meeting where The expansion of our brands is a key driver of the Groups the three executive Directors, senior operational managers profitability.
As noted in the Group Finance Directors report, and head of functional departments review Group potential new sites are subject to a rigorous appraisal process performance and issues affecting the Group.
Additionally, before they are presented to the Board for approval.
This the Board seeks to continually strengthen the internal control process ensures we maintain the quality of openings as well system where this is consistent with improving the relationship as the quantity of sites opened.
During 2011 the Group between risk and reward.
The Groups associate company, opened 25 new sites 2010: 24 and plans to open 25 to Living Ventures Restaurants Group Limited, does not fall 30 new restaurants during 2012. under the same internal controls as the Group.
The internal controls within the associate are discussed with management EBITDA of that company during shareholder meetings and are The ability of the Group to finance its roll-out programme is considered to be appropriate for an entity of its size.
aided by strong cash flows from the existing business.
The Group defines EBITDA as operating profit before depreciation, Other key features and the processes for reviewing amortisation and non-trading items.
EBITDA serves as a effectiveness of the internal control system are useful proxy for cash flows generated by operations and is described below: closely monitored.
During 2011 the Group generated 89.7m ff Terms of reference for the Board and its sub-committees, EBITDA, an increase of 7.6% on the 2010 comparable level of including a schedule of matters reserved for the Board and 83.4m and an increase of 4.6% on the 2010 statutory level of an agreed annual programme of fixed agenda items for 85.8m.
Board approval: ff An established organisational structure with clear lines Operating profit margin of responsibility and rigorous reporting requirements: The Board and management closely monitor profit margins ff Operational performance and operational matters are as an indicator of operating efficiency within restaurants and considered at monthly meetings of the executive Directors across the Group.
For 2011 the Group adjusted operating with senior management.
Financial performance is margin was 12.6% 2010: 12.5% on a comparable basis.
In monitored and action taken through weekly reporting to addition, the Group closely scrutinises the returns on invested the executive Directors and monthly reporting to the Board capital from new site openings and the average EBITDA against annual budgets approved by the Board: generated by restaurants.
ff Capital investment is regulated by a budgetary process and authorisation levels, with appraisals and postFurther information on these key metrics is provided in the investment reviews: Chief Executive Officers review of operations and the Group ff Comprehensive policy manuals setting out agreed Finance Directors report.
These include human resources related policies, information technology and Internal control health and safety.
The Group employs a firm of external The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal auditors to monitor restaurants on a regular basis for control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In accordance with compliance with statutory and internal health and safety guidance for directors Internal Control: Guidance for requirements: and Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Guidance, ff An internal audit function headed by an experienced the Board has ensured that there is an ongoing process for internal auditor has access to all areas of the Company reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control and Groups business and reports into the Board.
including identifying, evaluating and managing the significant The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2011 23 Report of the Directors continued Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation Information provided to auditor to the accounts Each of the current Directors have taken all the steps that The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any Report, Directors remuneration report and the financial relevant information needed by the Companys auditors for statements in accordance with applicable law and the purpose of their audit and to establish that the auditor is regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare aware of that information.
The Directors are not aware of any financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law relevant information of which the auditor is unaware.
This the directors are required to prepare the Group financial information is given and should be interpreted in accordance statements in accordance with International Financial with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have chosen Going concern to prepare the parent company financial statements in As referred to in the Chief Executive Officers review of accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted operations there continue to be significant economic Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards concerns facing the United Kingdom and consumer-facing and applicable law.
Under company law the directors must industries in particular.
The Group Finance Directors report not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they contains a summary of the cash flows and borrowing position give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company of the Group.
and of the profit or loss of the company for that period.
Further information on the Groups policies for capital risk In preparing the Group financial statements, International management and financial risk management are set out Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: below.
Potential risk factors and uncertainties that could ff properly select and apply accounting policies: affect the business are listed above.
ff present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and The Group is highly cash generative, as explained in the understandable information: Group Finance Directors report, and enjoys negative working ff provide additional disclosures when compliance with the capital as it generally does not give credit to its customers.
specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable During the year the Group renegotiated its banking facility users to understand the impact of particular transactions, and a new 140m rolling facility was entered into.
This facility other events and conditions on the entitys financial expires in October 2016.
At 1 January 2012 the Group had position and financial performance: and net debt of 41.6m 2 January 2011: 46.9m.
ff make an assessment of the companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Based on the Groups plans for 2012 and after making enquiries including preparation of reasonable trading In preparing the parent company financial statements, the forecasts, consideration of current financing arrangements Directors are required to: and current headroom for liquidity and covenant compliance, ff select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group consistently: has adequate resources to continue operations for the ff make judgements and accounting estimates that are foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the reasonable and prudent: going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
ff state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed: and Capital risk management ff prepare the financial statements on the going concern The Group manages its capital to ensure that it will be able to basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the continue as a going concern while looking to maximise returns company will continue in business.
The capital structure of the Group consists of equity comprising issued share capital, reserves and retained The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate earnings, debt, finance leases and cash and cash equivalents.
accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain The Group monitors its capital structure on a regular basis the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable through cash flow projections and consideration of the cost of accuracy at any time the financial position of the company financing its capital.
In October 2011 the Group completed a and enable them to ensure that the parent company financial refinancing exercise.
As part of this the Group has externally statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are imposed borrowing requirements.
The Group has a 140m also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company revolving facility in place until October 2016 and a 10m and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and overdraft facility.
Under the terms of the 140m revolving facility detection of fraud and other irregularities.
the Group is required to comply with its financing covenants whereby net interest charges must be covered at least four The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and times by EBITDA and net debt must not exceed three times integrity of the corporate and financial information included on EBITDA.
The margin on interest rates applied to the revolving the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom facility is dependent on the ratio of net debt to EBITDA.
The governing the preparation and dissemination of financial banking facility covenants are tested twice annually and are statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Group remained within its banking facility covenant limits throughout 2011.
24 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2011 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Financial risk management Annual General Meeting The Board of The Restaurant Group plc regularly reviews the A separate Circular is included with the mailing of the Annual financial requirements of the Group and the risks associated Report to shareholders setting out the resolutions to be voted therewith.
The Group does not use complex financial on at the Annual General Meeting, which is to take place at instruments, and where financial instruments are used it is for 11am on 17 May 2012 at the offices of Maclay Murray & reducing interest rate risk.
The Group does not use derivative Spens LLP, One London Wall, London EC2Y 5AB.
financial instruments for trading purposes.
Group operations are primarily financed from retained earnings and bank The Board believes that the proposed resolutions to be put to borrowings including an overdraft facility.
the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of shareholders and, accordingly, recommends that In addition to the primary financial instruments, the Group shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions, as the Directors also has other financial instruments such as debtors, intend to do in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings in prepayments, trade creditors and accruals that arise directly the Company.
Further information is provided in note 23 to the accounts.
Auditor Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue Effective from 16 January 2009, the Group entered into two as auditor and a resolution will be proposed at the Annual interest rate swaps: a two year interest rate swap for a notional General Meeting for their reappointment.
amount of 20m at a rate of 2.70% plus margin and a three year interest rate swap for a notional amount of 20m at a rate Directors responsibilities statement of 2.975% plus margin.
On 9 February 2011 the three year The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: swap was terminated on a payment of 0.4m.
On 17 January 1. the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the 2011 the two year swap expired.
The Groups exposure to applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view interest rate rises will continue to be monitored and the use of of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the interest rate swaps may be considered in the future.
Company and Group: and 2. the Chairmans statement, Chief Executive Officers review After the impact of the interest rate swaps, the average rate of operations, Group Finance Directors report and report of interest charged during the year on the Groups debt was of the Directors include a fair review of the development 1.87% 2010: 2.81%, and the average year-end rate was and performance of the business and the position of the 2.02% 2010: 2.98%.
On 2011 results, net interest was Company and Group, together with a description of the covered 35.8 times 2010: 21.9 times by profit before tax, principal risks and uncertainties faced.
Based on year end debt and profits for 2011, a 1% rise in interest rates would reduce profits By Order of the Board, before tax and non-trading items by 0.9% 2010: 0.2% and interest cover would reduce to 27.3 times 2010: 21.1 times.
Robert Morgan Company Secretary At 1 January 2012 the Group had gross borrowings attracting 29 February 2012 interest including overdraft of 53.0m 2010: 50.0m and cash balances of 10.2m 2010: 2.7m.
Creditor payment policy The Companys policy is to agree the terms of payments with its suppliers as and when a trading relationship is established.
The Company ensures that the terms of payment are clear and its policy is to abide by the agreed terms, provided the supplier meets its obligations.
At 1 January 2012 the Company had no trade creditors.
The Group had an average of 39 days 2010: 42 days purchases outstanding in trade creditors.
Donations No donations for political purposes have been directly made by the Company during the year.
Charitable events, fund raising and sponsorship are organised by restaurants for organisations in their locality as described in the corporate responsibility report on pages 26 to 29.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2011 25
