44 Rexam annual report 2011 directors report sustainability Rexam remains an established member of theLondon Stock Exchange We believe that running our business FTSE4Good index, an international responsibility performance benchmark.
The indexs expectations mirror the way we believe sustainably is essential to near term success business should be conducted to deliver sustainable success and long term prosperity.
Our Group vision through environmental management, upholding human and labour rights, ethical business practices andsupply chain labour standards.
is to be the best global consumer packaging Line management responsibility for sustainability sits in the company and this includes our actions in Groupsexecutive leadership team, and at the start of 2012 we appointed adirector of group sustainability within the corporate and around sustainability, encompassing affairs function.
Following earlier work to determine the main issues relevant to us and our stakeholders, in 2011 we further developed our Our customers look for partners who take sustainability framework, built around our 12 specific commitments their corporate responsibilities seriously.
on products, operations and people, identifying the most appropriate quantifiable measures and objectives for these Ourapproach has been to identify realistic commitments and agreeing stretching targets for each measure.
goals that our customers can depend upon as they seek to reduce the environmental products: enhanced value impacts of the products theycommercialise Primary packaging is designed to prevent waste and to get and to assure an ethical supply chain.
customers products efficiently and safely into consumers hands.
Itis an essential component of a modern and sustainable society, where consumers place a high priority on convenience.
By its very nature, however, packaging is highly visible and in a world of scarce resources it is something that can attract negative attention from some consumers, media and environmentalists.
Rexam is aware of the need to review and optimise the environmental performance of its packaging with respect to all relevant life cycle stages.
But this analysis of environmental impacts must include the effects of product losses that might result from the use of too little packaging as well as that of using too much.
Working across the complete supply chain, finding the balance between underpackaging and overpackaging, is at theheart of our approach and is the key to ensuring packaging continues to make a positive contribution to a sustainable society.
The availability of raw materials is vital to Rexams future and we are taking more ownership for their sustainability.
The strategy for our different raw materials is similar in terms of conservation and efficiency but is different in terms of end of life recycling recovery or substitution.
Beverage cans are made entirely from metal, principally aluminium and some steel.
Both materials are permanent, ie the metal is both fully recoverable and recyclable as an infinitely reusable material.
products: enhanced value Independent life cycle studies confirm that promoting and supporting an increase in recycling rates is the most valuable contribution to sustainability that beverage can manufacturers can make.
operations: efficient use of resources people: engaged employees 45 In 2011, we reduced our total carbon intensity per kilogramme of raw material converted by 3.5% to 0.83CO2 equivalent 2010: 0.86 CO2 equivalent underpinned by further reductions in ourelectricity and gas consumption.
Graham Chipchase chief executive For plastics, we recognise that fossil fuels are a finite resource and The Every Can Counts ECC programme, which Rexam funds and we design for recycling and use recycled products as raw materials helps manage, has continued to expand in Europe.
Its goal is to wherever feasible.
As plastic has a high energy content, and its encourage the recycling of beverage cans used outside the home, CO2 emissions are some 25% less than coal, we also support in the workplace and on the go.
For example, in 2011, 10 UK music theuse of energy recovery from waste as a means to providing festivals actively supported ECC with over 1,000,000 cans anenvironmentally beneficial solution to managing plastic recycled after c 500,000 young people participated.
operates in four countries with low recycling rates and further expansion is planned for 2012. we will promote and support the most relevant recycling As detailed on page 51, our businesses in Europe, North and and value recovery system for our products South America cooperated with local organisations and charities Across our beverage can sectors our vision is to keep the metal to promote recycling within their sites local communities.
inaclosed material loop: our aim is for zero cans ending up in landfillfollowing consumers use of the product.
This makes good In Plastic Packaging we have initiated a taskforce to create economic sense due to the high value of the materials, more than anecodesign scorecard that recognises the importance of covering the cost of their collection, as well as environmental sense recyclability and the use of recycled materials.
Any new product with up to 95% of the energy needed for primary production that we introduce in the future will be measured against this saved.
As metal can be continually reused, every tonne of recycled scorecard in order to determine its sustainability credentials.
material offsets the need to use a tonne of virgin raw material.
Many countries in which we operate have well established key measures and targets recycling infrastructures that function efficiently.
In those markets The key measures for this commitment are the average can that require long term support to establish and enhance collection recycling rates in our major markets and, going forward, how mechanisms and build a recycling culture with consumers we are ournew plastic packaging products measure up against our committed to providing this support.
Recycling rates for beverage cans vary across countries, due to different operating environments, culture and lifestyles.
We report these together with the targets set by industry associations of which weare a member.
2015 targets 2010 2009 2008 2007 1 Beverage Europe 75 n a 68 68 66 can average USA 63 58 57 54 54 the consumer goods forum recycling rates % Brazil 98 98 98 91 96 In 2011 the Consumer Goods Forum released the Global Protocol on Packaging Sustainability to enable the consumer 1 European 2010 recycling rates will be published mid 2012. goods industry to better assess the relative sustainability of packaging.
This endorsed the Innventia AB model which shows We intend to incorporate the eco design scorecard into the that the environmental consequences of product losses caused newproduct development process within Healthcare and to by excessive packaging reduction are far greater than have100% of potential new products being evaluatedby the guaranteeing adequate protection through an incremental endof2012.
Negative environmental impact Optimum pack design Minimum environmental impact Under-packaging Over-packaging Minimum Increasing packaging material material weight or volume 1 Derived from Environmental Impact of Packaging: Performance in the Household reportby Dr Jan Kooijman, Food Technology Consulting.
source: The Consumer Goods Forum source: The Consumer Goods Forum financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 46 Rexam annual report 2011 directors report sustainability we will work with policymakers to ensure packaging we will engage with our customers and the supply chain makes a positive contribution to sustainability to minimise the environmental impact of packaging and Rexam is an active member of various national and international packaged goods industry and research associations as well as trade bodies, Packaging cannot be taken in isolation.
Thebest way to achieve encompassing our beverage cans and plastic packaging lasting improvements in environmental performance is to engage operations, who engage with policymakers on our behalf.
constructively with our customers and suppliers, seeking solutions Theseoften draw their membership from the whole supply in a partnership approach although priorities may differ.
This chainsothat they have a cohesive constructive approach provides opportunities for Rexam to take a leadership position topolicyissues at national, regional and local levels.
through the promotion and application of best practice across the Group, whether in employee health and safety, lightweighting, 2011 saw the launch of Metal Packaging Europe MPE, logistics efficiency or packaging optimisation.
established by senior executives from the major aluminium, steel Priorities for customers vary from how we treat our employees to and packaging converter companies.
MPE brings together metal the delivery of lower carbon products where step changes in packaging manufacturers, metal producers and their existing trade materials and closed loop material cycles are sought.
Many of our associations to promote the unique strengths of metal packaging customers work in partnership with us to progress their corporate tohelp address the social, environmental and policy challenges responsibility and sustainability objectives.
In our beverage can business in Europe, we piloted a legislative Part of our commitment to being a responsible and sustainable and environmental risk assessment and mitigation management organisation is our membership of the Carbon Disclosure Project system.
This ensures that policy issues impacting ourbusiness are CDP as detailed on page 48.
A large proportion of the identified, their potential impact assessed andappropriate risk greenhouse gas emissions related to our packaging comes from mitigation strategies put into place.
Thishighlighted a number of the raw materials we convert.
In 2011, we asked our key suppliers policy risks which together with mitigation strategies were shared to participate in the CDP to give us an understanding of our with senior executives in thebusiness as part of the overall risk combined carbon footprint and also to understand where, management process.
Weaim to expand this system across the together, we can make improvements and drive out cost.
During the second half of 2011 Rexam engaged with a third party key measure and target to audit our European businesses required to comply with REACH.
Our key measure is the percentage of mitigation plans in place A subsequent best practice road map was developed for review against identified risks with regard to legislative, regulatory and and implementation through 2012. environmental issues across all of our regions.
key measures and targets From 2012, we will report the customer feedback survey results from sustainability professionals within our client base.
We aim toachieve a consistently good score ie above 7 10.
In 2011, 50% of our major suppliers signed up to the CDP, and our target is to increase our supplier response rate to 80% by 2015. metal is forever Metal offers infinite recycling possibilities while preserving virgin metal qualities and providing unlimited availability for future generations.
