6 Rexam annual report 2011 overview who we are Rexam is a leading global consumer packaging company We make the packaging for many of the worlds favourite brands.
We help to shape the experience forallkinds of products that consumers choose, use and depend on every day.
We make drinks cans forsome of the most famous names in the world.
We also manufacture precision medical devices, frombronchial inhalers to transdermal drug delivery systems, as well as products for personal careapplications.
Our job is to make high quality packaging as efficiently, profitably and sustainably as possible.
This is why, wherever you go in Rexam, you will see a common focus on operational excellence through lean enterprise, innovation and safety to meet our customers expectations.
our vision our values Our vision is to be the best global consumer packaging Our values underpin everything we do.
This means balancing profitable revenue who we are and how we want to act and interact with growth, cash generation and the appropriate risk each other and everyone we deal with.
profile for the Group to deliver a strong return on capital employed and a steady increase in profits year continuous improvement on year.
recognition We use the framework below to focus on what is important to drive our strategy, to align and mobilise teamwork our organisation and to accelerate time to execution.
trust With a winning organisation, we will generate the operational excellence in all our processes to deliver oncustomer expectations which is vital to achieving bestperformance.
Best performance blue chip In 2011, we launched a Group Customer expectations widerecognition scheme known as the Blue Chip.
This on the spot scheme, which has acash value equivalent to 50 Rexam Drive operational ordinary shares, recognises individuals Invest for value Ensure our future excellence who visibly demonstrate our values and or leadership practices.
Build a winning organisation To date we have awarded Blue Chips tomore than 220 employees.
case studies: icons aligned to vision
