81 other disclosures The annual report 2011 has been prepared for, and only for, The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting themembers of the Company, as a body, and no other persons.
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups and the TheCompany, its directors, employees, agents and advisers do Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy notaccept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom atany time thefinancial position of the Company and the Group this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
This annual remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, report may contain statements which are not based on current or asregards the consolidated financial statements, Article 4 of the historical fact and which are forward looking in nature.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the forward looking statements reflect knowledge and information assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking available atthe date of preparation of this annual report and the reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward andother irregularities.
Such forward looking statements are subject The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity toknown and unknown risks and uncertainties facing the Group ofthe Groups website.
Legislation in the UK governing the including, without limitation, those risks described in this annual preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ report, andother unknown future events and circumstances which from legislation in other jurisdictions.
can cause results and developments to differ materially from those anticipated.
Nothing in this annual report should be construed Each of the current directors, whose names are listed on pages 54 asaprofit forecast.
and 55 ofthe annual report, confirms that, to the best of his or herknowledge: statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the the consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and with applicable law and regulations.
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the business review includes a fair review of the development the consolidated financial statements in accordance with andperformance of the business and the position of the Group, International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties the European Union and the parent company financial statements that it faces.
in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice dividends UK Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company Subject to shareholder approval, the directors have proposed law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless a2011 final dividend of 9.7p per share.
The total dividend for the they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of year ended 31 December 2011 is 14.4p per share 2010: 12.0p.
affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that year.
In preparing these financial statements, dividend ex dividend record payment per share p date date date thedirectors are required to: 2011 interim 4.7 07.09.11 09.09.11 04.10.11 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 2011 final 9.7 09.05.12 11.05.12 07.06.12 consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable principal acquisitions and disposals and prudent: The disposal of the Groups beverage and speciality closures business to Berry Plastics Inc for a cash consideration net of costs state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and of 207m was announced on 20 June 2011 and was completed applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, on1 September 2011. subject to any material departures disclosed and explained intheconsolidated and parent company financial statements directors and directors interests respectively: and The board of directors during the year ended 31 December 2011 and at the date of this annual report is set out on pages 54 and 55. prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Leo Oosterveer was appointed a non executive director on Company will continue in business.
1September 2011 and Carl Symon retired as senior independent director on 23 November 2011.
The chairman of the Company, SirPeter Ellwood, is to retire from office at the close of business on22 February 2012.
Sir Peter is succeeded as chairman by StuartChambers who was appointed a non executive director andchairman designate on 1 February 2012. financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 82 Rexam annual report 2011 directors report other disclosures None of the directors had any interest during or at the end of substantial shareholdings theyear in any contract of significance in relation to the business At the date of this report, the Company had been advised of the ofthe Company or its subsidiary undertakings.
following significant direct and indirect interests in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company, in accordance with Full details of the interests in the share capital of the Company of theDisclosure and Transparency Rules DTR of the Financial those directors holding office on 31 December 2011, including any Services Authority.
interest of a connected person, are set out in the remuneration report.
number of shares % interest in issued share capital name of shareholder disclosed share capital At 31 December 2011, the Company had 877,030,922 shares 44,138,256 5.03 BlackRock Inc inissue as shown, together with details of the rights and restrictions 34,660,260 3.95 Legal & General Group Plc attaching to the shares, in note 29 to the consolidated financial statements.
Information provided to Rexam pursuant to the DTR is publicly powers given to directors available via the regulatory information services and on the The powers given to the directors are contained in the articles Companys website.
ofassociation the Articles and are subject to relevant legislation and, in certain circumstances, including in relation to the issuing research and development orbuying back by the Company of its shares, subject to authority The Groups expenditure on research and development during being given to the directors by shareholders in general meeting.
theyear amounted to 17m from continuing operations and 2m The Articles also govern the appointment and replacement from discontinued operations 2010: 16m and 3m.
The Articles, which may only be amended with significant agreements shareholders approval in accordance with relevant legislation, Rexam has a number of commercial agreements which are can be found on the Companys website.
essential to the Groups business, as discussed in the key risks purchase of own shares section of the business review on pages 34 to 41.
Mitigation At the AGM 2011, shareholders passed a special resolution arrangements are in place to safeguard, as far as possible, renewing the authority granted to the Company, in accordance theGroups business in the event of the unexpected termination with the Companies Act 2006 and relevant institutional guidelines, oramendment of such agreements.
to purchase alimited number of its own shares in the market.
The Company is also required to disclose any significant No shares have been purchased in the market, nor has any agreements that take effect, alter or terminate on a change contract been made to purchase shares under the previous or ofcontrol of the Company following a takeover bid.
Some existing authorities from 1 January 2011 to the date of this report.
commercial agreements allow the counterparties to alter or The directors are seeking an annual renewal of the authority at terminate the arrangements in these circumstances.
Further details can be found in the notice of also has committed debt facilities all of which are directly or AGM2012.
indirectly subject to change of control provisions, albeit the facilities do not necessarily require mandatory prepayment on AGM 2012 AGM 2011 achange of control.
share purchase authority proposed approved 10% of issued share capital 87.70m 87.68m 83 At 31 December 2011 the debt facilities subject to these payments to suppliers provisionswere: The Groups operating businesses are responsible for the terms andconditions under which they conduct business transactions debt facilities amount maturity with their suppliers.
It is Group policy to agree the terms of payment Subordinated bond 750m June 2067 and make payments to suppliers in accordance with those terms, US public bond US$550m June 2013 provided that suppliers have complied with all relevant terms US private placement US$225m June 2013 andconditions.
Medium term note 638m March 2013 The Company had 14 days 2010: 13 days purchases outstanding Bilateral credit facility 50m December 2012 at 31 December 2011 based on the average daily amount invoiced Revolving credit facility 602m November 2016 by suppliers.
Bilateral credit facility 45m November 2016 corporate governance statement Bilateral credit facility 20m November 2016 The information that fulfils the requirements of the corporate Bilateral credit facility 20m November 2016 governance statement in accordance with rule 7.2 of the DTR Bilateral credit facility 20m November 2016 canbe found in this directors report within pages 10 to 83.
Bilateral credit facility 20m November 2016 auditors Bilateral credit facility 20m November 2016 disclosure of information to the auditors Bilateral credit facility 20m November 2016 Each person who is a director of the Company at the date of approval of this annual report confirms that: Bilateral credit facility 20m November 2016 Bilateral credit facility 20m November 2016 so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and 1 All of the above bilateral credit facilities and the revolving credit facility are multicurrency.
2 The revolving credit facility and certain of the bilateral credit facilities include options to each director individually has taken all the steps that he or she extend the final maturity from November 2016 to November 2018, subject to the agreement of the banks.
ought to have taken as a director to make him or herself aware ofany relevant audit information and to establish that the The service contracts of the executive directors do not contain Companys auditors are aware of that information.
reappointment of auditors The trustee of the Rexam Employee Share Trust the Trust holds  LLP will be proposed for reappointment shares in order to satisfy awards under the Rexam employee share as the Companys auditors at the AGM 2012 as recommended by incentive plans.
Ifan offer is made to acquire the Companys the audit and risk committee.
shares, the trustee is not obliged to accept or reject any such offer annual general meeting 2012 in respect of any shares which are intended to satisfy awards The AGM of the Company, details of which can be found in the which are outstanding.
However, the trustee shall have regard to notice of AGM 2012, will be held at 11.00am on 3 May 2012 at the interests of the beneficiaries andshall have the power to consult One Great George Street, London SW1.
them to obtain their views onsuch offer and, subject to the foregoing, may consider any recommendations made to it by the Company but shall not be obliged to comply with such recommendations.
On behalf of the board The Company has granted a qualifying pension scheme indemnity inthe form permitted by the Companies Act 2006 to the directors David Gibson ofRexam Pension Trustees Limited, the Trustee to the Rexam Pension company secretary Plan.
The indemnity remains in force at the date of this report.
22 February 2012 financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 84 Rexam annual report 2011 consolidated financial statements TM These caps are for Rexams innovative Advancia, the worlds first all in one nasal spray pump.
85 86 independent auditors report to the members of Rexam PLC 111 note 15 investments in subsidiaries 87 consolidated income statement 111 note 16 investments in associates and joint ventures 88 consolidated statement of comprehensive income 112 note 17 available for sale financial assets 89 consolidated balance sheet 112 note 18 insurance backed assets 90 consolidated cash flow statement 113 note 19 inventories 91 consolidated statement of changes in equity 113 note 20 trade and other receivables notes to the consolidated financial statements: 114 note 21 cash and cash equivalents 92 note 1 principal accounting policies 115 note 22 assets and liabilities classified as held for sale 98 note 2 segment analysis 115 note 23 trade and other payables 100 note 3 operating expenses 116 note 24 borrowings 101 note 4 employee costs and numbers 117 note 25 net borrowings 102 note 5 auditors remuneration 118 note 26 financial instruments consolidated financial 102 note 6 exceptional items continuing operations 125 note 27 retirement benefit obligations 102 note 7 interest 129 note 28 provisions 103 note 8 tax 130 note 29 share capital statements 105 note 9 earnings loss per share 130 note 30 other reserves 106 note 10 discontinued operations 131 note 31 share based payment 107 note 11 equity dividends 133 note 32 reconciliation of profit loss before tax 107 note 12 goodwill to cash generated used from operations 109 note 13 other intangible assets 133 note 33 contingent liabilities 110 note 14 property, plant and equipment 133 note 34 commitments fi fin na an nc ciia all s st ta at te em me en nt ts s g go ov five er rn na an nc ce e s su us st ta aiin na ab biilliit ty y b bu usi sin ne es ss s r re ev viie ew w o ov five er rv viie ew w 86 Rexam annual report 2011 independent auditors report to the members of Rexam PLC We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Rexam PLC for the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of changes in equity and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that hasbeen applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities set out on page 81, the directors are responsible for the preparation ofthe consolidated financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: thereasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Inaddition, we read all the financial and non financial information in the Rexam annual report 2011 to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
opinion on financial statements In our opinion the consolidated financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2011 and of its profit and cash flows for the year thenended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the information given in the directors report for the financial year for which the consolidated financial statements are prepared is consistent with the consolidated financial statements.
matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 67, in relation to going concern: the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and certain elements of the report to shareholders by the board on directors remuneration.
other matter We have reported separately on the parent Company financial statements of Rexam PLC for the year ended 31 December 2011 and on the information in the remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Robert Milburn Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 22 February 2012 87 consolidated income statement 2011 2010 For the year ended 31 December notes m m Continuing operations Sales 2 4,734 4,619 Operating expenses 3 4,227 4,146 Underlying operating profit 2 549 513 Exceptional items 6 16 8 Amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets 26 32 Operating profit 507 473 Share of post tax profits of associates and joint ventures 16 9 5 Retirement benefit obligations net finance cost 27 16 15 Underlying interest expense 7 99 117 Fair value changes on financing derivatives 7 23 12 Interest expense 7 76 129 Interest income 7 7 4 Underlying profit before tax 450 390 Exceptional items 6 16 8 Amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets 26 32 Fair value changes on financing derivatives 7 23 12 Profit before tax 431 338 Tax on underlying profit 8 135 116 Tax on exceptional items 6 4 1 Tax on amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets 9 10 Tax on fair value changes on financing derivatives 6 3 Tax 8 128 102 Profit for the financial year from continuing operations 303 236 Discontinued operations Profit loss for the financial year from discontinued operations 10 73 112 Total profit for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders of Rexam PLC 376 124 Underlying earnings per share pence 9 Continuing operations 36.1 31.4 Discontinued operations 0.9 1.4 Total 37.0 32.8 Basic earnings loss per share pence 9 Continuing operations 34.7 27.1 Discontinued operations 8.4 12.9 Total 43.1 14.2 Diluted earnings loss per share pence 9 Continuing operations 34.5 27.0 Discontinued operations 8.3 12.9 Total 42.8 14.1 For details of equity dividends paid and proposed see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements.
The notes on pages 92 to 133 form part of these consolidated financial statements.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 88 Rexam annual report 2011 consolidated statement of comprehensive income 2011 2010 For the year ended 31 December notes m m Profit for the financial year 376 124 Actuarial losses 18, 27 104 64 Tax on actuarial losses 8 30 24 Premium paid on annuitisation of certain pension obligations 17, 18 2 Cost recognised in the income statement on annuitisation of certain pension obligations net of tax 30 3 Exchange differences before recognition of net investment hedges 30 30 12 Net investment hedges recognised 30 14 22 Exchange differences recognised in the income statement on disposal of Closures 30 89 Cash flow hedges recognised 30 92 40 Cash flow hedges transferred to inventory 30 16 25 Cash flow hedges recognised in the income statement 30 2 Tax on cash flow hedges 8, 30 28 4 Disposal of non controlling interests 2 Change in market value of available for sale financial assets 30 1 Other comprehensive loss for the year 260 16 Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to equity shareholders of Rexam PLC 116 108 89 consolidated balance sheet 2011 2010 As at 31 December notes m m Assets Non current assets Goodwill 12 1,834 1,848 Other intangible assets 13 343 383 Property, plant and equipment 14 1,590 1,571 Investments in associates and joint ventures 16 70 61 Pension assets 27 19 Insurance backed assets 18 23 Deferred tax assets 8 294 252 Trade and other receivables 20 106 120 Available for sale financial assets 17 1 27 Derivative financial instruments 26 265 256 4,526 4,537 Current assets Inventories 19 517 415 Insurance backed assets 18 2 Trade and other receivables 20 626 648 Available for sale financial assets 17 1 1 Derivative financial instruments 26 38 70 Cash and cash equivalents 21 412 114 1,596 1,248 Assets classified as held for sale 22 2 282 1,598 1,530 Total assets 6,124 6,067 Liabilities Current liabilities Borrowings 24 53 81 Derivative financial instruments 26 63 10 Current tax 13 20 Trade and other payables 23 861 768 Provisions 28 36 39 1,026 918 Liabilities classified as held for sale 22 50 1,026 968 Non current liabilities Borrowings 24 1,785 1,800 Derivative financial instruments 26 181 186 Retirement benefit obligations 27 540 482 Deferred tax liabilities 8 63 77 Non current tax 87 85 Other payables 23 53 81 Provisions 28 70 63 2,779 2,774 Total liabilities 3,805 3,742 Net assets 2,319 2,325 Equity Ordinary share capital 564 564 Share premium account 989 989 Capital redemption reserve 351 351 Retained earnings 211 32 Other reserves 30 204 386 Shareholders equity 2,319 2,322 Non controlling interests 3 Total equity 2,319 2,325 Approved by the board on 22 February 2012 Graham Chipchase, chief executive David Robbie, finance director financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 90 Rexam annual report 2011 consolidated cash flow statement 2011 2010 For the year ended 31 December notes m m Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from operations 32 650 685 Interest paid 91 110 Tax paid 86 75 Net cash flows from operating activities 473 500 Cash flows from investing activities Capital expenditure 240 206 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 1 8 Disposal of Closures net of cash and cash equivalents disposed 10 205 Loan from joint venture 4 5 Interest received 7 4 Other investing items 1 6 Net cash flows from investing activities 24 183 Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from borrowings 7 21 Repayment of borrowings 36 159 Purchase of Rexam PLC shares by Employee Share Trust 31 18 6 Dividends paid to equity shareholders 11 111 105 Dividends paid to non controlling interests 1 Other financing items 10 13 Net cash flows from financing activities 149 262 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 300 55 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 99 62 Exchange differences and other non cash adjustments 3 18 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 300 55 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 402 99 Cash and cash equivalents comprise: Cash at bank and in hand 21 83 46 Short term bank deposits 21 329 68 Bank overdrafts 25 10 15 402 99 91 consolidated statement of changes in equity Ordinary Share Capital Non share premium redemption Retained Other Shareholders controlling Total capital account reserve earnings reserves equity interests equity m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2011 564 989 351 32 386 2,322 3 2,325 Profit for the financial year 376 376 376 Actuarial losses 104 104 104 Tax on actuarial losses 30 30 30 Premium paid on annuitisation of certain pension related liabilities 2 2 2 Cost recognised in the income statement on annuitisation of certain pension related liabilities net of tax 3 3 3 Exchange differences before recognition of net investment hedges 30 30 30 Net investment hedges recognised 14 14 14 Exchange differences recognised in the income statement on the disposal of Closures 89 89 89 Cash flow hedges recognised 92 92 92 Cash flow hedges transferred to inventory 16 16 16 Tax on cash flow hedges 28 28 28 Disposal of non controlling interests 2 2 Other comprehensive loss for the year 76 182 258 2 260 Total comprehensive income loss for the year 300 182 118 2 116 Share options: value of services provided 8 8 8 Purchase of Rexam PLC shares by Employee Share Trust 18 18 18 Dividends paid 111 111 1 112 At 31 December 2011 564 989 351 211 204 2,319 2,319 At 1 January 2010 563 989 351 55 362 2,320 2 2,322 Profit for the financial year 124 124 124 Actuarial losses 64 64 64 Tax on actuarial losses 24 24 24 Exchange differences before recognition of net investment hedges 12 12 12 Net investment hedges recognised 22 22 22 Cash flow hedges transferred to inventory 25 25 25 Cash flow hedges transferred to the income statement 2 2 2 Cash flow hedges recognised 40 40 40 Tax on cash flow hedges 4 4 4 Changes in market value of available for sale financial assets 1 1 1 Other comprehensive loss income for the year 40 24 16 16 Total comprehensive income for the year 84 24 108 108 Share options: value of services provided 5 5 5 Share option schemes: proceeds from shares issued 1 1 1 Purchase of Rexam PLC shares by Employee Share Trust 6 6 6 Change in non controlling interests 1 1 1 Dividends paid 105 105 105 At 31 December 2010 564 989 351 32 386 2,322 3 2,325 financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 92 Rexam annual report 2011 notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 principal accounting policies The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS andInternational Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union EU and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of certain financial instruments, share based payments and retirement benefit obligations.
The Group adopted IAS24 Revised Related Party Disclosures from 1 January 2011.
This revision to an existing accounting standard clarifies the definition of a related party and the disclosure of transactions between the Group and its subsidiaries, associates and jointventures.
The following accounting standards are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by theGroup.
The Group has yet to assess the full impact of these accounting standards.
Intended adoption dates are subject to endorsement by the EU.
i I AS19 Revised Employee Benefits, issued in June 2011, requires the immediate recognition of all changes to the funded position of retirement benefit plans and changes the basis upon which income and expense is calculated for recognition in the income statement and the statement of comprehensive income.
The Group intends to adopt IAS19 Revised for the accounting period beginning on 1 January 2013. ii IFRS9 Financial Instruments, issued in November 2009, is the first step in the process to replace IAS39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The standard introduces new requirements for classifying and measuring financial assets.
The Group intends to adopt IFRS9 no later than the accounting period beginning on 1 January 2015.
There are no other IFRS or IFRIC interpretations that are not yet effective that are expected to have a material impact on theGroup.
key estimates and assumptions The preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, events or actions, actual results may ultimately differ from those estimates.
The key estimates and assumptions used in these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
goodwill impairment testing Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment in accordance with the accounting policy for goodwill.
The recoverable amounts of cash generating units relating to continuing operations are determined based on value in use calculations.
These calculations require the use of estimates which include cash flow projections for each cash generating unit and discount rates based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital, adjusted forspecific risks associated with particular cash generating units.
For details of impairment testing see note 12 to the consolidated financial statements.
The accounting policies for goodwill and impairment testing are setout below.
retirement benefits The consolidated financial statements include costs in relation to, and provision for, retirement benefit obligations.
There are two principal funded defined benefit pension plans, in the UK and US, and an unfunded retiree medical plan in the US.
The costs and the present value of any related pension assets and liabilities depend on factors such as life expectancy of the members, the salary progression of current employees, the returns that plan assets generate and the discount rate used to calculate the present value of the liabilities.
The Group usesestimates based on previous experience and external actuarial advice in determining these future cash flows and in determining the discount rate.
If the discount rates were to fall by 0.5%, the net liabilities of the plans at 31 December 2011 would rise by approximately 105m 2010: 110m.
If equity values were to fall by 10%, then the plan assets at 31 December 2011 would fall by approximately 90m 2010: 100m.
The accounting policy for retirement benefit obligations is set out below and details of the assumptions used forthe two principal pension plans and the retiree medical plan are set out in note 27 to the consolidated financial statements.
93 1 principal accounting policies continued income taxes Judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes.
There are many transactions and calculations whose ultimate taxtreatment is uncertain.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes are likely to be due.
The Group recognises deferred tax assets and liabilities based on estimates of future taxable income and recoverability.
Where a change in circumstance occurs, or the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax balances in the year in which that change or outcome is known.
The accounting policy for income taxes is set out below.
basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise Rexam PLC and all its subsidiaries, together with the Groups share of the results of its associates and joint ventures.
The financial statements of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are prepared at the same reporting date using consistent accounting policies.
Intercompany balances and transactions, including any unrealised profits arising from intercompany transactions, are eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are entities where the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies, generally accompanied by a share of more than 50% of the voting rights.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and are included until the date on which the Group ceases to control them.
Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanied by a share of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Joint ventures are entities over which the Group has joint control, whereby the strategic, financial and operating decisions relating to the venture require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control and are generally accompanied by a 50% share of voting rights.
Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
If the Groups share of losses in an associate or joint venture equals or exceeds its investment inthe associate or joint venture, the Group does not recognise further losses unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf ofthe associate or joint venture.
All acquisitions are accounted for by applying the purchase method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the fairvalues, at the acquisition date, of the assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group.
Theidentifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree are measured initially at fair value at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any non controlling interests.
The excess of the cost of the acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value oftheidentifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is recognised asgoodwill.
foreign currencies The financial statements for each of the Groups subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are prepared using their functional currency.
The functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which an entity operates.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Exchange differences resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency are recognised directly in the consolidated income statement.
Exceptions to this are where the monetary items form part of the net investment in a foreign operation or designated as hedges of a net investment, or designated as cash flow hedges.
Such exchange differences are initially recognised in equity.
The presentation currency of the Group is sterling.
The balance sheets of foreign operations are translated into sterling using the exchange rate at the balance sheet date and the income statements are translated into sterling using the average exchange rate for the year.
Where this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rate prevailing on the transaction date, the exchange rate on the transaction date is used.
Exchange differences on translation into sterling arising since 1 January 2004 are recognised as a separate component of equity.
On disposal of a subsidiary, any cumulative exchange differences held in equity are transferred to the consolidated income statement.
On the repayment of a quasi equity loan, the proportionate share of the cumulative amount of the exchange differences on the loan recognised in other comprehensive income is not reclassified to the consolidated income statement unless the Group loses control over theentity to which the quasi equity loan related.
The principal exchange rates against sterling used in these consolidated financial statements are as follows: Average Closing Average Closing 2011 2011 2010 2010 Euro 1.15 1.19 1.17 1.17 US dollar 1.60 1.54 1.55 1.54 financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 94 Rexam annual report 2011 notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 principal accounting policies continued revenue recognition and other income Revenue from the sale of goods is measured at the fair value of the consideration, net of rebates and trade discounts.
Revenue from the saleof goods is recognised when the Group has transferred the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods to the buyer, whenthe amount of revenue can be measured reliably and when it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow tothe Group, typically on delivery of goods.
The Group makes certain advance payments to customers in relation to contracts which arecharged against sales in the consolidated income statement over their useful economic lives, typically being the contract term.
Otherincome includes licence income and project management fees for the construction of manufacturing lines and equipment onbehalfof customers.
exceptional items Items which are exceptional, being material in terms of size and or nature, are presented separately from underlying business performance in the consolidated income statement.
The separate reporting of exceptional items helps provide an indication of the Groups underlying business performance.
The principal events which may give rise to exceptional items include the restructuring and integration ofbusinesses, significant changes to retirement benefit obligations, gains or losses on the disposal of businesses, goodwill impairments, major asset impairments and disposals and significant litigation and tax claims.
retirement benefit obligations The Group operates defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution pension plans.
A defined benefit pension plan is one that specifies the amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement.
The Group operates both funded defined benefit pension plans, where actuarially determined payments are made to trustee administered funds, and unfunded defined benefit pension plans, where no such payments are made.
The asset or liability recognised in the consolidated balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation less, for funded schemes, the fair value of plan assets at the balance sheet date.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated, at least triennially, by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method and is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
The current service cost and gains and losses on settlements and curtailments are included in operating expenses in the consolidated income statement.
Past service costs are similarly included where the benefits havevested, otherwise they are amortised on a straight line basis over the vesting period.
The pension element of the net finance cost in theconsolidated income statement comprises the expected return on assets of funded defined benefit pension plans, less administration expenses of pension plans, and the interest on pension plan liabilities.
Differences between the actual and expected return on assets, experience gains and losses and changes in actuarial assumptions are included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
A defined contribution plan is one under which fixed contributions are paid to a third party.
The Group has no further payment obligations once these contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised in the consolidated income statement when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised in the consolidated balance sheet as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in future payments is likely.
The Group also provides post retirement healthcare benefits retiree medical to certain of its current and former employees.
The entitlement to these benefits is usually conditional on an employee remaining in service up to retirement age and the completion of a minimum service period.
The consolidated income statement and consolidated balance sheet accounting treatment with respect to retiree medical is similar to that for defined benefit pension plans.
These obligations are valued by independent actuaries, usually on an annual basis.
share based payment The Group operates equity and cash settled share option schemes.
For equity settled share options, the services received from employees are measured by reference to the fair value of the share options.
The fair value is calculated at grant date and recognised in the consolidated income statement, together with a corresponding increase in equity, on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based onan estimate of the number of options that will eventually vest.
Vesting conditions, which comprise service conditions and performance conditions, are not taken into account when estimating the fair value.
All non vesting conditions are included in the fair value.
For cash settled share options, the services received from employees are measured at the fair value of the liability and recognised inthe consolidated income statement on a straight line basis over the vesting period.
The fair value of the liability is measured at each balance sheet date and at the date of settlement with changes in fair value recognised in the consolidated income statement.
IFRS2 Sharebased Payment has been applied to equity settled share options granted after 7 November 2002 and to all cash settled share options.
TheRexam Employee Share Trust holds ordinary shares in Rexam PLC which are presented in the consolidated balance sheet asadeduction from equity.
95 1 principal accounting policies continued interest Interest on cash and cash equivalents and borrowings held at amortised cost is recognised in the consolidated income statement using theeffective interest method.
Interest includes exchange differences arising on cash and cash equivalents and borrowings, where such exchange differences are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Interest includes all fair value gains and losses on derivative financial instruments, and corresponding adjustments to hedged items under designated fair value hedging relationships, where theyrelate to financing activities and are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Interest relating to payments made over anextended period of development of large capital projects is added to the capital cost and amortised over the expected lives ofthoseprojects.
Non hedge accounted financing derivative financial instruments fair value changes and hedge ineffectiveness on financing derivative financial instruments are separately disclosed, within interest, on the face of the consolidated income statement.
segment reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker.
The chief operating decision maker has been identified as the executive leadership team, which comprises the executive directors and certain senior executives.
The executive leadership team is responsible for assessing the performance of the operating segments for the purpose of making decisions about resources to be allocated.
Operating segments are combined for external reporting purposes where they have similar economic characteristics, and the nature of products and production processes, the type and class of customers and the methods todistribute products are all similar.
goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilitiesof the acquiree at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is tested for impairment at 31 December each year and at any time where there is any indication that goodwill may be impaired.
Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
At the date of acquisition, goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions on or before 31December 1997 has been deducted from equity.
Gains and losses on the disposal of a business include the carrying amount ofgoodwill relating to the business sold except for any goodwill deducted from equity.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries is presented in goodwill and goodwill arising on the acquisition of associates and joint ventures is presented in investments in associates and joint ventures.
Internally generated goodwill is not recognised as an asset.
other intangible assets Other intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Amortisation begins when an asset is available for use and is calculated on a straight line basis to allocate the cost of the asset over its estimated useful life as follows: Computer software acquired 2 to 3 years Computer software developed Up to 7 years Customer contracts and relationships acquired 5 to 20 years Technology and patents acquired 5 to 20 years Other development projects Up to 5 years The cost of intangible assets acquired in an acquisition is the fair value at acquisition date.
The cost of separately acquired intangible assets, including computer software, comprises the purchase price and any directly attributable costs of preparing the asset for use.
Computer software development costs that are directly associated with the implementation of major business systems are capitalised as intangible assets.
Expenditure on research is recognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement as incurred.
Expenditure incurred on other development projects is capitalised as an intangible asset if it is probable that the expenditure will generate future economic benefits and can be measured reliably.
The amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets, comprising acquired customer contracts and relationships and technology and patents, is separately disclosed within operating profit on the face of the consolidated income statement.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 96 Rexam annual report 2011 notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 principal accounting policies continued property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Cost comprises purchase price and directly attributable costs.
Freehold land and assets under construction are not depreciated.
For all other property, plant and equipment, depreciation is calculated on a straight line basis to allocate cost, less residual value of the assets, over their estimated useful lives as follows: Freehold buildings Up to 50 years Leasehold buildings Shorter of 50 years or lease term Manufacturing machinery 7 to 17 years Computer hardware Up to 8 years Fixtures, fittings and vehicles 4 to 10 years Residual values and useful lives are reviewed at least at each financial year end.
impairment of assets This policy applies to all assets except inventories, deferred tax assets, financial assets and non current assets classified as held for sale.
Ateach balance sheet date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that an asset may be impaired.
Where an indicator of impairment exists, the Group makes an estimate of recoverable amount.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount the asset is written down to its recoverable amount.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value inuseand is determined for an individual asset see also accounting policy for assets and liabilities classified as held for sale and discontinued operations below.
If the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets, the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs is determined.
Discount rates reflecting the asset specific risks and the time value of money are used for the value in use calculation.
When an asset is written down toitsrecoverable amount the impairment loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement in the year in which it is incurred.
Impairment losses incurred in a cash generating unit or group of cash generating units are applied against the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated tothe units.
Where no goodwill exists, the impairment losses reduce the other non current assets of the cash generating units.
Should circumstances change which result in a reversal of a previous impairment, the value of the asset is increased and the reversal is recognised in the consolidated income statement in the year in which it occurs.
The increase in the carrying amount of the asset is limited tothe amountwhich would have been recorded had no impairment been recognised in prior years.
Impairment losses applied to goodwill arenot reversed.
inventories Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined on a first in first out or a weighted average cost basis.
Cost comprises directly attributable purchase and conversion costs and an allocation of production overheads based on normal operating capacity.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less estimated costs to completion and selling costs.
cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents for the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement comprise cash at bank and in hand, bank and money market deposits and other short term highly liquid investments generally with original maturities of three months or less and bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are presented in borrowings within current liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet.
assets and liabilities classified as held for sale and discontinued operations Assets and liabilities are classified as held for sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction and the sale is highly probable.
Assets and liabilities classified as held for sale are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
They are not depreciated or amortised.
Operations are classified as discontinued when they are either disposed or arepart of a single coordinated plan to dispose, and represent a major line of business or geographical area of operation.
grants Grants received in respect of property, plant and equipment are capitalised and released to the consolidated income statement in equal instalments over the estimated useful lives of the related assets.
leases Leases are classified as finance leases where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Group.
Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the liability and finance charge to produce a constant rate of interest on the finance lease balance outstanding.
Assets capitalised under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the assetand the lease term.
Leases other than finance leases are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases arerecognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Any incentives to enter intooperating leases are recognised as a reduction of rental expense over the lease term on a straight line basis.
97 1 principal accounting policies continued income taxes The tax expense represents the sum of current tax, non current tax and deferred tax.
Current tax and non current tax are based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the consolidated income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and itfurtherexcludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
Deferred tax is recognised in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax base of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
Deferred tax arising from initial recognition of an asset or liability inatransaction, other than an acquisition, that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, is not recognised.
Deferred tax is measured using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the asset is realised or the liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable thatfuture taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the timing ofthereversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Taxisrecognised in the consolidated income statement, unless the tax relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case the taxisrecognised directly in equity through the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
provisions Provisions are recognised when a present obligation exists in respect of a past event and where the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions for restructuring are recognised for direct expenditure on business reorganisations where plans are sufficiently detailed and welladvanced, and where appropriate communication to those affected has been undertaken on or before the balance sheet date.
Provisions are discounted where the time value of money is considered to be material.
dividends Final equity dividends to the shareholders of Rexam PLC are recognised in the period that they are approved by the shareholders.
Interimequity dividends are recognised in the period that they are paid.
financial instruments Financial instruments that are measured at fair value are disclosed in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the following fair value measurement hierarchy: i Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities level 1. ii Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices orindirectly that is, derived from prices level 2. iii Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs level 3.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques.
These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates.
Ifallsignificant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2.
Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
Derivative financial instruments utilised by the Group include interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts and forward aluminium, resin and energy commodity contracts.
Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as hedges in line with the Groups risk management policies.
Hedges are classified as follows: i Fair value hedges where they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
ii Cash flow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk associated witharecognised asset or liability or a forecasted transaction.
iii Net investment hedges where they hedge exposure to changes in the value of the Groups interests in the net assets of foreignoperations.
For fair value hedges, any gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and similarly recognised in the consolidated income statement.
For cash flow hedges and net investment hedges, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised in equity, with any ineffective portion recognised in the consolidated income statement.
When hedged cashflows result in the recognition of a non financial asset or liability, the associated gains or losses previously recognised in equity areincluded in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
For all other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in equity are transferred to the consolidated income statement in the same period in which the hedged cash flows affect the consolidated income statement.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments not designated as hedges are recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 98 Rexam annual report 2011 notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 principal accounting policies continued Gains and losses on derivative financial instruments related to operating activities are included in operating profit when recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Gains and losses on derivative financial instruments related to financing activities are included in interest when recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Borrowings are measured at amortised cost except where they are hedged by an effective fair value hedge, in which case the carrying value is adjusted to reflect the fair value movements associated with the hedged risk.
Where borrowings are used to hedge the Groups interests in the net assets of foreign operations, the portion of the exchange gain or loss on the borrowings that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised in equity.
Upfront fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are initially capitalised as transaction costs of the loan and amortised in interest over the expected term of the loan.
Ongoing commitment fees are expensed in interest as incurred.
Available for sale financial assets are measured at fair value.
Unrealised gains and losses are recognised in equity except for impairment losses, interest and dividends arising from those assets which are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Trade and other receivables are initially measured at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost less any provision for impairment.
They are discounted when the time value of money is considered material.
Trade and other payables are measured at cost.
2 segment analysis For internal reporting, Rexam is organised into three operating segments for Beverage Cans based on the geographical locations of Europe and Asia, North America and South America, and into one operating segment for Plastic Packaging.
For external reporting, thethree operating segments for Beverage Cans are combined into one reportable segment.
Beverage Cans comprise aluminium and steel cans for a wide variety of beverages including carbonated soft drinks, energy drinks and beer.
Plastic Packaging comprises rigid plastic products for customers in the healthcare and personal care markets.
The Closures division has been reported as discontinued operations in the segment information set out below.
i segment information 2011 Underlying Underlying Underlying Exceptional operating return on return on and other 1 Sales profit sales net assets items Profit m m % % m m Continuing operations Beverage Cans 3,786 447 11.8 31.6 7 440 Plastic Packaging 948 102 10.8 23.3 35 67 Total reportable segments 4,734 549 11.6 29.7 42 507 Share of post tax profits of associates and joint ventures 9 Retirement benefit obligations net finance cost 16 Net interest expense 69 Profit before tax 431 Tax 128 Profit for the financial year from continuing operations 303 Discontinued operations Profit for the financial year from discontinued operations note 10 73 Total profit for the financial year 376 Impairment: Impairment: Capital Depreciation and intangible property, plant 2 Assets Liabilities expenditure amortisation assets and equipment m m m m m m Continuing operations Beverage Cans 3,488 771 174 134 4 Plastic Packaging 1,532 249 65 83 2 Total reportable segments 5,020 1,020 239 217 6 Associates and joint ventures 70 Unallocated assets and liabilities 1,034 2,785 Total continuing operations 6,124 3,805 239 217 6 Discontinued operations note 10 10 20 14 6,124 3,805 249 217 20 20 1 Other items comprise the amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets.
99 2 segment analysis continued Share of post tax profits of associates and joint ventures are wholly attributable to Beverage Cans.
Segment assets are disclosed after deducting inter segment assets of 3m for Beverage Cans and 1m for Plastic Packaging.
Segment liabilities are disclosed after deducting inter segment liabilities of 3m for Beverage Cans and 1m for Plastic Packaging.
The assets of associates and joint ventures are wholly attributable to Beverage Cans.
Underlying operating profit comprises operating profit from continuing operations before exceptional items and the amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets.
Underlying operating profit from continuing operations is included as it is felt that adjusting operating profit forexceptional items and the amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets provides a better indication of the Groups performance.
Underlying return on sales comprises underlying operating profit from continuing operations divided by sales from continuing operations.
Underlying return on net assets is based on underlying operating profit plus share of associates and joint ventures after tax divided by the average of opening and closing net assets after adding back retirement benefit obligations net of tax and net borrowings and excluding goodwill and certain acquired intangible assets.
Non specific central costs are allocated on the basis of underlying operating profit.
Unallocated assets comprise derivative financial instrument assets, deferred tax assets, pension assets, insurance backed assets and cash and cash equivalents which are used as part of the Groups financing offset arrangements.
Unallocated liabilities comprise borrowings, derivative financial instrument liabilities, current and non current tax, deferred tax liabilities and retirement benefit obligations.
ii segment information 2010 Underlying Underlying Underlying Exceptional operating return on return on and other Profit 1 Sales profit sales net assets items loss m m % % m m Continuing operations Beverage Cans 3,677 394 10.7 27.6 11 383 Plastic Packaging 942 119 12.6 29.1 29 90 Total reportable segments 4,619 513 11.1 27.9 40 473 Share of post tax profits of associates and joint ventures 5 Retirement benefit obligations net finance cost 15 Net interest expense 125 Profit before tax 338 Tax 102 Profit for the financial year from continuing operations 236 Discontinued operations Loss for the financial year from discontinued operations note 10 112 Total profit for the financial year 124 Impairment: Impairment: Capital Depreciation and Impairment: intangible property, plant 2 Assets Liabilities expenditure amortisation goodwill assets and equipment m m m m m m m Continuing operations Beverage Cans 3,449 683 141 142 6 Plastic Packaging 1,566 268 51 87 3 Total reportable segments 5,015 951 192 229 3 Associates and joint ventures 61 Unallocated assets and liabilities 711 2,741 Total continuing operations 5,787 3,692 192 229 3 Discontinued operations notes 10, 22 280 50 19 36 59 65 55 6,067 3,742 211 265 59 65 58 1 Other items comprise the amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets.
Share of post tax profits of associates and joint ventures from continuing operations are wholly attributable to Beverage Cans.
Segment assets are disclosed after deducting inter segment assets of 2m for Beverage Cans and 1m for Plastic Packaging.
Segment liabilities are disclosed after deducting inter segment liabilities of 1m for Beverage Cans and 2m for Plastic Packaging.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 100 Rexam annual report 2011 notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 segment analysis continued iii geographic and other information 2011 2010 2011 Non current 2010 Non current Sales assets Sales assets m m m m Continuing operations US 1,576 1,398 1,586 1,470 Brazil 747 482 700 432 Austria 327 86 288 91 Russia 281 191 267 208 Spain 226 93 218 102 UK 203 210 200 200 France 188 349 178 339 Germany 136 288 131 327 Other countries 1,050 847 1,051 841 4,734 3,944 4,619 4,010 Unallocated non current assets 582 527 Total continuing operations 4,734 4,526 4,619 4,537 Discontinued operations 205 343 4,939 4,526 4,962 4,537 Sales are stated by external customer location.
One customer, principally in Beverage Cans, contributed sales of 1,171m 2010: 1,394m, and another Beverage Cans customer contributed sales of 507m 2010: 610m.
Unallocated non current assets comprise derivative financial instrument assets, pension assets, insurance backed assets and deferred taxassets.
3 operating expenses 2011 2010 Continuing Continuing 2011 operations 2011 2011 2010 operations 2010 2010 Continuing exceptional Continuing Discontinued Continuing exceptional Continuing Discontinued operations and other operations operations operations and other operations operations 1 1 underlying items total total underlying items total total m m m m m m m m Raw materials used 2,520 2,520 107 2,371 2,371 169 Changes in inventories of WIP and finished goods 7 7 1 10 10 5 Employee benefit expense 731 8 739 43 730 730 80 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 179 179 183 183 21 Amortisation of intangible assets 12 26 38 14 32 46 15 Impairment of goodwill 59 Impairment of intangible assets 20 65 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 5 2 7 14 6 6 55 Reversal of impairment of property, plantandequipment 1 1 3 3 Freight costs 222 222 6 224 224 10 Operating lease rental expense 33 33 3 33 33 6 Operating lease rental income 2 2 2 2 Other operating expenses 500 6 506 39 552 11 563 37 Other operating income 21 21 15 15 2 4,185 42 4,227 231 4,106 40 4,146 520 1 Other items comprise the amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets.
Operating expenses include research and development expenditure of 17m from continuing operations and 2m from discontinued operations 2010: 16m and 3m : and fair value gains on forward foreign exchange contracts not hedge accounted of 2m from continuing operations 2010: 3m.
101 4 employee costs and numbers i employee benefit expense 2011 2010 m m Continuing operations Wages and salaries 611 615 Social security 85 80 Share based payment 19 11 Retirement benefit obligations 24 24 Total continuing operations 739 730 Discontinued operations 43 80 782 810 ii key management compensation including directors of Rexam PLC 2011 2010 m m Salaries and short term employee benefits 10 10 Post employment benefits 1 1 Share based payment 4 2 15 13 Key management comprises all directors of Rexam PLC and band 1 executives.
For details of directors remuneration see the remunerationreport.
A member of key management has an outstanding loan of 0.5m at 31 December 2011 2010: 0.5m.
The remaining term of the loan is13 years 2010: 14 years and is on a secured arms length basis.
Interest charged on the loan during the year was 26,000 2010: 26,000. iii average number of employees 2011 2010 Number Number Continuing operations Beverage Cans 7,600 7,500 Plastic Packaging 11,400 12,100 Total continuing operations 19,000 19,600 Discontinued operations 1,200 2,100 20,200 21,700 2011 2010 Number Number Continuing operations US 4,500 4,600 China 4,300 4,900 France 2,300 2,300 Brazil 2,000 1,800 Germany 1,100 1,100 Russia 700 700 UK 600 600 Other countries 3,500 3,600 Total continuing operations 19,000 19,600 Discontinued operations 1,200 2,100 20,200 21,700 financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 102 Rexam annual report 2011 notes to the consolidated financial statements 5 auditors remuneration 2011 2010 m m Fees payable to  LLP for the audit of the consolidated financial statements 0.9 0.8 Statutory audit fees payable to associate members of  LLP 2.5 2.5 Total audit fees 3.4 3.3 Audit related assurance services 0.2 0.2 Other assurance services 2.2 Tax advisory services 0.3 0.4 Tax compliance services 0.1 All other non audit services 0.5 0.6 6.6 4.6 Included in total audit fees are amounts payable to associate members of  LLP of 0.1m in relation to discontinued operations 2010: 0.2m.
Other assurance services comprise assurance reporting on historic financial information required for business disposals.
6 exceptional items continuing operations 2011 2010 m m Restructuring 14 11 Impairment of property, plant and equipment net of reversals 2 3 Exceptional items before tax 16 8 Tax on exceptional items 4 1 Total exceptional items after tax 12 7 Exceptional items before tax include 9m 2010: 6m for restructuring costs and 2m for impairment of property, plant and equipment 2010: 3m reversal of impairment in Plastic Packaging in respect of previously announced plant closures and restructuring of some of the remaining continuing businesses following the disposal of the Closures division.
They also include 5m 2010: 5m of restructuring costs in Beverage Cans in respect of previously announced plant closures.
7 interest 2011 2010 m m Interest expense Bank overdrafts 9 8 Bank loans 8 26 US public bond 24 25 US private placement 9 9 Subordinated bond 45 41 Medium term notes 25 31 Interest on financing derivatives 24 21 Foreign exchange losses gains 3 2 Underlying interest expense 99 117 Fair value gains losses on financing derivatives 23 12 76 129 Interest income Cash and cash equivalents 7 4 Bank loans in 2010 included 10m of capitalised facility fees written off on the cancellation of related bank facilities.
103 7 interest continued An analysis of fair value gains losses on financing derivatives is set out below.
2011 2010 m m Fair value hedges Interest rate swaps 3 1 Cross currency swaps 30 11 Fair value adjustment to borrowings 18 5 9 5 Not hedge accounted Interest rate swaps 5 7 Cross currency swaps 9 10 14 17 Fair value gains losses on financing derivatives 23 12 The net gain on fair value hedges of 9m 2010: 5m represents the total hedge ineffectiveness for the year.
8 tax i tax included in the consolidated income statement 2011 2010 2011 Exceptional 2010 Exceptional Underlying and other 2011 Underlying and other 2010 1 1 profit items Total profit items Total m m m m m m Continuing operations Current and non current tax 82 5 87 82 6 76 Adjustment in respect of prior years 2 2 7 7 Current and non current tax 80 5 85 75 6 69 Origination and reversal of temporary differences 55 12 43 38 8 30 Adjustment in respect of prior years 3 3 Deferred tax 55 12 43 41 8 33 Total continuing operations 135 7 128 116 14 102 Discontinued operations 5 39 34 9 74 65 140 46 94 125 88 37 1 Other items comprise the amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets and fair value changes on financing derivatives.
ii tax credited charged in equity 2011 2010 m m Actuarial losses 30 24 Cash flow hedges 28 4 Annuitisation of certain pension obligations 1 Tax included in equity 57 20 financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 104 Rexam annual report 2011 notes to the consolidated financial statements 8 tax continued iii tax reconciliation A reconciliation of the tax charge applicable to the Groups profit loss before tax on continuing operations at the UK statutory rate of 26.5% 2010: 28% with the tax charge on continuing operations based on the Groups effective rate is set out below.
2011 2010 2011 Exceptional 2010 Exceptional Underlying and other 2011 Underlying and other 2010 1 1 profit tax items Total profit tax items Total m m m m m m Profit loss before tax on continuing operations 450 19 431 390 52 338 Tax on continuing operations at the UK statutory rate 119 5 114 109 14 95 Non deductible and non taxable items 2 1 3 6 2 4 Higher lower domestic tax rates on overseas earnings 16 3 13 17 2 15 Tax overprovided in prior years 2 2 4 4 Tax in the consolidated income statement 135 7 128 116 14 102 Effective rate of tax on continuing operations 30% 30% 30% 30% 1 Other items comprise the amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets and fair value changes on financing derivatives.
iv analysis of deferred tax 2011 2010 m m Deferred tax assets 294 252 Deferred tax liabilities 63 77 Net deferred tax assets 231 175 Retirement Accelerated Goodwill Other benefit Tax tax and other temporary obligations losses depreciation intangible assets differences Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2011 146 59 90 50 10 175 Exchange differences 1 2 1 2 Charge credit for the year 7 22 15 25 15 4 Credit to equity 30 28 58 At 31 December 2011 169 37 106 77 54 231 At 1 January 2010 117 61 106 12 18 102 Exchange differences 4 2 1 1 1 7 Credit charge for the year 1 4 13 37 6 41 Credit charge to equity 24 4 20 Transfer to liabilities classified as held for sale 4 1 5 At 31 December 2010 146 59 90 50 10 175 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are presented as non current in the consolidated balance sheet.
Of the total deferred tax assets, 36m 2010: 29m are recoverable within one year.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle the balance net.
Deferred tax assets have been recognised where it is probable that they will be recovered.
In recognising deferred tax assets, the Grouphas considered if it is more likely than not that sufficient future profits will be available to absorb tax losses and other temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets of 80m 2010: 61m have not been recognised in respect of losses and other temporary differences due to the uncertainty of the availability of suitable profits in the foreseeable future.
The principal items on which nodeferred tax assets have been recognised are tax losses, including capital losses, of 288m 2010: 227m of which 57m 2010: nil expire within five years.
No deferred tax has been recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries except where it is probable that the temporary difference will reverse in the forseeable future.
If the earnings were remitted in full, tax of 20m 2010: 25m would be payable.
105 9 earnings loss per share i basic and diluted earnings loss per share Basic Diluted Basic Diluted 2011 2011 2010 2010 Pence Pence Pence Pence Continuing operations 34.7 34.5 27.1 27.0 Discontinued operations 8.4 8.3 12.9 12.9 Total 43.1 42.8 14.2 14.1 2011 2010 m m Profit loss for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders of Rexam PLC Continuing operations 303 237 Discontinued operations 73 113 376 124 Total 2011 2010 Millions Millions Weighted average number of shares in issue 872.6 875.6 Dilution on conversion of outstanding share options 6.2 2.6 Weighted average number of shares in issue on a diluted basis 878.8 878.2 ii underlying earnings per share 2011 2010 Pence Pence Continuing operations 36.1 31.4 Discontinued operations 0.9 1.4 Total 37.0 32.8 2011 2011 2010 2010 Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued operations operations operations operations m m m m Underlying profit before tax 450 13 390 22 Tax on underlying profit 135 5 116 9 Underlying profit for the financial year 315 8 274 13 Attributable to: Shareholders of Rexam PLC 315 8 275 12 Non controlling interests 1 1 315 8 274 13 Underlying earnings per share is based on underlying profit for the financial year attributable to shareholders of Rexam PLC dividedby the weighted average number of shares in issue.
Underlying profit for the financial year is profit before exceptional items, theamortisation of certain acquired intangible assets and fair value changes on financing derivatives.
Underlying earnings per share is included as it is felt that adjusting basic earnings per share for exceptional items, the amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets andfair value changes on financing derivatives provides a better indication of the Groups performance.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 106 Rexam annual report 2011 notes to the consolidated financial statements 10 discontinued operations The sale of the discontinued Closures division completed on 1 September 2011.
In 2010 the division was reported in the consolidated balance sheet within assets and liabilities classified as held for sale.
A summary of results, exceptional items, profit on disposal, cash flows and other comprehensive loss are set out below.
i summary of results 2011 2010 m m Sales 205 343 Operating expenses 231 520 Underlying operating profit 13 22 Exceptional items note ii 39 185 Amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets 14 Loss before tax 26 177 Tax on underlying profit 5 9 Tax on exceptional items note ii 13 68 Tax on amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets 6 Tax 8 65 Loss after tax 18 112 Profit on disposal note iii 91 Net profit loss 73 112 ii exceptional items 2011 2010 m m Impairment of Closures 28 171 Other impairment 6 8 Restructuring 5 6 Exceptional items before tax 39 185 Tax on impairment of Closures 10 63 Tax on other impairment and restructuring 3 5 Exceptional items after tax 26 117 Impairment of Closures comprises goodwill of nil 2010: 59m, intangible assets of 16m 2010: 65m and property, plant and equipment of 12m 2010: 47m.
Other impairment in 2011 comprises 4m related to the write off of certain software licenses and 2m related to the write down of a plastic packaging plant in Poland.
Other impairment in 2010 of 8m comprised the closure of a facility in Constantine, US.
iii profit on disposal 2011 m Gross proceeds net of costs of 10m 207 Cash and cash equivalents disposed 2 Net cash inflow in the cash flow statement 205 Net assets disposed net of tax 197 Accrued costs 6 Exchange differences recognised in the income statement on disposal 89 Profit on disposal 91 iv cash flows 2011 2010 m m Net cash flows from operating activities 19 30 Net cash flows from investing activities 14 12 Net cash flows from financing activities 1 Net cash outflow inflow 34 18 107 10 discontinued operations continued v other comprehensive loss 2011 2010 m m Exchange differences recognised in the income statement on disposal 89 Disposal of non controlling interests 2 Total other comprehensive loss 91 11 equity dividends 2011 2010 m m Interim dividend for 2011 of 4.7p paid on 4 October 2011 41 Final dividend for 2010 of 8.0p paid on 7 June 2011 70 Interim dividend for 2010 of 4.0p paid on 5 October 2010 35 Final dividend for 2009 of 8.0p paid on 3 June 2010 70 111 105 A final dividend per equity share of 9.7p has been proposed for 2011 and, subject to shareholder approval, is payable on 7 June 2012.
Theproposed final dividend has not been accrued in these consolidated financial statements.
12 goodwill i summary 2011 2010 m m Cost At 1 January 1,852 2,085 Exchange differences 15 30 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 263 At 31 December 1,837 1,852 Impairment At 1 January 4 199 Exchange differences 1 9 Impairment of Closures 59 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 263 At 31 December 3 4 Carrying value at 31 December 1,834 1,848 The carrying value of goodwill at 31 December is allocated to cash generating units or groups of cash generating units CGUs as set out below.
2011 2010 m m Europe 639 647 US 367 367 Brazil 197 197 Russia 42 44 Egypt 33 35 Mexico 7 7 Beverage Cans 1,285 1,297 Healthcare 327 330 Personal Care 222 221 Plastic Packaging 549 551 Carrying value at 31 December 1,834 1,848 financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 108 Rexam annual report 2011 notes to the consolidated financial statements 12 goodwill continued ii impairment testing The recoverable amounts of CGUs or groups of CGUs were determined based on value in use calculations at 31 December 2011.
Thecashflow projections used in these calculations are based on the Groups financial budget for 2012, as approved by the board in December 2011, and the Groups financial plans in respect of 2013 and 2014.
As highlighted in the principal accounting policies, the calculation of value in use requires the use of estimates which, although based on managements best knowledge, may ultimately differ from actual results.
Key assumptions The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are: a Discount rates.
The pre tax discount rates used in the value in use calculations are set out in the table below.
These discount rates are derived from the Groups pre tax weighted average cost of capital WACC, as adjusted for the specific risks relating to each region in which the CGUs operate.
The Groups pre tax WACC fell by 1% due primarily to a fall in the underlying risk free rate.
Cash flows beyond the three year planning horizon have been extrapolated using growth rates ranging between 1.6%and 7.5%.
The growth rates used do not exceed the medium to long term GDP growth rates relating to each region in which theCGUs operate.
Forecasts for sales and margins are based on analyses of sales, markets, costs and competitors.
Consideration is given to past experience and knowledge of future contracts.
Forecasts for aluminium and resin are based on forward prices and time projections after taking into account pass through of costs and hedging.
Forecasts for other raw materials and energy are based on inflation forecasts and supply and demand factors.
Sensitivities The recoverable amount of the goodwill allocated to the Personal Care CGUs was calculated using discount rates between 10% and 13% and growth rates between 1.6% and 7.5% to reflect the different regions in which the CGUs operate.
A comparison of the recoverable amount with carrying value gave rise to minimal goodwill headroom.
A 1% increase in discount rates would reduce the recoverable amount by approximately 60m.
Similarly, a 1% decrease in either growth rates or operating profit would reduce the recoverable amount by approximately 70m and 10m, respectively.
With respect to all other CGUs or groups of CGUs, management considers that no reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions would cause the recoverable amount of goodwill to fall below carrying value.
109 13 other intangible assets Customer Computer Computer contracts and Technology Other software software relationships and patents development acquired developed acquired acquired projects Total m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2011 98 24 346 127 16 611 Exchange differences 1 3 1 5 Additions 4 1 5 Disposals 5 4 1 10 At 31 December 2011 96 20 343 126 16 601 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2011 71 18 86 46 7 228 Exchange differences 1 1 1 3 Amortisation for the year 9 2 18 8 1 38 Disposals 5 4 9 Impairment 2 2 4 At 31 December 2011 76 17 103 54 8 258 Carrying value at 31 December 2011 20 3 240 72 8 343 Cost At 1 January 2010 95 26 498 188 13 820 Exchange differences 1 1 19 6 25 Additions 9 2 11 Disposals 2 1 3 Transfers 1 2 3 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 4 2 171 67 1 245 At 31 December 2010 98 24 346 127 16 611 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2010 65 17 91 46 6 225 Exchange differences 1 1 2 1 3 Amortisation for the year 11 3 32 14 1 61 Disposals 1 1 2 Impairment 65 65 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 3 2 104 15 124 At 31 December 2010 71 18 86 46 7 228 Carrying value at 31 December 2010 27 6 260 81 9 383 The impairment of 4m in 2011 comprises the write off of certain software licenses.
The impairment of 65m in 2010 related to the discontinued Closures division.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 110 Rexam annual report 2011 notes to the consolidated financial statements 14 property, plant and equipment Plant and Assets under Property equipment construction Total m m m m Cost At 1 January 2011 579 2,289 127 2,995 Exchange differences 7 23 4 34 Additions 5 61 168 234 Disposals 2 37 2 41 Reclassifications 19 117 136 At 31 December 2011 594 2,407 153 3,154 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2011 160 1,264 1,424 Exchange differences 1 12 13 Disposals 34 34 Depreciation for the year 21 158 179 Impairment 9 9 Reversal of impairment 1 1 At 31 December 2011 180 1,384 1,564 Carrying value at 31 December 2011 414 1,023 153 1,590 Cost At 1 January 2010 602 2,389 113 3,104 Exchange differences 4 13 2 19 Additions 3 43 154 200 Disposals 9 48 1 58 Transfers 2 3 1 Reclassifications 23 95 118 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 44 205 20 269 At 31 December 2010 579 2,289 127 2,995 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2010 150 1,231 1,381 Exchange differences 2 5 7 Disposals 3 43 46 Depreciation for the year 22 182 204 Impairment 61 61 Reversal of impairment 3 3 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 11 169 180 At 31 December 2010 160 1,264 1,424 Carrying value at 31 December 2010 419 1,025 127 1,571 The carrying value of property, plant and equipment includes finance leased assets of 33m 2010: 34m in respect of property andnil 2010: 1m in respect of plant and equipment.
Of the impairment of 9m in 2011, 5m relates to the write down of assets on conversion from steel to aluminium in the Indian beverage cans business and 4m relates to write downs of assets in Plastic Packaging in respect of previously announced plant closures and restructuring in some of the remaining continuing businesses following disposal of the Closures division.
In 2010 the impairment of 61m comprised 6m on continuing operations and 55m in respect of the discontinued Closures division.
Of the 6m from continuing operations, 5m related to the write down of assets on conversion of plants from steel to aluminium in the European beverage cans business and 1m related to over capacity in the Mexican beverage cans business.
The reversal of impairment of 1m in 2011 is an over provision relating to the write down of assets on conversion from steel to aluminium in a Spanish beverage cans plant.
The reversal of impairment in 2010 of 3m related to the North American plastic packaging business whereby the proceeds from the sale of assets were higher than previously expected.
111 15 investments in subsidiaries The principal subsidiaries, all of which are wholly owned, are shown below.
An asterisk indicates that the capital is directly owned by Rexam PLC.
Subsidiaries incorporated in the UK are registered in England and Wales.
All subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements.
Country of Principal area Identity of Nature of incorporation of operation capital held business activities Rexam Beverage Can Company US US Common stock Consumer packaging Rexam Beverage Can Naro Fominsk LLC Russia Russia Capital stock Consumer packaging Rexam Beverage Can South America SA Brazil South America Common stock Consumer packaging Rexam do Brazil Ltda Brazil South America Quotas Consumer packaging Rexam European Holdings Limited UK UK Ordinary shares Holding company Rexam France SA France France Ordinary shares Consumer packaging Rexam Group Holdings Limited UK UK Ordinary shares Holding company Rexam Holdings AB Sweden Continental Europe Ordinary shares Holding company Rexam Inc US US Common stock Holding company Rexam Overseas Holdings Limited UK UK Ordinary shares Holding company Rexam Plastic Packaging Inc US US Common stock Holding company 16 investments in associates and joint ventures The principal associate and joint venture are set out below.
Country of incorporation and area of operation Issued capital Group share Hanil Can Company Limited associate South Korea 1.7m shares of 5,000 won each 40% Controladora Envases Universales Rexam SA joint venture Guatemala 334.5m shares of 1 quetzal each 50% Associates Joint ventures Total m m m At 1 January 2011 35 26 61 Share of post tax profits 4 5 9 At 31 December 2011 39 31 70 At 1 January 2010 31 23 54 Exchange differences 2 1 3 Share of post tax profits 2 3 5 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 1 1 At 31 December 2010 35 26 61 There is 3m of goodwill allocated to the joint venture in Guatemala 2010: 3m.
The following table sets out summary information on all associates and joint ventures on a 100% basis.
2011 2011 2010 2010 Associates Joint ventures Associates Joint ventures m m m m Sales 187 70 153 56 Profit after tax 11 9 5 5 Assets 161 73 150 62 Liabilities 64 11 63 10 financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 112 Rexam annual report 2011 notes to the consolidated financial statements 17 available for sale financial assets 2011 2010 m m At 1 January 28 23 Exchange differences 1 1 Income for the year 2 2 Changes in market value 1 Cash injection 3 Payments in respect of pension obligations 2 2 Disposals 25 At 31 December 2 28 Non current assets 1 27 Current assets 1 1 At 31 December 2 28 Available for sale financial assets at 31 December 2011 include 1m 2010: 27m of investments used to satisfy certain US retirement obligations, of which nil 2010: 27m comprises fixed rate listed investments, the fair values of which were determined directly by reference to published price quotations in an active market, and 1m 2010: nil comprises cash and cash equivalents.
Also included in available for sale financial assets at 31 December 2011 are unlisted investments of 1m 2010: 1m.
Disposals comprise 23m of assets transferred to insurance backed assets and a 2m loss on the buy in of insurance policies on the transfer, asset out in note 18.
The 2m is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The carrying amounts of available for sale financial assets are denominated in the following currencies, which are the functional currencies of the relevant subsidiaries.
2011 2010 m m US dollar 1 27 Euro 1 1 2 28 18 insurance backed assets 2011 2010 m m At 1 January Exchange differences 1 Additions 23 Payments in respect of pension obligations 1 Actuarial gains 2 25 Non current assets 23 Current assets 2 At 31 December 25 The Group, through its subsidiary Rexam Inc, has a number of non qualified defined benefit pension plans in the US, some of which are structured as Rabbi Trusts, whereby investments held by the Group are linked to the obligations in the plans.
Historically the Group was required to maintain its defined benefit Rabbi Trust assets at 100% of the value of the related US defined benefit pension obligations and this gave rise to volatile cash funding requirements.
To eliminate this investment and demographic related volatility, theGroup purchased a number of non qualifying insurance policies in July 2011 at a cost of 25m, including a 2m buy in insurance premium, recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Theinsurance policies pay the benefits to the Group as they fall due, and the Group in turn makes the payments to the eligible beneficiaries.
Although eligible beneficiaries have no vested rights in the insurance policies, the policies remain under the Rabbi Trust structure and as such they cannot be used by the Group, but they would revert to the benefit of general creditors in the event of Rexam Incs bankruptcy.
The insurance backed assets are recognised in the consolidated balance sheet at the present value of the matching defined benefit pension obligations and are accounted for in accordance with the Groups accounting policy for retirement benefit obligations.
113 19 inventories 2011 2010 m m Raw materials, stores and consumables 211 176 Work in progress 17 15 Finished goods 289 224 517 415 An analysis of provisions against inventories is set out below.
2011 2010 m m At 1 January 29 32 Charge for the year 22 13 Released in the year 6 3 Utilised 5 4 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 9 At 31 December 40 29 20 trade and other receivables 2011 2010 m m Non current assets Trade receivables 4 4 Provision for impairment 4 4 Net trade receivables Prepayments 62 68 Taxes 11 9 Other receivables 33 43 106 120 Current assets Trade receivables 527 509 Provision for impairment 9 17 Net trade receivables 518 492 Prepayments 36 55 Taxes 33 37 Other receivables 39 64 626 648 Total trade and other receivables 732 768 An analysis of provisions for impairment of trade and other receivables is set out below.
2011 2010 m m At 1 January 21 16 Impairment in the year 7 7 Released in the year 14 1 Utilised 1 1 At 31 December 13 21 financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 114 Rexam annual report 2011 notes to the consolidated financial statements 20 trade and other receivables continued An analysis of total trade and other receivables including those which are past due but not impaired is set out below.
2011 2010 m m Not yet due 691 715 Past due less than 1 month 31 21 Between 1 and 2 months 7 4 Between 2 and 3 months 2 1 Between 3 and 6 months 2 Between 6 and 12 months 1 5 In more than 12 months 20 732 768 The maximum amount of credit risk with respect to customers is represented by the carrying amount on the balance sheet.
Customer credit facilities for new customers must be approved by designated managers at business level or by senior sector management.
Credit limits are set with reference to trading history and reports from credit rating agencies.
Customer credit facilities are reviewed at the sales order entry stage and at the time of shipment so as not to exceed customer limits.
Overdue accounts are regularly reviewed and impairment provisions are created where necessary.
As a matter of policy, all outstanding trade balances greater than three months are fully provided except as approved by senior sector management and with due regard to the historical risk profile of the customer.
The Group has extremely low historical levels of customer credit defaults, due in part to the large multinational nature of many of its customers and the long term relationships it has with them.
There were no major new customers in 2011 where the Group considered there was a risk of significant credit default.
There are no trade and other receivables that would otherwise be past due or impaired whose terms have been renegotiated.
The carrying amounts of total trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies which, in most instances, are the functional currencies of the relevant subsidiaries.
2011 2010 m m Euro 259 259 US dollar 204 242 Brazilian real 154 154 Other 115 113 732 768 21 cash and cash equivalents 2011 2010 m m Cash at bank and in hand 83 46 Short term bank deposits 329 68 412 114 The Group has provided letters of credit, secured by short term bank deposits, totalling 1m 2010: 1m as part of its insurance arrangements.
The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents are denominated in the following currencies.
2011 2010 m m US dollar 184 72 Sterling 166 2 Euro 22 20 Other 40 20 412 114 115 22 assets and liabilities classified as held for sale 2011 2010 m m Assets 2 282 Liabilities 50 2 232 Assets classified as held for sale in 2011 comprise properties in the US deemed surplus to requirements 2010: 2m.
In 2010 assets and liabilities classified as held for sale included 230m relating to the discontinued Closures division.
23 trade and other payables 2011 2010 m m Current liabilities Trade payables 510 438 Social security and other taxes 66 60 Accrued expenses 198 202 Loan from joint venture 9 5 Other payables 78 63 861 768 Non current liabilities Accrued expenses 21 30 Other payables 32 51 53 81 Total trade and other payables 914 849 The carrying amounts of total trade and other payables are denominated in the following currencies, which in most instances are the functional currencies of the relevant subsidiaries.
2011 2010 m m US dollar 464 398 Euro 255 259 Brazilian real 80 92 Sterling 43 41 Other 72 59 914 849 financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 116 Rexam annual report 2011 notes to the consolidated financial statements 24 borrowings 2011 2010 m m Current liabilities Bank overdrafts 10 15 Bank loans 4 25 US public bond 1 1 US private placement 1 1 Subordinated bond 21 21 Medium term notes 16 17 Finance leases 1 53 81 Non current liabilities Bank loans 28 43 US public bond 356 356 US private placement 146 146 Subordinated bond 715 706 Medium term notes 540 549 1,785 1,800 Total borrowings 1,838 1,881 The Group has a range of bank facilities maturing between 2012 and 2016.
These facilities may generally be drawn in a range of freely available currencies and are at floating rates of interest.
In addition, the Group has a US public bond, a US private placement, asubordinated bond and medium term notes in issue.
The US public bond and US private placement totalling US$775m were issued at afixed price and mature in 2013.
The subordinated bond is denominated in euros with a maturity in 2067.
It was issued at a fixed rate ofinterest but has been swapped into US dollar floating rates of interest through the use of cross currency and interest rate derivatives.
Themedium term notes are denominated in euros and mature in 2013.
They were issued at fixed rates of interest although some have beenswapped to floating rates of interest in euro through the use of interest rate derivatives.
The bulk of the Groups drawn debt is currently represented by various bond issues with significant headroom available under its committed bank facilities.
Total minimum lease payments at 31 December 2011 are nil 2010: 1m.
Included within borrowings are secured loans of 1m 2010: 15m, the security for which is principally property.
The carrying amounts of total borrowings are denominated in the following currencies.
2011 2010 m m Cash and cash equivalents 412 114 Bank overdrafts 10 15 Bank loans 32 68 US public bond 357 357 US private placement 147 147 Subordinated bond 736 727 Medium term notes 556 566 Finance leases 1 Financing derivatives 114 83 1,312 1,684 Movement in net borrowings.
2011 2010 m m At 1 January 1,684 1,828 Exchange differences 29 38 Increase in cash and cash equivalents 300 55 Proceeds from borrowings 7 21 Repayment of borrowings 36 159 Fair value and other changes 14 11 At 31 December 1,312 1,684 Reconciliation of net borrowings to the consolidated balance sheet.
2011 2010 m m Total derivative financial instruments net 59 130 Derivatives not included in net borrowings 55 47 Financing derivatives included in net borrowings 114 83 Cash and cash equivalents 412 114 Borrowings included in current liabilities 53 81 Borrowings included in non current liabilities 1,785 1,800 1,312 1,684 financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 118 Rexam annual report 2011 notes to the consolidated financial statements 26 financial instruments i carrying amount and fair value of financial assets and liabilities Analysis of the carrying values and fair values at 31 December, by category and by class, of financial assets and liabilities.
Derivatives Derivatives Loans Available Other Total used for used for and for sale financial carrying Total hedging trading receivables assets liabilities amount fair value m m m m m m m At 31 December 2011 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 412 412 412 1 Trade and other receivables 590 590 590 Available for sale financial assets 2 2 2 Derivative financial instruments 300 3 303 303 Financial liabilities 2 Trade and other payables 848 848 848 Bank overdrafts 10 10 10 Bank loans 32 32 32 US public bond 357 357 381 US private placement 147 147 156 Subordinated bond 736 736 595 Medium term notes 556 556 569 Derivative financial instruments 72 172 244 244 228 169 1,002 2 2,686 1,623 1,528 At 31 December 2010 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 114 114 114 1 Trade and other receivables 599 599 599 Available for sale financial assets 28 28 28 Derivative financial instruments 324 2 326 326 Financial liabilities 2 Trade and other payables 789 789 789 Bank overdrafts 15 15 15 Bank loans 68 68 68 US public bond 357 357 392 US private placement 147 147 160 Subordinated bond 727 727 642 Medium term notes 566 566 585 Finance leases 1 1 1 Derivative financial instruments 6 190 196 196 318 188 713 28 2,670 1,799 1,781 1 Excludes prepayments and taxes.
2 Excludes social security and other taxes.
Market values have been used to determine the fair values of available for sale financial assets, bank overdrafts and floating rate bank loans.
The carrying values of trade and other receivables and trade and other payables are assumed to approximate their fair values dueto their short term nature.
The fair values of the US public bond, subordinated bond and medium term notes have been determined by reference to quoted market prices at the close of business on 31 December.
The US private placement is not a publicly traded instrument and its fair value has been approximated using the market value of the US public bond, which has a similar maturity date.
The fair values ofinterest rate swaps, cross currency swaps, fixed rate loans and finance leases have been determined by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts has been determined by marking those contracts to market against prevailing forward foreign exchange rates.
The fair value of forward commodity contracts has been determined by marking those contracts to market at prevailing forward prices.
In both 2011 and 2010, all financial instruments measured at fair value are categorised as level 2 in the fair value measurement hierarchy, whereby the fair value is determined by using valuation techniques.
In 2010 there were 27m of fixed rate listed investments included in available for sale financial assets that were classified as level 1.
The valuation techniques for level 2 instruments use observable market data where it is available, for example quoted market prices, and rely less on estimates.
119 26 financial instruments continued ii financial risk management The Group bases its financial risk management on sound economic objectives and good corporate practice.
Group treasury operationsare carried out under policies and parameters defined by the Rexam board and supervised by its finance committee.
Grouptreasury is not operated as a separate profit centre nor does it enter into any transactions for speculative purposes.
The Groups major operational hedges comply with IAS39 and hedge accounting treatment is applied.
Some smaller operational exposuresare hedged on an economic basis and hedge accounting treatment is not applied where the compliance burden is deemed tobe onerous and the income statement volatility arising is not expected to be significant.
a market risk: currencies Currency risks arise from the multi currency cash flows within the Group.
These risks arise from exchange rate fluctuations relating tothetranslation of balance sheet items of foreign subsidiaries translation risk and from currency flows from sales and purchases transactionrisk.
The policy regarding translation risk is to mitigate the impact of foreign exchange movements between overseas currencies and sterling arising on the translation of the value of non UK operations into sterling for reporting purposes.
This is achieved by borrowing a proportion of debt, either directly or through the use of cross currency swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts, in currencies which match or are closely linked to the currencies of the overseas businesses.
This approach also provides some protection against the foreign exchange translation of overseas earnings as it matches the currency of earnings to the currency of the interest expense.
These amounts are included in the consolidated financial statements by translation into sterling at the balance sheet date and, where hedge accounted, offset in equity against the translation movement in net assets.
Some cross currency swaps used to manage the Groups currency exposures, whilst economically effective, are ineligible for hedge accounting treatment.
The policy regarding transaction risk is to hedge the reported net transaction exposure in full less an allowance for variability in forecasting.
This is generally achieved through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts with amounts hedged being based on thereporting from individual Group businesses.
None of the foreign exchange derivative instruments at 31 December 2011 related to derivative trading activity, although some fair value gains and losses were taken to the consolidated income statement because IAS39 hedge accounting treatment was not applied.
Foreign exchange derivative instruments are used for hedging general business exposures inforeign currencies such as the purchase and sale of goods, capital expenditure and dividend flows.
Transactional foreign exchange risks are hedged by Group treasury unless it is a legal requirement in the country where the foreign exchange risk arises that hedging is carried out locally.
In the latter case, hedging is carried out by the individual responsible for treasury within the local business, but still operating within the overall Group policy on foreign exchange management.
The currency denomination of borrowings at 31 December 2011 was 68% in US dollars and 32% in euros 2010:75% US dollars, 22% euros, 3% all other currencies.
b market risk: interest rates Changes in interest rates on interest bearing receivables and floating rate debt in different currencies create interest rate risk.
The objective of the Groups interest rate risk management is to manage its exposure to the impact of changes in interest rates in the currencies in which debt is borrowed.
Group policy is to keep between 35% and 85% of interest on borrowings at fixed rates.
Interest rate risk is managed through the issue of fixed rate debt and through the use of interest rate derivatives that are used to manage the overall fixed to floating mix of debt, which was 75% fixed and 25% floating at 31 December 2011 2010: 76% and 24%.
Group treasury operates within a broad framework in respect of the mix of fixed and floating rate debt, as the optimum blend will vary depending on the mix of currencies and the Groups view of the debt markets at any point in time.
Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on bank deposit rates in the relevant currency.
Short term deposits are usually made forperiods varying between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group and earn interest at the respective short term deposit rates.
Other floating rate financial instruments are at the appropriate LIBOR interest rates as adjusted by variable margins.
Interest on floating rate financial instruments is repriced at intervals of less than one year.
Interest on fixed rate financial instruments is fixed until maturity of the instrument.
Some interest rate swaps used to manage the Groups fixed to floating debt mix, whilst economically effective, are ineligible for hedge accounting treatment.
Fair value gains and losses on these hedges are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
In 2011, there was a gain of 23m 2010: loss 12m on fair value changes on financing derivatives, disclosed separately within interest expense in the consolidated income statement.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 120 Rexam annual report 2011 notes to the consolidated financial statements 26 financial instruments continued c market risk: commodity prices Changes in the market price of commodities used by the Group create commodity risk.
Group policy is to manage these risks through both its supply chain management and through use of financial derivatives.
Where financial derivatives are used, the Group uses mainly over the counter instruments transacted with banks, which are themselves priced through a recognised commodity exchange, such as the London Metal Exchange.
The Group manages the purchase of certain raw materials, including aluminium, resin and energy costs through physical supply contracts which, in the main, relate directly to commodity price indices.
With regard to aluminium, which represents the Groups largest commodity exposure, the policy is to eliminate as far as possible any market price variability through hedging in tandem with contractual commitments to customers.
Where Rexam assumes the aluminium price risk on customer contracts, it has defined a risk appetite with apredetermined aggregate consolidated income statement limit arising from any related aluminium hedging activities.
Itsposition against this limit is monitored and reported on a monthly basis.
For other commodities, the policy is to follow an incremental hedge approach over a period of up to three years in order to manage the price year over year and limit uncertainty.
None of the commodity derivative financial instruments at 31 December 2011 related to derivative trading activity, although some fair value gains andlosses were taken to the consolidated income statement because hedge accounting was not applied.
The commodity hedges mainly relate to contracted and expected future purchases of aluminium, but also include resin and energy.
d market risk: euro In response to the current instability in Europe, a euro crisis committee has been established by the Group to monitor risks, create contingency plans and take action as appropriate.
e market risk: sensitivities A sensitivity analysis for financial assets and liabilities affected by market risk is set out below.
Each risk is analysed separately and shows the sensitivity of financial assets and liabilities when a certain risk is changed.
The sensitivity analysis has been performed on balances at31 December each year.
The rates used are based on historical trends and, where relevant, projected forecasts.
Key methods and assumptions made when performing the sensitivity analysis net of hedging : a For the floating rate element of interest rate swaps, the sensitivity calculation is performed based on the floating rates at31December each year.
b The translation impact of overseas subsidiaries into sterling is not included in the sensitivity analysis.
c The sensitivity analysis ignores any tax implications.
currencies The foreign exchange rate sensitivity analysis set out in the table below is based on foreign currency positions, other than each Group entitys own functional currency, on the balance sheet at 31 December.
The analysis includes only risks arising from financial instruments and gives the estimated impact on profit before tax and equity of a 10% increase and decrease in exchange rates between currency pairs with significant currency positions.
Impact on Impact on profit Impact profit Impact Increase before tax on equity Decrease before tax on equity % m m % m m At 31 December 2011 Sterling US dollar 10 4 10 5 Sterling euro 10 11 29 10 13 36 10 1 23 10 1 23 Euro US dollar At 31 December 2010 Sterling US dollar 10 19 4 10 23 5 Sterling euro 10 23 32 10 28 39 Euro US dollar 10 15 16 10 16 16 The impact of currency risk on net investment hedges is offset by the translation of overseas subsidiaries on consolidation.
The net impact of currency translation resulted in sales and underlying profit from continuing operations reducing increasing as set out below.
2011 2010 Underlying Underlying 2011 operating 2010 operating Sales profit Sales profit m m m m US dollar 81 9 31 3 Euro 20 3 51 3 Other currencies 8 42 7 53 6 22 7 121 26 financial instruments continued interest rates At 31 December 2011, if the US dollar interest rate were increased by 1% with all other variables held constant, profit before tax would increase by 12m 2010: 7m as a result of US dollar denominated floating rate debt and interest rate and cross currency derivatives that are not hedge accounted.
If euro and sterling interest rates were increased by 1% with all other variables held constant, profit before tax would reduce by9m 2010: 8m as a result of fixed rate debt being swapped into floating rate debt.
A reduction in interest rates would not have a significant effect on profit before tax.
There was no significant interest rate risk relating to equity in either year.
commodity prices At 31 December 2011, there was no price risk relating to the income statement since all significant commodity derivatives were treated ascash flow hedges with movements being reflected in equity.
If the aluminium price was increased or reduced by 10% with all other variables held constant, equity would increase or decrease by 48m 2010: 45m.
equity prices The Group is not subject to any significant equity price risk.
f liquidity risk An analysis of undiscounted contractual maturities for non derivative financial liabilities, derivative financial instruments and undrawn committed debt facilities is set out below.
Total Within 1 to 2 2 to 5 More than contractual 1 year years years 5 years amount m m m m m At 31 December 2011 Non derivative financial liabilities: Trade and other payables 795 13 15 25 848 Bank overdrafts 10 10 Bank loans 4 2 26 32 US public bond 24 381 405 US private placement 9 155 164 Subordinated bond 43 43 128 673 887 Medium term notes 23 559 582 Derivative financial instruments: Derivative contracts settled gross payments 403 124 148 1,186 1,861 Derivative contracts settled gross receipts 433 151 204 1,189 1,977 Derivative contracts net settlements 1 4 1 4 Commodity contracts 49 10 3 62 Undrawn committed debt facilities 50 809 859 At 31 December 2010 Non derivative financial liabilities: Trade and other payables 708 18 38 25 789 Bank overdrafts 15 15 Bank loans 24 7 7 29 67 US public bond 24 24 381 429 US private placement 9 9 155 173 Subordinated bond 43 43 130 728 944 Medium term notes 24 24 569 617 Finance leases 1 1 Derivative financial instruments: Derivative contracts settled gross payments 607 103 205 1,276 2,191 Derivative contracts settled gross receipts 631 123 228 1,282 2,264 Derivative contracts net settlements 3 2 5 4 Commodity contracts 36 12 1 49 Undrawn committed debt facilities 50 1,028 1,078 financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 122 Rexam annual report 2011 notes to the consolidated financial statements 26 financial instruments continued The Group monitors its liquidity to maintain a sufficient level of undrawn committed debt facilities, thereby ensuring financial flexibility.
Asat 31 December 2011, Rexam had 859m of undrawn committed debt facilities available 2010: 1,078m.
The Group mitigates refinancing risk by raising its debt requirements from a range of different sources.
The range of maturity dates arising on committed debt facilities is set out below.
2011 2010 Maturity date m m 2012 50 50 2013 1,039 1,048 2015 1,028 2016 809 2067 654 654 2,552 2,780 g credit risk The maximum credit risk exposure of the Groups financial assets at 31 December is represented by the amounts reported under the corresponding balance sheet headings.
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk associated with financial instruments of theGroup.
Credit risk arises from exposures to external counterparties.
In order to manage this risk, the Group has strict credit control quality measures that are applied to counterparty institutions and also limits on maximum exposure levels to any one counterparty.
To manage credit risk, the maximum limits for bank exposures held under Group policy are set out in the table below by individual counterparty credit rating category.
These limits are used when making investments and for the use of derivative instruments.
The table also sets out the Groups financial asset exposure at 31 December for each counterparty credit rating category.
However, none of the Groups individual counterparty limits have been breached as a result of these downgrades.
See note 20 for information on credit risk with respect to customers.
h capital risk management The Groups objective is to minimise its cost of capital by optimising the efficiency of its capital structure, being the balance between equity anddebt.
The Group views its ordinary share capital as equity.
This objective is always subject to an overriding principle that capital must bemanaged to ensure the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders.
The Group is able to adjust its capital structure through the issue or redemption of either debt or equity and by adjustment to thedividend paid to equity holders.
The Group uses a range of financial metrics to monitor the efficiency of its capital structure, including itsweighted average cost of capital and net debt to EBITDA and ensures that its capital structure provides sufficient financial strength to allowit to secure access to debt finance at reasonable cost.
At 31 December 2011, the Groups net debt to EBITDA for financial covenant purposes was 1.3 times 2010: 1.8 times.
The Group aims tokeep this ratio below 2.5 times.
For this purpose, net debt is broadly net borrowings adjusted to exclude interest accruals, certain derivative financial instruments and an equity portion of the subordinated bond and reflects non sterling amounts at average exchange rates.
EBITDA is underlying operating profit after adding back depreciation and amortisation of computer software and adjusted where appropriate to include acquisitions on a pro forma basis and excludes disposed businesses.
123 26 financial instruments continued iii derivative financial instruments The net fair values of the Groups derivative financial instruments designated as fair value or cash flow hedges and those not designated ashedging instruments are set out below.
2011 2010 m m Fair value hedges Cross currency swaps 276 257 Interest rate swaps 9 13 285 270 Cash flow hedges Forward aluminium commodity contracts 64 50 Forward gas commodity contracts 2 2 Forward foreign exchange contracts 9 57 48 Total hedge accounted 228 318 Not hedge accounted Cross currency swaps 166 175 Interest rate swaps 5 10 Forward foreign exchange contracts 2 3 Total not hedge accounted 169 188 Total net fair value of derivative financial instruments 59 130 fair value hedges The Group has designated interest rate swaps and the interest element of cross currency swaps as fair value hedges whereby interest is receivable at fixed interest rates varying from 4.375% to 6.75% 2010: 4.375% to 6.75% and payable at floating rates.
These swaps hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of medium term notes which mature in 2013 2010: 2013.
The cross currency swaps hedge changes inthe fair value of the euro subordinated bond which matures in 2067.
Net ineffectiveness gains of 9m were included ininterest in 2011 2010:5m.
cash flow hedges The Group has designated forward foreign exchange contracts and aluminium, gas and resin commodity contracts as cash flow hedges.
Forward foreign exchange contracts hedge foreign currency transaction risk and mature between 2012 and 2014 2010: between 2011and 2013.
The aluminium commodity, gas and resin commodity contracts hedge anticipated future purchases of aluminiumand gas respectively, and mature between 2012 and 2014 2010: between 2011 and 2013. not hedge accounted Derivatives are not used for trading purposes.
However, some derivatives may not qualify for hedge accounting, orarespecifically not designated as a hedge where natural offset is more appropriate.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 124 Rexam annual report 2011 notes to the consolidated financial statements 26 financial instruments continued net investment hedges An analysis of the Groups non derivative financial instruments designated as net investment hedges with respect to its subsidiaries, principally in the eurozone and the US, are set out below.
Medium US public term notes bond Total m m m At 1 January 2011 373 43 416 Net decrease in designations 13 41 54 Exchange differences recognised in equity 12 2 14 At 31 December 2011 348 348 At 1 January 2010 483 194 677 Net decrease in designations 86 153 239 Exchange differences recognised in equity 24 2 22 At 31 December 2010 373 43 416 An analysis of the notional amounts and maturity dates for derivative financial instruments is set out below.
2011 2010 Notional Notional Maturity amounts amounts Currency date m m Fair value hedges Cross currency swaps Euro 2017 630 641 Cross currency swaps Sterling 2017 505 505 Interest rate swaps Euro 2013 168 171 Forward aluminium commodity contracts US dollar 2012 4 5 Cash flow hedges Forward foreign exchange contracts US dollar 2012 to 2014 177 141 Forward foreign exchange contracts Sterling 2012 30 24 Forward foreign exchange contracts Swedish krone 2012 17 21 Forward aluminium commodity contracts US dollar 2012 to 2014 493 408 Forward gas commodity contracts US dollar 2012 to 2014 8 8 Forward resin commodity contracts US dollar 2012 5 Not hedge accounted Cross currency swaps Sterling 2017 505 505 Cross currency swaps US dollar 2017 654 654 Interest rate swaps US dollar 2012 to 2014 803 364 Interest rate swaps Euro 2014 168 Forward foreign exchange contracts US dollar 2012 to 2014 52 210 Forward aluminium commodity contracts US dollar 2012 17 Forward resin commodity contracts US dollar 2011 2 For forward foreign exchange contracts, there are other currencies traded which have been excluded as the fair values for these contracts were immaterial.
125 27 retirement benefit obligations i summary UK US Other Total Gross defined defined defined defined retirement benefit benefit benefit benefit Other Total Retiree benefit pensions pensions pensions pensions pensions pensions medical obligations m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2011 19 315 38 334 18 352 111 463 Exchange differences 1 1 1 1 Service cost continuing operations 7 5 1 13 10 23 1 24 Service cost discontinued operations 1 1 1 Net finance cost credit see note below 11 15 2 6 6 6 12 Actuarial losses 68 27 7 102 102 4 106 Cash contributions and benefits paid 32 11 3 46 10 56 9 65 Transfers 2 2 2 2 At 31 December 2011 13 350 44 407 19 426 114 540 At 1 January 2010 11 218 37 266 19 285 111 396 Exchange differences 11 11 1 10 5 15 Service cost continuing operations 9 4 1 14 9 23 1 24 Service cost discontinued operations 1 1 3 4 4 Exceptional items discontinued operations 2 2 2 2 Net finance cost credit 8 14 2 8 8 7 15 Actuarial losses gains 9 73 1 65 65 1 64 Cash contributions and benefits paid 22 2 3 27 12 39 12 51 Transfers 2 2 2 2 At 31 December 2010 19 315 38 334 18 352 111 463 2011 2010 m m Pension assets 19 Retirement benefit obligations 540 482 Gross retirement benefit obligations 540 463 Tax 169 146 Net retirement benefit obligations 371 317 In addition to the 12m net finance cost for 2011 set out above, there is also a 4m transfer from the available for sale financial assets reserve relating to market value losses transferred to the consolidated income statement following the annuitisation of certain pension obligations.
This gives a total net finance cost for 2011 of 16m as disclosed in the consolidated income statement.
The Group operates various defined benefit pension plans throughout the world, the largest being the funded plans in the UK and the US.
With respect to the UK, a full actuarial valuation by a qualified actuary was carried out as at 31 March 2011.
This valuation is in its final stages and it is expected that the plan will be fully funded at that date.
The next full actuarial valuation is due no later than 31 March 2014.
With respect to the US, a full actuarial valuation by a qualified actuary is carried out annually, the latest being as at 1 January 2011.
As part of the 31 March 2011 UK valuation, Rexam PLC and the trustees to the plan expect to agree a six year escrow investment with contributions of 10m in 2012 and 15m for each of the following five years.
At each subsequent valuation date, the assets in escrow will either be allocated to the plan, to Rexam PLC, or remain in escrow subject to the funding position of the plan.
If there is a change of control with a subsequent material decline in Rexams credit rating or Rexams financial covenant, the escrow would be paid into the plan.
In 2009, Rexam PLC entered into a security agreement with the trustees of the UK pension plan, granting them a charge over the Beverage Cans UK facilities and machinery at Milton Keynes and Wakefield, enforceable up to 1 January 2013 in the event of a contribution default or a material decline in Rexams financial covenant.
IFRIC 14 IAS19 The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction had no impact on the Group in 2011 or 2010. financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 126 Rexam annual report 2011 notes to the consolidated financial statements 27 retirement benefit obligations continued ii defined benefit pension plans Total UK UK US Other US Other Total 2011 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 2010 m m m m m m m m a Amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet Fair value of plan assets 1,719 1,079 13 2,811 1,598 1,026 13 2,637 Present value of funded obligations 1,732 1,380 20 3,132 1,579 1,295 16 2,890 Funded defined benefit pension plans 13 301 7 321 19 269 3 253 Present value of unfunded obligations 49 37 86 46 35 81 Net liability asset 13 350 44 407 19 315 38 334 b Amounts recognised in the consolidated income statement Continuing operations Current service cost 7 5 1 13 8 4 1 13 Past service cost 1 1 Exceptional items past service credit 1 1 Exceptional items curtailments 1 1 Employee benefit expense 7 5 1 13 9 4 1 14 Expected return on plan assets 95 46 1 142 92 52 144 Interest cost 84 61 3 148 84 66 2 152 Net finance cost credit 11 15 2 6 8 14 2 8 Total 4 20 3 19 1 18 3 22 Discontinued operations Current service cost 1 1 Exceptional items curtailment 2 2 Employee benefit expense 1 1 c Amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income Actuarial gains losses on plan assets 52 88 1 139 57 46 1 104 Actuarial losses on retirement benefit obligations 120 115 6 241 48 119 2 169 Total 68 27 7 102 9 73 1 65 d Changes in the fair value of plan assets At 1 January 1,598 1,026 13 2,637 1,489 980 11 2,480 Exchange differences 2 2 44 44 Expected return on plan assets 95 46 1 142 92 52 144 Actuarial gains losses 52 88 1 139 57 46 1 104 Employer contributions 32 9 1 42 22 1 23 Plan participant contributions 2 1 3 2 1 3 Benefits paid 60 92 152 64 96 1 161 At 31 December 1,719 1,079 13 2,811 1,598 1,026 13 2,637 127 27 retirement benefit obligations continued Total US Other UK US Other Total UK 2010 2011 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 % % % % % % % % e Major categories of plan assets Equities 45 12 74 32 50 18 74 38 Bonds 54 88 23 67 49 82 22 61 Cash and other 1 3 1 1 4 1 f changes in the present value of defined benefit pension obligations UK US Other Total UK US Other Total 2011 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 2010 m m m m m m m m At 1 January 1,579 1,341 51 2,971 1,500 1,198 48 2,746 Exchange differences 3 3 55 55 Current service cost continuing operations 7 5 1 13 8 4 1 13 Current service cost discontinued operations 1 1 Past service cost continuing operations 1 1 Exceptional items discontinued operations 2 2 Interest cost 84 61 3 148 84 66 2 152 Actuarial losses 120 115 6 241 48 119 2 169 Plan participant contributions 2 1 3 2 1 3 Benefits paid 60 94 2 156 64 98 3 165 Transfer from available for sale financialassets 2 2 2 2 At 31 December 1,732 1,429 57 3,218 1,579 1,341 51 2,971 g principal actuarial assumptions UK US Other UK US Other 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 % % % % % % Future salary increases 4.60 4.00 3.10 5.00 4.00 3.08 Future pension increases 3.10 1.32 3.50 1.35 Discount rate 4.70 4.00 4.54 5.40 4.90 5.20 Inflation rate 3.10 2.50 2.00 3.50 2.50 2.00 Expected return on plan assets net of administration expenses : Equities 6.11 7.46 7.00 7.51 7.67 8.25 Bonds 3.51 4.46 3.60 4.61 4.37 3.90 Cash and other 0.31 2.56 0.20 0.31 2.77 1.00 To develop the expected return on plan assets assumptions, the Group considered the current level of expected returns on risk free investments, primarily government bonds, the historical level of the risk premium associated with the asset class concerned and the expectations for future returns of the asset class.
The resulting returns for equities, bonds and cash were then reduced to allow for administration expenses.
The mortality assumptions used in valuing the liabilities of the UK pension plan are based on the standard tables S1NA as published by theInstitute and Faculty of Actuaries.
These tables are adjusted to reflect the circumstances of the plan membership.
The life expectancy assumed for a 65 year old pensioner is 86.9 years 2010: 86.2 years for a male and 89.1 years 2010: 89.3 years for a female.
Thelifeexpectancy for a non pensioner currently aged 45 is 88.7 years 2010: 88.4 years for a male and 90.9 years 2010: 91.7 years forafemale.
The mortality assumptions used in valuing the liabilities of the US pension plans are based on the RP2000 combined active and retiree mortality table projected to 2017 2010: 2017, weighted 70% blue collar and 30% white collar.
The life expectancy assumedfora 65 year old pensioner is 83.6 years 2010: 83.6 years for a male and 85.7 years 2010: 85.7 years for a female.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 128 Rexam annual report 2011 notes to the consolidated financial statements 27 retirement benefit obligations continued h historic information on defined benefit plans 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 m m m m m Fair value of plan assets 2,811 2,637 2,480 2,505 2,361 Present value of defined benefit obligations 3,218 2,971 2,746 2,586 2,424 Net liability 407 334 266 81 63 Cumulative actuarial losses gains 130 28 37 223 253 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Experience gains losses arising on plan assets: Amount m 139 104 73 221 81 Percentage of plan assets % 5 4 3 9 3 Experience losses gains arising on defined benefitobligations: Amount m 241 169 259 191 136 Percentage of present value of defined benefit obligations % 7 6 9 7 6 The Group expects to contribute 53m in cash to its defined benefit pension plans in 2012, excluding any amounts deposited in escrow.
iii other pension plans The Group operates a number of US based defined contribution plans, included as part of other pensions in i above, for which the charge in the consolidated income statement for the year was 7m for continuing operations and 1m for discontinued operations 2010: 7m and 3m and total cash contributions were 8m 2010: 10m.
iv retiree medical Certain current and former employees in the US are provided with cover for medical costs and life assurance, referred to in these consolidated financial statements as retiree medical.
These unfunded benefits are assessed with the advice of a qualified actuary.
2011 2010 m m a Amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet Present value of the retiree medical obligation 114 111 b Amounts recognised in the consolidated income statement Continuing operations Current service cost 1 1 Interest cost including administration costs of 1m 2010: 1m 6 7 7 8 c Amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income Actuarial losses gains 4 1 d Changes in the present value of the retiree medical obligation At 1 January 111 111 Exchange differences 1 5 Current service cost 1 1 Interest cost 6 7 Actuarial losses gains 4 1 Benefits paid 9 12 At 31 December 114 111 129 27 retirement benefit obligations continued e principal actuarial assumptions 2011 2010 % % Discount rate 4.00 4.90 8.00 reducing to 8.30 reducing to Healthcare cost trend rate 4.50 over 16 years 4.50 over 17years The mortality assumptions used in valuing the liabilities for retiree medical are based on the RP2000 combined active and retiree table projected to 2017 2010: 2017, weighted 85% blue collar and 15% white collar.
The life expectancy assumed for a 65 year old pensioner is 83.4 years 2010: 83.4 years for a male and 85.5 years 2010: 85.5 years for a female.
Healthcare cost trend rates do not have a significant impact on the Group with respect to retiree medical.
A one percentage point change in assumed rates would have the impact as set out below.
2011 2010 m m 1% increase service cost and interest cost combined increase 1% increase retiree medical obligation increase 3 3 1% decrease service cost and interest cost combined reduction 1% decrease retiree medical obligation reduction 3 3 f historic information on retiree medical 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Present value of retiree medical obligation m 114 111 111 127 98 Cumulative actuarial gains m 16 20 19 14 15 Experience losses gains arising on retiree medicalobligation: Amount m 4 1 5 1 Percentage of present value of retiree medical obligation % 4 1 5 1 28 provisions Share Regulatory based Environmental Restructuring Indirect tax and other payment compliance of businesses exposures claims Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2011 21 21 32 22 6 102 Exchange differences 2 2 Charge for the year 19 3 11 33 Release for the year 5 5 Utilised 2 20 2 24 Transfers 2 2 At 31 December 2011 19 22 33 15 17 106 Current liabilities 5 20 11 36 Non current liabilities 14 2 33 4 17 70 At 31 December 2011 19 22 33 15 17 106 Current liabilities 3 18 18 39 Non current liabilities 18 3 32 4 6 63 At 31 December 2010 21 21 32 22 6 102 Environmental compliance mainly relates to the US and France and is long term in nature with the timing of utilisation unknown due to the need to complete remedial investigations, to negotiate remedial plans with local authorities and to implement agreed plans.
The provision for restructuring of businesses comprises 15m relating to Plastic Packaging in respect of restructuring following the disposal of Closures and 7m relating to Beverage Cans for previously announced plant closures.
Indirect tax exposures relate to Brazil and are long term in nature, with the timing of payment, if any, dependent upon the outcome of tax cases and exposures.
Regulatory and other claims relate to various proceedings where the timing of payment, ifany, is dependent upon the outcome of the proceedings.
Share based payment relates to cash settled share option schemes, the timing ofpayment being dependent on various performance criteria being met.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 130 Rexam annual report 2011 notes to the consolidated financial statements 29 share capital 2011 2010 2 Number of issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 64 7p Thousands Thousands At 1 January 876,864 876,829 Issued under employee share option schemes 167 35 At 31 December 877,031 876,864 The rights and restrictions attaching to the shares and the provisions relating to the transfer of shares are as governed bylaw and in accordance with the Companys articles of association.
Holders of shares are entitled to receive all shareholder documents, to attend, speak and exercise voting rights, either in person or by proxy, on resolutions proposed at general meetings and participate in any distribution of income or capital.
The directors may refuse to register a transfer of shares where such transfer documents are not lodged by acceptable means or proof of title is required.
Shares are held by the Rexam Employee Share Trust Trust for the satisfaction of certain share options note 31.
The independent trustee of the Trust has the same rights as any other shareholder.
Participants in option schemes do not hold any voting rights on the shares until the date of exercise.
There are no restrictions on thevoting rights of holders of shares nor any known agreements between holders of shares under which financial rights areheld by any person other than the registered holder, or voting rights or the transfer of shares are restricted.
30 other reserves Available Net for sale investment Cash flow financial Translation hedge hedge assets reserve reserve reserve reserve Total m m m m m At 1 January 2011 429 104 64 3 386 Cost recognised in the income statement on annuitisation of certain pension obligations net of tax 3 3 Exchange differences before recognition of net investment hedges 30 30 Net investment hedges recognised 14 14 Exchange differences recognised in the income statement on disposal of Closures 89 89 Cash flow hedges recognised 92 92 Cash flow hedges transferred to inventory 16 16 Tax on cash flow hedges 28 28 At 31 December 2011 310 90 16 204 At 1 January 2010 441 126 51 4 362 Exchange differences before recognition of net investment hedges 12 12 Net investment hedges recognised 22 22 Cash flow hedges recognised 40 40 Tax on cash flow hedges 4 4 Cash flow hedges transferred to inventory 25 25 Cash flow hedges transferred to the income statement 2 2 Changes in market value of available for sale financial assets 1 1 At 31 December 2010 429 104 64 3 386 131 31 share based payment i summary of Rexams share based payment schemes Scheme name Abbreviation Scheme status Settlement basis Long Term Incentive Plan 2009 LTIP Open Equity and cash Long Term Incentive Plan 2007 LTIP 2007 Closed Equity Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS Closed Equity Phantom Stock Plan Phantoms Closed Cash Savings Related Share Option Schemes SAYE Open Equity LTIP The LTIP is the primary long term incentive plan for Rexams executive directors, band 1 executives and other senior management.
The LTIP measures performance targets over athree year period.
Options will normally vest, subject to performance targets being achieved, on the third anniversary of the date of grant at a nominal cost to the employee.
Employees who leave with a right to exercise options must normally wait until the end of the measurement period.
If the option vests, the employee will receive an entitlement which normally will be time apportioned for the period from the start of the measurement period to the date on which employment ended.
Options granted in 2011 to executive directors and band 1 executives are subject to three performance conditions, compound annual growth in underlying earnings per share EPS, return on capital employed ROCE and relative Total Shareholder Return TSR, in the proportion 33%, 33% and 33%, respectively.
Options granted in 2011 to other senior management are subject to two performance conditions, EPS and ROCE, in the proportion 67% and 33% respectively.
These options are either equity settled or cash settled depending on the seniority of the employee.
Options granted in 2011 include a dividend equivalent element whereby employees will be entitled to receive, in shares or cash, the notional dividends paid during the measurement period on any options that vest.
For further details of the LTIP refer to the remuneration report.
LTIP 2007 Prior to 2009, annual grants of options were made to executive directors and senior executives under the LTIP 2007.
All outstanding options lapsed in 2011.
ESOS Prior to 2009, annual grants of options over ordinary shares were made to certain senior management.
For grants up to and including2006, shares vested if a performance target growth in economic profit was met over the three year measurement period.
Noperformance targets were set for the 2007 and 2008 grants.
Options are exercisable three years after grant date and expire ten years after grantdate.
The exercise price was set at market value using the market price of a Rexam share at the grant date.
Phantoms This cash settled scheme operates in the same way as the ESOS scheme and relates to certain senior management located outside the UK and Europe.
SAYE All employee SAYE schemes are open to eligible employees resident in the UK and Ireland.
Annual grants of options over shares are currently made at an exercise price of 80% of the market value of Rexam shares at the grant date.
Options vest three, five or seven yearsafter the commencement of the savings contract, depending on the term selected by the employee at grant and expire six monthsafter vesting.
ii employee benefit expense 2011 2010 m m Equity settled 9 6 Cash settled 10 5 Total 19 11 financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 132 Rexam annual report 2011 notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 share based payment continued iii key assumptions used in valuing options granted during the year LTIP SAYE Valuation models TSR Monte Carlo Binomial EPS ROCE Black Scholes Expected dividend growth % 3.8 Expected historical volatility % TSR 25.4 to 36.4 29 to 35 Risk free interest rate % TSR 0.85 to 1.85 0.9 to 1.9 Expected life years 2.2 to 2.7 3.25, 5.25, 7.25 Weighted average share price 3.40 to 3.70 3.40 Weighted average fair value 2.38 to 3.70 0.84 to 0.89 The assumptions made to incorporate the effects of expected early exercise have been included by assuming an expected option life based on historical exercise patterns for each option scheme.
Historical volatilities are arrived at using a period comparable with the expected life of the option.
The correlation coefficient for LTIP is calculated using the correlation matrix for the TSR simulation using three year daily historical stock price series for each company in the comparator group, including Rexam, from the beginning of the measurement period.
iv number of options and weighted average exercise prices of all option schemes 2011 2011 2010 2010 Number of Weighted average Number of Weighted average options exercise price options exercise price Thousands Thousands Outstanding at 1 January 21,502 1.18 13,043 2.34 Granted 10,857 0.05 13,195 0.04 Exercised 252 2.71 93 0.89 Lapsed 3,771 0.52 4,643 1.22 Outstanding at 31 December 28,336 0.82 21,502 1.18 Exercisable at 31 December 4,823 3.98 2,665 4.06 v exercise prices and average remaining contractual lives of options by scheme 2011 2010 2011 2011 Weighted average 2010 2010 Weighted average Number of Range of remaining Number of Range of remaining options exercise prices contractual life options exercise prices contractual life Thousands Years Thousands Years LTIP 21,674 1.7 12,224 2.2 LTIP 2007 2,058 4.2 ESOS 2,808 2.71 to 4.58 5.5 3,090 2.14 to 4.61 6.3 SAYE 1,878 2.12 to 3.88 2.8 1,866 2.12 to 3.88 3.4 Phantoms 1,976 2.71 to 4.57 5.4 2,264 2.71 to 4.57 6.3 vi Rexam Employee Share Trust 2 The Group operates an employee share trust, the Rexam Employee Share Trust, that owns 7,468,028 ordinary shares of 64 p in Rexam 7 PLC at31 December 2011 2010: 2,468,028 acquired at an average cost per share of 3.50 2010: 3.38 and included inthe consolidated balance sheet within retained earnings at a cost of 26m 2010: 8m.
These shares will be used to satisfy LTIP exercises.
Thepurchases are funded by cash contributions from participating companies.
Dividends receivable during the year have been waived.
The administration expenses of the Trust are borne by the Trust.
Shares are allocated by the Trust when related LTIP options are exercised.
The market value of the shares at 31 December 2011 was26m 2010: 8m.
133 32 reconciliation of profit loss before tax to cash generated used from operations 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total operations operations operations operations operations operations m m m m m m Profit loss before tax 431 26 405 338 177 161 Adjustments for: Share of post tax profits of associates and joint ventures 9 9 5 5 Net interest expense 69 69 125 125 Impairment of goodwill 59 59 Impairment of intangible assets 20 20 65 65 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 7 14 21 6 55 61 Reversal of impairment of property, plant and equipment 1 1 3 3 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 179 179 183 21 204 Amortisation of intangible assets 38 38 46 15 61 Movement in working capital 19 24 43 20 20 Movement in provisions 5 1 4 8 2 10 Movement in retirement benefit obligations 29 1 28 12 2 10 Other adjustments 7 2 5 3 3 Cash generated used from operations 664 14 650 647 38 685 33 contingent liabilities In an international group a variety of claims arise from time to time: some have little or no foundation in law or in fact and others cannot bequantified.
The claims include litigation against Group companies, investigations by regulatory and fiscal authorities and obligations arising under environmental legislation.
Provision has been made in these consolidated financial statements against those claims which thedirectors consider are likely to result in significant liabilities.
There are no contingent liabilities at 31 December 2011 or 31 December 2010 that require disclosure.
34 commitments i operating lease commitments The Group leases offices and warehouses under non cancellable operating leases.
The leases have varying terms, purchase options, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The Group also leases plant and equipment under cancellable operating leases.
An analysis of the total future minimum lease payments under non cancellable operating leases is set out below.
2011 2010 2011 Plant and 2010 Plant and Property equipment Property equipment m m m m Less than 1 year 23 5 22 2 Between 1 and 5 years 43 5 47 2 Over 5 years 43 42 Total 109 10 111 4 Total future minimum sublease receipts under non cancellable operating leases are 8m 2010: 10m.
ii capital commitments 2011 2010 m m Contracts placed for future capital expenditure not provided in the consolidated financial statements: Property, plant and equipment 52 51 financial statements governance sustainability business review overview
