16 Rexam annual report 2011 directors report market review In 2011 the packaging industry faced rising input costs, inflation and This summary review is based on a number softer trading conditions in many of the larger developed markets.
According to the latest economic data, the global economy grew by of external packaging industry sources 3.8% in 2011 2010: 5.2%.
The global consumer packaging industry suchas PIRA International, Canadean grew 4.2% and was valued at US$409bn.
This compares with a 9% increase in 2009 10, when the market played catch up following the andThe Freedonia Group, as well as our global economic downturn.
own in-house market intelligence team.
The outlook for 2012 is cautious and there is still uncertainty as to how markets will evolve over the next few years.
Emerging economies are Ithighlights the state of the global consumer expected to represent the driving force of global growth with strong domestic demand see table on pages 18 and 19 for individual packaging market with a brief summary country real GDP growth.
In 2011, for example, the Asia and Rest of oftrends for the two packaging types that World ROW region increased its value share of the total packaging market to 35%, overtaking Europe.
PIRA forecasts that the value of Rexam manufactures, beverage cans and consumer packaging industry global sales will continue to grow in the next five years at an average annual rate of 3.1% to reach US$477bn rigid plastic packaging.
For the first time, by 2016. wealso include a summary of statistics for Packaging for food was the largest end use market in 2011 accounting for just over half the market.
Packaging for beverages accounted for some of our key markets which provides 18% and packaging for healthcare and personal care for 11% of acomprehensive overview of their main sales.
The industry saw increased demand for packaging in all end use markets, led by healthcare.
Over the period 2011 to 2016, healthcare packaging is forecast toregister the highest value growth 4.5% pa. Food and beverage packaging is expected to grow by around 3% pa to 2016 in line withoverall packaging.
materials beverage cans On a global basis, beverage cans accounted for 5% of the consumer packaging market value in 2011 with North America being the largest regional market.
Overall, the value of global beverage can packaging sales showed positive growth of just over2% driven largely by emerging markets.
Beverage can consumption remained healthy in Europe in 2011 growing 3% while fillings grew 5%.
Consumption of carbonated soft drinks CSDs and energy drinks in cans in Europe increased by 3%.
consumer packaging market value The table on pages 18 and 19 shows the beverage can share for beer 1 by pack material 2011 and soft drinks and where there are opportunities for beverage cans togrow share.
Paper and board 35% In the US, beer and energy drinks performed better than CSDs in cans.
Rigid plastics 27% Beer in cans was helped by some brewers of craft beers switching to Glass 12% cans from the traditional glass bottle.
Flexible plastics 10% The emerging economies offer the greatest potential for beverage Other metal 9% cangrowth.
The strongest growth in value terms is expected in Beverage cans 5% SouthAmerica at 3.5%, followed closely by Asia and ROW at 3.1%.
Others 2% Overall global beverage can sales are expected to grow by around 3% pa until 2016 driven by general GDP growth, gains in market share over other container types mainly refillable glass and, in 1 Excludes secondary bulk and industrial packaging.
themore mature markets, the increase in innovative applications.
source: PIRA International 2011 source: PIRA International 2011 17 Cansare expanding into new segments like wine, creating new occasions for drinking from cans.
The environmental credentials of thecan are now better understood see pages 44 and 45 and the consumer packaging market value 1 fact that cans are infinitely recyclable should support an increase by geographical region 2011 in demand.
Asia and Rest of World 35% plastic packaging Europe 33% Plastic accounted for 37% of all global packaging sales on North America 28% amaterial basis in 2011.
Within this category, rigid plastic South America 4% packaging accounted for 27% of the consumer packaging market value and dominated healthcare and cosmetics packaging.
The total healthcare packaging market grew 6.6% in value in 2011 2010: 10.6%.
Rigid plastics accounted for 52% of the total value and is expected to grow annually by 4.4%.
The healthcare industry has been impacted by a combination of external factors such as 1 Excludes secondary bulk and industrial packaging.
products coming off patent and tighter healthcare cost control.
source: PIRA International 2011 source: PIRA International 2011 Although drug consumption is increasing globally due to greater prevalence of chronic diseases, an ageing population and higher incomes in emerging countries, there is pricing pressure on the industry, and regulatory standards are also becoming stricter.
A new era is opening up for the pharmaceutical industry, however, with a new mix of growth drivers, such as the rise of generics and consumer packaging market value biotech medicines, the over the counter OTC segment and growth 1 by end use 2011 in emerging markets.
Expenditure per capita on OTC medicine varies widely with Ireland topping the list in Europe at US$116 per Food 51% capita vs US$21 in Brazil and US$8 in China.
Beverages 18% Growth in the healthcare packaging market will be supported Healthcare 6% bycontinued improvements in packaging materials leading Cosmetics 5% topharmaceutical containers with better aesthetics, barrier Other 20% protection, security, ease of use and compliance features.
Trends inthe level and mix of worldwide drug consumption will also createfavourable growth opportunities.
The introduction of new, advanced biotechnology and nanotechnology based medicines will boost demand for high value added packaging systems.
1 Excludes secondary bulk and industrial packaging.
Highvalue added healthcare packaging will also be employed source: PIRA International 2011 source: PIRA International 2011 increasingly to differentiate brand products from generic drugs.
The cosmetics packaging market grew by 4.5% in value in 2011 compared with 11% in 2010.
Difficult trading conditions continue in many of the more developed markets.
Growth is being driven by emerging markets and the need for basic medium range products, particularly in skin and hair care.
The overall cosmetics packaging beverage cans only market value market is forecast to grow in value by 4.2% a year.
by geographic region 2011 Given global recessionary pressures, mass and so called North America 43% masstige cosmetics are growing faster than premium cosmetics.
Europe 26% Premium make up brands are now competing in an era of Asia and Rest of World 25% consequences, characterised by more careful consideration South America 6% oftherisks associated with consumption.
However, it seems thatconsumers are still willing to pay a premium for cosmetic packaging that provides practical and functional benefits.
In the developing markets, where the premium share for personal care and cosmetics products is very low, creating packaging that can give mass masstige a more premium look and feel can be used todifferentiate a product and create growth opportunities.
source: PIRA International 2011 financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 18 Rexam annual report 2011 directors report market review market characteristics by numbers This section looks at some of the important market characteristics and factors that are acknowledged growth drivers for the consumer packaging market across a number of our end markets.
These drivers include GDP per capita and age demographics, aswell as specific ones such as off trade or at home consumption, which is pertinent to our beverage cans business, and average lifeexpectancy which has an impact on the healthcare product market.
A fuller description of global market trends and influences can be found in packaging unwrapped, a detailed report onglobal trends in consumer packaging which we published inmid 2011.
Financial data uses average currency exchange rates, except for GDP per capita which uses purchasing power parities sourced from the IMF Economic Indicators in September 2011.
19 packaging unwrapped Under the title packaging unwrapped, this Rexamreport published in 2011 looks at the global trends in consumer packaging and the key growth drivers in mature and developing markets around the world.
The report can be viewed and downloaded onwww.
com or ordered fromour corporate affairs department.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview
