7 what we make beverage cans Rexam Beverage Cans is a leading global beverage can Europe & Asia We are the largest beverage can and can end maker in Europe.
We make around We also have beverage can plants in Egypt, China and India, 57bn beverage cans each year mainly in aluminium, butalso aswell as an associate in South Korea.
insteel, in more than 20countries around the world.
Can size North America isan important element of customer marketing efforts and we We are the second largest beverage can and can end maker offer the broadest range and a wide choice ofinnovative inks inthe US.
We also have a plant in Mexico and a joint venture and coatings to add further value.
We also make the ends to inGuatemala.
sealthe cans and have a range of printed and coloured ends South America aswell as distinctive features such as cut out or laser coded tabs.
We are the largest beverage can and can end maker in SouthAmerica with operations in Argentina, Brazil and Chile.
more information in the operating review plastic packaging Rexam Plastic Packaging is a major global player in rigid plastic healthcare We produce standard and custom packaging solutions for packaging.
It has two divisions, Healthcare and Personal Care, that pharmaceutical customers worldwide, as well as complete custom make a wide range of products.
These include dry powder inhalers, packaging systems for healthcare and prescription packaging.
pharmaceutical pumps and valves, eye droppers, nasal sprays, personal care medical devices, pilljars and closures for healthcare customers, We are a leading supplier of advanced packaging solutions aswell as a range of products for the toiletries, cosmetics, personal forbeauty, personal care and home product customers.
We have recently started the process to We also make high barrier containers for food.
market Personal Care for sale.
more information in the operating review customers carbon intensity We make products for a wide selection of customers We are well on our way to achieving our target across the globe, but our top 10 account for 60% ofreducing our carbon intensity by 10% in 2013 ofsales.
In 2011, we reduced our carbon intensity by AB InBev Carlsberg 3.5%to0.83kg carbon kg of raw material Coca-Cola Hansen Beverages converted 2010:0.86kg.
Heineken Hornell LOral PepsiCo Red Bull Schincariol 60% 3.5% more information in the sustainability section fi fin na an nc ciia all s st ta at te em me en nt ts s g go ov five er rn na an nc ce e s su us st ta aiin na ab biilliit ty y b bu usi sin ne es ss s r re ev viie ew w o ov five er rv viie ew w
