54 Rexam annual report 2011 directors report directors and officers chairman chairman designate Sir Peter Ellwood 68 Stuart Chambers 55 appointed Chairman on 1 May 2008 appointed 1February 2012 as a non executive director on 1 February nonexecutive director and chairman 2008 and retiring on 22 February 2012. designate to succeed Sir Peter Ellwood committees Nomination chairman.
on 23 February 2012. strengths An experienced chairman committees Nomination.
withan international business and strengths Extensive breadth of business leadership focus.
experience, including experience of previous business experience Chairman global business to business markets.
of ICI PLC until its acquisition by Akzo previous business experience Group Nobel NV in 2008.
Group chief chief executive of NSG Group, the Tokyo executive of Lloyds TSB Group plc.
based global glass company, until 2009.
Chief executive of Pilkington PLC until its other directorships Member of the supervisory board ofAkzo Nobel NV.
acquisition by NSG Group in 2006.
Senior positions at Mars Inc. and a variety of European roles at Royal Dutch Shell plc.
other directorships Non executive director of Smiths Group plc, Tesco PLC and The Manchester Airport Group PLC.
executive directors executive leadership team Jon Atchue human resources Andr Balbi Cervio beverage can Americas Graham Chipchase chief executive David Gibson Graham Chipchase 49 David Robbie 48 legal chief executive finance director Malcolm Harrison appointed 1January 2010 as chief appointed 3 October 2005. plastic packaging executive.
Joined the board as finance committees Finance.
director on 10 February 2003 and strengths Strong financial, accounting, Claire Jenkins wasgroup director plastic packaging strategic and corporate finance corporate affairs from 2005. experience andskills.
previous business experience Chief enterprise risk strengths Extensive financial and financial officer of Royal P&O Nedlloyd operational knowledge, proven leadership NV and finance director of CMG plc.
David Robbie skills and a comprehensive understanding other directorships Trustee of Aldeburgh finance director of Rexams businesses and markets.
previous business experience Finance Tomas Sjlin director of GKN plcs aerospace services beverage can Europe & Asia business and held various positions within the European and US subsidiaries of BOCGroup plc.
Operational experience as group director of Rexams plastic packaging business.
55 non executive directors Noreen Doyle 62 John Langston 62 Wolfgang Meusburger 58 appointed 22 March 2006. appointed 30 October 2008.
Became appointed 1 December 2006. committees Finance chairman, audit the acting senior independent director on committees Nomination, remuneration.
strengths Experience in the fast moving committees Audit andrisk chairman, strengths A diverse business background consumer goods FMCG industry and an with experience and knowledge of finance, nomination, remuneration.
in depth understanding of business financial markets.
strengths A chartered accountant with development.
international, commercial and corporate previous business experience Senior previous business experience Held senior operational positions at Bankers Trust finance experience.
international positions in the FMCG industry Company and at the European Bank for previous business experience Joined the and was chief executive of Tchibo until 2001.
board ofSmiths Group plc in 2000 other directorships Sits on the board of other directorships Non executive holding operational roles until several international FMCG companies appointment asfinance director from director of Credit Suisse, Newmont inEuropeand an educational facility in Mining Corporation and QinetiQ Group 2006 to his retirement in May 2010.
Chairman ofKgi Shne AG Adirector of TIGroup plc prior to PLC, and a member of theadvisory and Kaffee Partner GmbH, and of the non panels for the Macquarie European itsacquisition by Smiths Group.
Non Infrastructure Fund and the Macquarie other directorships Non executive executive directorships include BS Group, Renaissance Infrastructure Fund.
director ofCross Match Technologies Inc. CCT Reig Group and Chiquita Fruit Bar.
company secretary Leo Oosterveer 52 JeanPierre Rodier 64 David Gibson 49 appointed 1 September 2011. appointed 7 June 2006. committees Nomination.
committees Remuneration chairman, strengths Strong operational leader with audit and risk, nomination.
global management experience and a strengths Significant international track record in marketing, sales and business experience and an extensive strategy development gained both knowledge of the packaging and inEurope and Asia.
changes to the board business experience Leads the global previous business experience Chairman food service division of Unilever.
From and chiefexecutive of Pechiney until Carl Symon, the non executive senior 2002 to 2006 chairman CEO of Pechineymerged with Alcan in 2003. independent director, retired from the Unilever in Thailand and Indochina whose Chief executive of Union Minire and board on 23 November 2011. operations are mainly focused on home chairman and chief executive of Apart from the appointments of and personal care products.
StuartChambers and Leo Oosterveer other directorships Advisor toCorporate disclosed in this section, there were no Value Associates and an associate with other changes to the board during 2011 Mediobanca Banca di Credito Finanziario until his resignation on 1 January 2011. and up until the date of this annual report.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview
