co. uk senior management team Alex Solomon Alan Gearing Peter Armstrong New Homes Director Managing Director, Rightmove Commercial property director Alex joined Rightmove in 2005 and, Property Services Peter joined Rightmove in 2003 and having been responsible for the pricing Alan joined Rightmove in 2006 worked in the new homes business, and products portfolios, now runs the developing new sources of revenue which he then went on to run from new homes business.
Prior to joining separate from property advertising.
Peter has Rightmove he spent six years working was appointed as Managing director subsequently taken on the role of as an economist policy advisor for of Rightmoves Automated Valuation Commercial property director.
prior trade bodies, initially representing the Model division in July 2008.
Prior to to Rightmove, Peter worked in sales interests of agricultural firms at the Rightmove he was a founder of both and sales management, latterly in National Farmers Union and then The Asset Management Group directory advertising with yell.
mortgage firms at the Council of property disposal and maintenance Mortgage Lenders.
services and The Inventory Exchange online inventory and property inspection and was Managing Director of a 50 branch estate agency chain.
Miles Shipside Robyn Perriss Simon Hickie Commercial director Financial Controller Human Resources Director Miles joined Rightmove as a founding Robyn joined Rightmove in 2007 and Simon joined Rightmove in 2007 director in 2001 bringing 20 years of has day-to-day responsibility for the and has responsibility for driving experience at senior levels in financial operations, based out of people-focused activity across independent estate agency and with Milton Keynes, as well as statutory the business.
He was formerly Halifax Estate Agency.
He has reporting and the treasury function.
She at Bloomberg LP where he was responsibility for estate agency and was formerly Group Financial Controller responsible for HR operations media relations, specialising in advising at the online media business, Trader across Europe, the Middle East the industry on how the internet is Media Group.
She qualified as a and Africa.
transforming home moving and the chartered accountant in South Africa state of the housing market.
qualified as a Chartered Surveyor in 1982.
