co. uk directors and officers Scott Forbes Ed Williams Chairman Managing director Scott was appointed Chairman of Ed joined Rightmove in 2000 as Rightmove in 2005.
He is also the Managing director at its inception.
Chief Executive of Bridge Capital He is also a non-executive director Advisors Ltd, which he founded in of Trader Media Group, owner of the 2007, and was a director of NetJets UKs leading motoring website.
His Management Ltd, a subsidiary of prior experience is in business strategy Berkshire Hathaway through to and IT consulting with McKinsey & Co, October 2009.
Scott has over Accenture and JPMorgan.
Appointed 30 years experience in operations, 19 december 2000. finance and mergers & acquisitions which includes 15 years at Cendant Corporation which was formerly the largest worldwide provider of residential property services.
Scott established the Cendant international headquarters in London in 1999 and led this division as Group Managing Director until he joined Rightmove.
Jonathan Agnew Ashley Martin Judy Vezmar Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Jonathan joined the Board in 2006 Ashley joined Rightmove in 2009 as Judy joined Rightmove in 2006 as a as Senior Independent Director.
a non-executive director and also as non-executive director.
She is Chief He is Chairman of Beazley, The Chairman of the Audit Committee, Executive Officer of LexisNexis Cayenne Trust and Ashmore Global where he provides oversight of the International.
LexisNexis, part of the Opportunities.
Jonathan was an financial reporting practices, internal global media group Reed elsevier investment banker for over 25 years, control environment and compliance PLC, is a leading worldwide provider including being a Managing director with the various listed company of content-enabled workflow solutions of Morgan Stanley and Group Chief regulations.
He is also a member of designed specifically for professionals Executive of Kleinwort Benson.
He in the legal, risk management, has been Chairman of Nationwide qualified as a chartered accountant corporate, government, law Building Society, Limit, Gerrard Group in 1981 and has a career in enforcement, accounting and and LMS Capital and has served on finance spanning 30 years.
Judy is responsible the Council of Lloyds.
Appointed previously Finance Director of Rok plc, for the International Group and their 16 January 2006.
Chairman of the the building services group, and expansion of the range of successful Remuneration Committee and a Group Finance Director of the media online services to over 100 countries.
member of the Audit and Nomination services company, Tempus plc.
Member of the of the Audit Committee and member Audit, Remuneration and Nomination of the Remuneration Committee.
16 business review corporate governance financial statements rightmove plc annual report 2011 Nick McKittrick Peter Brooks-Johnson Chief Operating Officer and Managing Director, Rightmove.
co. uk Finance director Peter joined Rightmove in 2006 and Nick joined Rightmove in 2000.
He developed the Home Information led the development of Rightmoves Packs proposition.
His focus original website and then went on to subsequently shifted to the operation build the new homes, lettings and of the Rightmove.
At the start of He then went on to lead, from the 2005, Nick became the Managing beginning of 2008, the estate Director of the main Rightmove.
peter was promoted operating subsidiary, overseeing a to the role of Managing Director of trebling of revenue in three years.
co. uk on his appointment 2009, he was promoted to the role to the Board on 10 January 2011 of Chief Operating Officer and and now leads the main operating Finance Director.
Prior to joining Rightmove, Company he worked in Accenture for peter was a managing consultant eight years in the technology with Accenture and the Berkeley consulting division.
Appointed to the Board Board 5 March 2004.
Colin Kemp Liz Taylor Non-executive Director Company Secretary Colin was appointed to the Board in Liz was appointed Company 2007.
He is the Commercial Director for Secretary of Rightmove in 2006. the Halifax Community Bank following She is a Fellow of the Institute the formation of Lloyds Banking Group of Chartered Secretaries and in January 2009.
With over 30 years Administrators and has over experience in high street retail banking, 20 years company secretarial Colin has worked for Lloyds Banking experience across a variety of Group companies since 1979.
His roles FTSE 250 public companies in the have included running the Retail retail, media and property sectors.
Contact Centres and heading up the Prior to joining Rightmove, she was Halifax Employee Share Services Company Secretary of The Berkeley business, administering employee share Group Holdings plc, the holding plans to over 400 UK companies.
company of the group engaged Between January 2005 and December in residential and commercial 2007, Colin was Managing Director of property development.
Colin is a Cranfield MBA and an Associate of the Chartered Institute of Marketing.
