Copper Grasberg a joint venture gives Rio Tinto a 40 per cent share Financial performance of production above specified levels until 2021 and 40 per cent 2011 2010 US$ million US$ million of all production after 2021 Revenue 7,634 7,797 Grasberg is owned and operated by PT Freeport Indonesia, a subsidiary of US-based Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.
Located in the province Operating cash flow 3,134 4,125 of Papua in Indonesia, it is one of the worlds largest copper mines.
In 2011, Underlying earnings 1,932 2,530 Rio Tintos share of production from Grasberg was 17 thousand tonnes Capital expenditure 3,784 990 of mined copper and 178 thousand ounces of mined gold.
Net operating assets 12,094 7,718 Northparkes Rio Tinto: 80 per cent Based in New South Wales, Australia, Northparkes is a joint venture Strategy with the Sumitomo Group.
Northparkes produced 50 thousand tonnes The Copper groups strategy is to deliver shareholder value by: of mined copper and 76 thousand ounces of mined gold in 2011, Optimising operating assets with meaningful improvements in safety 100 per cent basis.
and productivity, and through investment in innovative technologies.
Palabora Rio Tinto: 57.7 per cent Progressing the groups high-quality growth projects.
Palabora Mining Company is a South African company listed on the Collaborating with local governments and communities to contribute Johannesburg Stock Exchange based in Limpopo Province.
produced 59 thousand tonnes of refined copper in 2011 100 per cent Developing the leadership and talent needed to deliver growth.
In September 2011, Rio Tinto announced plans to divest its interest in Palabora and a commercial process to do so is under way.
Safety Growth and innovation In 2011, the Copper groups all injury frequency rate was 0.56, versus 0.57 in 2010.
The group recorded 81 lost-time injuries including, During the next three years, the Copper group will invest more than regrettably, two fatalities at its Oyu Tolgoi project in Mongolia.
US$4.5 billion of capital in its existing operations.
The Copper group is committed to providing a workplace where zero harm In the first half of 2011, the group began a US$238 million feasibility study is possible.
To that end, the group is developing enhanced programmes to extend the mine life at Kennecott Utah Coppers Bingham Canyon mine.
and procedures to manage process safety, underground safety and With this expansion, Bingham Canyon will mine an additional 974 million contractor management activities.
In addition, the group is embedding tonnes of ore and recover 3.7 million tonnes of copper, 4.1 million ounces the need for all leaders and employees to focus on personal safety and of gold and 584 million pounds of molybdenum.
Total capital expenditure work collaboratively toward a goal of zero harm.
for the mine expansion project is expected to be between US$2 billion and US$3 billion.
Greenhouse gas emissions Rio Tinto has also approved a US$165 million investment to conduct The Copper groups 2011 greenhouse gas GHG emissions were 8.14 tonnes pre-feasibility studies for the North Rim Skarn, a proposed underground of COe per tonne of copper cathode produced, compared with 8.75 in 2010, 2 operation that would operate in parallel with the Bingham Canyon open as Kennecott Utah Copper, which accounts for 54 per cent of the Copper pit and produce an estimated 50 thousand tonnes of copper per year, groups total GHG emissions, reduced generation at its main power plant with gold and silver by-products, at grades significantly higher than the in response to lower electricity prices.
To reduce greenhouse gas emissions, Kennecott is testing alternative In 2012, the Copper group will complete construction of a Molybdenum fuel vehicles, best-in-class lighting technologies, equipment optimisation Autoclave Process at Kennecott Utah Copper, which will improve recovery projects, and adoption of other developing technologies.
Phase one will begin commissioning towards the end of 2012, with an initial capacity of 30 million pounds, increasing to Review of operations for the year 60 million pounds in early 2015.
The Copper group portfolio is made up of large, long-life operations, Escondida is constructing a new 152 thousand tonnes per day concentrator including: that is expected to increase production by 2015.
Construction of a new Kennecott Utah Copper Rio Tinto: 100 per cent dynamic oxide leaching pad will maintain current processing capacity Kennecott Utah Copper, adjacent to Salt Lake City, produces about following the completion of the existing heap leach in 2014.
The current 25 per cent of US copper and molybdenum supply and provides more sulphide leach pad is also being expanded.
Moving crushing and conveying than 17 per cent of US refined copper requirements.
In 2011, Kennecott systems in the pit will provide access to high-grade ore and a fourth ball produced 215 thousand tonnes of refined copper, 379 thousand ounces mill will be added to the Laguna Seca concentrator.
of refined gold, and 30 million pounds of molybdenum.
In Indonesia, Grasberg continues its transition to underground block cave Escondida Rio Tinto: 30 per cent mining.
Grasbergs US$3.7 billion underground project will ultimately Operated by BHP Billiton, Escondida is the worlds largest copperproduce 160 thousand tonnes of ore per day and is expected to come on producing mine.
Located in Chiles Atacama Desert, it represents eight line in 2016, when the current open pit mine will be depleted.
In addition, per cent of global production and 33 per cent of all copper production construction has begun on the Deep Mill Level Zone block cave mine, from Chile.
In 2011, Escondida produced 759 thousand tonnes of mined which is expected to begin production in 2015.
This US$2 billion project will copper 100 per cent basis.
produce an additional 80 thousand tonnes of ore per day at full capacity.
At the Northparkes mine, the group continues to evaluate a step change expansion that will increase metal production threefold, add more than 20 years to the life of the mine.
The pre-feasibility phase of the project is expected to be complete in late 2012, with construction beginning in 2013.
22 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report Performance Oyu Tolgoi 2012 Rio Tinto: 51 per cent interest in Ivanhoe Outlook Mines Limited In the short term, Rio Tinto sees ongoing volatility in the market.
The Oyu Tolgoi project in Mongolia has the potential to be a top Supply continues to be challenged a result of decreasing grades and ten copper producer and one of the worlds largest producers of gold.
disruptions at existing mines, while new discoveries are increasingly During 2011, Rio Tinto increased its holding in Ivanhoe Mines Limited located at depth and in developing regions with higher sovereign risks, which holds a 66 per cent interest in Oyu Tolgoi from 40.3 per cent and the need for increased levels of stakeholder engagement.
This will to 49 per cent and fully participated in Ivanhoes rights offering.
favour organisations with strong social, environmental, operating, and Consideration for these transactions totalled US$1.9 billion.
Following technical mining skills, such as Rio Tintos Copper group.
expiry of the standstill agreement on 24 January 2012, Rio Tinto moved to a majority stake in Ivanhoe, having purchased shares that take it The long-term demand picture has not changed and growth will remain to 51 per cent interest.
robust and continue to be driven by urbanisation, electrification and industrialisation in China and other emerging markets.
In addition, Rio Tinto is the manager of the Oyu Tolgoi project, which is on track for first increased focus on renewable sources of energy and energy efficiency commercial production in 2013.
Phase one includes the development of an will be beneficial for copper in the long term.
open pit mine and a 100 thousand tonne per day concentrator.
Total capital expenditure for the first phase is approximately US$6 billion.
In 2011, Rio Tinto experienced a dip in copper ore grades, although gold and molybdenum grades have remained strong.
The Group expects to Rio Tinto expects phase two of Oyu Tolgoi, which includes developing an see improving grades in the second half of 2012 and into 2013.
Production underground mine and expanding the mill to 160 thousand tonnes per day, from the existing mines will be supplemented with Oyu Tolgois first to begin production in 2015.
Oyu Tolgois underground reserve grades are commercial production in 2013, and the Copper groups growth pipeline nearly four times those of the open pit.
contains a number of promising projects.
La Granja Rio Tinto: 100 per cent La Granja, in Peru, is wholly owned by Rio Tinto, and is currently the worlds seventh-largest undeveloped copper resource with an inferred mineral resource of 3.6 billion tonnes at 0.51 per cent copper.
In the fourth quarter of 2011, Rio Tinto approved funding to begin pre-feasibility work on the project, which would be developed over a nine-year timeframe using a staged development approach.
La Granjas initial leaching operation envisions production of up to 100 thousand tonnes of copper per year, with the potential to expand to 250 thousand tonnes.
The subsequent addition of a concentrator could add another 250 thousand tonnes of copper production, bringing total copper production to 500 thousand tonnes per year.
Resolution Copper Rio Tinto: 55 per cent The Resolution Copper project, located in the US state of Arizona, is the third-largest undeveloped copper resource in the world.
Rio Tinto expects to complete pre-feasibility studies in 2012, with the aim of production starting in the next ten years.
With grades at around 1.5 per cent, Resolution currently plans to produce in excess of 600 thousand tonnes of copper per year at peak production, with significant amounts of molybdenum as a by-product.
To realise the full potential of the project, Resolution Copper needs access to public land where mining is currently prohibited.
In exchange, the project would give the public more than 2,400 hectares of high-quality conservation lands.
A bill outlining the parameters of this exchange has been pending before the US Congress since 2005.
In October 2011 the US House of Representatives voted to approve the bill, which now awaits consideration by the Senate.
Technology and innovation The Copper group continues to invest in advanced mining technologies designed to give access to more copper, sooner and with greater efficiencies.
In 2012, the Copper group will commission a tunnel boring system at Northparkes, that it is developing with Aker Wirth.
The group is also evaluating full-scale prototype trials of additional tunnel boring machines and a shaft boring system.
When used in combination, these two boring systems have the potential to decrease the time it takes to construct an underground mine by 40 per cent, compared to conventional methods.
At Kennecott Utah Copper, the Copper group has begun construction of a pilot plant facility to test its CopperNuWave recovery technology, that upgrades marginal ore or waste material, reduces energy consumption and more efficiently uses concentrator capacity.
The group expects to commission the facility in the second quarter of 2012. riotinto.
