Performance Technology & Innovation Technology & Innovation T&I consists of a central team of technology During 2011 a number of projects continued on target, or were accelerated, professionals and centres.
These develop leading practice and promote to deliver significant value to Rio Tinto through technological advancement.
improvements in technology, mining, processing, asset management, Mineral Technology Services strategic production planning, and project development, execution and The Mineral Technology Services Centre comprises a team of professionals evaluation.
Emphasis is given to shared and visible measures of operational deployed from seven regional offices in North America, Australia, the UK, effectiveness, the improvement of analytical tools, development of staff and South Africa.
The team works with operating sites to deliver substantial capabilities, and implementation of technology step changes that will increases in value: with project teams to determine the optimum valueconfer competitive advantage in development of orebodies likely to be adding project plan: and with the broader Group to understand and manage available to the Group in the future.
The team provides support in the areas of geology, The total number of employees in T&I increased from 538 at year end 2010 geotechnics, mining, mineral processing, hydrometallurgy, process control, to 925 at year end 2011 primarily due to an increase of demand for the asset management, environment and business analysis.
design and build of major projects on behalf of the Groups business units.
The Improving Performance Together IPT engagements continue to work The T&I gross cost in 2011 was US$343 million, compared with with operating sites on operating improvements.
The Centre is responsible for implementing IPT processing, a methodology designed to increase the value delivered by Rio Tintos processing Strategy operations.
IPT processing includes focused data analysis to understand and T&Is strategy is to: address the constraints and variability which inhibit process performance.
Maintain and promote a safe working environment.
Asset Management Continue to embed operational excellence in business units.
The Asset Management Centre focuses on the effective selection and deployment of the Groups equipment for mining and processing.
Work Maximise the contribution of technology to the Groups vision includes improvements in the reliability and performance of these physical of industry leadership.
assets, utilising asset management standards and guidelines, as well as Deploy technology solutions that increase earnings.
standard business processes and fit-for-purpose technical operating Design and build valuable, new growth projects.
systems, work practices, training and global metrics to monitor the Position the Group to unlock orebodies that require innovative solutions.
performance of fixed plant and heavy mobile equipment.
Mining Technology Safety The focus of the Mining Technology Centre is to establish leading practice T&I is committed to the safe operation of its facilities and to the safe and develop, share and implement Group-wide solutions in the core mining deployment of its personnel.
The all injury frequency rate for T&I and production processes of surface mining, strategic resource development, projects in 2011 is 2.57 compared with 1.54 in 2010, driven largely by underground mining, orebody knowledge, geotechnical and mine planning.
poor performance at the Argyle Diamond underground project.
The Centre also oversees the Groups resource and reserves estimation An extensive range of actions is being taken to correct this poor performance and reporting process, reserves and resources audit process and core including changes to and strengthening of the project leadership team, technical systems.
increased oversight of safety performance and application of Rio Tintos Site IPT mining initiatives in 2011 included payload management, load and Safety Acceleration Process.
haul improvement, drill and blast and off-road tyre demand reduction.
Performance The Mining Technology Centre also includes a Strategic Production Innovation Planning SPP team, which focuses on developing and establishing Innovation is the research and development group within T&I.
Its focus is on leading practice.
SPP teams co-operate with business units to develop developing radically new and innovative technologies that can address the comprehensive plans and valuations of strategic resource development significant challenges facing the mining industry.
Results from SPP provide a logical resource development demand for natural resources, a move from mature open pit orebodies to framework for more detailed studies and investment decision making.
deeper underground mining with more complex mineralisation, tightening SPP engagements completed during the year increased the life of mine environmental and energy constraints, these challenges are significant.
valuation of a number of existing mining businesses and supported expansion-based investment proposals.
The wealth of technical and project expertise is leveraged through a network of key partnerships with organisations and institutions around the Project Development & Implementation world.
The work is protected by an intense focus on competitive advantage.
The Project Development & Implementation Centre PDI provides guidance, support and training for all aspects of capital projects, performs Examples of initiatives and programmes: a governance function by conducting project reviews, manages feasibility studies, and executes capital projects on behalf of the business units.
The Mine of the Future programme: the interlinking of a number During 2011, PDI continued the implementation of a global operating of initiatives that will deliver improvements in productivity, cost, model in preparation for implementation of projects in nearly all continents product quality and safety.
and on behalf of most product groups.
The model provides for a Project Technologies to support the safe, rapid development of large Management support function as well as Implementation Hubs focused underground block cave mines.
on supporting the product groups.
In situ orebody knowledge to guide the mining and processing Technical Evaluation Group of an ore block.
The Technical Evaluation Group TEG ensures that Rio Tintos The development and deployment of autonomous blast hole drilling investment decisions are based on independent, technical review and technologies.
TEG also provides advice on the adequacy of risk identification Ore recovery through significant advancements in mineral recovery and management at key points in the project approvals process.
Innovative research into technologies to reduce Rio Tintos carbon footprint.
