Diamonds & Minerals Financial performance Review of operations for the year 2011 2010 Diamonds & Minerals underlying earnings of US$252 million were US$ million US$ million 23 per cent lower than 2010.
Excluding the effects of a US$79 million tax Revenue 3,220 3,035 benefit in 2010, underlying earnings were slightly higher than the prior Operating cash flow 333 598 year.
The group benefited from higher prices from improved market Underlying earnings 252 328 conditions across all products.
This was offset by lower volumes and Capital expenditure 639 300 increased costs, primarily in the diamonds business, due to the transition Net operating assets 3,605 4,580 to underground mining at Argyle and severe weather conditions.
A net impairment charge of US$344 million after tax was recognised Strategy on the diamonds assets to reduce their carrying value to an estimated Demand for diamonds and industrial minerals typically follows peak recoverable amount.
This is excluded from underlying earnings.
requirements for commodities such as iron ore and copper.
Diamonds & Rio Tinto Minerals Minerals intends to capitalise on this trend by strengthening its portfolio Borates are essential nutrients for plants and are used in fertilisers and securing opportunities for profitable growth.
The product group to increase crop yield and quality.
They are key ingredients in building strategy is to: materials such as fibreglass, wood preservatives and ceramics: heatImprove its existing businesses operational and commercial resistant glass used in flat screen TVs and computers.
RTM 100 per cent interest supplies nearly 40 per cent of the worlds Build capacity by executing growth projects within its existing refined borates from its world-class deposit in Boron, California.
Its operation footprint also includes borate refineries and shipping Grow its portfolio through value accretive exploration and acquisitions facilities in China, France, Malaysia, the Netherlands, Spain and the US.
in existing and complementary sectors.
RTM completed the divestment of its talc business on 1 August 2011 for an enterprise value of US$340 million.
Safety Production rose slightly to 504 thousand tonnes boric oxide equivalent Diamonds & Minerals continues to focus on fosterng a culture of up from 500 thousand tonnes in 2010 despite significant rainfall events accountability and awareness among employees and improving contractor in the US that curtailed production and led to a declaration of force safety.
The product groups all injury frequency rate AIFR rose slightly to majeure for sodium borates in the beginning of the year.
RTM achieved a five per cent improvement in refined borates revenues Rio Tinto Minerals RTM operations achieved an AIFR of 0.36 in 2011, through strong prices, product mix and steady Asian demand growth.
RTM also led National Mining Association efforts Eliminating the effects of the talc divestment and a US$79 million tax to improve safety standards among US mining companies.
benefit in 2010, revenue and cost improvements increased earnings Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium RTIT operations reported a slight increase by 31 per cent in 2011. in injury rates to an AIFR of 0.57 in 2011 from 0.52 in 2010.
A concerted Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium effort to improve employee engagement at the front lines is helping Titanium dioxide is a white, opaque compound that is an important to build a stronger safety culture throughout the business.
pigment used in paint, plastics and paper.
RTIT is the largest producer Rio Tinto Diamonds RTDs safety performance across its sites of titanium dioxide feedstocks.
In a year that saw a transition from open pit mining RTIT mines ilmenite at its wholly-owned Rio Tinto Fer et Titane RTFT to underground operations at two of its sites, RTDs safety performance operation in Quebec: its managed operation Richards Bay Minerals RBM declined with an AIFR of 0.66 in 2011, up from 0.36 in 2010.
All RTD in South Africa 37 per cent interest : and its QIT Madagascar Minerals businesses have renewed their efforts to improve overall safety performance.
QMM operation 80 per cent interest.
RTIT produces high-quality On the upside Murowa achieved the best safety performance in the product titanium dioxide feedstocks at its world-class metallurgical complexes group and Diaviks underground mine rescue team was recognised as the as well as co-products including high-purity iron, steel, metallic powders, best in the western region of North America.
Greenhouse gas emissions In 2011, titanium dioxide feedstock production Rio Tinto share increased Overall greenhouse gas GHG emission intensity declined slightly across by four per cent, despite a furnace rebuild at RTFT, due to strong second the product group due to higher production levels and more efficient half performance at RTFT and production increases at QMM through new equipment and technology.
Improvements included shorter-haul routes dry mining operations and at RBMs new tailings treatment plant.
and recycling programmes to extract ore from tailings.
RTIT grew its revenues by 19 per cent due to price increases for titanium GHG emissions per tonne of product improved slightly at RTM in 2011, dioxide feedstocks, zircon and metallic co-products, in line with demand and intensity decreased by two per cent across RTITs operations, growth associated with global urbanisation trends.
The impact of improved reflecting efficiencies associated with higher production levels and pricing more than offset increased input costs resulting in a 104 per cent new technology.
RTIT continued to replace its multi-year sales contracts with alternative pricing mechanisms, increasing the GHG emission intensities improved at Diavik and Murowa but increased exposure to current market prices.
at Argyle due to lower production.
Diavik began construction of a wind energy system which will reduce diesel consumption by approximately ten per cent and lower greenhouse gas emissions by approximately six per cent.
24 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report Performance Rio Tinto Diamonds Pre-feasibility studies are continuing at the Bunder diamonds project in Rio Tinto is a leading producer of rough diamonds with a product Madhya Pradesh, India.
Rio Tinto has received a Letter of Intent to issue portfolio that provides a presence in all major markets.
Rio Tintos a mining lease for the project from the Government of Madhya Pradesh, diamond assets currently comprise the Argyle Diamond Mine in Australia following approval in principle from the Government of India.
This is a critical Rio Tinto: 100 per cent, the Diavik Diamond Mine in Canada 60 per cent, milestone which allows Rio Tinto to commence a detailed mining plan and Murowa Diamonds in Zimbabwe 78 per cent and the Bunder diamond progress the environmental approvals required for further development.
project in India 100 per cent.
RTD sells its share of production through In December 2011, a further US$0.5 billion of capital was approved for the its centralised marketing office in Belgium.
RTD also has a niche cutting Argyle Underground project.
This increase reflected project development and polishing factory in Australia, where it cuts and polishes the high-end delays primarily caused by a record 2010 2011 wet season and adverse pink diamonds from the Argyle mine, and sells them to an international exchange rate movements.
The underground mine will be complete at the customer base.
end of 2013, with targeted production of 20 million carats per year when RTD produced 11.7 million carats in 2011, a 15 per cent reduction from fully operational.
2010 that reflected adverse weather conditions, maintenance shutdowns in the processing plant and a transition to underground mining at Argyle.
Outlook Construction of the underground mine is scheduled to be completed Diamonds & Minerals businesses serve a range of different industries, at the end of 2013 and the investment will extend mine life until at least but are linked through their track record of creating and defining new 2019.
Three diamond-bearing kimberlite pipes are mined at Diavik using and profitable markets for their products.
Following a solid performance open pit and underground methods.
The open pit is expected to be in 2011, the outlook continues to be positive across all products depleted by 2012, but underground operations will extend Diaviks mine as urbanisation and rising standards of living drive higher levels life past 2020. of demand.
RTD revenue increased by seven per cent reflecting improved market In the borate marketplace, RTM will seek to capture profitable growth in conditions in the US and continued demand growth in China and India.
emerging economies and maintain its position in its established markets.
This was more than offset by higher costs and lower production volumes Planned supply chain improvements will facilitate speed and flexibility in at Argyle and higher depreciation following a 2010 impairment reversal shifting supply to promising sectors and regions.
RTM will focus on at Diavik, leading to an 86 per cent drop in overall earnings.
increasing refined borate capacity to meet higher than GDP demand growth while achieving world-class safety performance and improving Growth and innovation its cost position.
In 2011, Diamonds & Minerals re-entered the potash business through Demand for titanium dioxide feedstock is expected to continue to grow an exploration joint venture with North Atlantic Potash Inc, a subsidiary in line with improving global economic conditions, urbanisation and of JSC Acron.
Acron is a world leader in fertiliser production and holds demand growth in emerging markets.
This is expected to have a positive multiple potash exploration permits in Saskatchewan, Canada, home impact on prices.
RTIT is well placed to benefit from improved market to about half the worlds potash reserves.
Drilling has commenced conditions through its marketing strategy and expansion plans.
to confirm an economically viable potash resource.
Higher nutritional standards, population growth and limited arable land make potash a critical The medium to long-term fundamentals for the diamond industry factor in maintaining global food security, and a natural complement to are positive and expected to support future price growth.
The global RTMs existing borate fertiliser business.
mineral reserve base is steadily declining, compounded by limited exploration investment and success, and expected reductions in supply Development also progressed at the groups Jadar lithium-borate deposit over the medium to longer-term.
Demand in India and China is expected in Serbia.
If developed, the deposit has the potential to supply more than to continue to grow, and to represent some 20 per cent of global diamond 20 per cent of global lithium demand.
New investment will fund the consumption by 2012 and 40 per cent of global diamond jewellery collection of bulk ore samples.
These will be refined at RTMs pilot consumption by 2020.
Demand in mature markets is expected to grow processing facilities into boric acid and battery-grade lithium carbonate, in line with GDP.
and tested in the marketplace.
Lithium carbonates fastest-growing application is in batteries that provide clean power to industrial systems and electric and hybrid cars.
In 2011, RTIT commenced studies to identify, pursue and realise the best opportunities for organic expansions of its titanium dioxide mining and smelting capacity.
Demand for titanium dioxide feedstocks is expected to climb significantly and the industry has invested very little in new mine or smelting capacity in the last two decades.
RTIT is taking a progressive approach to evaluating and executing its best options for long-term organic growth.
To date, US$63 million has been approved to conduct Order of Magnitude studies.
Rio Tinto Fer et Titane announced its TiO project in May 2011, 2050 a proposed investment of C$800 million over the next five years to enhance mining and processing operations.
Through this investment, mine life will be extended to 2050 and equipment at the operations metallurgical complex will be upgraded to improve efficiency and environmental performance.
In February 2012, Rio Tinto announced that it would double its stake in RBM to 74 per cent through the acquisition of BHP Billitons 37 per cent interest.
