Energy 36.5 per cent interest in Port Waratah Coal Services PWCS which operates Financial performance the Kooragang and Carrington coal port terminals in Newcastle.
2011 2010 US$ million US$ million The groups Australian coal operations were impacted by severe weather Revenue 7,327 5,652 events which saw all four Queensland mines declare force majeure in Operating cash flow 2,019 2,463 December 2010.
Underlying earnings 1,074 1,187 Favourable prices through the first part of 2011 for all coal types have Capital expenditure 1,327 685 contributed to underlying earnings of US$1.2 billion, a 32 per cent increase Net operating assets 8,164 3,694 from 2010.
Constraints in explosives supplies to New South Wales sites in late 2011 will impact production in the first half of 2012.
However, coal Strategy production is forecast to increase in 2012.
This will be achieved through the The Energy group is focused on safely supplying the worlds growing realisation of brownfield expansions across all New South Wales operations, energy needs through the sustainable development and operation the ongoing ramp-up of the Clermont Mine and productivity benefits of large-scale, long-life, cost-competitive mines.
flowing from the implementation of a significant business improvement It aims to be a sector leader in the development and operation of the programme during 2011.
Rio Tinto completed the privatisation of worlds coal and uranium resources, and to build strong customer Coal & Allied during 2011, which is now owned 80 20 with Mitsubishi relationships while maximising revenues.
Rio Tinto continues to manage Coal & Allied.
The Energy group is pursuing opportunities for growth to meet Energy Resources of Australia Rio Tinto: 68.39 per cent expanding long-term global energy demand, while continuing to focus ERA is a publicly listed company.
Since 1981 ERA has mined ore on operational excellence, community engagement and environmental and produced uranium oxide at its Ranger open pit mine, 260km east performance to ensure it is the developer of first choice.
of Darwin in Australias Northern Territory.
ERA also holds title to the adjacent Jabiluka mineral lease.
Ranger and Jabiluka are surrounded Safety by, but remain separate from, the World Heritage listed Kakadu National Regrettably a fatality occurred in the Energy group during 2011 due to a Park.
ERAs operations are subject to stringent environmental requirements crush incident at Zululand Anthracite Colliery in South Africa, an operation and governmental oversight.
The groups all injury frequency rate AIFR was In 2011, ERA was severely impacted by the third highest wet season 0.79 in 2011 as compared with 0.73 in 2010.
The Energy groups AIFR on record, which triggered a proactive shutdown of ERAs processing increased during 2011, due in part to a rise in the number of incidents operations from January to June 2011.
ERA made an adjustment to its involving hand injuries and contractors at RTCA.
Programmes have been reserves and resources statement in August 2011 following the decision implemented to address these core areas in 2012.
Safety highlights for not to proceed with construction of the Ranger heap leach facility 2011 included zero recordable injuries at Colowyo up to the point of project.
ERA also raised A$500 million via an accelerated renounceable divestiture of that business on 1 December 2011, and an AIFR of 0.57 entitlement offer to progress strategic projects around exploration and at ERA down from 0.71 in 2010.
All of Rio Tintos Energy business units water management.
remain focused on achieving the goal of zero harm through optimisation of Rio Tinto safety systems and continued strengthening of safety culture Rssing Uranium Rio Tinto: 68.58 per cent in the workplace.
Our Rssing Mine is located near the town of Arandis, 70 km inland from the coastal town of Swakopmund in Namibias Erongo Region.
In 2011, the Greenhouse gas emissions Rssing mine announced a reduction in reserves and resources following The Energy group is committed to a future where energy is about an update of the mine design.
sustainable practices that will minimise global carbon emissions.
A major business improvement diagnostic was completed and execution Initiatives and projects at each operation are helping to reduce energy of a range of initiatives commenced in 2011, with a view to improving use and greenhouse gas GHG emissions, and the group continues to reliability and increasing production.
dedicate resources to the development of low-emissions coal technology.
GHG for the Energy group totalled approximately 4.3 million tonnes Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique Rio Tinto: 100 per cent of carbon dioxide equivalent in 2011, compared with 4.0 million tonnes Zambeze Project 100 per cent : Tete East Project 100 per cent : in 2010.
Rio Tinto Coal Australia completed drilling at New South Wales Benga Project 65 per cent : Zululand Anthracite Colliery 74 per cent.
sites to measure coal seam methane content, and also contributed to the development of an industry methodology to improve estimation of coal Rio Tintos acquisition of Riversdale, renamed as Rio Tinto Coal seam methane emissions from mining.
Mozambique, was completed in August 2011.
Its first operation, the Benga project, is due to start exports around the end of March.
Review of operations for the year In this report, the reserves and resources figures for our Mozambique Rio Tintos Energy business faced a number of challenges in 2011 coal assets are published for the first time since Riversdale was acquired in particular severe wet weather in Australia which constrained supply by Rio Tinto.
The magnitude of the reserves and resources figures of uranium and coal, and the Japanese tsunami which impacted demand is consistent with our original estimates that were calculated during for uranium.
Rio Tinto Coal Australia Rio Tinto: 100 per cent Rio Tinto is planning to divest its stake in the Zululand Anthracite Colliery RTCA manages the groups Australian coal interests.
These include the which was acquired as part of the Riversdale purchase.
Blair Athol Rio Tinto: 71.2 per cent, Clermont Rio Tinto: 50.1 per cent, Hail Creek Rio Tinto: 82 per cent and Kestrel Rio Tinto: 80 per cent Growth and innovation coal mines in Queensland.
RTCA also provides management services Each of the Energy groups coal and uranium operations in Australia to Coal & Allied Industries Rio Tinto: 80 per cent for operation of its four and Africa are progressing expansion projects, in either execution or mines located in the Hunter Valley in New South Wales.
wholly owns Hunter Valley Operations, has an 80 per cent interest in Mount Thorley Operations, a 55.6 per cent interest in the contiguous Rio Tinto Coal Australias large, cost-competitive resource base positions Warkworth mine, and a 40 per cent interest in the Bengalla mine adjacent us favourably to capture ongoing demand for seaborne thermal and coking to its wholly owned Mount Pleasant project.
Coal & Allied also has a coal.
Existing growth plans at Australian coal operations are expected to 26 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report Performance see production increase by around 50 per cent over the coming years to around 73 million tonnes a year in 2015.
This includes the Mount Pleasant Project in the Hunter Valley, which is expected to be considered for investment approval during 2012, and the Kestrel Mine Extension project, which is due to be completed in 2013.
2012 will also see an increase in exploration activities and studies to support planning for further options.
The Moatize basin in Mozambique is home to one of the best undeveloped coking coal resources in the world.
Rio Tinto has the largest licence holding in that region and owns Tier 1 resources which are long life, will be cost competitive and will have substantial expansion options.
Rio Tinto plans to significantly grow these assets and sees this region providing a development opportunity that is long term and will achieve sustainable growth over a 50-year-plus timeframe.
Whilst saleable production will initially be constrained by existing rail and port infrastructure, feasibility studies into infrastructure solutions and mine expansions at Benga and the adjacent Zambeze Project are continuing in 2012.
The Ranger 3 Deeps exploration decline was approved in August 2011, with construction commencing in 2012.
This will enable ERA to conduct close-spaced underground exploration drilling and explore areas adjacent to the Ranger 3 Deeps resource.
ERA will also invest a total of A$220 million to construct a brine concentrator to reduce process water inventories and underpin our approach to mine closure obligations.
Work is progressing on expansion studies to extend the Rssing mine life beyond 2023.
Pre-feasibility work on upgrades to the processing facilities at Rssing is ongoing.
In early 2012, Rio Tinto completed a friendly takeover bid for Canadian uranium exploration company Hathor Exploration.
The resources of Hathor are currently being reviewed under Rio Tinto standards and will be published in due course.
In late 2011 Rio Tinto finalised the sale of Colowyo, its last remaining thermal coal mine in the US, in order to focus on growing energy demand in the Asia region.
Outlook Increasing prosperity, urbanisation and industrialisation in large developing countries, such as China and India, will continue to drive global demand growth for energy in the coming decades.
Under even the most ambitious climate change policy scenarios, the International Energy Agency IEA predicts demand for energy will increase by more than 20 per cent by 2035.
Future growth will be dominated by Asia: the IEA forecasts that China alone represents 44 per cent of global energy growth over the period 2008 to 2020.
The Energy groups strategy is to target expanding export markets, particularly in the Asia Pacific region.
While uranium as a source of energy is currently much smaller than coal, it remains significant in the global energy mix, and there are expectations demand will rise in a carbon-constrained future.
The 2011 tsunami in Japan and its impact on the Fukushima plant had a negative effect on the short to medium term outlook for uranium.
Operations at Japans nuclear power plants continue to be limited by political action, while Germany reacted by declaring a total phase-out of nuclear energy over the course of the decade.
These events are not expected to have a significant effect on the long-term growth in uranium demand.
This is primarily due to Chinas ambitious nuclear programme, of more than 100 new reactors over the next ten years.
Korea, India and the UAE are also building new nuclear power plants, and investment in new capacity continues in the more mature markets of the US and Europe.
For many countries, energy diversification is the key to their energy security.
Coal will continue to be an important base load fuel for decades to come, and nuclear energy also provides large-scale energy security with the added benefit of no greenhouse gas emissions.
For this reason, Rio Tintos Energy group continues to be positive about the demand outlook for both coal and uranium.
