Overview Group overview Molybdenum Aluminium product group Molybdenum is a metallic element frequently used to produce stainless We are a global leader in the aluminium industry.
Our fully-integrated steel and other metal alloys.
It enhances the metals toughness, high facilities include high-quality bauxite mines, large-scale alumina refineries, temperature strength and corrosion resistance.
We produce molybdenum and some of the worlds lowest-cost, most  as a by-product of our copper operations.
Key strengths Products Participation in and ownership of several world-class operating assets.
Bauxite Management of the Oyu Tolgoi project, scheduled to be a top ten Bauxite is the natural ore used to make aluminium.
It is refined into copper producer and a significant gold producer.
alumina which is smelted into aluminium metal.
Investment in substantial growth projects.
Alumina Industry leading technology and innovation.
Alumina aluminium oxide is extracted from bauxite via a refining process known as the Bayer process.
Approximately four tonnes of bauxite are Full operating review on page 22. required to produce two tonnes of alumina, which in turn makes one tonne of aluminium metal.
Diamonds & Minerals product group Aluminium The Diamonds & Minerals group comprises mining, refining and Aluminium is light, strong, flexible, non-corrosive and infinitely recyclable.
marketing operations across three sectors.
Rio Tinto Diamonds is one Aluminium is one of the most widely used metals and its largest markets of the worlds leading diamond producers, active in mining, sales and are transportation, building and construction.
Rio Tinto Minerals is a world leader in borates, with mines, processing plants, commercial and research facilities.
Rio Tinto Iron Key strengths & Titanium is an industry leader in high grade titanium dioxide.
Largest bauxite producer in the industry.
Tier 1 operations across the value chain, from bauxite to alumina Products to aluminium.
Diamonds Diamonds share a role with gold as an important component in jewellery The vast majority of Rio Tinto Alcans operations draw on clean, that ranges from top end jewellery through to more affordable diamond renewable hydroelectric power.
Rio Tinto is able to service both established and Industry leading technologies including our proprietary emerging markets as it produces the full range of gem diamonds in terms AP Technology.
of size, quality and colour distribution.
Full operating review on page 20.
Borates Refined borates are used in hundreds of products and processes.
They are a vital ingredient of many home and automotive applications, and are Copper product group essential nutrients for crops.
They are commonly used in glass and ceramic With diverse assets and leading technology, our Copper group is uniquely applications including fibreglass, television screens, floor and wall tiles, and positioned to supply growing global demand.
In 2011, we produced 520 heat-resistant glass.
thousand tonnes of mined copper Rio Tinto share, making us the worlds seventh largest supplier.
We also produced 669 thousand ounces of gold, Titanium dioxide 4,924 thousand ounces of silver and 14 thousand tonnes of molybdenum The minerals ilmenite and rutile, together with titanium dioxide slag, can as by-products of our copper operations.
be transformed into a white titanium dioxide pigment or titanium metal.
The white pigment is a key component in paints, plastics, paper, inks, Products textiles, food, sunscreen and cosmetics.
Titanium metals key properties Copper of light weight, chemical inertness and high strength make it ideal for use The world uses more than 20 million tonnes of copper every year.
in medical applications and in the aerospace industry.
Copper is found in nearly every home and vehicle, and in parts and appliances used in numerous aspects of infrastructure and technology.
Other products include high purity iron, metal powders, zircon and rutite.
Coppers malleability, strength and resistance to corrosion make it useful in a broad range of building, construction and electrical applications.
Key strengths Poised to benefit from late-cycle demand growth.
Gold Substantial brownfield and greenfield development pipeline.
Golds conductivity and non-corrosive properties make it a vital fabrication material in technology, electronics, jewellery, space exploration and Full operating review on page 24. dentistry.
Rio Tinto is currently one of the top 15 gold producers in the world, and the largest among the diversified miners.
We have interests in two of the largest gold resources at Oyu Tolgoi and Grasberg: the latter contains the largest gold reserves in the world.
Rio Tinto produces gold as a by-product of its copper production.
Silver Silver is a good conductor of electricity and has non-corrosive properties.
It is used in many electrical and electronic applications, such as photovoltaic cells, and is the principal ingredient of x-ray film.
Silver is also a metal of beauty, used to make lasting products for the home and person.
Rio Tinto produces silver as a by-product of its copper production.
com 3 Group overview continued Energy product group We are a leading supplier of thermal and coking coal to the Asian seaborne market and are one of the worlds largest uranium producers, serving electric power utilities worldwide.
The Rio Tinto Energy product group has operations, exploration and development projects in Australia, Africa and Canada.
Products Coal Coal is abundant, relatively inexpensive, and safe and easy to transport.
We are a large producer in the export thermal coal market.
Thermal coal is used for electricity generation in power stations.
We also produce higher-value coking, or metallurgical, coal which, when treated into coke, is used in furnaces with iron ore to produce steel.
Uranium Uranium is one of the most powerful natural energy sources known, used in the production of clean, stable, base load electricity.
After uranium ore is mined, it is milled into uranium oxide the mine product that is sent away for further processing into fuel rods for nuclear power stations.
Key strengths Strong customer relationships and high-quality assets located in close proximity to growing Asian markets.
Success in operating long-life, cost-competitive mines and businesses.
World class growth opportunities including brownfield expansion opportunities at our existing coal operations in Australia and recent acquisitions like Hathor Exploration in Canada.
Strong product stewardship strategy to ensure we contribute to the global solutions for the challenges our products raise.
Full operating review on page 26.
Iron Ore product group We are the second-largest producer supplying the global seaborne iron ore trade.
After a decade of dramatic expansion in Australia, and more recent growth in both Australia and Canada, we are well positioned to benefit from the continuing demand surge in China and other Asian markets.
We are driving performance through effective project management and enhanced operational efficiency.
Products Iron ore Iron is the key ingredient in the production of steel, one of the most fundamental and durable products for modern-day living, with uses from railways to paperclips.
Our mines are located in Australia and Canada with a major project under way in Guinea in West Africa.
Salt Salt is one of the basic raw materials for the chemicals industry and is indispensable to a wide array of automotive, construction and electronic products, as well as for water treatment, food and healthcare.
Key strengths Proximity of the expanded Pilbara operations in Australia to the worlds largest and fastest-growing markets.
Success in increasing operational efficiency and controlling costs.
Vast potential of brownfield developments near existing infrastructure.
Full operating review on page 28.
