Production, reserves and operations Mineral resources continued Competent Persons a Notes Primary commodity Name Association Employer Accountability Deposits a Likely mining method: O P open pit: O C open cut: U G underground: D O dredging aa Rio Tinto increased its interest in South Oyu from 26.6 per cent to 32.3 per cent during 2011.
Bauxite L McAndrew AusIMM Rio Tinto Reserves Rio Tinto Alcan Weipa: Pacific Aluminium Gove operation.
bb Palabora underground copper resources are reported for the first time following technical and b Sangaredi resources have reduced following conversion to reserves.
J Bower AusIMM Rio Tinto Resources Rio Tinto Alcan Weipa, Sangaredi: Pacific Aluminium Gove c On 17 October 2011, Rio Tinto announced a reorganisation of its aluminium assets with the Gove cc The Palabora stockpile resource was removed following technical and economic re-assessment.
J P C fide Melo Franco AusIMM MRN Consultant Resources, Reserves Rio Tinto Alcan Porto Trombetas MRN mine moving into Pacific Aluminium.
dd Bunder resource tonnes increased following an update of mining and economic parameters.
R Wedmaier AusIMM Rio Tinto Reserves Rio Tinto Alcan Sangaredi d Boron resources are reported as in situ B O, rather than marketable product as in reserves.
2 3 ee Brockman 2 resource tonnes reduced as a result of a pit design update which converted resources e Coal type: SC steam thermal coal, MC metallurgical coking coal.
Borates L Karlsson AusIMM Rio Tinto Reserves, Resources Rio Tinto Minerals Boron f Rio Tinto reports coal resources on an in situ moisture basis.
ff Brockman 4 resource tonnes increased following a model update.
Coal P Ellis AusIMM Rio Tinto Rio Tinto Coal Australia Blair Athol, Clermont, Hail Creek, Resources g On 19 November 2011, Rio Tinto entered into an agreement to sell its 56.1 per cent interest in the gg The Mt Tom Price Marra Mamba resource has increased following a model update.
Kestrel, Kestrel West, Winchester South Chapudi Coal project.
The agreement is proceeding through final review and approval processes hh The Namuldi Detrital resource has decreased after a pit design update.
The resource at Chapudi has increased following a tenement consolidation and ii The Namuldi Marra Mamba resource has decreased by converting resource to reserve as part J Buddee AusIMM Rio Tinto Reserves Rio Tinto Coal Australia Hail Creek, Bengalla, Mt Pleasant model update.
G Carr AusIMM Rio Tinto Reserves Rio Tinto Coal Australia Blair Athol, Kestrel, Clermont h Rio Tintos interest in these mines is held through Coal and Allied Industries Ltd: Rio Tinto increased jj The Paraburdoo Brockman resource has increased after a model update.
its interest in Coal and Allied from 75.7 per cent to 80.0 per cent with effect from 16 December 2011.
M Fitzsimmons AusIMM Rio Tinto Rio Tinto Coal Australia Mount Thorley, Warkworth, kk Western Turner Syncline Low Grade is reported here for the first time following technical and Reserves i Hail Creek resources have reduced as a result of technical and economic studies.
Hunter Valley Operations j Kestrel Coal resources have reduced through conversion to reserves and update of mining plans.
ll  resource depleted as a result of a mine design update which converted K Preston AusIMM Rio Tinto Rio Tinto Coal Australia Hunter Valley Operations, Mount k Rio Tinto acquired Riversdale Mining Limited, renamed as Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique, in August resources to reserves.
The Benga project was commissioned in February 2012 and the resource is listed here for the mm Resources in this category consist of 44 separate deposits, 27 of which are wholly owned by first time.
A Waltho AusIMM Rio Tinto Resources Rio Tinto Coal Australia Valeria, Lake Elphinstone, Oaklands l Rio Tinto acquired Riversdale Mining Limited, renamed as Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique, in August nn The Eastern Range resource increased through updating the pit design.
D Lawrence AusIMM Reserves 2011 and the Zambeze resource is listed here for the first time.
oo The Hope Downs 1 Detritals increased through a pit design update.
Rio Tinto Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique Benga, Zambeze m Rio Tinto sold its 100 per cent interest in Colowyo with an effective date of 1 December 2011.
I Luxton AusIMM Resources pp The Hope Downs 4 Brockman resource lifted following technical and economic studies.
n Bingham Canyon open pit resources were reduced due to mining depletion, design and cut-off qq The Hope Downs undeveloped Brockman Process ore resource increased after a model update.
Copper K Mudge AusIMM Reserves b, c, d strategy changes.
Rio Tinto Kennecott Utah Copper Bingham Canyon rr Iron Ore Company of Canada resources are quoted on an in situ dry tonnes and grades basis.
This J Vickery AusIMM Reserves, Resources o North Rim Skarn resources are reported for the first time as a result of technical and resource would produce marketable product 56 per cent pellets and 44 per cent concentrate for economic studies.
M Howson IMMM Rio Tinto Resources La Granja sale at two per cent moisture content of 95 million tonnes at 65 per cent iron measured, 361 p Eagle resource tonnes reduced, while increasing in grade following re-evaluation of mine designs.
b million tonnes at 65 per cent iron indicated and 526 million tonnes at 65 per cent iron inferred.
A Lye AIG Rio Tinto Reserves, Resources Northparkes q Escondida open pit resources increased subsequent to a drilling programme with resultant model ss Palabora underground iron ore resources are reported for the first time following technical and S Ngidi SAIMM Reserves e update, mine design changes and consideration of updated economic parameters.
Rio Tinto Palabora r Pampa Escondida sulphide resources are reported for the first time as a result of technical and H-D Paetzold SACNASP Resources tt The Robe River Pisolite resource has decreased through changes in the pit design, model updates economic studies.
c and conversion of resources to reserves.
C Hehnke AusIMM Rio Tinto Resources Resolution s Pinta Verde resources are reported for the first time as a result of technical and economic studies.
uu Robe River undeveloped resource Marra Mamba tonnes reduced following re-examination of the K Jennings AusIMM t Under the terms of a joint venture agreement between Rio Tinto and FCX, Rio Tinto is entitled to a pit design and inclusion of updated economic considerations.
Resources direct 40 per cent share in resources discovered after 31 December 1994. vv Robe River undeveloped resource Detrital tonnes increased through application of updated G Crook AusIMM Rio Tinto u La Granja resource tonnes increased after including new drilling results in a model update then b, c economic inputs.
Oyu Tolgoi J Dudley AusIMM re-evaluating the mine designs and processing options.
ww Rio Tintos interest in the Simandou project was 95 per cent at the end of 2011.
The arrangements Reserves D Bernabe AusIMM v Rio Tinto increased its interest in Heruga ETG from 24.9 per cent to 29.5 per cent during 2011. entered into between Rio Tinto and each of the Government of Guinea the Settlement w Rio Tinto increased its interest in Heruga IVN from 26.6 per cent to 32.3 per cent during 2011.
Agreement and Chalco the Simandou Joint Development Agreement provide for each of these S Torr AusIMM Ivanhoe Mines Reserves, Resources parties to acquire additional interests in the project.
x Rio Tinto increased its interest in Hugo Dummett North from 26.6 per cent to 32.3 per cent A Zuzunaga AusIMM Reserves during 2011. xx Molybdenum grades interpolated from exploration drilling assays have been factored based on a BHP Billiton Minera Escondida long reconciliation history to blasthole and mill samples.
L Soto AusIMM Resources y Rio Tinto increased its interest in Hugo Dummett North Extension from 24.9 to 29.5 per cent during 2011. yy Rio Tinto sold its 100 per cent interest in the talc business with an effective date of 1 August 2011.
A Issel SME Resources b, d PT Freeport PT Freeport Grasberg, Wabu z Rio Tinto increased its interest in Hugo Dummett South from 26.6 per cent to 32.3 per cent zz Resource tonnes decreased at RBM following conversion of resources to reserves.
In February G MacDonald AIPG Reserves during 2011.
2012, Rio Tinto announced that it would be increasing its interest in RBM from 37 per cent to 74 per cent.
Diamonds R Platell AusIMM Rio Tinto Reserves, Resources Argyle aaa Rossing resources reduced after re-examination of the mine design, mining parameters and then S Brennan AusIMM conversion of resources to reserves.
R Platell AusIMM Rio Tinto Resources Bunder bbb La Granja zinc is no longer reported after re-evaluation of mineral processing options.
C Yip AusIMM Reserves Rio Tinto Diavik K Thompson NAPEGG Resources M Rayner AusIMM Resources Rio Tinto Murowa C Tabb AusIMM Reserves Iron ore J Phillips AusIMM Resources Rio Tinto Rio Tinto Iron Ore Hamersley, Hope Downs, Robe River P Savory AusIMM L Fouche AusIMM Reserves M Blake PEG Resources Rio Tinto Iron Ore Company of Canada Carol Lake R Williams PEG Reserves T Leriche PEG Reserves, Resources R Taylor AusIMM Reserves Rio Tinto Rio Tinto Iron Ore Atlantic Simandou M Franks AusIMM Resources Lithium N Grubin AusIMM f Rio Tinto Resources Rio Tinto Minerals Jadar M Howson IMMM Nickel J Verbeek AusIMM Resources g, b Rio Tinto Eagle B Bovee AusIMM Reserves D Guibal AusIMM SRK Consulting Resources La Sampala Titanium dioxide feedstock J Dumouchel APEGGA Resources Rio Tinto Rio Tinto Fer et Titane Y Bourque OIQ Reserves, Resources J Dumouchel APEGGA Rio Tinto Reserves, Resources QIT Madagascar Minerals C Ware SACNASP Rio Tinto Reserves, Resources Richards Bay Minerals Uranium A van der Heyden AusIMM Hellman & Schofield Resources Energy Resources of Australia Ranger 3, Jabiluka II G Rogers AusIMM Rio Tinto R Miller AusIMM Rio Tinto Reserves Energy Resources of Australia Ranger 3 M Hirsch IMMM Resources Rio Tinto Rssing S J TG Murasiki SAIMM W-D Wieland SAIMM Reserves a AusIMM: Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy, AIG: Australasian Institute of Geoscientists, EuroGeol: European Geologist member of the European Federation of Geologists, IMMM: Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining, SAIMM: South African Institute of Mining and Metallurgy, SME: Society of Mining, Metallurgy and Exploration, AIPG: American Institute of Professional Geologists, NAPEGG: Association of Professional Engineers, Geologists and Geophysicists of the Northwest Territories, PEG: Professional Engineers and Geoscientists Newfoundland and Labrador, BGS: British Geological Society, APEGBC: Association of Professional Engineers and Geoscientists of British Columbia, CIMM: Canadian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy, APEGGA: Association of Professional Engineers, Geologists and Geophysicists of Alberta, OIQ: Ordre des Ingnieurs du Quebec, SACNASP: South African Council for Natural Scientific Professions.
b Includes gold, c Includes molybdenum, d Includes silver, e Includes iron ore, f Includes borates, g Includes copper.
