Aluminium significant hydroelectric advantages for aluminium smelting, the Financial performance implementation of co-generation at the Yarwun alumina refinery will 2011 2010 US$ million US$ million contribute to improving its GHG emission intensity.
Revenue 12,159 11,313 Rio Tinto Alcan has worked closely with various regional governments Operating cash flow 1,216 1,225 during development of climate change policies and regulations, and Underlying earnings 442 611 participates in numerous community programmes aimed at addressing Capital expenditure 1,957 963 climate change concerns where it operates.
The group has developed Net operating assets 26,204 30,815 adaption strategies and integrated potential impacts of climate change into Figures for 2011 and restated figures for 2010 exclude assets identified for divestment or closure.
These assets are now managed by the Rio Tinto Business Support & Operations group.
Review of operations for the year Strategy In 2011, Rio Tinto Alcans contribution to the Groups underlying earnings Second stage of transformation, already in progress, to deliver another was US$442 million, a decrease of US$169 million from 2010.
Higher US$1 billion of sustainable, incremental EBITDA and increase long-term exchange traded aluminium prices increased earnings by US$574 million margins to 40 per cent.
This was offset by adverse currency movements Targets to be achieved through a combination of disciplined portfolio of US$282 million, mainly from the strengthening of the Canadian and management, business improvement initiatives, and investment in Australian dollars against the US dollar, and higher costs from increased modernisation and expansion of Tier 1 assets.
input prices for caustic, coke and pitch, as well as adverse weather impacts.
Combination of growth and portfolio management to increase the Transformation benefits realised in 2011 offset some of the cost pressures groups long position in both bauxite and alumina, and help supply from current market conditions resulting in a full year EBITDA margin Chinas growing raw material needs.
Commitment to shareholder value and harnessing the groups crucial In October 2011, Rio Tinto announced the intention to divest or close competitive advantages such as proprietary AP Technology and clean, 13 non-core operations including specialty alumina plants in Europe, the low-cost hydroelectricity.
Gardanne refinery in France, the Lynemouth smelter and power station in Capitalise on the groups interests in some of the largest bauxite the UK, the Sebree smelter in the US, and Pacific Aluminium operations mines in the world and to access many of the industrys best reserves see page 30. and resources.
The annual impairment review resulted in a goodwill impairment charge Continue supporting the groups global commercial presence and of US$6.6 billion for Rio Tinto Alcan.
The impairment was largely a result reliably deliver to customers at all stages of the supply chain, from of the current economic environment and related market volatility in sales of bauxite through to value-added aluminium products and aluminium prices in the second half of 2011 leading to declines in market technology sales.
The average aluminium market price in 2011 was US$2,395 per tonne Safety compared with US$2,173 per tonne in 2010.
Rio Tinto Alcans average The group decreased its all injury frequency rate by 16 per cent to 0.59 a realised price for ingot products in 2011 was US$2,715 per tonne compared in 2011.
Rio Tinto Alcan experienced no fatalities at its managed sites.
In the second half macroeconomic concerns took Regrettably, there were two fatalities at its non-managed MRN joint venture hold, particularly the unfolding debt crisis in Europe, thereby reducing alumina operation in Brazil Rio Tinto Alcan share 12 per cent during a prices to below US$2,000 per tonne towards the end of 2011. truck roll-over accident.
In 2011, Rio Tinto Alcans annual bauxite production was 28.2 million A key priority has been the implementation of Rio Tinto HSE performance tonnes, up from 25.9 million tonnes in 2010 and driven by increased standards and risk management practices.
Process safety management third-party demand.
has progressed significantly, with reporting, investigation and analysis of significant potential incidents and completion of corrective actions Alumina production decreased to 5.8 million tonnes in 2011 from as a main focus.
6.1 million tonnes in 2010, mainly due to abnormally heavy rains in Australia in early 2011 that impacted Queensland Alumina.
The Grande-Baie aluminium smelter in Quebec, Canada was awarded the 2011 Chief Executive Safety Award.
Grande-Baie has implemented Aluminium production was broadly consistent year on year.
Higher structured training programmes which include an induction that starts six production at the Laterrire smelter in Quebec following a transformer weeks before employees begin work.
Its personnel show genuine ownership failure in July 2010 was offset by a loss of production following two of safety across the operation and there is visible celebration of safety transformer incidents at the Dunkerque smelter in France in May and successes as well as a focus on learning from incidents.
Rio Tinto Alcans August 2011, and lower production at the Kitimat smelter in Canada Carbone Savoie business also earned recognition and received the 2011 in preparation for the modernisation project.
Chief Executive Most Improved Safety Performance Award.
Gross sales revenue for Rio Tinto Alcan increased by seven per cent Greenhouse gas emissions compared with 2010.
The groups casthouses continue delivery of value added products and improved performance by implementing LEAN Rio Tinto Alcan contributed 19 per cent of Rio Tintos total greenhouse gas manufacturing processes.
Rio Tinto Alcan continues to develop its emissions GHG in 2011.
The groups reduced proportion of the companys value-added product capabilities in existing plants with strategies overall emissions levels is a result of the announcement in October to b to meet future needs in the billet, slab, rod, high purity, foundry and divest 13 non-core operations.
Realised reductions contributed remelt markets.
significantly to the Rio Tinto Groups overall intensity improvements.
Total GHG intensity at Rio Tinto Alcan was reduced by 49 per cent Growth and innovation in 2011 from 2008 baseline performance, which is attributable to portfolio Rio Tinto Alcan made progress with its priority projects, including several changes and operational improvements.
Furthermore, the expansion and initiatives towards increasing its long position in both bauxite and alumina.
modernisation projects are expected to further solidify Rio Tinto Alcans The group is completing feasibility and environmental impact studies position as having the lowest carbon footprint in the industry and will for the South of Embley bauxite extension at the current Weipa mine help deliver on Group GHG commitments.
In addition to Rio Tinto Alcans 20 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report Performance operations in Australia.
This project would allow for staged increases The dramatic upsurge in bauxite imports into China over the last five in production to as much as 36 million dry product tonnes per year years supports this scenario.
and provide quality bauxite to the groups regional refineries and export Securing access to bauxite supplies will remain an issue as uncertainty markets.
Approval to proceed with the project is expected in 2012, surrounding value add requirements and mining legislation in key depending on regulatory and internal conditions.
jurisdictions adds complexity for the industry.
Also in Australia, the Yarwun alumina refinery expansion in Queensland Global aluminium supply is expected to continue tracking demand, is over 90 per cent complete and is expected to more than double with increased production coming primarily from north-western China, production to 3.4 million tonnes per year, with start-up planned for the Middle East and India.
There is credible rationale for a continued the second half of 2012. steepening of the industry cost curve, with costs for crucial inputs such The groups aluminium growth strategy focuses on high-return as bauxite and electricity on the rise.
This is especially the case in China production capacity increases and modernisation projects that leverage where producers are also impacted by the appreciation of the renminbi.
The Aluminium groups portfolio As demand grows, Rio Tinto Alcan expects to benefit from its low-cost was restructured in October 2011, resulting in the creation of Pacific structure, sustainable transformation improvements, and its position Aluminium.
The assets comprising Pacific Aluminium have been identified as an integrated producer throughout the value chain and moving for divestment.
Almost 85 per cent of the groups energy is hydroelectric to a longer position in bauxite and alumina.
and in the lowest-cost quartile for power.
Furthermore, its technological capabilities continue to create value from sales, faster operational Rio Tinto Alcans industry-leading growth pipeline includes attractive improvements eg production capacity creep, and lower full economic Tier 1 opportunities for the long-term with a mixture of greenfield and costs on capital projects.
brownfield options throughout the world.
Projects in various stages of study and development include the future expansion options for the AP60 plant, The modernisation project for the Kitimat smelter in British Columbia, and aluminium and hydropower projects in Cameroon, and will be paced Canada received final approval in December 2011.
This project will increase with market needs.
production capacity to approximately 420 thousand tonnes per year.
a Safety The modernised smelter will be powered exclusively by self-generated The aluminium assets identified for divestment or closure and now managed by Business hydroelectricity and use AP40 technology to cut total emissions intensity Support & Operations Pacific Aluminium and Other aluminium had an all injury frequency by about half.
Once completed, Kitimat will be one of the lowest-cost rate of 0.70 in 2011, an improvement of 11 per cent from 2010. smelters in the world, with one of the lowest carbon footprints in the b GHG aluminium industry.
Completion of the US$3.3 billion project is expected Pacific Aluminium accounted for 28 per cent of Rio Tintos total GHG emissions in 2011, and Other aluminium accounted for 16 per cent of total GHG emissions.
The replacement of high-cost capacity at the Arvida smelter with the AP60 plant, phase one of which is currently under construction in the  region in Quebec, as well as the ISAL smelter modernisation and expansion of the casting centre in Iceland, are also designed to help move Rio Tinto Alcan further down the cost curve.
Common objectives among all our selected projects include a low carbon footprint, low operating costs and attractive projected returns on capital.
Outlook Uncertain macroeconomic conditions, together with stronger currencies in some regions and high raw material costs, have unfavourably impacted the aluminium industry.
Growth in demand for aluminium remains strong but the industry has been running surpluses for the past five years, and the short-term economic outlook remains volatile.
Rio Tinto Alcan therefore continues to improve its performance and refocus on its core assets, in particular its world-class bauxite resources, industry-leading technologies and a modern portfolio of large-scale, long-life,  smelters.
In the longer term, Rio Tinto Alcan believes that the fundamentals of its industry remain strong, with aluminium demand forecast to grow by almost six per cent per year through to 2020.
The robust growth is expected to be underpinned by emerging economies and a growing appreciation among end users in developed markets of aluminiums advantageous physical properties most notably its lightness and its infinite recyclability.
The underlying factors that are driving strong demand growth for structural commodities remain intact, as continued urbanisation and industrialisation in large, populous nations such as China and India drive base metal demand.
The group expects to see ongoing development of new applications in the construction, aerospace and automotive sectors as pressure on fuel consumption increases, along with increased substitution of aluminium in place of more expensive alternatives in areas such as power generation.
Growth in aluminium capacity will increase demand for bauxite and alumina.
Official bauxite reserves suggest that China may not have sufficient bauxite to fully meet increasing alumina production demand.
