Iron Ore IOC has undertaken a major study on air pollution abatement for its Financial performance Labrador City facility the Air Quality Improvement Program AQIP.
2011 2010 US$ million US$ million This involves monitoring, stack testing, modelling, analysing and Revenue 29,909 24,024 engineering solutions to mitigate when necessary our environmental effects in the communities where we work and live.
The Iron Ore groups Operating cash flow 21,486 15,976 total GHG emission intensity has improved 7.8 per cent since 2008.
Underlying earnings 12,853 10,189 Capital expenditure 4,757 1,716 Review of operations for the year Net operating assets 13,368 11,628 Iron Ore achieved a record performance in 2011, meeting ambitious production targets of more than 240 million tonnes despite a very Strategy challenging first half of the year, when difficult weather conditions The Iron Ore groups strategy is to: significantly impacted operating performance.
Create shareholder value by maximising the return from existing assets A volatile iron ore market produced first major increases and then and building value through expansions and greenfield developments.
decreases in spot prices, as well as forcing significant structural changes Maintain close control of capital and operating costs to protect margins, to the way iron ore as a commodity is marketed and sold.
As the bulk with particular emphasis on improving unit costs as the business of Rio Tintos supply contracts were linked to that spot price, volatility fed expands rapidly.
Implement major expansion programmes while maintaining Overall the strong result reflected the fact that the global economy at-nameplate capacity production.
continued its slow recovery from the global financial crisis, notwithstanding Continue to develop and benefit from technology and innovation the continued instability in the eurozone.
The positive result highlighted to deliver supply chain efficiencies, reducing costs and maximising Rio Tintos significant exposure to China and the better performing East underlying profit.
Capitalise on its position as the leading iron ore supplier close Weather-related incidents severely affected operations into the second to the worlds largest, fastest-growing markets.
Tropical cyclones and associated widespread flooding Achieve a portfolio of alternative contract methodologies across led to a derailment and the suspension of all deliveries from mines to different markets and customer segments in order to ensure full Dampier port for nine days.
System efficiency was impaired for months off-take and maximise revenue in an increasingly segmented market.
The effects of poor weather were mitigated by the Operations Centres success in optimising throughput.
Safety Production, rail and shipping in the second half of the year was Safety performance in 2011 was tragically marred by three fatalities, greatly improved, with the system able to operate consistently at including two fatalities at the Groups Pilbara operations, the first such above-nameplate capacity.
In April, a subcontractor was fatally electrocuted at the Iron Ore Company of Canadas IOC Labrador City facility during In February 2011, Rio Tinto approved a US$933 million investment the commissioning of a new overhead power line.
IOC is committed to in the Marandoo Mine in the Pilbara, extending its current capacity improving safety performance and achieving a zero-harm safety culture of 15 million tonnes a year until 2030.
Key cost initiatives over the year across all its operations.
included extracting increased synergies from improved contractor utilisation and management, improved management of component In June a man working on scaffolding on East Intercourse Island jetty overhauls and refinements to maintenance plans, optimisation of mine at Dampier died when the scaffolding collapsed into the water, and plans, and benefits from improvements in asset health through condition in August a man died carrying out maintenance on a front-end loader monitoring and application of relevant technologies.
in the workshop at Brockman 2 mine, 60 kilometres from Tom Price in the Pilbara region.
The multi-staged expansion of Pilbara operational capacity proceeded on schedule.
Debottlenecking of the Parker Point circuit at Dampier port In addition to the specific investigations into each incident, the fatalities led increased annual capacity to 225 million tonnes, and this will rise to to an independent safety diagnostic assessment to examine all aspects of 230 million tonnes in early 2012. the Western Australian businesss workplace practices and cultural factors that may have impacted on safety performance.
That review was finalised The major expansion programme at Cape Lambert port was accelerated in November and its recommendations will be implemented with the during the year, following the approval in June of a US$676 million highest priority.
investment to fund early works and procurement.
As a result, capacity expansion in the Pilbara to 353 million tonnes a year is scheduled Separate to the fatalities, overall safety performance was assisted by to be reached in the first half of 2015, six months earlier than planned.
increased tracking of indicators such as near-miss incidents.
Emphasis Advancing the earlier engineering work can be achieved without increasing on improved lifestyle as a health and safety factor, such as improved diet the overall cost of the expansion programme.
and better management of fatigue, was also accelerated during the year.
In 2011 the Iron Ore groups all injury frequency rate AIFR was 0.63, In November Rio Tinto confirmed it would add a further 20 million tonnes compared with 0.71 in 2010. capacity to this target by replacing the original car dumper at Cape Lambert.
This would align the in-load annual capacity at the port up Greenhouse gas emissions to the existing 100 million tonne outload potential of the jetty.
Due for final The focus was maintained on achieving greater fuel and energy efficiencies, approval in 2012, it would bring overall system capacity to 353 million highlighted by a US$833 million investment in improved power and gas tonnes in the first half of 2015. projects, and in operational decisions such as the planned deployment Supporting the expansion, in September an investment of US$310 million of more than 150 of the more efficient Autonomous Haulage System AHS was approved to assure a sustainable water supply for the Pilbara driverless trucks across the Pilbara region.
Rio Tinto also approved an investment of US$833 million an energy and greenhouse gas GHG assessment tool was developed to Rio Tinto share US$706 million in major power and fuel supply projects.
assist with monitoring and evaluation of projects.
All requirements for the National Greenhouse & Energy Reporting System and the Energy Efficiency Opportunities Act were met.
28 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report Performance In addition to the major capital works approved or planned, a number Growth and innovation of regulatory and administrative arrangements were resolved including The Pilbara 353 million tonne capacity expansion and the Iron Ore those relating to rail and port operations, land tenure and union Company of Canada CEP projects are the principal drivers of organic agreements.
Progressing the Simandou project towards its 2015 production commitment is the key greenfield expansion focus.
The Pilbara programme In a very challenging recruitment market, the Iron Ore group adopted is on track to deliver an additional 133 million tonnes of annual capacity innovative methods to augment its workforce beyond the current total by 2015.
All individual projects required to deliver the interim target of approximately 11,000.
Flexible talent recruitment and retention of 283 million tonnes capacity have been approved.
Work has commenced strategies were developed to allow more lifestyle arrangements for those at Cape Lambert port, rail infrastructure and mines Brockman 4 Phase II living in or commuting to the Pilbara and elsewhere.
The Iron Ore group and Western Turner Syncline.
The US$2.2 billion extension of the reconfigured its apprenticeship arrangements to improve recruitment and Nammuldi mine expansion was approved in February 2012. a new training centre was opened in Perth mid-year to handle the huge increase in apprentices and trainees expected to enter the Pilbara iron ore Mine options for the next 50 million tonne phase include a further industry over the next decade.
expansion of Nammuldi and Brockman 4, and the development of the greenfield Koodaideri deposit.
Studies are all well under way.
All mines In Canada, IOC experienced a challenging first quarter attributable to poor in the expansion programme adhere to the defined strategy of being close weather conditions, low mobile equipment availability and major repairs to existing infrastructure and fully Rio Tinto-owned.
There are multiple port which impacted production.
However, performance improved significantly expansion options beyond the current programme under preliminary study.
over the remainder of the year, reinstating capacity.
Also, in the second The proposed new car dumper at Cape Lambert would boost capacity to half of the year, production flexibility enabled IOC to capture higher 353 million tonnes.
concentrate spot sales by reducing pellet production in favour of higher concentrate production.
Introduction of innovative technology to the groups Pilbara operations through the Mine of the Future programme has also been a key feature Rio Tintos deployment of a global production platform continued.
The two-year trial at the West Angelas mine of the Autonomous IOCs Concentrate Expansion Project CEP made good progress and Haulage System AHS proved successful and as a result a significant remains on track for completion by 2013, when annual capacity will proportion of the Yandicoogina mine will now be converted to fully be 26 million tonnes.
The third and final stage of the CEP is in its final autonomous operation.
In November a memorandum of understanding study phase.
In August IOC announced preliminary studies to increase with Komatsu subject to binding terms of supply being negotiated annual production capacity to 50 million tonnes from 2016, as well as was concluded for the supply of at least 150 AHS haul trucks to be used consider the pathway for further expansions beyond this capacity, in the Pilbara inland mining operations.
Progress is also being made capitalising on the significant reserve resource base.
The integrated study towards gaining innovative efficiencies in the groups ports and rail divisions, will consider multiple alternatives for the expansion, which may include including the deployment of a driver-assist system in rail operations and new concentrators, mining pits and related mine, rail, stock handling, vacuum moorings at ports.
In February 2012 a US$518 million investment and port infrastructure.
was approved to introduce the AutoHaul driverless trains on the Pilbara network from 2014.
In April the proposed development of the Simandou iron ore mining project was endorsed with a new Settlement Agreement with the Rio Tinto Marine Government of Guinea, confirming Rio Tintos tenure.
Rio Tinto paid In 2011 freight volumes increased slightly to 164 Mt of dry bulk cargo.
US$700 million to resolve all outstanding issues with the Government, The freight market exhibited high volatility over the year with average which will be able to take up to 35 per cent equity in the project.
levels reflecting the current oversupply of new vessels, particularly in Rio Tinto is working with the Government of Guinea to have relevant the Capesize segment.
Rio Tinto Marine continues to support Rio Tinto provisions of the Settlement Agreement ratified as law, as contemplated businesses in providing competitive freight solutions in markets that are and required by the Settlement Agreement.
increasingly moving to shorter-term, CFR index prices.
Safety performance continued to show general improvement.
Marine has 15 vessels on order In October Rio Tinto approved the investment of US$1.1 billion of funding at shipyards in Asia and these are on schedule for delivery between 2012 for commitments for early works and procurement of long-lead items and 2014 to meet specific trade requirements, enhancing Rio Tinto and a further US$211 million for additional studies.
This funding will allow Marines portfolio of long-term, low-cost freight.
The existing fleet of five the project to move forward towards first shipment of ore by mid-2015, post-Panamax bauxite carriers continue to provide competitive and reliable as set out in the Settlement Agreement.
Work progressed through 2011 delivery of bauxite from Weipa to refineries at Gladstone.
on finalising the required regulatory approvals with project venture partner Chalco, and finalising of the infrastructure investment framework.
Outlook The closure phase for the HIsmelt plant at Kwinana, south of Perth, was The iron ore market outlook remains strong overall and positive, though being finalised at years end.
The HIsmelt technology business continued significant volatility will continue to reflect macro-economic instability to progress, with an agreement signed in August with the India-based in major economies.
Jindal Group to incorporate the HIsmelt process in its steel-making plant.
The Iron Ore group continued to ship at full capacity through the second Dampier Salts various operations were significantly impacted by cyclones half of the year, notwithstanding the eurozone challenges and softening and rain during the first half of the year, with record rainfall challenging salt in steel markets.
production and requiring significant risk management.
Despite the There remains great confidence in the long-term fundamentals of major conditions, Dampier Salt achieved record annual sales with deliveries of markets, particularly in China, and the significant expansion programmes 10.3 million tonnes of salt into the Asian and European markets.
In October in the Pilbara and Guinea are based on that premise.
Global supply has the business achieved record monthly sales of 1.3 million tonnes shipped.
struggled to keep pace with increased demand, which reinforces Rio Tintos growth strategy.
Challenges will come from higher input prices, particularly increased manning, and a stronger Australian dollar.
Developing highproductivity mines and adopting step-change technologies will help offset rising operational and higher native title costs.
