Ov Overvie ervie w w Group strategy Business model We create and preserve value through investing in and operating large-scale, long-term, cost-competitive mines and businesses.
The nature of our business means that the life of an orebody may Vision Strategy Strategic drivers Key performance indicators be for many decades.
Throughout the life of a business, from initial To be the leading global mining and To invest in and operate large, long-term, Five strategic drivers are helping us Achievement of our strategy and goals is measured exploration to final closure and restoration, we commit to the highest metals company.
cost-competitive mines and businesses, driven deliver our strategy and achieve our vision: by a mixture of financial and non-financial performance standards of sustainable development.
not by choice of commodity but by the quality financial and operational excellence, indicators, some of which we link to executive remuneration.
growth, licence to operate, globalising Investing the business, technology and innovation.
Explore and evaluate Rio Tinto has a knowledgeable and experienced in-house exploration team with a proven track record for discovering of Tier 1 orebodies.
In addition to We seek to protect and improve the value of resources through developing Our strategic vision Our strategic focus exploration, we create value through expansions and extensions of existing a diverse range of stakeholder relationships.
We seek to achieve this Our vision is to be the leading global mining and metals company.
We aim Industry leaders aspire to excel not only in their business performance but assets.
Rio Tintos orebody knowledge process allows us to evaluate through rapid organic growth at industry-leading capital and operating to maximise total shareholder return by sustainably finding, developing, in the way they conduct themselves.
For Rio Tinto, this means a focus on value-enhancing approaches to developing, operating and expanding our costs, without compromising our existing high safety and reliability levels.
mining, processing and marketing the Earths natural resources.
distinctive performance in five fundamental areas: financial and operational resources and positioning our products in the market.
performance: growth: licence to operate: globalising the business: and Our objective is identifying and accessing major new projects through We seek to achieve this leadership by working according to our values Develop technology and innovation.
exploration and establishing lasting and community-oriented presence and to sustain long-term business success by building and leveraging Rio Tinto develops orebodies with long-term value delivery in mind.
In Mozambique, Mongolia and Guinea, we effective relationships with relevant stakeholders, including governments Our strategic focus requires a combination of the talents of people Following the discovery of a resource, it must be thoroughly studied to have developed comprehensive agreements that will create effective and local communities.
throughout our organisation from individual mining and processing identify the optimal configuration for development of the orebody and partnerships between the host governments and Rio Tinto.
These will operations across the globe to shared functions that span our activities.
delivery of the product to the market.
In some cases, we need to work The benefits of sector leadership to our stakeholders mean: deliver value for investors through long-term benefits in operating cost, Sharing common standards of best practice enables us to adapt to closely with our customers to develop and prepare the market to take the capital cost and licence to operate and value for the communities in terms changing economic, market and political circumstances while achieving type or grade of product that would enable us to maximise the value of Delivering superior returns to our shareholders through excellent of taxes, investment, cost-effective local sourcing and employment.
In every aspect of our strategy and our work resource over its lifecycle, for example by extending the life of the mine.
operating, development and investment performance.
we aim to create the processes and culture that puts safety in the forefront As studies are undertaken, economic modelling confirms value.
Once we Licence to operate Ensuring widespread and lasting economic benefits to host of our minds.
have obtained internal and external approvals, the project moves to External stakeholders are increasing their expectations of us in terms country communities.
of our transparency in matters such as the taxes we pay but also in the Financial and operational excellence Positioning us to respond to our customers needs.
way we engage with governments and the communities that host our In acquiring and divesting our assets and in marketing our commodities Providing our employees with leading training and career development Operating operations.
This is to ensure they benefit from the prosperity our operations we apply our deep industry knowledge and experience to identify and opportunities and appropriate financial rewards.
will bring, that we protect the environment and leave a positive legacy Rio Tinto creates value through safely and efficiently operating large, capitalise on opportunities.
We acquire quality assets at prices that will when our mining is done.
Our work in the area of stakeholder engagement long-term, cost-competitive assets and the use of standard operating Strong fundamentals position us well to achieve our vision: our portfolio reward operational improvement under our ownership.
We also seek the is essential in building and maintaining our licence to operate.
and maintenance practices across the Group, investing in our world-class includes some of the worlds best assets, many of which set the standard acquisition of assets that capital markets temporarily undervalue.
Through assets throughout their lifecycles.
An efficient process reduces the use for performance in their commodity sectors.
Our strong balance sheet prudent divestments we capture value from assets that no longer fit with Our approach to sustainable development should enable us to be seen as of consumables, increases equipment operating time and optimises the allows us financial flexibility and agility.
Our people are highly capable our strategic direction.
the industry partner of choice.
On the environmental front we monitor and extraction of ore all of which results in higher production levels, reduced and we are reaping the benefits of our increasingly diverse workforce that report the levels of greenhouse gases we emit and the volumes of water We seek to maximise the value of the commodities we produce though costs and optimisation of value.
We are recognised as a responsible developer we consume, we seek to use low carbon energy sources and we engage effective marketing that ensures we respond to our customers needs and operator of mining and refining operations around the world.
This track with environmental agencies and NGOs to protect vulnerable environments.
Mine in terms of quality, blend, timing, delivery and appropriate pricing and record is built on the strong values defined in The way we work and the We move millions of tonnes of material every day.
We use world-class contractual arrangements.
Globalising the business approach we have to the integration of sustainable development practices technologies and processes to plan, operate and maintain our equipment Globalising the business gives us many advantages.
We have been able in everything we do.
Our work in improving performance across all our operations is focused and activities.
We invest and apply innovations to optimise productivity.
to achieve global standards, systems and processes that help us streamline on achieving market-leading EBITDA margins and hence returns to the way we do things.
It has encouraged and allowed us to become more Process Our strategy our shareholders.
agile and efficient as an organisation.
Globalisation introduces us to a Our leading proprietary technologies, such as that for aluminium smelting, Our investment in and operation of large, long-term, expandable, We constantly seek to enhance capital productivity in the operation of stimulating range of diversity that we are harnessing.
On the one hand ensure that recoveries are maximised and our processes are as efficient as cost-competitive mines and businesses also referred to as Tier 1 assets existing assets, as well as when we design expansions.
We continuously it ensures our approaches are appropriate at the local level, on the other possible.
We produce material that is of the right quality for our customers.
define our path to sector leadership.
Our choice of assets provides strong identify and capitalise on latent system capacity so that we can safely the cross-pollination of ideas helps improve many aspects of the way cash returns across the commodity cycle.
Their expandability means we Market deliver increased output volumes.
are well-placed to meet anticipated growth in demand as emerging The majority of our customers are industrial companies who process our economies urbanise and industrialise.
There is no area of our business in which we compromise on safety.
Technology and innovation products into a wide range of applications supplied to end-users in the We aim for the highest threshold to ensure safety of our employees and We apply technology and innovation to improve the way we do things.
construction and infrastructure, automotive, industrial machinery and We pursue opportunities driven not by choice of commodity, but by the others who work with us.
We engage in constant vigilance to protect our In particular it helps us to achieve greater safety as well as improving equipment, energy and consumer goods markets.
We invest in long-term quality of each opportunity.
We maximise the opportunities we identify by employees but also to embed the culture that makes safety a forethought capital efficiency and enhancing productivity.
We have adopted an partnerships and constantly innovate and improve our products and being in a position to choose between organic growth and value-focused rather than an afterthought.
innovative mindset not only by taking advantage of new science and services to maximise product value to customers.
We then leverage our acquisitions taking into account timing and market conditions.
We target technology, but innovations in our management and processes to find intimate knowledge of the market and the value chain to support our opportunities of sufficient magnitude and potential to meaningfully grow We aim for world-class cost competitiveness and productivity in the more efficient and effective ways to leverage our existing strengths.
These investment decisions are subject to rigorous operation and management of our assets.
Even assets that are already We employ innovative scientists and engineers find new ways in which analysis of potential returns.
among the lowest cost in their industries are expected to improve Deliver we can protect the environment and improve the lives of those who incrementally.
These improvements are directed at enhancing margins, In many cases, Rio Tinto is responsible for delivering product to We are versatile in the way in which we develop and operate our assets.
live in communities surrounding our operations.
quickly and efficiently expanding production and positioning us to respond our customers.
We do this in a variety of ways, efficiently, reliably Operating across multiple jurisdictions we adhere to our commitment to with greater effectiveness to marketing opportunities.
safety, ethical conduct and environmental stewardship.
We recognise the Enabling our strategy potential of partnerships with those who share similar values and whose Growth Rio Tinto applies an organisation-wide effort to deploy the capabilities Close-down and restore specialist skills can add value to our projects.
We explore for and develop new and existing Tier 1 assets.
Our objective is and skills required to achieve top performance in all areas.
Where needed, When a resource reaches the end of its life, we are committed to high to develop these orebodies so as to deliver their greatest potential.
We will we will accelerate and target training and leadership development We believe value-creating investment is the first and best use for the cash standards of close-down and restoration.
Integrating closure planning in do so in a way that delivers lasting benefits for our business and host programmes to ensure all of our people have the opportunity to contribute generated by our businesses.
We maintain the strength of our balance the early stages of project development and through an assets lifecycle economies and communities.
to achieving distinctiveness in each area.
sheet to take advantage of the opportunities capital and commodity market helps us to leave a positive legacy of sustainable development, minimise volatility present.
Beyond these aims, we return cash to our shareholders.
financial impacts and ensure stakeholder expectations are met.
6 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report riotinto.
