Ov Overvie ervie w w Business model We create and preserve value through investing in and operating large-scale, long-term, cost-competitive mines and businesses.
The nature of our business means that the life of an orebody may Key performance indicators be for many decades.
Throughout the life of a business, from initial Achievement of our strategy and goals is measured exploration to final closure and restoration, we commit to the highest by a mixture of financial and non-financial performance standards of sustainable development.
indicators, some of which we link to executive remuneration.
Investing Explore and evaluate Rio Tinto has a knowledgeable and experienced in-house exploration team with a proven track record for discovering of Tier 1 orebodies.
In addition to We seek to protect and improve the value of resources through developing exploration, we create value through expansions and extensions of existing a diverse range of stakeholder relationships.
We seek to achieve this assets.
Rio Tintos orebody knowledge process allows us to evaluate through rapid organic growth at industry-leading capital and operating value-enhancing approaches to developing, operating and expanding our costs, without compromising our existing high safety and reliability levels.
resources and positioning our products in the market.
Our objective is identifying and accessing major new projects through Develop exploration and establishing lasting and community-oriented presence Rio Tinto develops orebodies with long-term value delivery in mind.
In Mozambique, Mongolia and Guinea, we Following the discovery of a resource, it must be thoroughly studied to have developed comprehensive agreements that will create effective identify the optimal configuration for development of the orebody and partnerships between the host governments and Rio Tinto.
These will delivery of the product to the market.
In some cases, we need to work deliver value for investors through long-term benefits in operating cost, closely with our customers to develop and prepare the market to take the capital cost and licence to operate and value for the communities in terms type or grade of product that would enable us to maximise the value of of taxes, investment, cost-effective local sourcing and employment.
resource over its lifecycle, for example by extending the life of the mine.
As studies are undertaken, economic modelling confirms value.
Once we Licence to operate have obtained internal and external approvals, the project moves to External stakeholders are increasing their expectations of us in terms implementation and construction.
of our transparency in matters such as the taxes we pay but also in the way we engage with governments and the communities that host our Operating operations.
This is to ensure they benefit from the prosperity our operations will bring, that we protect the environment and leave a positive legacy Rio Tinto creates value through safely and efficiently operating large, when our mining is done.
Our work in the area of stakeholder engagement long-term, cost-competitive assets and the use of standard operating is essential in building and maintaining our licence to operate.
and maintenance practices across the Group, investing in our world-class assets throughout their lifecycles.
An efficient process reduces the use Our approach to sustainable development should enable us to be seen as of consumables, increases equipment operating time and optimises the the industry partner of choice.
On the environmental front we monitor and extraction of ore all of which results in higher production levels, reduced report the levels of greenhouse gases we emit and the volumes of water costs and optimisation of value.
we consume, we seek to use low carbon energy sources and we engage with environmental agencies and NGOs to protect vulnerable environments.
Mine We move millions of tonnes of material every day.
We use world-class Globalising the business technologies and processes to plan, operate and maintain our equipment Globalising the business gives us many advantages.
We have been able and activities.
We invest and apply innovations to optimise productivity.
to achieve global standards, systems and processes that help us streamline the way we do things.
It has encouraged and allowed us to become more Process agile and efficient as an organisation.
Globalisation introduces us to a Our leading proprietary technologies, such as that for aluminium smelting, stimulating range of diversity that we are harnessing.
On the one hand ensure that recoveries are maximised and our processes are as efficient as it ensures our approaches are appropriate at the local level, on the other possible.
We produce material that is of the right quality for our customers.
the cross-pollination of ideas helps improve many aspects of the way Market we do business.
The majority of our customers are industrial companies who process our Technology and innovation products into a wide range of applications supplied to end-users in the We apply technology and innovation to improve the way we do things.
construction and infrastructure, automotive, industrial machinery and In particular it helps us to achieve greater safety as well as improving equipment, energy and consumer goods markets.
We invest in long-term capital efficiency and enhancing productivity.
We have adopted an partnerships and constantly innovate and improve our products and innovative mindset not only by taking advantage of new science and services to maximise product value to customers.
We then leverage our technology, but innovations in our management and processes to find intimate knowledge of the market and the value chain to support our more efficient and effective ways to leverage our existing strengths.
We employ innovative scientists and engineers find new ways in which Deliver we can protect the environment and improve the lives of those who In many cases, Rio Tinto is responsible for delivering product to live in communities surrounding our operations.
We do this in a variety of ways, efficiently, reliably and cost effectively.
Enabling our strategy Rio Tinto applies an organisation-wide effort to deploy the capabilities Close-down and restore and skills required to achieve top performance in all areas.
Where needed, When a resource reaches the end of its life, we are committed to high we will accelerate and target training and leadership development standards of close-down and restoration.
Integrating closure planning in programmes to ensure all of our people have the opportunity to contribute the early stages of project development and through an assets lifecycle to achieving distinctiveness in each area.
helps us to leave a positive legacy of sustainable development, minimise financial impacts and ensure stakeholder expectations are met.
