Overview Strategic context In iron ore, supply disruptions in Australia, Brazil and India in the first half Global economy of the year proved to be temporary.
Production increased in the second half During the past year we have witnessed significant change and volatility of the year with a strong rise in Brazilian supply and record output from in the global economy as economic and political events increased the risk Australia.
Despite this new supply, high iron ore prices were required to of a derailment by crisis for short periods of time: a pattern we continue support increased levels of high-cost Chinese domestic production in 2011. to call the saw-tooth economy.
At any other time, the Japanese tsunami, A similar picture emerged in the thermal coal market, with production the Arab Spring, and the US fiscal crisis and credit rating downgrade increasing by varying degrees, in Australia, Indonesia, Colombia and South would have been major events, but when combined with the eurozone debt Africa and new supply from the Illinois Basin supporting US East Coast crisis, they provided a challenging environment for commodity markets.
In the metallurgical coal market, supply was severely disrupted Despite these setbacks, during 2011 commodity prices generally averaged following flooding in Queensland.
The resulting higher prices encouraged higher than in 2010.
This was due to a combination of factors including: US suppliers to enter the seaborne market.
2011 also marked the ongoing strong demand from China: commodity supply constraints coupled significant entry of Mongolia to the market.
with weather and environmental disruption: and low interest rates facilitating direct investment in commodities.
Apart from commodity specific constraints, our industry is facing increased demands from governments which will increase the cost, timing and Demand for commodities in 2012 will be supported by an improvement uncertainty surrounding the operation of current projects and development in global growth, although we cannot rule out periods of volatility similar of new capacity.
By impacting investment, it will also affect supply which to those in 2011.
Consensus forecasts of economic growth around the will lead to fewer projects coming on-stream and in an environment of high world have moderated in recent months although global GDP is still demand, will therefore result in higher prices.
While recognising the right forecast to grow at a rate of around 3.3 per cent in 2012.
We expect Chinese of governments to raise revenues from taxes and royalties, the growing economic growth to remain above eight per cent for 2012, while growth in trend of increased fiscal imposts on existing projects, mandated government other emerging markets is expected to remain relatively robust, albeit with shares, often as free carried options, on new projects and a raft of weaker rates of growth than seen in recent years.
It will be important to regulatory and infrastructure requirements is impacting on the ability of the watch developments in the US where improvements in the labour market, industry to increase supply through new investment.
Such measures have manufacturing activity and equity markets are indicative of a strengthening the potential to delay economic and social development in those countries.
The key concern for the global outlook continues to stem from the European sovereign debt crisis and the ability of the rest of the world Outlook to minimise contagion threats.
However, central banks are vigilant to these The outlook for global commodities remains robust, supported by risks and we believe they will continue to provide substantial liquidity to a rising standard of living for the majority of the worlds population.
support the global financial system.
But the outlook also will be characterised by elevated volatility and scope Over the longer term, global growth is expected to remain elevated for discontinuities.
We expect a high average demand growth setting across as fast-growing emerging markets take up larger shares of the world our major commodities.
Given the constraints on current and future supply economy.
Our belief is that increasing prosperity in these countries, growth, we expect to see higher real long-run prices than in the decade including China and India, with associated industrialisation and preceding the most recent six year period.
However, the extent to which urbanisation, will continue to drive underlying growth in demand the industry is able to maintain existing margins will depend on trends for commodities.
in costs, productivity and the ability to limit the escalating capital costs of new developments.
Commodity markets Commodity prices generally averaged higher in 2011 than in 2010 although most prices peaked in the first quarter and troughed in the fourth, with prices finishing the year lower than they started.
Commodity price movements can be broadly attributed to a slowing in demand, particularly in China, ongoing supply constraints and rising costs, expansionary monetary policy facilitating indirect investment demand for commodities, and finally, the sovereign debt crisis in Europe and a concern about global financial sector stability.
Against this background of falling prices, operating margins have tightened due to rising costs of key raw materials and equipment and adverse exchange rate movements.
Operating costs are on the rise partly due to a scarcity of key inputs such as labour and capital equipment and a noticeable deterioration in productivity.
Moreover, the availability of capital is imposing constraints across some sectors of the industry.
A key feature of commodity markets in 2011 was the continued tightness in supply.
Across many commodities, a range of factors have limited the growth in mine production.
In general, the industry continued to face the challenges of declining grades, a lack of infrastructure in new jurisdictions, delays to expansion programmes and temporary disruptions from strikes, adverse weather conditions and environmental concerns.
Global copper mine production struggled to grow in 2011 despite several years of elevated prices.
Secondary supply was also weak, particularly towards the end of the year, as Western world economic activity slowed.
With a further market deficit recorded in 2011 end-users continue to investigate the potential substitution of copper for other materials such as aluminium.
However, in the absence of new end-use technologies, significant replacements appear limited in the short-term.
