US Rental penetration US and UK US contractors recognise increasingly that they dont need to always own % 80 equipment and are becoming comfortable renting it.
We and our 60 large peers now provide a nationwide network with a large fleet available on 40 demand to customers as they require it.
Were enabling our customers, by 20 outsourcing their equipment needs to specialists such as ourselves, to do 0 business in a more cost effective way 1995 2000 2010 2014E2010 while minimising their risk.
US US UK Source: Dan Kaplan Associates and Ashtead estimates enabling the structural shift Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 11 Bigger players in the rental market such as ourselves The US market is shifting increasingly benefit from scale, allowing us to move fleet around towards equipment rental instead of our networks to match market demand.
In addition, each contractor owning its own fleet.
capital can still be hard to access for the smaller players, making it more difficult for them to invest Estimates are that rental penetration in in new fleet.
Long lead times for equipment are also the US rose from around 25% in 2000 likely to limit the expansion of those players who have to about 40% last year.
We believe scaled back too far, as they may be unable to reinvest quickly.
Our financial strength gives us the ability to that this growth is set to continue.
plan our equipment orders on a longer-term basis In addition, there is a move towards enabling us to absorb the impact of extended lead fewer, bigger players in the market.
times from equipment manufacturers and take unimpeded advantage of the structural shifts There are a number of reasons for ongoing in the market.
Firstly, renting equipment rather than owning and maintaining it reduces contractors risk and helps them protect their own balance sheet.
This is particularly important for the smaller contractors whose finances and potential markets may be more limited.
Tightening regulation on health and safety and environmental issues is also making it more expensive to own fleet as there is a need to always carry out service and maintenance checks in line with the equipment manufacturers recommendations and to keep records showing that this has been done.
This all means that rental is becoming more attractive.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 creating opportunities It is delivered direct to site fully stocked with Our size and scale enables us to fund the equipment and uses RFID radio-frequency development of leading edge technology identification technology to record when equipment across our business in a way that few of is taken on and off hire.
The success of the Auto Tool Hire Unit has already been recognised by the our competitors can match.
We are also industry with the unit being awarded Best New able to share these developments across Product of the Year in the Hire Association Europes both our US and UK businesses.
example, we developed our Auto Tool Other recent examples of the application of Hire Unit in the UK and now, following technology to increase efficiency and enhance the rental process include Sunbelts deployment of an its successful launch over the past year, in-house developed logistics system which largely will be launching it in Sunbelt this year.
automates the process of delivery and collection of The Auto Tool Hire Unit is an unmanned, equipment.
It enables our stores to monitor the location of each of our delivery trucks and direct automated cabin designed to be located them to collect equipment automatically whilst at customers sites and provide contractors they are out on the road.
In the UK, A-Plant has with on-site instant access to a range of begun computerising all record keeping regarding the service and maintenance of its rental fleet.
This tools and other equipment.
development raises the efficiency of both service and maintenance.
It facilitates fleet transfer between stores, improves reporting on any issues and means that any store is able easily to access and work on any item of equipment.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 13 We are innovating both our service offering and our product range to make the most of the opportunities that will come in a growing market.
For example, the use of leading edge technology in our Auto Tool Hire Unit, in logistics and in recording our fleet service and maintenance activities is set to revolutionise the rental process for customers, as well as offering an environmentally more responsible means of delivering our service offering.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
