business and financial review continued how we work with customers In May 2011, steady rains, added to the seasonal snow melt, resulted in As mentioned elsewhere, our customers come in all the Mississippi River rising high enough to reach historic flood heights shapes and sizes and projects are of various durations.
In an effort to avoid flooding populated areas, the In the year to April 2011, Sunbelt dealt with over Army Corps of Engineers intentionally broke a Mississippi River levee and flooded hundreds of acres of farmland in Missouri.
Sunbelt was 480,000 customers, wrote 1.5m rental contracts with contacted by the Army Corps of Engineers to set up a pumping system an average value of $570 per contract and issued over down river from New Madrid, Missouri to pump water from the flooded 2m invoices.
A-Plant, though smaller, is almost as diverse.
farmland back into the river.
Sunbelt mobilised a team consisting of 10 experts who coordinated, delivered and set up a system that included In 2010 11 it dealt with over 24,000 customers, wrote five 18 Quiet Flow Diesel Trash Pumps, valves and the HDPE piping 333,000 rental contracts with an average value of used for suction and discharge.
Forklifts and light towers were also 385 per contract and issued 764,000 invoices.
included in the total package.
The final system pumped water from the flooded farmland over the levee and back into the Mississippi While many of the sites we work on are large, multi-year, billion dollar downstream from the populated area at a rate of 45,000 gallons per construction projects, our customers will typically be contractors, minute.
The system ran 24 hours per day with monitoring and refuelling subcontractors and even sub-subcontractors, rather than the site services provided by Sunbelts staff.
We like to build long-term relationships with our customers, the biggest of whom we service on a national basis whether Sole supplier contracts in the UK or the US.
Our excellent customer service means that we In both the UK and the US, we often work with some of the largest generate a lot of repeat business.
Here we describe some of the ways contractors on an exclusive basis.
For example, we have recently in which we work with our customers.
negotiated a three-year extension to our sole supplier agreement with one of the UKs leading contractors.
The renewed agreement covers our Disaster relief entire range of UK hire products including general plant, air powered tools We are often involved in disaster relief through our specialist Pump and and specialist products such as falsework and formwork, powered access, Power division: power generation and welding equipment.
In April 2011, a massive storm system developed in the southern In the US we recently won a two-year sole supply deal for all Duke United States.
The system formed fierce tornados that reduced many Energys rental needs in the US including those of external subcontractors neighbourhoods to rubble and killed around 350 people across seven working on Duke facilities.
Duke Energy Corporation is the largest energy states.
Alabama suffered the most with Tuscaloosa being hit by an holding company in the US operating in franchised electric and gas extremely large and destructive tornado, one of 226 that occurred services, generation services, telecommunications, commercial power within a 24 hour period according to US Government estimates.
We were inundated with calls for help.
Sunbelt set up a fully functional call centre as the storms broke, staffed with four customer service Support for the US Army representatives working around the clock.
We mobilised 55 delivery At an army training centre in Louisiana, we are working to support the trucks in 10 days bringing equipment into Alabama from as far away US Army with troop training.
This facility is one of the US Armys Dirt as 1,000 miles.
These trucks brought in standby power generators Combat Training Centres resourced to train infantry brigade task forces ranging in size from 20kW1,500kW which were quickly deployed to in conditions as near as possible to those in the field.
We are providing keep the state moving and to facilitate the recovery.
Our local general all power requirements for the temporary living and training structures equipment stores were also extremely busy and the total amount of built on the base to help acclimatise troops prior to deployment.
We are fleet managed out of our Birmingham, Alabama stores tripled to over also providing long-term support to the training centre and, as well as $10m.
One of our rental stores in Birmingham suffered extensive wind assigning three full-time staff members to the project, have established damage but continued to operate at full capacity throughout.
an on-site rental facility to ensure immediate availability of highly utilised equipment.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 25 project lifecycle When we work on a large scale construction project, Site preparation such as our work on the 2012 Preparing the temporary site area, accommodation units, Olympics site in east London, traffic management, power and lighting, steel storage units 1 we often provide our full range and security fencing.
of equipment throughout the duration of the project which may last for several years.
From our perspective a typical project passes through five Site clearance, excavation basic stages which can be described generically, together and groundwork with the equipment provided Providing diggers, dumpers, piling and acrow to support main 2 at each stage, as follows: structures, trench shoring to deep drainage, potentially an on-site depot and possibly refuelling services.
Construction Providing formwork and falsework to support concrete structures, powered access platforms, booms, telehandlers, 3 survey equipment, dumpers, forklifts and concrete mixers.
Fit-out Smaller tools to finalise site for end user, towers, scissor lifts, temporary heating, air-conditioning and power, forklifts 4 and telehandlers.
Ongoing maintenance Various equipment for any facility, health and safety support, aerial work platforms and smaller tools and 5 equipment for facilities management and ongoing maintenance.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
