directors report The directors present their report and the audited accounts for the Transfer of shares financial year ended 30 April 2011.
Certified shares i Transfers may be in favour of more than four joint holders, but the Principal activities directors can refuse to register such a transfer.
The principal activity of the Company is that of an investment holding ii The share transfer form must be delivered to the registered office, or and management company.
The principal activity of the Group is the any other place decided on by the directors.
The transfer form must rental of equipment to industrial and commercial users mainly in the be accompanied by the share certificate relating to the shares being non-residential construction sectors of the US and the UK.
transferred, unless the transfer is being made by a person to whom Trading results and dividends the Company was not required to, and did not send, a certificate.
The Groups consolidated profit before taxation for the year was 1.7m The directors can also ask acting reasonably for any other evidence to 2010: 4.8m.
A review of the Groups performance and future show that the person wishing to transfer the shares is entitled to do so.
development, including the principal risks and uncertainties facing the CREST shares Group, is given in the Business and Financial Review on pages 6 to 33 and i Registration of CREST shares can be refused in the circumstances set in note 23 to the financial statements.
These disclosures form part of this out in the Uncertified Securities Regulations.
The Company paid an interim dividend of 0.93p per ordinary share in February and the directors recommend the payment of a final dividend ii Transfers cannot be in favour of more than four joint holders.
of 2.07p per ordinary share, to be paid on 9 September 2011 to those Based on notifications received, the holdings of 3% or more of the issued shareholders on the register at the close of business on 19 August 2011, share capital of the Company as at 14 June 2011 the latest practicable making a total dividend for the year of 3.0p 2010: 2.9p.
date before approval of the financial statements are as follows: Share capital and major shareholders % Details of the Companys share capital are given in note 19 to the financial AEGON Asset Management 11 statements.
BlackRock, Inc. 7 Voting rights Aviva plc 5 Subject to the Articles of Association, every member who is present in Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 5 person at a general meeting shall have one vote and on a poll every Baillie Gifford 5 member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for Legal & General 4 every share of which he or she is the holder.
The Trustees of the Employee Share Ownership Trust ordinarily follow the guidelines issued by the Details of directors interests in the Companys ordinary share capital and Association of British Insurers and do not exercise their right to vote at in options over that share capital are given in the Directors Remuneration general meetings.
Details of all shares subject to option are given in the notes to the financial statements on page 72.
Under the Companies Act 2006, members are entitled to appoint a proxy, who need not be a member of the Company, to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and speak and vote on their behalf at a general meeting or any class of meeting.
A member may appoint more than one proxy provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
A corporate member may appoint one or more individuals to act on its behalf at a general meeting or any class of meeting as a corporate representative.
The deadline for the exercise of voting rights is as stated in the notice of the relevant meeting.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 43 Change of control provisions in loan agreements Auditor A change in control of the Company defined, inter alia, as a person or a Deloitte LLP has indicated its willingness to continue in office and in group of persons acting in concert gaining control of more than 30% of accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution the Companys voting rights leads to an immediate event of default under concerning its reappointment and authorising the directors to fix its the Companys asset-based senior lending facility.
In such circumstances, remuneration, will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
the agent for the lending group may, and if so directed by more than 50% Annual General Meeting of the lenders shall, declare the amounts outstanding under the facility The Annual General Meeting will be held at 2.30pm on Tuesday, immediately due and payable.
Notice of the meeting is set out in the document Such a change of control also leads to an obligation, within 30 days of the accompanying this Report and Accounts.
change in control, for the Group to make an offer to the holders of the In addition to the adoption of the 2010 11 Report and Accounts, the Groups $550m senior secured notes, due 2016, to redeem them at 101% declaration of a final dividend, resolutions dealing with the appointment of their face value.
and re-election of directors and the resolution dealing with the approval Directors and directors insurance of the Directors Remuneration Report, there are six other matters which Details of the directors of the Company are given on pages 40 and 41. will be considered at the Annual General Meeting.
These relate to the The policies related to their appointment and replacement are detailed reappointment and remuneration of Deloitte LLP as auditor, the ability on pages 44 and 45.
Each of the directors as at the date of approval of this for the directors to unconditionally allot shares up to approximately report confirms, as required by section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 two-thirds of the Companys share capital, the disapplication of prethat to the best of their knowledge and belief: emption rights in relation to the previous resolution, empowering the Company to buy back up to 15% of its issued share capital and the ability 1 there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor to call a meeting other than a general meeting on not less than 14 days is unaware: and clear notice.
The majority of these resolutions update for a further year 2 each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken to similar resolutions approved by shareholders in previous years.
make himself aware of such information and to establish that the By order of the Board Companys auditor is aware of it.
The Company has maintained insurance throughout the year to cover all directors against liabilities in relation to the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
Policy on payment of suppliers Eric Watkins Suppliers are paid in accordance with the individual payment terms agreed Company secretary with each of them.
The number of Group creditor days at 30 April 2011 15 June 2011 was 57 days 30 April 2010: 88 days which reflects the terms agreed with individual suppliers.
There were no trade creditors in the Companys balance sheet at any time during the past two years.
Political and charitable donations Charitable donations in the year amounted to 50,007 in total 2010: 138,991.
No political donations were made in either year.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
