our directors 3 1 2 6 4 5 7 8 9 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 41 1.
Chris Cole Non-executive directors Non-executive chairman Chris Cole has been a director since January 2002 and was appointed as 6.
Hugh Etheridge non-executive chairman in March 2007.
Chris is chairman of the Nomination Senior independent non-executive director Committee and a member of the Finance and Administration Committee.
Hugh Etheridge has been a director, chairman of the Audit Committee He is chief executive of WSP Group plc.
and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees since January 2004.
Hugh was appointed as senior independent non-executive Executive directors director in March 2007.
With effect from June 2011, he was appointed a non-executive director of William Sinclair Holdings plc.
Geoff Drabble formerly chief financial officer of the Waste and Resources Action Chief executive Programme WRAP, a non-profit organisation established by the Geoff Drabble was appointed as chief executive in January 2007, having UK Government to promote sustainable waste management.
Before served as chief executive designate from October 2006 and as a nonjoining WRAP, he was finance director of Waste Recycling Group plc executive director since April 2005.
Geoff was previously an executive and prior to that, of Matthew Clark plc.
director of The Laird Group PLC where he was responsible for its Building 7.
Prior to joining The Laird Group, he held a number of Independent non-executive director senior management positions at Black & Decker.
Geoff is chairman of Michael Burrow was appointed as a non-executive director and member the Finance and Administration Committee and a member of the of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees effective from Nomination Committee.
March 2007 and chairman of the Remuneration Committee in September 3.
Michael was formerly managing director of the Investment Banking Finance director Group of Lehman Brothers Europe Limited.
Ian Robson has been finance director since June 2000.
Bruce Edwards 2000, Ian held a series of senior financial positions at Reuters Group plc Independent non-executive director for four years.
Before joining Reuters Group plc, he was a partner at Price Bruce Edwards was appointed as a non-executive director in June 2007 Waterhouse now  LLP.
Ian is a member of the and a member of the Nomination Committee and Remuneration Finance and Administration Committee.
Committee effective from February 2009 and September 2010 4.
Bruce is the global chief executive officer for Exel Supply Chief executive officer, Sunbelt Chain at Deutsche Post World Net, and a member of its board of Brendan Horgan was appointed a director in January 2011.
He joined DPWN following its acquisition of Exel PLC in joined Sunbelt in 1996 and, in recent years, has held a number of senior December 2005.
Prior to the acquisition, he was a director of Exel PLC and management positions including chief sales officer and chief operating chief executive of its Americas businesses.
Bruce is also a non-executive officer.
Brendan is a US citizen and lives in Charlotte, North Carolina.
director of Greif Inc, a NYSE-listed packaging and container manufacturer.
He is a US citizen and lives in Columbus, Ohio.
Sat Dhaiwal Chief executive officer, A-Plant 9.
Ian Sutcliffe Sat Dhaiwal has been chief executive officer of A-Plant and a director Independent non-executive director since March 2002.
Sat was managing director of A-Plant East, one of Ian Sutcliffe was appointed as a non-executive director and member of the A-Plants four operational regions, from May 1998 to March 2002.
Before Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees in September 2010.
Ian that he was an A-Plant trading director from 1995 and, prior to 1995, was formerly managing director, UK Property, at Segro plc where he had managed one of A-Plants stores.
Prior to joining Segro he held senior executive positions with Taylor Wimpey plc and Royal Dutch Shell plc.
Details of the directors contracts, emoluments and share interests can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Key: Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Finance and Administration Committee Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
