our group at a glance Ashtead provides equipment for rent from our nationwide networks in the US and the UK.
We provide solutions for customers who need a quick, efficient and cost effective service.
We are the second largest equipment rental company in the world and operate as Sunbelt in the US and as A-Plant in the UK.
Some 85% of our revenues come from our US business.
106 UK: Number of stores A-Plant 1,900 The third largest Employees equipment rental company in the UK 166m with 106 stores Revenue throughout England, Scotland and Wales 3m Profits 1.
1% Return on investment what we do Our equipment is rented on flexible terms so that our We locate our stores where they are most needed and we customers have no need to own, maintain and service guarantee our service.
We make sure the right equipment is equipment they may use only intermittently.
Our job is to in place to get the job done whether it is a small hand held ensure that the right equipment is there when it needs to tool or the largest aerial work platform.
be and is ready to work immediately, efficiently and safely.
Providing an on-site hire depot and Facilitating fit-out contractors village and ongoing for a long-term maintenance for hospital construction office blocks.
equipment for facilities On-site tool hire management at new and maintenance shopping centre for new residential complex.
Designing and implementing traffic management Replacing worn systems.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 3 316 full service stores and 40 Sunbelt at Lowes shops US: Number of stores Sunbelt 6,200 The second largest Employees equipment rental business in the US with $1,225m 356 stores in 35 states Revenue $162m Profits 8.6% Return on investment Return on investment is defined as underlying operating profit divided by the weighted average cost of capital employed tangible and intangible fixed assets plus net working capital but excluding net debt, deferred taxes and fair value remeasurements.
Equipment types Customer base We supply a full range of industrial and construction Our customer base is very diverse.
We serve construction equipment such as earthmoving equipment, aerial work and industrial markets, disaster relief agencies, sport and platforms, high reach forklifts and other materials handling music event organisers, governments, local authorities, units, smaller tools, pumps, power generation, portable site facilities management and homeowners.
accommodation, scaffolding, formwork and falsework, and temporary traffic management equipment.
Renting generators, powered access Designing, equipment, lighting erecting and and temporary dismantling accommodation units scaffolding for an outdoor systems.
Advising on health and safety aspects Tracking our of equipment in equipment for use at new sports customers using stadium.
Drying out and cleaning up after a flash flood at an industrial warehouse.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
