business and financial review continued our strategy As we had hoped, the actions we have taken Managing the cycle All our strategic initiatives have to be executed in the context of our over the last three years mean that we are well position within economic cycles, as these have a profound effect on our positioned for growth now that the market is business.
This is because a large proportion of our business comes from beginning to improve.
construction markets which are routinely cyclical in nature.
As the cycles evolve, so do our operational, financial and risk management priorities.
The key objectives of our long-term strategy are to maintain our position This ensures that we manage risk effectively and remain on track with our as a leader in the global equipment rental business and deliver good KPIs regardless of where we are in the cycle.
Our prudent management returns for our investors through the cycle.
We focus our strategy on five through the most recent economic downturn has meant that we are now key areas.
As well as providing opportunities for growth, these strategic well positioned to capitalise on the return to growth.
The chart below priorities enable us to manage areas of risk within the business.
They also shows how we manage the business through the economic cycle and form the backbone of our business model.
We monitor our success where we are now.
through our key performance indicators KPIs see pages 19 to 21.
Phase 1 Our key areas of focus are: When we are in a growth cycle, we use free cash flow to increase investment in our rental fleet to support revenue, EBITDA and earnings Managing the cycle growth.
This also reduces the age of our rental fleet.
We are able to take Differentiating our service and fleet advantage of the many growth opportunities available, both organic as Ensuring operational excellence well as selective acquisitions if profitable opportunities arise and can Investing in our people deliver high levels of customer satisfaction.
We enjoy high utilisation at Maximising our return on investment good rates and generate strong margins.
Capital expenditure is strong and debt remains broadly flat.
Leverage tends to reduce as earnings grow.
20042006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 onwards Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Phase 4 Phase 5 Base assumptions flat debt Strong market Rightsizing Running Prepare for Optimisation of strong market Preparation for tight inflection and invest in the business downturn point business Revenue m 3050% improvement based on fleet growth and yield improvement 500 524 638 896 1,048 1,073 837 949 Cash flow m Debt broadly flat deleveraging towards 54 54 2x EBITDA 19 246 190 -1 -70 -376 Fleet age months Fleet age reduced to between 34 and 38 months 46 45 37 31 31 35 44 44 Fleet size m Fleet size increasing up to 25% 814 800 922 1,434 1,528 1,763 1,689 1,632 EBITDA margins % Likely to exceed previous peaks 38% 29 32 34 35 35 33 30 30 Return on investment % Recovering RoI to mid teens well above cost of capital 11 14 13 14 12 10 5 7 Critical underpin is appropriate debt structure Critical underpin is appropriate debt structure Total cash generated before returns to shareholders Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 15 Phase 2 Typically, we apply the cash we generate to pay down debt, sustaining our In this phase, markets are still strong but we know that it cannot last leverage close to our target despite lower earnings.
At all times, however, forever.
We need to adapt our strategy and begin to get ready for the we take care to maintain the optimal flexibility to ensure that we can coming downturn.
Our particular focus is on preparing the balance sheet bounce back aggressively once the upturn arrives.
The focus is on cost for lower levels of income when the cycle turns.
In this way we manage efficiency while at the same time positioning the business for the recovery the cyclical risk inherent in the business.
We commit our debt for the long to come.
term and structure it to remain covenant free.
This enables us to get on Phase 5 with running the business unimpeded through the cycle.
We start to Once the recovery is under way, we look for our preparations to pay off.
reduce the rate at which we invest in new equipment and begin gently Rental rates begin to recover as does utilisation and consequently we increasing the age of our rental fleet.
This in turn increases cash flow.
typically deliver good earnings growth.
Capital expenditure increases as Phase 3 the business expands again.
Leverage reduces as earnings recover and, At the beginning of the downturn, if necessary, we may rightsize the once again, we begin to invest for organic growth.
At the same time we business to ensure that it is best positioned to withstand the worsening may look for opportunities amongst those in the industry who have economy.
In this way we sustained our EBITDA margin one of our KPIs struggled to survive the recession and are in a weaker position than at 30% during the latest cycle.
The flexibility of our business model enables us to upgrade and expand quickly to service increased demand.
Phase 4 Once in recession we focus on running a tight business, reducing capital expenditure to around half the level of depreciation, further reducing the fleet if required and, as a result, entering our most cash generative phase.
We aim to keep our fleet on rent another of our KPIs and utilisation high.
20042006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 onwards Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Phase 4 Phase 5 Base assumptions flat debt Strong market Rightsizing Running Prepare for Optimisation of strong market Preparation for tight inflection and invest in the business downturn point business Revenue m 3050% improvement based on fleet growth and yield improvement 500 524 638 896 1,048 1,073 837 949 Cash flow m Debt broadly flat deleveraging towards 54 54 2x EBITDA 19 246 190 -1 -70 -376 Fleet age months Fleet age reduced to between 34 and 38 months 46 45 37 31 31 35 44 44 Fleet size m Fleet size increasing up to 25% 814 800 922 1,434 1,528 1,763 1,689 1,632 EBITDA margins % Likely to exceed previous peaks 38% 29 32 34 35 35 33 30 30 Return on investment % Recovering RoI to mid teens well above cost of capital 11 14 13 14 12 10 5 7 Critical underpin is appropriate debt structure Critical underpin is appropriate debt structure Total cash generated before returns to shareholders Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 business and financial review continued our strategy Diversified customer base Sunbelt A-Plant Commercial construction 29% 10% 13% Government and institutional 6% Industrial, manufacturing 9% and agriculture 9% Infrastructure 49% 10% Non-construction services 10% 20% Residential construction 9% Small contractor 12% 8% Specialty trade contractors 4% 2% Where are we now Differentiating our service and fleet We believe we are in Phase 5 of the cycle.
Our rental and utilisation rates By differentiating our service and fleet we manage the risk associated are beginning to recover and earnings are improving.
In the US we are with being overly exposed to a downturn in any one sector of our already working to exploit opportunities in markets or sectors where business.
Both our customer base and the fleet itself are highly diversified.
Our focus is on organic growth by adding Our customers range in size and scale from multinational businesses equipment to the existing store base, by building out immature clusters which are serviced at a national level, to individuals doing up their own see detail on our operating model below and by entering new markets home.
In addition, we are diversified further by our specialist service where there is no existing presence.
offerings, such as our Pump and Power division in the US which often assists in emergency situations such as floods, and A-Plant Lux, our Of the available growth opportunities, increasing the fleet size at existing specialist traffic control and management business in the UK.
We also stores offers the most immediate return.
This generates improved revenue service a range of other applications such as industrial, events, facilities without increasing the cost base proportionately.
At the same time, we are management and repair and maintenance.
planning over the next few years for aggressive expansion of our specialty businesses.
The strengthening of our scaffolding services division through Our diversified customer base includes construction, industrial and the recent acquisition of Empire Scaffold is one example of this strategy.
homeowner customers, as well as government entities and specialist contractors.
These are analysed by Standard Industry Classification in the charts above.
In the US we seek to run our business with a broad customer base and a particular focus on the local mid-size contractor segment.
While we have a broadly similar fleet to that of our peers, we differentiate our offering by emphasising smaller equipment types which we believe offer the potential for higher returns.
For example, small tools and general equipment accounted for 17% of the overall cost of Sunbelts fleet last year but generated 26% of revenue.
When we are involved in a major long-term project we often provide the full range of our equipment from small hand-held tools to larger dirt moving or aerial equipment.
For an example of this see the project lifecycle chart on page 25.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 17 Fleet composition Sunbelt A-Plant Aerial work platforms 17% 24% Forklifts 14% Earth moving Accommodation 6% 36% 10% Pump and power 7% 5% Acrow 5% Traffic management 17% 4% Scaffold Other 26% 12% 17% We purchase equipment from vendors with good reputations for Ensuring operational excellence product quality and reliability and maintain close relationships with We seek to ensure operational excellence through our operating model.
these vendors to ensure good after-purchase service and support.
Many elements of this model are similar in both the US and the UK, but However, we also maintain sufficient alternative sources of supply we adapt it to suit the different markets.
for the equipment we purchase in each product category.
In the US we achieve nationwide coverage by taking a clustered We aim to offer a full service solution so we hold a full range of market approach grouping general tool and specialist rental locations equipment to meet all uses and applications required by our typical in each of our main geographical districts, typically covering a large customers.
Sunbelt has rental operations in 44 of the top 50 metropolitan areas.
This approach allows us to provide a comprehensive Our sales forces are encouraged to build and reinforce long-term product offering and convenient service to our customers wherever relationships with customers and to concentrate on strong, whole-life their job sites may be within these markets.
Recent years have seen a returns from our rental fleet, rather than on short-term returns from subtle shift away from a store focused approach to a whole market one sales of equipment.
We work closely with our customers to ensure we so we still deliver locally but we also ensure we gain the benefits of meet their needs.
In addition we make use of smart phones so that our scale district-wide through initiatives such as centralised field service sales staff can access real-time fleet availability and pricing information and also coordination across the district of our delivery truck fleet.
and respond to changing dynamics rapidly in these critical areas.
In the UK, our strategy is focused on having sufficient stores to allow We guarantee our service standards both in the UK and US and us to offer a full range of equipment nationwide.
In the last few years, voluntarily accept financial penalties if we fail to meet our during the recession, through our store closure programme, we have commitments to our customers.
We believe that our focus on customer completed the migration to fewer, larger locations which are able to service and the guarantees we offer help distinguish our businesses address all the needs of our customers.
Thus we have reduced A-Plants from competitors and assist us in delivering superior financial returns.
store count from over 200 to around 100 full service locations today We invest heavily in the technology required to deliver efficient service which we see as about ideal for a national provider in Great Britain.
We have developed technology to capture and Across our rental fleet, we aim generally to carry equipment from one record the time of delivery and the customers signature electronically or two suppliers in each product range and to limit the number of allowing us to monitor and report on on-time deliveries.
We also use model types of each product.
Having a standardised fleet results in electronic tracking systems to monitor and secure the location and lower costs because we obtain greater discounts by purchasing in bulk usage of large equipment.
and reduce maintenance costs through more focused, and therefore reduced, training requirements for our staff.
We are able also to share spare parts between stores which helps to minimise the risk of over-stocking, and to transfer fleet between locations easily which helps us achieve leading levels of fleet utilisation.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 business and financial review continued our strategy Staff turnover RoI through the cycle % % 20 35 15 25 Cost of capital 10 15 5 0 5 05 06 06 07 07 08 08 09 09 10 10 11 Sunbelt A-Plant Investing in our people Maximising our return on investment We are very proud of our superior workforce and invest heavily in their Return on investment RoI is a key performance indicator that we use to training and development.
We operate a devolved structure so we need monitor our business at all levels.
For the Group as a whole our objective to be sure we have the best people in place in each location.
is always to ensure that, averaged across the economic cycle, we deliver RoI well ahead of our cost of capital.
In recent years returns have been In general, the rental industry suffers from high staff turnover, particularly adversely impacted by recession as shown by the chart above.
However, within certain job categories such as mechanics and delivery truck drivers.
we are already seeing an improvement with RoI for 2011 at 7.0% Turnover tends to be particularly high within the first year of employment.
However, despite the recent difficult economic environment, we have made generally good progress in improving our staff retention in recent We maximise our RoI through encouraging effective management of years as shown in the staff turnover chart above.
invested capital by: We aim to attract good people and then invest in their development.
maintaining a concentration of higher-return often specialised Once people have been with us for a few years they tend to stay for a long equipment within the overall rental equipment fleet and being time and many of our senior staff started out in front line positions at one underweight in those asset classes with high rental penetration: of our rental stores.
For example, while we see 13% staff turnover in the promoting the transfer of equipment to locations where maximum US overall, that falls to close to zero amongst our store management and utilisation rates and returns can be obtained: more senior staff.
monitoring the amount of invested capital at each of our stores: and Both Sunbelt and A-Plant have extensive programmes in place to ensure high standards of recruitment, training, levels of customer service and empowering regional and local managers to adapt pricing policies in the appraisal, review and reward of our employees.
A-Plants three-year response to local demand in order to maximise overall returns.
apprenticeship scheme, for example, is the largest in the rental industry and is always heavily oversubscribed.
We also have a good record of retaining our apprentices at the conclusion of the programme.
In the US Sunbelt has a well established programme of working with the US military which delivers a consistent and quality source of potential recruits to our team.
We motivate and reward our people through a combination of competitive fixed pay and attractive incentive programmes.
Our sales force is also incentivised through commission plans which are based on sales volume and a broad measure of return on investment determined by reference to equipment type and discount level.
We maintain flexibility in these incentive plans to reflect changes in the economic environment.
We believe this has been an important element in retaining the confidence of our workforce through the recent difficult times.
You can find out more about our employees in our corporate responsibility report on pages 34 to 39.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Apr 04 Jul 04 Oct 04 Jan 05 Apr 05 Jul 05 Oct 05 Jan 06 Apr 06 Jul 06 Oct 06 Jan 07 Apr 07 Jul 07 Oct 07 Jan 08 Apr 08 Jul 08 Oct 08 Jan 09 Apr 09 Jul 09 Oct 09 Jan 10 Apr 10 Jul 10 Oct 10 Jan 11 Apr 11 19 our strategy vision To be a leader in the global equipment rental business and deliver superior returns for our investors through the cycle above our cost of capital strategy To manage a differentiated business efficiently in an inherently cyclical industry our strategic priorities 1 2 3 4 5 Efficient Maintain a Ensure operational Build, train, develop Maximise our return management of differentiated service excellence across and maintain the on investment business cycles and fleet from the the business best team in the through the cycle to take advantage competition industry of peaks and minimise troughs our business model Differentiating our Maximising our service and fleet: return on investment: Diversified customer base Effective management and Wide variety of applications monitoring of fleet investment Fleet focus differentiated Optimisation of utilisation rates Managing the cycle from competition and returns Planning ahead Broad fleet mix Flexibility in local pricing structures Careful balance sheet management Adapting fleet and cash position Taking advantage of Investing in our people: Ensuring operational opportunities Highly skilled team excellence: Devolved structure Nationwide networks in US and UK Maintaining significant levels Long-term partnerships with of experience manufacturers Strong focus on recruitment, Focused service-driven approach training and incentivisation Strong customer relationships ISO accreditation Industry-leading application of technology Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
