1 Business review Introduction Rolls-Royce is a global company providing power solutions for customers in civil and defence aerospace, marine and energy markets.
We support our customers through a worldwide network of offices, manufacturing and service facilities in over 50 countries.
Our ability to design and develop high-technology products and then integrate these into sophisticated systems for use on land, sea and air, provides us with access to global markets.
2011 2010 % change Order book firm and announced 59.2bn 62.2bn 5% Underlying revenue 10,866m 11,277m 4% Profit before financing 1,134m 1,189m 5% Underlying profit before tax 955m 1,157m 21% Underlying earnings per ordinary share 38.73p 48.54p 25% Payments to shareholders 16.00p 17.50p 9% See explanation in note 2 on page 84 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual report 2011 Business review 2 Business review Chairmans statement Performing strongly in challenging conditions generated in the broader economy.
As we grow in scale and strength, Rolls-Royce continued to perform well during these effects are multiplied.
Innovation driven by Rolls-Royce has 2011 with our order book growing to a record generated wider societal benefits over many years.
Engineering breakthroughs pioneered by this Group have had wide applications in 62.2 billion.
Underlying profits increased fields as diverse as medical research and the automotive industries.
We are proposing Engineers and scientists trained by Rolls-Royce have gone on to make a significant contribution across enterprise and academia, while our growth a final payment to shareholders of 10.6 pence will create future employment for many of the brightest young scientists per share, bringing the full year payment studying at schools and universities around the world today.
This is why advanced economies depend so critically on successful enterprises like to 17.5 pence per share.
This is an increase Rolls-Royce and why it is of such importance that their wider contribution of nine per cent and reflects the Boards to society is recognised.
As a global business we recognise that to stay competitive we need to attract, retain and develop the best talent from continuing confidence in the Groups future.
the greatest range of people worldwide.
Our Global Diversity Steering Group reinforces our commitment to promoting diversity and equality This strong performance has been achieved against a background of throughout the Group and creating an environment in which each macro-economic weakness and uncertainty.
The recovery, which many individual has the opportunity to realise his or her full potential.
people had been expecting in Europe and North America, failed to materialise in 2011 and is still some way off.
Fiscal imbalances, austerity The UK Government recently outlined a number of recommendations programmes, disruption in the Eurozone and political tensions in the to improve gender diversity in UK boardrooms.
We support these Middle East continue to affect world markets, undermining confidence recommendations and are committed to making demonstrable about future macro-economic expansion even in Asia and South America.
It is a tribute to everyone who works at Rolls-Royce that the Group has continued along its path of long-term growth despite these testing times.
During 2011, more than 400 young graduates joined Rolls-Royce, from more than 25 countries.
In addition, 295 people joined our apprentice schemes.
Rolls-Royce is a long-term business which has maintained a consistent It is a tribute to the quality of our training that around fifty per cent of our strategy over many years.
We continually invest in advanced technology apprentices go on to achieve an honours degree and that so many of our so that we can address both the present needs of our customers and meet senior managers started their working lives at Rolls-Royce as apprentices.
their requirements for many years to come.
Our power systems have life cycles that stretch over decades and we generate long-term revenue Continuous training and development is extremely important to our streams by servicing the products we sell.
We have customers in 120 success.
Over the past five years we have invested over 150 million countries and we continue to broaden our customer base across the four improving the knowledge and skills of our people.
In order to maintain the segments in which we operate: civil aerospace, defence aerospace, marine highest standards of ethical behaviour and business integrity, we review and energy, including civil nuclear.
These characteristics have combined to continually our procedures and training programmes, which are make Rolls-Royce an increasingly resilient business.
However, we are not mandatory for all staff.
As well as developing our own workforce we complacent and continue to invest for the future.
In 2011, we invested recognise our wider responsibility towards the next generation of 520 million from Group resources in research and development.
This scientists and engineers through the promotion of science, technology, continuing commitment to technological innovation lies at the heart of engineering and maths STEM in schools and universities.
We invest in a our business model.
wide range of educational projects around the world and encourage our staff to take leadership roles as school governors and STEM ambassadors.
It is important to remember that Rolls-Royce sustains a global supply chain.
Around 8,000 companies in some 70 countries, all generating As part of our responsibilities to the communities in which we work, the employment, paying taxes and creating wealth, depend upon us and Board is committed to reducing the environmental impact of our products share in our success.
For every person we employ, more than six jobs are and operations.
Across our portfolio we can demonstrate the progress that Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual report 2011
