66 Governance Shareholders and share capital Share capital and voting rights C Shares On December 31, 2011 there were 1,872,240,012 ordinary shares, The Company issues non-cumulative redeemable preference shares 6,371,021,124 C Shares and one Special Share in issue.
The ordinary shares C Shares as an alternative to paying a cash dividend.
are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Shareholders can choose to: The Annual General Meeting redeem all C Shares for cash: This years AGM will be held at 11.00am on Friday May 4, 2012 at the redeem all C Shares for cash and reinvest the proceeds in additional QEII Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London, SW1P 3EE.
ordinary shares using the CRIP operated by the Registrar: or The Notice of AGM and the Annual report will be available to view on the keep the C Shares.
Any C Shares retained attract a dividend of 75 per cent of LIBOR on the Shareholders unable to attend the AGM are invited to vote on the business 0.1p nominal value of each share, paid on a twice-yearly basis, and have of the meeting by completing a proxy form and returning it to the limited voting rights.
The Company has the option to compulsorily Registrar.
If you have elected to receive electronic communications, you redeem the C Shares, at any time, if the aggregate number of C Shares in will be able to vote online.
issue is less than ten per cent of the aggregate number of all C Shares issued, or on the acquisition or capital restructuring of the Company.
Payments to shareholders At the AGM on May 4, 2012, the directors will recommend an issue of 106 On a return of capital on a winding-up, the holders of C Shares shall be C Shares with a total nominal value of 10.6 pence for each ordinary share.
entitled, in priority to any payment to the holders of ordinary shares, to the repayment of the nominal capital paid-up or credited as paid-up on the The final issue of C Shares will be made on July 2, 2012.
Together with the C Shares held by them, together with a sum equal to the outstanding interim issue on January 3, 2012 of 69 C Shares for each ordinary share with preferential dividend which will have been accrued but not been paid a total nominal value of 6.9 pence, this is the equivalent of a total annual until the date of return of capital.
payment to ordinary shareholders of 17.5 pence for each ordinary share.
The holders of C Shares are entitled to attend, speak and vote at a General The payment to shareholders will, as before, be made in the form of meeting only if a resolution to wind up the Company is to be considered, redeemable C Shares which shareholders may either choose to retain or in which case they may vote only on such resolution.
The Registrar, on behalf of the Company, operates a C Share Reinvestment Plan CRIP and can, on behalf of Special Share shareholders, purchase ordinary shares from the market rather than Certain rights attach to the special rights non-voting share Special Share delivering a cash payment.
Shareholders wishing to redeem their C Shares issued to HM Government Special Shareholder.
Subject to the provisions or else redeem and participate in the CRIP must ensure that their of the Companies Act 2006, the Treasury Solicitor may redeem the Special instructions are lodged with the Registrar no later than 5pm on Friday Share at par at any time.
The Special Share confers no rights to dividends June 1, 2012. but in the event of a winding-up it shall be repaid at its nominal value in priority to any other shares.
Share class rights The rights and obligations attaching to the different classes of shares are Certain Articles in particular those relating to the foreign shareholding set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
limit, disposals and the nationality of directors that relate to the rights attached to the Special Share may only be altered with the consent of the Ordinary shares Special Shareholder.
The Special Shareholder is not entitled to vote at any Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys Annual general meeting or any other meeting of any class of shareholders.
They are also entitled to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint one or more proxies or, if they are corporations, The latest copy of the Articles of the Company can be found on the corporate representatives, and to exercise voting rights.
They have the Groups website: www.
right to ask questions at the AGM relating to the business of the meeting and for these to be answered, unless such answer would interfere unduly Restrictions on transfer of shares and limitations on holdings with the business of the meeting, involve the disclosure of confidential There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of the information, if the answer has already been published on the Groups ordinary shares or C Shares other than under the Articles of Association as website or if it is not in the interests of the Group or the good order of the described here, under restrictions imposed by law or regulation for meeting that the question be answered.
Holders of ordinary shares may example, insider trading laws or pursuant to the Companys share dealing receive a bonus issue of C Shares or a dividend and on liquidation may code.
The Articles of Association provide that the Company should be and share in the assets of the Company.
remain under United Kingdom control.
As such, an individual foreign shareholding limit is set at 15 per cent of the aggregate votes attaching to the share capital of all classes taken as a whole and capable of being cast on a poll and to all other shares that the directors determine are to be included in the calculation of such holding.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual report 2011 67 Governance Shareholders and share capital Shareholder agreements and consent requirements Voting rights There are no known arrangements under which financial rights carried by Deadlines for exercising voting rights any of the shares in the Company are held by a person other than the Electronic and paper proxy appointments, and voting instructions, must holder of the shares and no known agreements between the holders of be received by the Companys Registrar not less than 48 hours before a shares with restrictions on the transfer of shares or exercise of voting rights.
No disposal may be made to a non-Group member which, alone or when aggregated with the same or a connected transaction, constitutes a Voting rights for employee share plan shares disposal of the whole or a material part of either the nuclear business or the Shares are held in various employee benefit trusts for the purpose of assets of the Group as a whole, without consent of the Special Shareholder.
satisfying awards made under the various employee share plans.
For shares held in a nominee capacity or if plan trust rules provide the Authority to issue shares participant with the right to vote in respect of specifically allocated shares, At a general meeting in 2011, authority was given to the directors to allot the trustee votes in line with the participants instructions.
For shares that new ordinary shares up to a nominal value of 124,811,895, equivalent to are not held absolutely on behalf of specific individuals, the general policy one-third of the issued share capital of the Company.
This is called the first of the trustees, in accordance with investor protection guidelines, is to section 551 amount.
In addition, a special resolution was passed to effect abstain from voting in respect of those shares.
a disapplication of pre-emption rights for a maximum of five per cent of the issued share capital of the Company.
These authorities are valid until Major shareholdings the AGM in 2012 and the directors propose to renew these authorities at At February 8, 2012, the following companies had notified an interest in that AGM.
the issued ordinary share capital of the Company in accordance with the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules: In line with revised guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers in % of issued November 2009, it is proposed to seek a further authority, as last year, at ordinary share the AGM in 2012 to allot up to two thirds of the total issued share capital, Company Date notified capital but only in the case of a rights issue.
This is called the second section 551 AXA S. A. January 11, 2010 4.90 amount.
The Board believes that this additional authority will allow the BlackRock Inc. September 3, 2010 5.02 Company to retain the maximum possible flexibility consistent with Invesco Limited February 4, 2008 6.91 evolving market practice to respond to circumstances and opportunities Legal & General Group plc October 14, 2009 3.96 as they arise.
Also at a general meeting in 2011, authority was given to the directors to allot new C Shares up to a nominal value of 350 million as an alternative to a cash dividend.
Such authority expires at the conclusion of the AGM in 2012.
The directors propose to renew an authority to allot new C Shares at the AGM in 2012 at an increased level of 400 million to provide headroom for potential future payments to shareholders.
Authority to purchase own shares At a general meeting in 2011, the Company was authorised by shareholders to purchase up to 187,217,843 of its own ordinary shares representing ten per cent of its issued ordinary share capital.
The Company did not make use of this authority during 2011.
The authority for the Company to purchase its own shares expires at the conclusion of the AGM in 2012 or 18 months from May 16, 2011, whichever is the earlier.
A resolution to renew it will be proposed at that meeting.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual report 2011 Governance
