68 Governance Other statutory information Political donations The Group has entered into a series of financial instruments to hedge its In line with its established policy, the Group made no political donations currency, interest rate and commodity exposures.
These contracts pursuant to the authority granted at the 2011 AGM.
Although the provide for termination or alteration in the event that a change of control Company does not make, and does not intend to make, donations to of the Company materially weakens the creditworthiness of the Group.
political parties, within the normal meaning of that expression, the definition of political donations under the Companies Act 2006 is very Employee share plans broad and includes expenses legitimately incurred as part of the process In the event of a change of control of the Company, the effect on the of talking to members of parliament and opinion formers to ensure that employee share plans would be as follows: the issues and concerns of the Group are considered and addressed.
These PSP awards would vest pro rata to service in the performance activities are not intended to support any political party and the Groups period, subject to remuneration committee judgement of policy is not to make any donations for political purposes in the normally Company performance: accepted sense.
APRA deferred shares the shares would be released from trust immediately: A resolution will therefore be proposed at the 2012 AGM seeking ShareSave options would become exercisable immediately.
shareholder approval for the directors to be given authority to make The new company might offer an equivalent option in exchange donations and incur expenditure which might otherwise be caught by the for cancellation of the existing option: and terms of the Companies Act 2006.
The authority sought will be limited to a SIP consideration received as shares would be held within the maximum amount of 25,000 per Group company but so as not to exceed SIP, if possible, otherwise the consideration would be treated as 50,000 for the entire Group in aggregate.
During the year, the business expenses incurred by Rolls-Royce North Essential commercial relationships America Inc. towards the operation of the Rolls-Royce North America Supply chain Political Action Committee RRNAPAC in the USA was US$44,436 2010: nil.
Certain suppliers to the Group contribute key components or services, the PACs are a common feature of the US political system and are governed by loss of which could cause disruption to the Groups deliveries.
However, the Federal Election Campaign Act.
none are so vital that their loss would affect the viability of the business as a whole.
When dealing with suppliers, the Group is guided by the Supply The PAC is independent of the Company and independent of any political Chain Relationships in Aerospace SCRIA initiative.
It seeks the best possible party.
The PAC funds are contributed voluntarily by employees and the terms from suppliers and when entering into binding purchasing contracts, Company cannot affect how they are applied, although under US Law, the gives consideration to quality, delivery, price and the terms of payment.
In business expenses are paid by the Company.
the event of disputes, efforts are made to resolve them quickly.
Such contributions do not require authorisation by shareholders under the Customers Companies Act 2006 and therefore do not count towards the 25,000 and The increasingly global nature of the business, balanced across the civil 50,000 limits for political donations and expenditure for which aerospace, defence aerospace, marine and energy segments, ensures that shareholder approval will be sought at the AGM.
the Group is not overly dependent on any individual customer.
Change of control Material litigation Contracts and joint venture agreements During the year, the litigation with United Technologies Corporation in There are a number of contracts and joint venture agreements which connection with an alleged patent infringement was withdrawn, without would allow the counterparties to terminate or alter those arrangements financial impact.
in the event of a change of control of the Company.
These arrangements are commercially confidential and their disclosure could be seriously Creditor days prejudicial to the Company.
As the Company is a holding company and does not itself trade, it owed no amounts to trade creditors at December 31, 2011 and therefore the Borrowings and other financial instruments number of creditor days required to be shown in this report to comply The Group has a number of borrowing facilities provided by various with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 is nil.
These facilities generally include provisions which may require any outstanding borrowings to be repaid or the alteration or termination of the facility upon the occurrence of a change of control of the Company.
At December 31, 2011 these facilities were less than 20 per cent drawn.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual report 2011 69 Governance Other statutory information Internal control and risk management Annual report and financial statements The Boards responsibility for internal control and risk management Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual report and the The directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal control and financial statements for maintaining and reviewing its effectiveness from both a financial and The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and the an operational perspective.
The system of internal control is designed to Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business applicable law and regulations.
objectives and to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they The Groups approach to internal control is based on the underlying are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with principle of line managements accountability for control and risk IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare management.
In reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK control, the Board has taken account of the results of the work carried out Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted to audit and review the activities of the Group.
There is an ongoing process to identify, assess and manage risk, including Under company law the directors must not approve the financial those risks affecting the Groups reputation.
This process is subject to statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of continuous improvement and has been in place throughout the financial the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their profit or year to which these statements apply and up to the date of their approval.
In 2011, the effectiveness and consistency of risk management at all levels In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, of the organisation has been measured, improved and reported via the the directors are required to: sector and function assurance framework.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: The Board has reviewed the risk management process and confirms that for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been ongoing processes and systems ensure that the Group continues to be prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: compliant with the Turnbull guidance as contained in Internal Control: for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial Financial reporting statements: and The Group has a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual budget prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it approved by the Board.
Revised forecasts for the year are reported at least is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company quarterly.
Actual results, at both a business and Group level, are reported will continue in business.
monthly against budget and variances reviewed.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records Financial managers are required to acknowledge in writing that their that are sufficient to show and explain the parent Groups transactions and routine financial reporting is based on reliable data and that their results disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the are properly stated in accordance with Group requirements.
parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for In addition, for annual reporting, business presidents and finance directors taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets are required to acknowledge that their business has complied with the of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors report, Directors remuneration report and Corporate Governance statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Groups website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual report 2011 Governance 70 Governance Other statutory information Going concern Responsibility statement The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this report future development, performance and position are set out on pages 1 to confirms that to the best of his or her knowledge: 70 of the business review and a summary of the principal risks affecting i e ach of the Group and parent company financial statements, prepared the business are shown on pages 34 to 35. in accordance with IFRS and UK Accounting Standards respectively, gives a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position, profit or loss of the issuer and the undertakings included in the borrowing facilities and financial risks are described in pages 14 to 17 and consolidation taken as a whole: and 36 to 37 of the business review.
ii the Directors report on pages 1 to 70 includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the In addition, notes 1, 13, 15 and 17 of the consolidated financial statements Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a include the Groups objectives, policies and processes for financial risk whole, together with a description of the principal risks and management, details of its cash and cash equivalents, indebtedness and uncertainties that they face.
borrowing facilities and its financial instruments, hedging activities and its exposure to counterparty credit risk, liquidity risk, currency risk, interest By order of the Board rate risk and commodity pricing risk.
As described on page 36, the Group meets its funding requirements through a mixture of shareholders funds, bank borrowings, bonds, notes Paul Davies and finance leases.
The Group has facilities of 2.3 billion of which Acting Company Secretary 1.1 billion was drawn at the year end.
None of these facilities expire in 2012.
February 8, 2012 The Groups forecasts and projections, taking into account reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group has sufficient financial resources.
As a consequence, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group are well placed to manage their business risks and to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, despite the current uncertain global economic outlook.
Accordingly, the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in accordance with the guidance Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009 issued by the FRC in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Disclosure of information to auditors Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this report confirms that: i so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and ii the director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given, and should be interpreted, in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual report 2011
