36 Business review Additional financial information Foreign exchange Capital structure Capital summary million 2011 2010 Foreign exchange rate movements influence the reported income Total equity 4,519 3,979 statement, the cash flow and closing net cash balance.
The average and Cash flow hedges 52 37 spot rates for the principal trading currencies of the Group are shown in Group capital 4,571 4,016 the table below: Net funds 223 1,533 2011 2010 Change Year end spot rate 1.55 1.57 -1% USD per GBP Average spot rate 1.60 1.54 4% Operations are funded through various shareholders funds, bank debt, Year end spot rate 1.20 1.17 3% EUR per GBP bonds, notes and finance leases.
The capital structure of the Group Average spot rate 1.15 1.17 -2% reflects the judgement of the Board as to the appropriate balance of funding required.
Taxation The Group believes that it has a duty to shareholders to seek to minimise Funding is secured by the Groups continued access to the global debt its tax burden but to do so in a manner which is consistent with its markets.
Borrowings are funded in various currencies using derivatives commercial objectives and meets its legal obligations and ethical where appropriate to achieve a required currency and interest rate profile.
Every effort is made to maximise the tax efficiency of business The Boards objective is to retain sufficient financial investments and transactions and this includes taking advantage of available tax incentives undrawn facilities to ensure that the Group can both meet its mediumand exemptions.
However, the Group has regard for the intention of the term operational commitments and cope with unforeseen obligations legislation concerned rather than just the wording itself.
The Group is committed to building open relationships with tax authorities The Group holds cash and short-term investments which, together with and to following a policy of full disclosure in order to effect the timely the undrawn committed facilities, enable it to manage its liquidity risk.
settlement of its tax affairs and to remove uncertainty in its business transactions.
Where appropriate, the Group enters into consultation with After repayment from cash resources of the 750 million Eurobond, the tax authorities to help shape proposed legislation and future tax policy.
Group retained at year end aggregate liquidity of 2.5 billion.
This liquidity comprised net funds of 223 million and aggregate borrowing facilities of Transactions between Rolls-Royce subsidiaries and associates in different 2.3 billion, of which 1.2 billion remained undrawn.
This represents a jurisdictions are conducted on an arms-length basis and priced as if the 34 per cent decrease in net drawn borrowing facilities during the year.
transactions were between unrelated entities, in compliance with the OECD Model Tax Convention and the laws of the relevant jurisdictions.
The maturity profile of the borrowing facilities is regularly reviewed to ensure that refinancing levels are manageable in the context of the Investments and capital expenditure business and market conditions.
There are The Group subjects all major investments and capital expenditure to a no rating triggers in any borrowing facility that would require the facility rigorous examination of risks and future cash flows to ensure that they to be accelerated or repaid due to an adverse movement in the Groups create shareholder value.
All major investments require Board approval.
The Group has a portfolio of projects at different stages of their life cycles.
During 2011, the 250 million bank revolving credit facility RCF due in Discounted cash flow analysis of the remaining life of projects is 2012 and 750 million RCF due in 2013 were both refinanced with a new performed on a regular basis.
1 billion RCF due in 2016 provided by a syndicate of relationship banks.
The borrowing margin for this new RCF varies for a given credit rating.
Sales of engines in production are assessed against criteria in the original Depending on the extent drawn, the current margin would be 0.40 per development programme to ensure that overall value is enhanced.
cent to 0.70 per cent over sterling LIBOR.
Financial risk management The Group conducts some of its business through a number of joint The Board has an established and structured approach to financial risk ventures.
A major proportion of the debt of these joint ventures is management.
The Financial Risk Committee Frc is accountable for secured on the assets of the respective companies and is non-recourse managing, reporting and mitigating the Groups financial risks and to the Group.
This non-recourse debt is further outlined in note 10 to exposures.
These risks include the Groups principal counterparty, currency, the financial statements.
interest rate, commodity price, liquidity and credit rating risks outlined in more depth in note 17 to the financial statements.
The Frc is chaired by the Finance Director.
The Group has a comprehensive financial risk policy that advocates the use of financial instruments to manage and hedge business operations risks that arise from movements in financial, commodities, credit or money markets.
The Groups policy is not to engage in speculative financial transactions.
The Frc sits quarterly to review and assess the key risks and agree any mitigating actions required.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual report 2011 37 Business review For more financial information go online: www.
com investors Additional financial information Credit rating Rating agency Rating Outlook Grade Moodys Investors Service A3 Stable Investment Standard & Poors APositive Investment The Group subscribes to both Moodys Investors Service and Standard & Poors for independent long-term credit ratings.
At December 31, 2011, the Group maintained investment grade ratings from both agencies.
As a capital-intensive business making long-term commitments to our customers, the Group attaches significant importance to maintaining or improving the current investment grade credit ratings.
Accounting and regulatory The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the EU.
In 2011, there were no changes that have had a significant effect on the Groups financial statements.
A summary of changes which have not been adopted in 2011 is included within the accounting policies in note 1 to the financial statements.
Governments and regulators around the world continue to consider reforms to the financial markets with the aim of improving transparency and reducing systemic risk.
Although the proposed reforms are predominantly directed at financial institutions, they will also affect non-financial institutions such as the Group.
In particular, proposals by both US and European regulators to reform the Over-the-counter OTC derivatives market may have adverse implications for the Group.
If, as is being contemplated, parties to future OTC derivative transactions are required to use an exchange to clear the transactions and post cash collateral to reduce counterparty risk, the Groups future funding requirements could be adversely affected and cash flow more volatile.
Share price During the year the share price increased by 20 per cent from 623p to 746.5p, compared to a 0.7 per cent increase in the FTSE aerospace and defence sector and a 5.6 per cent decrease in the FTSE 100.
The Companys share price ranged from 557.5p in March to 746.5p at the year end.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual report 2011 Business review
