9 Business review Market opportunities over the next 20 years The Groups forecast predicts faster growth rates for long-haul markets and those markets to, from and within Asia.
Factors affecting US$800bn demand include GDP growth, aircraft productivity, operating costs, environmental issues and the number of aircraft retirements.
We Civil engine market forecast a demand for civil aero engines of US$800 billion over the next 20 years and for services of US$600 billion over the same period.
US$600bn Civil services market With traditional defence markets under budget pressures there may be delays in new programmes but these will be offset by longer US$155bn term services on current programmes where we are well placed.
Demand for military engines over the next 20 years is estimated at Defence engine market US$155 billion and for services and support equipment we estimate a market of US$260 billion over the same period.
US$260bn Defence services market The Group forecasts a demand for marine power and propulsion systems valued at US$215 billion over the next 20 years.
Marine US$215bn aftermarket services are expected to generate significant opportunities with demand forecast at US$125 billion over the same period.
Marine equipment market US$125bn Marine services market The Groups 20-year forecast values the total aero-derivative gas turbines sales in the oil and gas and power generation sectors at US$120bn more than US$70 billion.
Over this period, demand for associated services is expected to be around US$50 billion.
Energy engine and services market Based on the International Energy Agency forecasts, the Group has conservatively estimated that demand for mission-critical equipment, systems and engineering services for the nuclear island could reach US$390 billion over the next 20 years while demand for US$640bn associated reactor support services could amount to US$250 billion over the same period.
Civil nuclear equipment and services market Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual report 2011 Business review
