17 Business review For more financial information go online: www.
com investors Finance Directors review Group 2012 guidance Excluding the impact of the Tognum acquisition and the proposed IAE transaction, in 2012 the Group expects to see good growth in underlying revenue and underlying profit with a cash flow around breakeven as we continue to invest for future growth.
In civil aerospace, we anticipate good growth in underlying revenue and strong growth in underlying profit.
In defence aerospace, we expect modest growth in underlying revenue and profit.
In marine, we expect a modest increase in underlying revenue, with underlying profit broadly flat.
And in energy, we see growth in revenue and some improvement in profit.
Other relevant data Foreign exchange: neutral.
Taxation: the underlying tax rate is expected to be around 24 per cent.
R&D: a modest increase in expenditure combined with lower net capitalisation and higher amortisation due to the phasing of new programmes.
Capital expenditure: a modest increase, including increased investment in IT.
Pensions: no material changes expected to funding levels.
Intangible assets: modest increase compared with 2011 due to a modest increase in recoverable engine costs partially offset by a decrease in development costs due to the phasing of new programmes.
Property, plant and equipment: modest increase compared with 2011 as we continue to invest in capability and infrastructure.
Tognum Tognum is expected to contribute in the first half to the Groups share of results of joint ventures and associates.
Tognums results are expected to be fully consolidated around the half year with Daimlers 50 per cent share of the result recorded as a non-controlling interest.
For 2012, Tognum will be reported separately.
As Tognum remains a listed company and will issue its preliminary results on March 8, 2012, the Group is not providing guidance at this time.
IAE The sale of the Groups 32.5 per cent shareholding in IAE is expected to receive regulatory approval during 2012, at which time the initial cash consideration of US$1.5 billion will be received.
For the first full year following settlement, the impact of the sale on subsequent trading will have a small negative effect on underlying revenue and a positive effect of around 140 million on underlying profit.
The impact on the order book will be a reduction of around 4 billion.
Additional financial information can be found on pages 36 and 37.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual report 2011 Business review
