38 Governance Governance Board of directors Sir Simon Robertson John Rishton Iain Conn Dame Helen Alexander Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Senior Independent Director Non-executive director Lewis Booth Peter Byrom Sir Frank Chapman Sir Peter Gregson Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director 2 Sir Simon Robertson 70 served as Chairman of the audit Media and Deputy Chairman of esure Royal Dutch Shell plc and BP p. l. c. Non-executive Chairman, committee and a member of the ethics Group Holdings, and senior adviser to Sir Frank graduated with first class appointed January 2005 and nominations committees.
Dame Helen is Chancellor honours in Mechanical Engineering former non-executive director of of the University of Southampton.
from Queen Mary College, London Skills and experience: Sir Simon brings Allied Domecq.
University, and is a Fellow of the to the Board a background in 1, 2, 4 Lewis Booth 63 Institution of Mechanical Engineers.
international corporate advisory with a Non-executive director, He was knighted in 2011 for services 1, 2 wealth of experience in mergers and Iain Conn 49 appointed May 2011 to the oil and gas industries.
acquisitions, merchant banking, Senior Independent Director, investment banking and financial appointed January 2005 Skills and experience: Lewis has External appointments: Sir Frank markets.
During his career he has held a series of senior positions within has been Chief Executive of BG Group Skills and experience: Iain joined worked in France, Germany, the UK and the Ford Motor Company in Europe, plc for the past 11 years, managing the BP group in 1986 and has held the US.
In June 2010, he was honoured Asia, Africa and the United States.
the Group through a period of a number of executive positions with a knighthood in recognition of his Lewis began his career with British transformational growth and within the BP group worldwide.
Leyland, before joining Ford in 1978. international diversification.
External appointments: Iain is a External appointments: Sir Simon is External appointments: Lewis is Group Managing Director and Chief 2, 3 the founder member of Simon executive Vice President and Chief Sir Peter Gregson 54 Executive of Refining and Marketing, Robertson Associates LLP and Deputy Financial Officer of Ford Motor Non-executive director, BP p. l. c. He is also Chairman of the Chairman of HSBC Holdings plc.
He is a Company, a position he has held since appointed March 2007 Advisory Board of The Imperial non-executive director of Berry Bros & November 2008.
College Business School and a Skills and experience: Appointed to Rudd Limited and The Economist member of Imperial College Council.
the academic staff at the University of Newspaper Limited.
Sir Simon is a 2, 4 Peter Byrom 67 Southampton in 1983, Sir Peter director of The Royal Opera House Non-executive director, became Professor of Aerospace 2, 3, 4 Dame Helen Alexander 54 Covent Garden Limited and a Trustee of appointed January 1997 Materials in 1995 and Deputy The Eden Project and of the Royal Opera Non-executive director, Vice-Chancellor in 2000.
He is a Fellow appointed September 2007 Skills and experience: Peter was a House Endowment Fund.
of the Royal Academy of Engineering director of AMEC plc from 2005 to 2011 Skills and experience: Dame Helen and a Member of the Royal Irish and of NM Rothschild & Sons Limited 2, 5 is currently involved with a number of John Rishton 53 Academy and has served on the from 1977 to 1996.
He is a Fellow of not-for-profit organisations in media, Chief Executive, Councils of the Royal Academy of the Royal Aeronautical Society.
the internet, the arts and education.
appointed March 2011 Engineering and the Central She has also been a non-executive External appointments: Peter is Laboratory of the Research Councils.
Skills and experience: John is the director of Northern Foods Limited, Chairman of Domino Printing He was knighted in 2011 for services to former Chief Executive Officer of Royal Centrica PLC and BT Group PLC.
He began his career in 1979 at was Chief Executive of the Economist External appointments: Sir Peter is Ford Motor Company and held a variety Group till 2008, having joined the 2, 3 Sir Frank Chapman 58 of positions both in the UK and in President and Vice-Chancellor of company in 1985.
Non-executive director, Queens University Belfast: he serves Europe.
In 1994 he joined British Airways appointed November 2011 Plc, where he was Chief Financial on the Council of CBI Northern Ireland External appointments: Dame Officer from 2001 to 2005.
Prior to his and is a member of the Board of the Helen is Deputy President of the CBI, Skills and experience: Sir Frank has appointment as Chief Executive, John UK Universities and Colleges where she was President until June worked in the oil and gas industry for had been appointed as a non-executive Employers Association.
She is Chairman of the Port of 37 years, including operational and director of the Company in 2007 and Lieutenant of Belfast.
London Authority PLA, Incisive business development roles within Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual report 2011 39 Governance Board of directors James Guyette John McAdam John Neill CBE Ian Strachan President and Chief Executive Officer of Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Rolls-Royce North America Inc Mark Morris Colin Smith Mike Terrett Paul Davies Finance Director Director Engineering and Technology Chief Operating Officer Acting Company Secretary 2, 3 5 John McAdam 63 non-executive director of Johnson Colin Smith 56 Paul Davies 56 Non-executive director, Matthey plc, Commercial Union and Director Engineering and Technology, Acting Company Secretary appointed February 2008 Reuters Group plc.
appointed July 2005 Skills and experience: Paul joined Skills and experience: John was the External appointments: Ian is a Skills and experience: Colin joined Rolls-Royce in 2008.
He began his Chief Executive of ICI plc until ICIs non-executive director of Xstrata plc, Rolls-Royce in 1974.
He has held a career in the secretariat of Ford Motor acquisition by Akzo Nobel.
He has Transocean Inc and Caithness variety of key positions within the Company in 1980 and progressed via held a number of positions at Unilever, Petroleum Limited.
Company, including Director roles with Burberrys and Hunter within its Birds Eye, Walls, Quest Research and Technology and Saphir plc.
He was appointed International and Unichema Director of Engineering and Company Secretary of Norwest Holst 5 James Guyette 66 International businesses.
Colin is plc in 1991, of Kingsbury Group plc in President and Chief Executive Officer a Fellow of the Royal Academy of 1997 and, after the takeover of External appointments: John is of Rolls-Royce North America Inc. Engineering, the Royal Aeronautical Kingsbury, of Galliford plc.
He then Chairman of United Utilities Group appointed January 1998 Society and the Institution of worked for United Utilities plc for PLC and of Rentokil Initial plc, the Skills and experience: Before joining Mechanical Engineers.
seven years as both Deputy Company Senior Independent Director of the Company, Jim was Executive Vice Secretary, and acting Company J Sainsbury plc and a non-executive President, Marketing and Planning of Secretary, before joining Rolls-Royce 5 director of Sara Lee Corporation.
Chief Operating Officer, External appointments: Jim is appointed September 2007 1, 2 John Neill CBE 64 Chairman of PrivateBancorp, Inc. of Committee membership Non-executive director, Skills and experience: Mike joined 1 Chicago, Illinois and he is a director of Audit committee appointed November 2008 Rolls-Royce in 1978.
com Inc. of Norwalk, Nominations committee variety of senior positions in the 3 Connecticut.
Jim is Chairman of the Skills and experience: John is a Remuneration committee development of new aero-engine 4 member of the Council and Board of Smithsonian National Air and Space Ethics committee programmes including Managing 5 Museum, Washington DC.
Business in the Community, is Vice Risk committee Director of Airlines and President and President of the Society of Motor Chief Executive Officer of IAE based in Denotes chairman of committee Manufacturers and Traders, BEN, the 5 Mark Morris 48 the United States.
Prior to his automotive industry charity and The Non-executive directors Finance Director, appointment as Chief Operating Officer Institute of the Motor Industry.
He was appointed January 2012 Executive directors he was President Civil Aerospace.
awarded a CBE in June 1994 for his Mike is a Member of the Institute of services to industry.
Skills and experience: Mark joined Acting Company Secretary Mechanical Engineers and a Fellow of Rolls-Royce in 1986.
He has held a the Royal Aeronautical Society.
number of senior positions 1, 2, 4 Ian Strachan 68 throughout the Group and, prior to his Non-executive director, appointment as Finance Director, was appointed September 2003 Group Treasurer from 2001.
Skills and experience: Ian is the former Chief Executive of BTR plc, former Deputy Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer of Rio Tinto plc, former non-executive Chairman of Instinet Group Inc and a former Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual report 2011 Governance
