6 Business review Our business model and strategy Invest in leading technologies and skilled people Develop world-class Provide services products that add value Trusted to deliver excellence Develop close Manufacture customer efficiently relationships globally Rolls-Royce is a global company providing power solutions for customers in Two-thirds of our annual R&D funding is aimed at improving the civil and defence aerospace, marine and energy markets.
The Group has an environmental performance of our products.
We maximise our research ongoing commitment to investing in research and development R&D and development investment through our approach of invest once use which provides the technologies and intellectual property that allow us to many times in products across the four major segments.
Our compete on a global basis and creates high barriers for entry to our markets.
manufacturing operations and supply bases are integrated and global.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual report 2011 7 Business review Our business model and strategy A leading producer of mission-critical, Revenue 2011 m 1 4 integrated power systems and services for use in civil and defence aerospace, marine 1.
5,572m civil aerospace Address four and energy segments.
1,199m energy 2 We invest close to 1 billion annually in R&D and during 2011 we invested 467 million in Invest in capital projects to grow our global capability technology and productivity.
infrastructure and capability We have 40 major engineering programmes Develop a under management.
We continue to introduce competitive major new products, including the Trent 1000 portfolio of in 2011.
Our key projects will help define the products power systems markets for many years ahead.
and services Across the Group the growing installed product base and integrated systems will Grow market generate attractive returns for many decades.
share and our installed product base Over half our revenues come from services.
Add value We seek to develop our customer relationships, for customers through long-term service contracts where we through the can grow strong business collaboration.
provision of product-related services Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual report 2011 Business review
