5 Business review Chief Executives review Third, we agreed to sell our equity stake in International Aero Engines IAE Our strategy has stood the test of time to Pratt & Whitney, at the same time announcing our intention to form a and has proved itself in battle.
new joint venture to develop engines for the next generation of mid-size aircraft.
This agreement builds on a long and successful partnership with Pratt & Whitney, and charts a clear course for our future in this important market segment.
John Rishton Chief Executive In addition, we have continued to extend our portfolio and have advanced a number of important programmes.
These are described in greater detail February 8, 2012 later in this Annual report, but it is encouraging to note progress in each of our customer facing businesses.
In civil aerospace, we celebrated the first commercial flight of the Boeing 787 Dreamliner, operated by All Nippon Airways ANA and powered by Trent 1000 engines.
The Trent XWB engine programme for the Airbus A350 XWB is progressing well with over 1,500 test hours completed.
Our BR725 engine, developed for Gulfstreams new flagship executive jet, the G650, is due to enter service later this year.
In defence, our LiftFan system for the Joint Strike Fighter has performed well during intensive flight tests that included more than 70 short take-offs and vertical landings on board the aircraft carrier USS Wasp.
The TP400 engine for the Airbus A400M is on course to enter service in 2013, further strengthening our position in the military transport market.
In our marine business, we have secured the first orders for our awardwinning Environship, a cargo vessel powered by liquid natural gas that substantially increases fuel efficiency through a combination of innovative hull design and power systems.
In May 2011, the UK Government awarded Rolls-Royce the contract to develop a new propulsion system for the next generation of nuclear-powered submarines.
Our energy business signed its biggest ever single contract to supply Petrobras, Brazils leading oil company, with 32 gas turbine generation packages to support its offshore operations.
Within our civil nuclear business we have continued to expand our instrumentation and controls business while strategic relationships with reactor vendors and utility operators were further strengthened during 2011 through a number of cooperation agreements.
In 2011, Rolls-Royce performed well in difficult market conditions.
We have a 62.2 billion order book, underlying revenue has grown to 11.3 billion and underlying profit has increased 21 per cent to 1.2 billion.
This success is due to the extraordinary team of over 40,000 people that work for Rolls-Royce.
I thank all of them for their support and effort in 2011.
Their skills, the breadth of our portfolio, the strength of our order book and the access we have to parts of the world where demand for our products and services remain strong, make your company increasingly resilient.
