16 Business review Finance Directors review Balance sheet Net funds decreased by 85 per cent to 223 million largely due to the Summary balance sheet million 2011 2010 1.5 billion consideration paid during the year for the Groups shared Intangible assets 2,882 2,884 investment in Tognum.
As a result, average net funds fell by 640 million Property, plant and equipment 2,338 2,136 to 320 million 805 million excluding acquisitions.
Net post-retirement scheme deficits 397 856 Net working capital 1,098 973 Investment joint ventures and associates increased in the year as a Net funds 223 1,533 result of the investment in Tognum.
Provisions 502 544 Net financial assets and liabilities 718 627 Assets held for sale represent the assets and liabilities expected to be Share of results of joint ventures and associates 1,680 393 derecognised of as a result of the anticipated restructuring of IAE.
Assets held for sale 178 9 Other net assets and liabilities 67 24 Provisions largely relate to warranties and guarantees provided to secure Net assets 4,519 3,979 the sale of OE and services.
These provisions reduced modestly during Other items the year.
USD hedge book US$ million 22,000 20,900 Net TotalCare assets 956 920 Net financial assets and liabilities relate to financial RRSPs and the fair Gross customer finance contingent liabilities 612 633 value of foreign exchange, commodity and interest rate contracts, set out Net customer finance contingent liabilities 124 121 in detail in note 17 to the financial statements.
The change largely reflects the impact of the change in the GBP USD exchange rate on the valuation Intangible assets relate to goodwill, certification costs, participation fees, of foreign exchange contracts.
development expenditure, recoverable engine costs, software and other costs that represent long-term assets of the Group.
In aggregate, these The USD hedge book increased five per cent to US$22.0 billion.
This assets remained broadly unchanged at 2.9 billion: this was largely due to represents around four and a half years of net exposure and has an increased development, certification and software costs being offset by average book rate of 1 to US$1.60.
Current forward market exchange rates the reclassification of V2500 assets on the balance sheet as assets held for are similar to current average book rates.
The carrying values of the intangible assets are assessed for impairment against the present value of forecast cash flows generated by Net TotalCare assets relate to long-term service agreement LTSA the intangible asset.
The principal risks remain: reductions in assumed contracts in the civil aerospace business, including the flagship services market share: programme timings: increases in unit cost assumptions: and product TotalCare.
These assets represent the timing difference between adverse movements in discount rates.
There have been no impairments in the recognition of income and costs in the income statement and cash 2011.
Further details are given in note 8 of the financial statements.
Property, plant and equipment increased by nine per cent to Customer financing facilitates the sale of original equipment OE and 2.3 billion due to the ongoing development and refreshment of facilities services by providing financing support to certain customers.
Where such and tooling as the Group prepares for increased production volumes.
support is provided by the Group, it is generally to customers of the civil aerospace business and takes the form of various types of credit and asset Net post-retirement scheme deficits decreased 54 per cent to value guarantees.
These exposures produce contingent liabilities that are 397 million, including: i the impact of the change in pensions indexing outlined in note 23 to the financial statements.
The contingent liabilities to CPI in the UK 130 million : ii revised healthcare benefits in certain represent the maximum aggregate discounted gross and net exposure in overseas schemes 74 million : and iii the reduction in discount rates respect of delivered aircraft, regardless of the point in time at which such having a larger impact on the value of the assets than the obligations exposures may arise.
calculated on an IAS 19 basis.
During 2011, the Groups exposure remained stable with gross and net Overall funding across the schemes has improved in recent years as the exposures of 612 million and 124 million respectively.
As has been Group has adopted a lower risk investment strategy that reduces volatility well-publicised, some banks that have been active in recent years in going forward and enables the funding position to remain stable: interest providing funds for aircraft financing have chosen during 2011 to rate and inflation risks are largely hedged: exposure to equities has substantially reduce their exposure in this market segment.
Although this reduced to around 20 per cent of scheme assets, this has been achieved may have some effect on the terms and pricing of new aircraft finance against the headwind of increasing life expectancy assumptions.
transactions in the near future, the Group expects that other providers of USD funding and ongoing support from the export credit agencies will In 2011, the Group made further arrangements to reduce volatility and largely fill the gap left by these banks.
enable future funding to be predicted with more certainty.
A longevity swap was transacted with a third party to eliminate the risk of increasing life expectancy of pensioners in the largest UK defined benefit scheme.
No significant change is expected to the ongoing funding levels of the UK pension schemes in 2012.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual report 2011
