OPERATIONAL REVIEW GEARS Rotork Gears manufactures and sells manual and motorised gearboxes.
We continue to increase our third party sales to the valve industry as a strategic objective and reduce our dependence on intercompany transactions.
Around three quarters of revenue is now generated from sales to third party valve manufacturers.
Whilst the sales to Rotork offices are often driven by project activity, the sales to valvemakers are very different in nature.
The gearbox is seen as a component of Restating adjusted operating profit at the valve and with the majority of valves last years exchange rates reduces the still being manually operated, most require operating profit to 9.9m and the margin a gearbox to provide the mechanical to 21.5%, compared with 23.4% in 2010. advantage necessary to operate the valve.
All valvemakers therefore need a supply The largest contributors to the Gears of gearboxes and although some make results were sales direct from factories in their own, our sales proposition is very the UK, the Netherlands, Italy and China.
We can provide a high quality, At the start of the year the Shanghai reliable gearbox and by virtue of our scale facility in China, which shares the site with and buying power through our global Controls, was expanded and Gears moved supply chain, offer our gearboxes at a into an adjoining building.
We made good better rate than internally manufactured progress this year selling to Chinese products.
valvemakers rather than using this facility solely to export products.
We also used David Littlejohns MD Rotork Gears Revenue in the year was 46.6m, an the new facility in Houston to establish a increase of 18.8% over 2010, order customisation centre.
This allows blank intake rose 15.6%, and our order book gearboxes to be held in stock and finished increased by 8.6%, all of which set new to specific customers requirements order intake records for Gears.
The acquisition of and by doing this we improve delivery Prokits came too close to the end of the time.
India is another investment area rose 15.6% and year to have a significant effect on the for Gears, where we now have sourcing results, and the overall currency impact on expertise and during the year we began our order book revenue was negligible.
Adjusted operating to source components for other divisions profit for the year was 10.3m, 12.8% from here.
Our manufacturing capability increased by higher than the prior year.
There had been has also increased in India to support the some margin pressure in the first half local market.
Managing the global supply 8.6%, all of which of the year, reducing operating margin chain and raw material cost pressures to 21.7%.
However during the second remains a priority and is a key objective set new records half the benefit of July price increases of the division and the Group as a whole.
for Gears and higher revenue increased margins In addition to the factories, Rotorks to 22.6%, resulting in a full year average marketing subsidiaries around the world of 22.2%.
Gears has a very different sell manual gearboxes.
This is most currency exposure to the rest of the Group successful in countries which have a large and purchases a greater proportion of its domestic valve industry.
We identified components in US dollars, such that, with Russia as a country with significant a weaker US dollar this year, operating potential and increased our sales through profit benefited from a currency tailwind.
the year by building new relationships with ROTORK P. L. C. 18 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC - 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 - 34 GOVERNANCE 35 - 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 - 100 INFORMATION 101 - 103 Russian valvemakers.
The other growing development in Gears not only focuses market for Gears is Australia.
Here the on the applications but also on ways of key relationship is built with valve making improvements to existing models Business distributors rather than the valvemaker but and reducing the costs of production.
the business is again based on building a The year ahead will see further product Opportunities long term supply relationship.
launches that address both types of n Launch of new products development.
We have launched new products focused n Houston expansion providing on niche applications: fire protection customised products systems and certified water applications.
During the year we have seen growth in n Target further material cost sales of these product ranges.
Product reductions n Increase Indian manufacturing n REVENUE m 18.8% 60 46.6 45 30 15 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 n ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT m 12.8% 12 10.3 9 6 3 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Rotork Gears participating in the Chinese Gas Transportation Network ROTORK P. L. C. 19 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 Supporting Customers The excellent reliability record of Rotorks products is reinforced by the skill of its employees who are dedicated to specifying the right unit for each job and keeping them maintained for optimal performance and life.
No matter where in the world its flow control products are being used, Rotork is devoted to delivering the highest levels of service and support.
ROTORK P. L. C. 20 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
