REPORT Of THE diRECTORs The directors submit their report which aCqUisiTiOns sHaRE CaPiTaL incorporates the management report On 22 February 2011 the Group acquired Details of the Companys share capital required under the Disclosure and all the outstanding issued share capital of including rights and obligations attached Transparency Rules for listed companies Rotork Servo Controles fide Mexico S. A. fide to each class of share and the ordinary and the audited accounts for the year C. V. its Mexican sales and service agent shares issued during 2011 are set out in ended 31 December 2011 as set out on for 2,000,000. note 16 of the financial statements.
In compiling this report, ordinary shares represent over 99.9% of the directors have consulted with the On 8 June 2011, the Group acquired Valco the Companys total share capital and 1 management of the Group.
Valves and Automation AS, its Norwegian preference shares represent less than sales and service agent from Valco Group 0.1% of the Companys total share capital.
The Companys Articles of Association Rotork p. l. c. is a holding company.
The principal activities of the Rotork Group are On 15 July 2011, the Group acquired contain customary restrictions on the 100% of the share capital of Centork Valve transfer of shares as applicable only in the design, manufacture and support of actuators, systems and related products Control S. L. Centork for 3,147,000. certain limited circumstances e. g. in Centork is a manufacturer of electric relation to transfers to a minor.
actuators based near San Sebastian, North those provisions there are no restrictions East Spain.
on the transfer of ordinary shares in the The Rotork Group provides a range of products, systems and services within capital of the Company other than certain On 25 July 2011, the Group acquired restrictions which may be required from the global flow control markets including those for the motorisation and manual 100% of the share capital of K-Tork time to time by law, for example, insider International Inc. K-Tork for 6,518,000. trading law.
In accordance with the Model operation of adaption to industrial valves and dampers for isolation duty and K-Tork is a manufacturer of pneumatic valve Code which forms part of the Listing Rules actuators based in Dallas, Texas, USA.
of the Financial Services Authority as process control applications and other products associated with flow and pressure adopted by the Company certain directors On 15 November 2011, the Group and employees are required to seek the control and diagnostics and gathering of information.
It does this through its acquired 100% of the share capital of prior approval of the Company to deal in its Fairchild Industrial Products Company shares.
Controls, Gears, Fluid Systems and Instruments divisions.
Fairchild is a manufacturer of high precision pneumatic The Company is not aware of any are major control elements in refineries, pipelines, power stations, water distribution controls and power transmission products agreements between shareholders that for a wide range of industries, based in may result in restrictions on the transfer systems and effluent treatment plants and in all industries in which liquids or gases Winston Salem, North Carolina, USA.
of securities and or voting rights.
The Companys Articles of Association contain are transported through pipes.
On 30 November 2011, the Group limited restrictions on the exercise of voting acquired Prokits Limited based in rights e. g. in relation to disenfranchised A summary of the principal subsidiaries of the Group are set out on page 98.
Mansfield, Nottinghamshire, UK for shares following the issue of a notice to 1,080,000.
Prokits is a designer and shareholders under section 793 Companies The Business Review of the Group is manufacturer of valve adaptor kits and Act 2006. accessories for the valve industry.
It provides a balanced and comprehensive analysis The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by special resolution at a of the development and performance dividEnds of the business during the year under The directors recommend a final dividend of general meeting of shareholders.
review and the position at the end of 22.75p per ordinary share 2010: 19.75p the year.
It includes future development for the year, payable on 21 May 2012 to The Company is not aware of any significant agreements to which it is party of the business and information about shareholders on the register on 13 April environmental matters, the Companys 2012.
An additional dividend of 11.5p was that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following employees and social and community paid on 24 June 2011, an interim dividend issues.
The review contains analysis using for 2011 of 14.5p per ordinary share a takeover.
financial and non-financial key performance 2010: 12.75p was paid on 23 September indicators.
2011 and a further additional dividend of EmPLOYEE sHaRE sCHEmEs 11.5p was paid on 16 December 2011.
Shares in the Companys share schemes The principal risks and uncertainties facing all contain provisions providing voting rights the Group and the Groups approach to to the scheme trustee.
mitigating those risks are set out on pages 26 to 27.
ROTORK P. L. C. 50 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP ifC - 06 BUsinEss REviEW 07 - 34 GOvERnanCE 35 - 52 finanCiaL sTaTEmEnTs 53 - 100 infORmaTiOn 101 - 103 Prepare the financial statements on nOTifiCaTiOn Of majOR inTEREsT in finanCiaL insTRUmEnTs An explanation of the Groups policies the going concern basis unless it is sHaREs inappropriate to presume that the on the use of financial instruments and Since the 2010 Directors Report, the financial risk management objectives are Group and the Company will continue Company has been notified of major in business.
contained in note 25 to the accounts.
interests and voting rights held directly and or indirectly by the following: The directors are responsible for keeping sTaTEmEnT Of diRECTORs adequate accounting records that REsPOnsiBiLiTY fOR PREPaRinG THE % of voting are sufficient to show and explain the annUaL REPORT and THE finanCiaL name Rights Companys transactions and disclose sTaTEmEnTs with reasonable accuracy at any time the The following statement, which should AXA Investment financial position of the Company and be read in conjunction with the auditors Manager SA 5% enable them to ensure that its financial Statement of Auditors Responsibilities, statements comply with the Companies Act Kames Capital 4% included in the audit report, is made with 2006.
They have general responsibility for a view to distinguishing for shareholders Norges Bank 3% taking such steps as are reasonably open the respective responsibilities of the to them to safeguard the assets of the directors and of the auditors in relation Group and to prevent and detect fraud to the financial statements.
REsEaRCH and dEvELOPmEnT and other irregularities.
Total Group expenditure on Research and The directors are responsible for preparing Development in the year was 5,823,000 Under applicable law and regulations, the Annual Report and Accounts and the 2010: 4,319,000 further details of the directors are also responsible for Group and Company financial statements which are contained in the Business Review preparing a Directors Report, Directors in accordance with applicable law and on pages 11 and 12.
Remuneration Report and Corporate regulations.
Governance Statement that complies dOnaTiOns with relevant law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to During the year the Company made prepare Group and Company financial charitable donations of 94,000 diRECTORs sTaTEmEnT PURsUanT TO statements for each financial year.
2010: 87,000 which is part of the THE disCLOsURE and TRansPaREnCY Under company law they are required to total Group contribution of 163,000 RULEs prepare the Group financial statements 2010: 144,000.
Each of the directors, whose names and in accordance with International Financial functions are listed on pages 36 and 37 Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted There were no political donations made in confirm that, to the best of each persons by the EU and applicable law and have the year or the prior year.
knowledge and belief: elected to prepare the Company financial The financial statements, prepared in statements in accordance with UK diRECTORs accordance with the applicable set of the Accounting Standards and applicable The names of the directors in office during accounting standards, give a true and law UK Generally Accepted Accounting the year and their biographies and other fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial Practice.
details including the other significant position and profit of the Group and commitments of the Chairman are as Company: and Under company law the directors must not shown on pages 36 and 37.
The interests approve the financial statements unless The directors report includes a fair review of the directors in office, at the end of the they are satisfied that they give a true and of the development and performance financial year, in the shares of the Company fair view of the state of affairs of the Group of the business and the position of the are as shown in the Remuneration Report and Company and of their profit or loss for Group and Company, together with a on page 48. that period.
In preparing each of the Group description of the principal risks and and Company financial statements, the uncertainties that they face.
RH Arnold, JM Davis, PI France and GM directors are required to: Ogden have service agreements and details Select suitable accounting policies and The directors are responsible for the of these are contained in the Remuneration then apply them consistently: maintenance and integrity of the corporate Report on page 43. and financial information included on Make judgments and estimates that are the Companys website.
Legislation in reasonable and prudent: The Companys procedure with regard the UK governing the preparation and to the appointment and replacement of For the Group financial statements, dissemination of financial statements may directors and those powers reserved for state whether they have been prepared differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
the Board are described in the Corporate in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by Governance Report on pages 38 to 42. the EU: For the Company financial statements, At the AGM, all the directors currently state whether applicable UK Accounting in office being RH Arnold, G Bullard, JM Standards have been followed, subject Davis, PI France, IG King, RC Lockwood, to any material departures disclosed JE Nicholas and GM Ogden, will offer and explained in the Company financial themselves for re-election.
statements: and ROTORK P. L. C. 51 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 REPORT Of THE diRECTORs continued GOinG COnCERn aUdiTORs Resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group as auditors and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration are to be has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing annUaL GEnERaL mEETinG the financial statements.
In forming The AGM of the Company will be held at this view, the directors have considered the Companys offices at Rotork House, trading and cash flow forecasts, financial Brassmill Lane, Bath BA1 3JQ on Friday 20 commitments, the significant orderbook April 2012 at 12 noon.
A separate circular with customers spread across different containing the Notice of the Meeting is sent geographic areas and industries and the to shareholders with this Annual Report and significant net cash position.
For further information regarding the Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and On behalf of the Board hedging activities: and its exposures to Stephen Rhys Jones credit risk and liquidity risk, see note 25.
Secretary 27 February 2012 CREdiTOR PaYmEnT POLiCY While there is no formal code or standard, it is Company and Group policy to settle terms of payment with creditors when agreeing the terms of each transaction and to abide by creditors terms of payment provided that the supplier is also complying with all relevant terms and conditions.
There are no creditors subject to special arrangements outside suppliers terms and conditions.
The Company does not have any trade suppliers so that a creditor day payment period is not appropriate.
diRECTORs and OffiCERs indEmniTY insURanCE Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Companys Articles of Association provide for the directors and officers of the Company to be appropriately indemnified.
The Company purchases and maintains insurance for the directors and officers of the Company in undertaking their duties, in accordance with section 233 Companies Act 2006. disCLOsURE Of infORmaTiOn TO aUdiTORs The directors who held office at the date of approval of this directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
ROTORK P. L. C. 52 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
