OPERATIONAL REVIEW continued Our growth strategy is focused on both results.
The development of RSS is a key organic and acquisition-led growth.
The part of our Group strategy and this year acquisitions completed in 2011 are there has been progress on a number of all aligned with our acquisition criteria fronts.
In terms of geographic coverage, we of expanding the product portfolio, have either opened new service workshops strengthening or entering a new geography or expanded them in six locations around and strengthening or entering a new the world.
The acquisitions in Mexico and market.
Integration of the new companies Norway were important to RSS, as both is going to plan and all of them are former agents were responsible for servicing contributing to the Group in-line with the and maintaining the large installed base of acquisition case.
Bringing this capability in-house will allow us to promote To support the continued organic growth the full range of RSS activities and leverage of the Group, we have also been investing this closer relationship to generate new in the infrastructure of the business.
The sales for the full range of Rotork products.
most significant investments include a new factory in Chennai, India, that will be We measure RSS performance against a operational by April 2012 and a new facility number of key metrics to assess the rate of growth.
The best measure of growth is very close to the existing Bath site that will provide room for expansion.
In January the number of service engineers we employ, which has grown a further 18% in the year.
2011, we also inaugurated an additional plant in China for our Gears business.
Over the last three years, service engineer numbers have risen 44% whilst consistently ROTORK INSTRUMENTS high utilisation levels have been maintained.
Our actuators are often required to work This newly formed division will ultimately contain a range of products which address in arduous environments and customers demand a high level of certainty that they the wider flow control market.
Many of the products are sold into the same endwill operate when required.
To this end we Controls provide preventative maintenance contracts markets as actuators and are often used n Global growth particularly as part of the actuator control system but for our customers and during the year in emerging markets we have seen the number of actuators they are also used in areas not associated directly with actuation.
We will retain our under contract grow to 86,000 units, an n Acquisition of Centork increase of 21%.
This still represents a very focus on high quality, high accuracy, high n Faster growth of process specification products, rather than on the small proportion of the installed base and provides us with a substantial opportunity commoditised end of this market where control product range margins are generally lower.
as we continue to grow our capability.
Fairchild, which manufactures precision STRATEGY Rotorks vision is to be the leader in our pneumatic and electro-pneumatic control Fluid Systems products, was acquired in November.
targeted segments of the global flow n Strong second half margins control market.
The targeted segments Fairchilds customers are spread across many end-markets, with the largest being comprise the traditional electric, fluid n Investment in Lucca power and manual valve actuation devices oil & gas.
Other important markets include and Houston facilities tyre manufacture, automation, paper, used to control the flow of liquids, gases n Acquisition of K-Tork and powders.
These are addressed by our chemicals and a wide variety of industrial applications.
The 2011 divisional revenue Controls, Fluid Systems and Gears divisions.
In addition, the broader instrumentation, of 1.4m and adjusted operating profit of 0.4m represent the six weeks of trading diagnostics and feedback devices used in pressure control and flow measurement Gears post acquisition.
For the twelve months to December 2011, Fairchilds revenue was form the targeted segments for Rotorks n Record sales and profit new Instruments division.
15.1m with an adjusted operating profit of 4.8m, giving an operating margin of n Good growth in Russia, To maintain a market leading position, 31.6%.
The lead times for sales in Fairchild China and India markets are far shorter than the other divisions and we aim to provide high quality, technically n Completed expansion advanced, innovative products and a the 1m order book at the end of the year of China factory is at a typical level.
superior level of service that supports our customers activities around the world.
Our ROTORK SITE SERVICES global network of offices and manufacturing sites expands each year and ensures that Rotork Site Services RSS is our after-sales and support activity which operates mainly support is local to the customer.
We operate an asset-light business model, within the Controls and Fluid Systems divisions.
It is embedded within the divisions with most of our manufacturing sites purchasing components in a finished form and as such is reported within the divisions ROTORK P. L. C. 08 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC - 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 - 34 GOVERNANCE 35 - 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 - 100 INFORMATION 101 - 103 VISION Global Strategy MISSION OBJECTIVES FINANCIAL Processes and Strategies common across all divisions GROUP GROUP GROUP INFORMATION RISK SALES & FINANCE HR CSR LEGAL R&D OPERATIONS SYSTEMS MANAGEMENT MARKETING CONTROLS FLUID SYSTEMS GEARS INSTRUMENTS Sales Sales Sales Sales Product Development Product Development Product Development Product Development Manufacturing & Facilities Manufacturing & Facilities Manufacturing & Facilities Manufacturing & Facilities Procurement Procurement Procurement Procurement Acquisitions Acquisitions Acquisitions Acquisitions Finance Finance Finance Finance RSS RSS RSS RSS and then assembling to order.
Product development to deliver strong return on capital, quality The drive for organic growth requires 2012 will see the fruition of a number of margins and consistent year on year growth subsidiaries to sell all the products available developments with new product launches in revenues and profit, which combined with to them and target all end-markets within from each division.
the asset-light model delivers strong cash their geographies.
We will also achieve 2011 generation.
This cash is used to fund the growth by opening new sales offices in growth of the business, both organic and targeted markets.
Growth of Rotork Innovation Design by acquisition, and to fund consistent core and Engineering Centre RIDEC, 2011 dividend growth.
expansion of the Rotork Process Control RPC ranges, investment Expanding customisation capabilities To provide short-term focus, we agree an in products for the nuclear power in Houston, restructuring of US sales annual set of key objectives.
This year industry and other projects that will offices and Australian business, there is a new objective specifically to benefit Rotork in 2012 and beyond, increase number of salespeople address the establishment and growth of led to spend increasing 35% in the around the world and strengthen the new division, Rotork Instruments.
main achievements for 2011 and headline 2012 2012 objectives for 2012 are shown below in respect of each of the objectives: Product launches will take place New sales offices in Brazil, Russia, through the year in line with the India, South Africa, Indonesia and product roadmap established for China with expansion of service each division.
Development continues capabilities in other offices.
The sales on other areas, some of which and service organisation in the UK will is focused on recently acquired also be re-organised into a single unit businesses.
We will continue to build under one General Manager.
our resources in RIDEC and invest in engineering expertise during the year.
Adjusted profit is defined as the IFRS profit, whether profit before tax or operating profit, with the amortisation of acquired intangibles added back.
ROTORK P. L. C. 09 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 OPERATIONAL REVIEW continued 3.
Procurement Rotorks outsourced manufacturing model These are a core part of our growth strategy and 2011 was a record year in terms means that material costs are the most significant component of direct costs.
We of the number and value of acquisitions completed.
We will continue to seek have always sought to control these costs and wherever possible leverage our global suitable opportunities in 2012.
We require an acquisition to bring Rotork either a new presence to source materials.
product, a new geographical market or a 2011 new market sector.
Often the target will satisfy two or even three of these criteria.
We continued to increase our sourcing The size of the acquisitions we are prepared team and delivered positive results to undertake is limited by opportunity, rather against a background of increasing than by our financial capacity, but we retain raw material costs.
A number of new a rigorous and disciplined approach to suppliers from North America, Europe acquisition pricing.
and the Far East came on stream during the year.
2011 2012 Six acquisitions including Fairchild for a total consideration of 64.2m.
Continue to look for opportunities to take costs out of our products 2012 through sourcing or product Continue to look at acquisitions which development, including a focus on satisfy Rotorks objectives.
Teams based in each of our factories will lead the process and we will add to 4.
New division our sourcing capability.
Fairchild has been established as the first company within the new Rotork Instruments division.
This division will contain business 7.
Development of RSS and products which sit outside the narrow We continue to invest in more service definition of actuators and gearboxes but engineers and facilities to ensure we are within the wider flow control market.
provide the level of local support our customers have come to expect.
2011 2011 Acquisition of Fairchild and creation of the new division.
Increased the number of service engineers by 18%, invested in the 2012 service workshops in six locations, Seek opportunities to grow the four of which are new facilities, and new division, both organically acquired the businesses in Mexico within Fairchild and through further and Norway which already had acquisitions.
Manufacturing and facilities New RSS Director will take up post, Rotork has invested in a number of factories continue to expand the service team and sales offices to develop world-class and establish new workshops where facilities from which to work.
The investment there is customer demand.
IT Develop a global system for the sales New factory in Chennai, expansion of and service offices.
Shanghai factory, new Houston sales and service facility and a new office in 2011 the Middle East.
Design and development of the system 2012 K-Tork Pneumatic Vane Actuator is nearing completion but due to the Complete the new Chennai factory, expanded scope of the development develop the new facility in Bath and we will now go-live in the first half of relocate the Leeds-based business.
Open six new sales and service 2012 offices.
Finalise the development and begin rollout.
ROTORK P. L. C. 10 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
