GLOBAL OPPORTUNITIES Global Revenue m Americas Europe RoW Total Revenue 2011 125.4 174.2 148.2 447.8 Revenue 2010 110.5 145.9 124.2 380.6 Rotork is the only UK listed company committed to developing, selling and supporting the best flow control products to rapidly growing markets across the globe.
Rotork currently has over 2,500 employees in 31 countries.
NORTH AMERICA Within this complex and LATIN AMERICA sophisticated market we have The acquisition at the beginning six manufacturing plants and of the year of our sales and eight distribution and marketing service agent in Mexico has locations.
During 2011 we enhanced our geographic opened a new sales and service coverage in Latin America.
KEY facility in Houston and acquired We now have direct presence Manufacturing Plant and two companies, Fairchild and in Mexico, Brazil and Venezuela Customer Service Centre K-Tork.
The acquisition of and have plans to open another Customer Service Centre Fairchild will further develop office in Brazil in 2012.
We also our strategy in the flow control have a strong network of agents market and K-Tork enables us across the region providing total to strengthen our presence in coverage of this growing and the power and water markets.
ROTORK P. L. C. 02 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC - 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 - 34 GOVERNANCE 35 - 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 - 100 UK INFORMATION 101 - 103 Currently there are three manufacturing plants which support both the UK and worldwide operations.
2012 will see the EUROPE development of a new facility in Bath and Rotork has a well established presence in continental the relocation of the Leeds business to a Europe with six manufacturing locations across the larger facility.
The restructure of the sales region, supported by nine direct customer service and service organisation within the newly centres.
During the year we expanded our factory in created Rotork UK will see improved focus Italy and made two acquisitions: Centork in Spain and on driving this market.
In 2011, we acquired our long-standing agent in Norway, VVA.
In 2012, we Prokits, a manufacturer of valve adaptor kits plan to open an office in St Petersburg and expand and accessories.
our Moscow and Bilbao sales and service centres.
ASIA Rotork has traditionally been strong throughout Asia with China being the largest market for Rotorks electric valve AUSTRALIA AND actuators and India being important to Rotorks strategy.
NEW ZEALAND MIDDLE EAST During 2011 we opened a new This region is supported AFRICA Oil & gas revenue has driven factory in India and expanded by seven customer support During 2012 we plan to open high levels of investment our factory in China.
The year centres, five in Australia an office in Bloemfontein, in the region.
In 2011, we ahead will see us open two and two in New Zealand.
Africa is a opened a new sales office new offices in China, one in 2012 Rotork Australia will be diverse market that has in Jebel Ali and in 2012 we India and expand our offices combined as one legal entity, significant project development will expand into a full service in Indonesia and Singapore.
which will allow the business programmes.
These will complement These investments will to develop all of the available power industry and oil & gas is our other offices and service strengthen our presence and markets.
One key market supported through our direct centres in the region to provide allow us to be equipped for for Rotork is the Australian presence, local agents and comprehensive support to local the forecasted growth in this Coalbed Methane and LNG distributors.
ROTORK P. L. C. 03 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
