GROUP IFC - 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 - 34 GOVERNANCE 35 - 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 - 100 INFORMATION 101 - 103 9.
Understanding and abiding by Rotorks Ethics and Values is Expand our nuclear-certified product offering in all divisions and ensure we are able to central to providing outstanding service and these core values will ensure each participate in this type of power generation project as fully as we do in others.
individual acts at all times with integrity, honesty and fairness towards others.
We 2011 invest in our people to ensure they receive the necessary training to reach their full Continued development of all our potential, with a view to promoting from products to be used in nuclear within.
Our Employee Satisfaction Survey applications as well as work to gain provides feedback on our success in training the necessary certifications.
2012 RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT Continue to work with the contractors During 2011 we completed the in the nuclear industry to ensure our development of our next generation, multiproducts meet their needs in terms turn electric actuator.
The product will be of specification and certification and launched in the second quarter of 2012 and are available in time for the upcoming will be the successor to the current flagship projects that are expected in the IQ series.
This replacement product will future.
introduce a number of new features that will help us to retain a market leading position.
Corporate Social Responsibility Our objectives for Corporate Social Within the Process Controls product line-up Responsibility CSR are monitored by we have extended the capability of the four separate committees covering health CVA series through the introduction of a & safety, environment, ethics and social larger linear unit and development is now issues.
Our approach in these areas is to underway of a larger quarter-turn version communicate best practice throughout that will complete the current family.
Further the Group, training those responsible and, development of the complementary Compact where appropriate, verifying adoption in Modulating Actuator CMA series was each subsidiary.
undertaken during the year and this product Research & Development Lab, 2011 family is also due to be introduced to the Rotork Gears, Leeds market in the second quarter of 2012.
Health & safety audit scores improved in the year but the associated KPI During the year, the Fluid Systems division Accident Frequency Rate was established an R&D team and a test slightly higher than the previous capability within our Leeds facility.
Our environmental KPI, waste test facility will serve the needs of both recycling, showed a significant the Gears and Fluid Systems divisions.
The The new R&D team will be focused on ethics committee supervised the the development of our Skilmatic range communication and training of the of electro-hydraulic actuators.
Elsewhere provisions of the UK Bribery Act to within the Fluid Systems division we have directors and managers worldwide.
begun development of a range of rotary Our employees gave their time and nuclear actuators qualified to the latest energy to support a wide variety of standard.
These actuators are based upon good causes around the world.
our successful CP and GH series and 2012 will complement the electric, multi-turn, nuclear qualified designs currently under Continue to communicate best development within the Controls division.
practice to all locations and The design team in Lucca is undertaking provide the necessary training to development of a second generation of support local teams.
Encourage our gas over oil actuators that are optimised for employees to continue in their efforts IQT and CVA actuator on new gas international markets and should herald a for our global charity, WaterAid, and dehydration units in Transylvanian number of productivity improvements.
Romania design of this range has also been facilitated by our increased investment in 3D CAD tools.
People are key to delivering our strategy.
We train and develop our people, ensuring The Gears division has had another successful year with the introduction of the that they understand the Groups objectives and the importance of delivering exceptional declutchable ILGD family and the FB series ROTORK P. L. C. 11 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
