OPERATIONAL REVIEW CONTROLS Rotork Controls had an excellent year, reporting record revenue and operating profit, with double-digit growth in both.
We also achieved record adjusted operating margins of 33.1%.
The growth was broad based, with our offices in each region the Americas, the Far East and Europe all making progress in aggregate.
We have continued to invest in our sales channels and have benefited from increased activity in a number of our end-markets.
Downstream and midstream project activity As well as increased acquisition activity we in the oil & gas sector was particularly strong continue to invest in product development.
and in certain countries we benefited from We have significantly grown our engineering increased investment in infrastructure, resource and the Rotork Innovation and mainly power generation and water Design and Engineering Centre RIDEC, in treatment plants.
We continued to make India, is now operational and contributing to progress with our Rotork Process Controls our development programme.
The increased RPC products and the growth of these investment will benefit the business in 2012 actuators, which include the CVA, exceeded and beyond as new products are introduced.
the growth rate for the division as a whole.
This year has also seen investment in a Divisional revenue grew 14.2% in the year to number of our sites around the world, 278.0m and with order intake increasing the most significant of which was the by 17.4%, the year end order book grew redevelopment of our factory in Chennai, by 6.4%.
Removing the contribution from India.
The new factory, which is now Grant Wood MD Rotork Controls acquisitions and restating this year at 2010 nearing completion, will house a larger exchange rates, revenue growth was 13.8% manufacturing area two and a half times and order intake growth 15.9%.
Currency larger than the one it replaces.
It will provide was a modest headwind for the division, improved office facilities and bring RIDEC As well as increased principally driven by the weaker average together with the factory.
This will provide US dollar rate in 2011, offset by a slight our business in India with a world-class acquisition activity tailwind from the euro and other currencies.
facility to support its growth for years to Adjusted operating profit increased 16.9% come and follows a similar investment we continue to in the year to 92.1m, which represents made last year in Bangalore.
a 33.1% margin compared with 32.4% invest in product in 2010.
Cost pressures arising from The Far East region grew the fastest, commodity price increases during the year with Korea delivering the highest growth, development were successfully mitigated, with material followed by India and China, and Japan costs remaining a near-constant proportion bouncing back from a slow 2010.
Our of sales compared with the prior year.
At Korean office benefited from a series of oil the same time, labour and overheads costs & gas orders destined for the Middle East, increased at a lower rate than revenue which were won by Korean Engineering and growth.
Procurement Contractors EPCs although the valves were supplied from a number Three of this years acquisitions benefited of other countries.
In China, our factory in the division, albeit their contributions to Shanghai raised its output once again in profit in the year were modest.
Centork response to a very active Chinese power brings a new actuator range which will market.
Power also remains the largest allow us to better target certain segments market for us in India and with our new of the electric actuator market, whilst the factory in Bangalore operational for the acquisitions in both Norway and Mexico full year we were able to respond to rising enhance our geographic coverage.
Africa was the only business in these countries already have a large the region not to deliver growth in the year installed base of Rotork actuators and and this was only after a particularly strong the acquisitions provide an opportunity to 2010. strengthen our direct relationship with the end-users and grow our after-market service In 2010 we restructured the USA domestic offering through Rotork Site Services RSS.
operation by creating regional branch ROTORK P. L. C. 14 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC - 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 - 34 GOVERNANCE 35 - 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 - 100 INFORMATION 101 - 103 offices.
This brought benefits in the year and based around Houston placed a number of we were able to deliver record results.
In the export orders, and in Latin America oil & gas Americas, domestic US spending on oil & activity was ahead of the prior year.
Business gas, transportation and storage projects was positive and resulted in a good performance Activity in Europe followed a similar pattern Opportunities at FlowQuip, based in Oklahoma, whilst to 2010 with our offices in Russia and the n Delivery of R&D projects new projects in the municipal water sector Netherlands growing the fastest.
The major supported the overall results.
The new power focus was on oil & gas pipelines, refinery n Launch of IQ3 generation market remained slow.
However, upgrades and oil and LPG terminals in maintenance and repair spend still provided Russia.
Tank storage projects continued to n Opening of new offices a steady workload for the RSS teams in the underpin demand from the Netherlands.
n Expanded workshop facilities municipal and power markets.
