BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board of Directors comprises of the Chairman, the three independent non-executive directors and the four executive directors.
Executive Peter France Jonathan Davis Chief Executive5 Finance Director Peter was appointed as Chief Executive Jonathan joined Rotork in 2002 after of Rotork p. l. c. in 2008 and is a member holding a number of finance positions in of the Nomination Committee.
He gained experience Rotork in 1989 as an Inside Sales of the Rotork business initially as Group Engineer.
In 1998 he was appointed Financial Controller and then as Finance Director and General Manager at Rotork Director of the Controls Division.
He was Singapore before becoming Managing appointed Group Finance Director and Director of the Fluid Systems Division and joined the Board of Rotork p. l. c. in April then Chief Operating Officer.
Key Graham Ogden Bob Arnold n Audit Committee Research & Development Director President of Rotork Controls Inc. JE Nicholas Chairman, G Bullard, Graham has been with Rotork Bob was appointed to the Rotork p. l. c. IG King since 1985.
Graham leads product Board in 2001.
Prior to joining Rotork Bob development including Rotorks award worked in the USA as a Design Engineer in 5 Nomination Committee winning IQ series.
He was appointed the Nuclear Valve Group.
He joined Rotork RC Lockwood Chairman, G Bullard, to the Controls Divisional board in 1997 Controls Inc. in 1978 as Engineering IG King, JE Nicholas, PI France as Research & Development Director Manager subsequently becoming Vice g Remuneration Committee and joined the Board of Rotork p. l. c. President, Engineering.
He was appointed G Bullard Chairman, IG King, in January 2005.
President of Rotork Controls Inc. in 1988 JE Nicholas and has responsibility for all Rotorks interests in the Americas.
ROTORK P. L. C. 36 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC - 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 - 34 GOVERNANCE 35 - 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 - 100 INFORMATION 101 - 103 Non-executive Roger Lockwood Ian King n g Chairman5 Non-executive Director 5 Roger has been a non-executive director Ian joined the Board in February 2005 of Rotork since joining the Board in 1988 as a non-executive director.
He is Chief and became non-executive Chairman in Executive of BAE Systems plc having November 1998.
He is Chairman of the held other senior general management Nomination Committee.
He is Chairman positions at BAE Systems and previously of Colston Engineering Services Limited at Marconi.
He is a member of the and Hydro International plc and has Audit, Remuneration and Nomination previously held CEO roles in automotive Committees and is the senior and engineering businesses.
John Nicholas Gary Bullard n g n g Non-executive Director 5 Non-executive Director 5 John was appointed to the Board in Gary joined the Board in June 2010 as a 2008 as a non-executive director.
Gary is currently a was previously Group Finance Director of member of the Executive Committee of Tate & Lyle plc and Kidde plc.
He is also Logica plc in his role as President Logica a non-executive director of Mondi plc, UK.
He is also Founder and CEO of Catquin, Hunting plc and Ceres Power Holdings a company which supports senior female plc and is a member of the Financial executives in furthering or diversifying Reporting Review Panel of the Financial their careers.
He previously held senior Reporting Council FRC.
He is Chairman management positions, including sales of the Audit Committee and a member and marketing roles, at IBM and BT Group of the Remuneration and Nomination plc and was a non-executive director of Committees.
He is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
ROTORK P. L. C. 37 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
