GROUP IFC - 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 - 34 FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE 35 - 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 - 100 INFORMATION 101 - 103 Rotork has achieved another year of strong growth, with record order intake, revenue, profits and dividend payments.
Adjusted operating profit margin remained high and increased on an organic constant currency basis.
However, profit margins were lower where the results of the acquired businesses and intangible amortisation are included.
Revenue grew 17.7% in the year to the charge is expected to rise to 7.1m 447.8m, increasing our ten year next year.
The income statement also compound annual growth figure to includes acquisition-related costs of 0.8m, 13.7%.
To establish a true like-for-like compared with 0.2m in 2010.
With the comparison, the impact of acquisitions and acquisitions taking place throughout the currency should be eliminated.
Currency year, the contribution to this years results was relatively benign, although a modest added 9.6m to revenue and 1.0m headwind.
Acquisitions generated 9.6m to adjusted operating profit.
Had these of revenue and reversing the impact of businesses all contributed for the whole of both of these gives growth on an organic 2011, they would have added 31.6m to constant currency basis of 15.9%.
revenue and 6.1m to adjusted operating profit.
Adjusted operating profit stated before the amortisation of acquired intangibles grew CURRENCY 16.6% to 115.9m, an adjusted operating A 2.7m revenue headwind was the result Jonathan Davis Finance Director margin of 25.9% compared with 26.1% of a 5 cent weakening of the average US in the prior year.
Removing the impact of dollar rate, offset by modest strengthening currency and the part-year trading results of the euro and basket of other currencies.
of acquisitions, adjusted operating profit This was a combination of the translation Adjusted operating grew by 16.0% and adjusted operating of overseas companies results and margin increased to 26.2%.
restating transactions within our profit margin businesses, as many sales are not ACQUISITIONS denominated in the reporting currency remained high and This year was a record for Rotork in terms of our operations making the sale.
The of the number and value of acquisitions net currency impact on operating profit increased on an completed.
Fairchild, acquired in November was a headwind of 0.4m.
The mix of for 49.5m, was by far the largest, currencies in which we source components organic constant and forms the basis of the new Rotork is very different from the mix of currencies Instruments division.
With an asset-light in which we sell, and the impact on the currency basis business model similar to Rotorks, this different divisions also varies.
With a greater acquisition generated 28.3m of goodwill proportion of US dollar denominated and 25.8m of intangible assets, which purchases, the Gears division actually together account for the majority of the benefited from the weakening US dollar, increase in capital employed during the which improved operating profit by 0.4m year.
The five other acquisitions cost relative to last year.
The acquired intangible assets for all this years acquisitions were There is an element of natural hedging from valued at 33.4m and gave rise to goodwill trading within the Group but we generate of 32.5m.
surplus euros and US dollars and are net sellers of both these currencies.
It is the As a result of these acquisitions the net sale of these currencies which we amortisation charge - the writing down principally address through our hedging of acquired intangible assets of this and policy, covering up to 75% of trading previous years acquisitions - rose from transactions in the next 12 months and 1.7m last year to 3.9m this year.
With up to 50% between 12 and 24 months.
a full year effect of this years acquisitions ROTORK P. L. C. 21 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
