7779 RPC Annual Report pp1-43:7779 RPC Annual Report pp1-43 22 6 11 16:00 Page 16 16 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2011 Directors report for the year ended 31 March 2011 The directors present their report and the audited financial Meeting AGM of the Company, to shareholders on the statements for the year ended 31 March 2011. register on 5 August 2011 making the total dividend for the year 11.5p per share 2010 restated: 8.4p.
Full details of Principal Activities dividends in respect of the year ended 31 March 2011 are given in note 8 to the financial statements.
The principal activities of the Group are unchanged from last year and are the manufacture and sale of rigid plastic Financing packaging and associated equipment.
The Groups policy is to finance its operations through a Business Review mixture of retained profits, equity and borrowings.
The Group does not trade in financial instruments.
A review of the Groups activities and performance, including financial performance during the year ended 31 March 2011 The main risks arising from the Groups borrowings are and its position at that date together with key performance market risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, foreign currency indicators and the principal risks and uncertainties that it risk and credit risk.
The Board reviews and agrees policies for faces, can be found in the Business Review on pages 8 to 15. managing each of these risks.
The policies, which have been The Groups strategy and outlook are discussed in the applied throughout the year, are set out in Chairman and Chief Executives Report on pages 2 to 4. note 20 to the financial statements.
The Business Review and Chairman and Chief Executives Report are to be treated as part of this report.
Directors Acquisitions and Disposals The directors of the Company who served throughout the financial year and up to the date of this report were as On 18 February 2011, the Company completed the follows: acquisition of Superfos Industries a s for a consideration of 197.6m excluding acquisition expenses of 3.3m.
The J R P Pike goodwill arising was 38.4m.
The acquisition was funded R J E Marsh through a rights issue and bank debt.
Superfos is a European S Rojahn industry leader in the manufacture of injection moulded rigid M G Towers plastic packaging for a wide range of customers in both food P R M Vervaat and non-food markets.
The business has production facilities D J Wilbraham across the Nordic region, France, Poland, Spain, Belgium, P S Wood Turkey, North Africa and the UK.
Further information on the acquisition is given in the Business Review and in note 23.
The rules regarding the appointment and replacement of directors are contained in the Companys Articles of Details of progress on the closure and sale of plants as part Association.
They require that all directors are subject to of the RPC 2010 programme can be found in the Business re-election at intervals of no more than three years.
P R M Vervaat is due for re-election in accordance with the Articles of Association at the 2011 AGM.
However, the Board Share Capital has decided to adopt early the provisions of the UK The Company had 161,637,842 ordinary 5p shares in issue at Corporate Governance Code in respect of the re-election of 31 March 2011. directors.
In addition, according to guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers ABI its members will expect On 24 January 2011, the Company issued 62,069,640 that all members of the Board wishing to remain in office ordinary shares by way of a 5 for 8 rights issue at a price of will stand for re-election at the next AGM following a rights 143p per share under an authority given to the directors at issue where the proceeds are more than one third of its an Extraordinary General Meeting held on 6 January 2011. issued share capital.
Consequently, with the exception of The proceeds of the rights issue were 85.3m net of costs.
D J Wilbraham who is not seeking re-election and will retire at the end of the AGM, all the directors will retire from office Full details of the Companys issued share capital together and, being eligible, submit themselves for re-election on an with the rights, obligations and restrictions attaching to the individual basis at the AGM and annually thereafter.
shares are set out in note 22 to the financial statements.
Biographical details of the directors are given on page 7 Dividends and the Boards recommendations for their re-election are An interim dividend of 3.4p per ordinary share was paid on given in the explanatory notes to the Notice of AGM.
The directors are recommending a final A performance evaluation is conducted for all directors prior to recommendation for re-appointment or re-election.
Since dividend of 8.1p per ordinary share to be paid on 2 September 2011, subject to approval at the forthcoming Annual General the end of the year under review, the Board has re-appointed Job No.
: 7779 Proof Event: 10 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: RPC Group Plc Project Title: Annual Report & Accounts 2011 T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 7779 RPC Annual Report pp1-43:7779 RPC Annual Report pp1-43 22 6 11 16:00 Page 17 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2011 17 the Chairman, J R P Pike for a second three-year term of following financial institutions at 20 June 2011.
The number office commencing on 23 July 2011 subject to annual of shares and the percentage given are as disclosed at the re-election by shareholders.
Further information on the appointment, re-election and Number of shares % 1 performance evaluation of directors is given in the Corporate Aberforth Partners LLP 9,708,389 9.8 1 Governance Report.
Details of the directors remuneration, AXA SA 9,135,039 9.2 notice periods under their service contracts or terms of SVG Investment Managers Ltd 7,375,919 4.6 appointment and their interests including any interest of a Aviva plc 6,581,259 4.1 connected person in the share capital of the Company are 1 Legal & General Group PLC 5,947,430 6.0 shown in the Remuneration Report.
The service contracts for 1 North Atlantic Value LLP 4,865,830 4.9 executive directors and terms of appointment for 1 BT Pension Scheme Trustees Limited 3,697,671 3.7 non-executive directors are available for inspection at the 1 The date of notification was prior to the date of allotment of shares Companys registered office and at the AGM.
Non-executive under the rights issue.
directors appointments may be terminated with immediate effect.
Significant Agreements The Company is required to disclose any significant None of the directors had any interest in any contracts, other than their service contracts, with the Company or any agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a of its subsidiaries during the year.
change of control of the Company.
The Companys 200m multi-currency revolving credit facility and 130m term loan Powers of Directors agreement contains a change of control clause whereby a participating bank may cancel its commitment and require The powers of the directors are contained in the Companys Articles of Association which may only be amended by the Company to prepay outstanding loans and interest.
In resolution passed by the shareholders at a general meeting addition, a holder of the 35m or $40m seven year floating in accordance with the relevant legislation.
The Articles give loan notes has the option to redeem any note at 100% of its powers to the directors to authorise the issue of shares and principal amount together with interest accrued in the event for the Company to buy back its shares, subject to authority of a change of control.
being given to the directors by the shareholders in general meeting and the relevant legislation.
Resolutions to The Group has a number of key customers and suppliers of authorise the directors to exercise these powers are put to polymer and other essential services and supplies.
The risks shareholders at each AGM.
and methods employed to mitigate such risks of the termination of a contract or the loss of supply are set out in Directors Indemnities the Business Review.
Provisions for change of control in The Board has provided qualifying third party indemnities to directors service contracts are summarised in the the Companys directors and agreed to provide funds to Remuneration Report.
There are provisions for the vesting of meet costs incurred defending civil or criminal proceedings share options and awards in certain circumstances in the in accordance with legislation and the Articles of Association.
event of a change in control under the rules of the The directors are not indemnified against damages awarded Companys employee share-based payment schemes.
to the Company itself, defence costs where the defence is unsuccessful in the case of liabilities owed to the Company, Qualifying Pension Scheme Indemnity criminal fines, fines by regulators or the legal costs of An associated company, RPC Containers Limited, has granted successful criminal proceedings against the directors.
a qualifying pension scheme indemnity in a form permitted Defence costs arising from actions brought by third parties, by the Companies Act 2006 to the directors of RPC may, subject to certain exclusions, be paid by the Company Containers Pension Trustees Limited, which is the Trustee of even if judgement goes against the director.
the RPC Containers Limited Pension Scheme.
The indemnity was in force during the financial year and up to the date of The indemnities provided to the directors are available for this report.
inspection at the Companys registered office and at the AGM.
Research and Development Substantial Shareholdings The Groups research and development activities ensure that it stays at the forefront of rigid plastic packaging technology The Company has received notification under the Disclosure with regards to design, functionality, aesthetics and and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority of specification with particular attention to weight reduction direct and indirect interests in 3% or more of the issued share capital and voting rights in the Company from the and the incorporation of recycled materials.
: 7779 Proof Event: 10 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: RPC Group Plc Project Title: Annual Report & Accounts 2011 T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 7779 RPC Annual Report pp1-43:7779 RPC Annual Report pp1-43 22 6 11 16:00 Page 18 18 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2011 Directors report for the year ended 31 March 2011 continued suffer disablement, every effort is made to retain them in Creditor Payment Policy the workforce wherever reasonable and practicable.
Disabled The Group endeavours to agree the terms and conditions staff have the same opportunities as other employees so far under which transactions with its suppliers are conducted as training, career development and promotion are prior to placing business, there being no specific payment concerned.
code for the packaging industry.
It is the Groups policy to pay to agreed terms where suppliers have fulfilled their Further information on ethics, communication, training and obligations under the relevant contract terms.
The Company development in respect of the Groups employees is included had average creditor days outstanding at 31 March 2011 of in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
Corporate Governance Statement Political and Charitable Donations The corporate governance statement on compliance with all Charitable donations were made by the Group as follows: relevant provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, and information on how the 2011 2010 Company has applied the Main Principles in Section 1 of the Combined Code in accordance with the Listing Rules and UK 8,267 7,133 section 7.2 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Mainland Europe 13,852 6,304 Financial Services Authority and other corporate governance 22,119 13,437 matters, can be found in the Corporate Governance Report which is to be treated as part of this report.
The Group supports local educational and charitable causes, Corporate Social Responsibility and in particular those where employees and their families Information concerning health and safety, environmental are involved in the fund raising.
matters, business ethics, employees, customers, suppliers and the community is contained in the Corporate Social The Groups policy is to make no political donations, and Responsibility Report, which is to be treated as part of this none were made in the year.
report, and the Business Review.
Employees Directors Statement on Disclosure of Information The Group continues to recognise the benefit of both to Auditors effective communication with employees and achieving a The directors who held office at the date of approval of this common awareness on the part of employees of the Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, financial performance and economic factors affecting the there is no relevant audit information of which the performance of the Group.
Both individual site and Group Companys auditors are unaware: and each director has taken wide meetings are held at which employees and all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to management are present and at which key aspects of the make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to Groups activities, performance and other matters of interest establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that to employees are reviewed.
Employee participation is further encouraged through share Going Concern ownership and share option schemes which provide employees with a direct stake in the growth and prosperity The Groups business activities, together with the factors of the business.
likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Review of Operations in the The Group aims to provide clear and fair terms and Business Review.
The financial position of the Group, its cash conditions of employment and remuneration wherever it flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described operates.
in the Financial Review on pages 12 to 15.
In addition, note 20 to the financial statements includes the Groups The Board does not tolerate any sexual, physical or mental objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its harassment of its employees.
It promotes equal financial risk objectives, details of its financial instruments opportunities for all present and potential employees and and hedging activities, and its exposures to credit and does not discriminate on grounds of colour, ethnic origin, liquidity risk.
age, gender, race, religion, political or other opinion, disability or sexual orientation.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with long-standing commercial arrangements with a number of The Groups policy is to recruit disabled workers for those customers, suppliers and funding providers across different vacancies they are able to fill.
When existing employees geographical regions and industry sectors.
: 7779 Proof Event: 10 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: RPC Group Plc Project Title: Annual Report & Accounts 2011 T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 7779 RPC Annual Report pp1-43:7779 RPC Annual Report pp1-43 22 6 11 16:00 Page 19 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2011 19 forecasts and projections show that it is able to operate The Board is also proposing a special resolution to continue within the level of its current banking facilities.
As a to enable the directors to call a general meeting that is not consequence, the directors believe that the Group is well an annual general meeting on not less than 14 clear days placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the notice.
Further information on these resolutions is given in the After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable explanatory notes to the Notice of AGM.
expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the Auditors foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the In accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006 going concern basis in preparing the annual report and and the recommendation of the Audit Committee, a financial statements.
resolution is to be proposed at the AGM for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the International Financial Reporting Company.
Both the Company financial statements and the Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by BY ORDER OF THE BOARD the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU.
Financial Reporting Rebecca K Joyce The Annual Report and Accounts and the Interim Report are Company Secretary intended to provide a balanced and clear assessment of the 21 June 2011 Groups past performance, present position and future prospects.
A statement by the directors on their responsibility for preparing the financial statements is given on page 42 and a statement by the auditors on their responsibilities is given on page 43.
Annual General Meeting The Notice of the Companys AGM to be held on 27 July 2011 and related explanatory notes are included after the financial statements.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all the directors are submitting themselves for re-election with the exception of D J Wilbraham who will retire from the Board at the end of the AGM.
Further information is given under the Directors heading in this report.
Under the special business of the AGM, the Board is recommending proposals to renew the directors authority to allot shares up to one third of issued share capital, the directors power to disapply pre-emption rights and the authority for the Company to purchase its own shares.
The current authority, approved by shareholders at the 2010 AGM, permits the Company to purchase 16.2m of its own shares 10% of the issued share capital.
No shares have been purchased or contracts made to purchase shares by the Company during the year or since 31 March 2011 up to the date of this report.
The directors are recommending that authority for the Board to grant awards under the Companys employee share schemes to employees who are resident in France is renewed for a further period of 38 months so that any awards granted will qualify for beneficial tax treatment.
: 7779 Proof Event: 10 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: RPC Group Plc Project Title: Annual Report & Accounts 2011 T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
