Introduction Strategy The strategic direction of the Group is determined and monitored by the Board, which each year sets a series of priorities consistent with that strategy.
The Board reviews progress against its strategy and priorities on a regular basis.
We provide a wide range of services for our clients and accordingly operate in a large number of markets both functionally and internationally.
The long term drivers of our business are: n the worlds need to secure adequate supplies of energy and other natural resources from environmentally acceptable sources n the commercial advantage resulting from the sustainable development of land and buildings n the need to provide adequate infrastructure such as airports, power stations, public transport, water treatment plants n the need to manage environmental, health and safety risks Our strategy is to operate in those markets that exhibit these drivers, have sound longer-term prospects and where we can potentially achieve leading positions.
Within that context we seek to improve continuously the range and quality of the services we offer our clients and where we can best can add value to their activities.
We are aiming to build multi-disciplinary businesses in Australia and North America as we have in the United Kingdom and Ireland as well as building a presence in the developing world through oil, gas and mineral exploration and production projects.
The development of our business in this way is also important in attracting and retaining high quality employees.
This is achieved by providing competitive remuneration and benefits packages, by providing opportunities for professional growth and advancement and striving to maintain an open, creative and positive culture.
Client retention and the maintenance of longstanding partnerships with our clients are at the heart of our success.
We seek to deliver focussed and cost-effective advice on both well understood problems and emerging challenges and by doing this to sustain partnerships with our clients.
We maintain an international reputation for meeting the challenges posed by large complex projects and problems and conducting business in an open and responsible manner.
The increasing diversity and geographical spread of our businesses requires us to continuously monitor and seek to improve the operational efficiency of our businesses.
This entails consideration of management organisation, controls, processes and support services.
The markets in which we operate are fast moving and so our strategy also needs to be sufficiently flexible to ensure that we can respond quickly to changing conditions.
The nearer term outlook for each of our business segments and how this may impact strategy is described on pages 5 to 8.
Acquisitions have played an important part in our growth in the past and will continue to be a key part of our strategy.
We acquire businesses that are well managed, deliver sound results and have good reputations in their markets.
They may be in sectors where we are already operating or offer services that are closely related to our own.
We already have well established and strong businesses in a number of countries, which provide a platform for acquisitive growth there.
We are seeking to acquire high quality businesses in Europe, Australia and North America that either add depth to or complement the services we offer clients in those countries.
The Board will consider larger acquisitions as well as acquisitions in countries in which we do not currently operate that are consistent with overall strategy and provide our international clients with greater local support.
Group Structure During the year the Group announced that in order to benefit from greater integration it had merged its planning and development business in UK and Ireland with its environmental management businesses in the UK and The Netherlands.
As a result the Group now consists of two primary reporting segments, being Energy and Built & Natural Environment.
The latter is split into two geographic subsegments covering Europe and Australia Asia Pacific.
Energy This is a global, multi-disciplinary consultancy, providing integrated technical, commercial and project management support in the fields of geo-science, engineering, health, safety and environment to the energy sector.
Our aim is to help clients develop their energy resources across the complete life cycle, combining our technical and commercial skills with an extensive knowledge of environmental and safety issues.
The business has regional offices in UK, North America, Australia and Asia and undertakes projects in many other rpsgroup.
The segment is managed by a single divisional Board to which subsidiary operating Boards, with responsibility for UK, North America and Australia Asia Pacific, report.
Built and Natural Environment This is a leading multi-disciplinary consultancy providing a wide but related range of advisory services on all aspects of the built and natural environment.
Planning and development activities, provided from offices throughout the UK and Ireland as well from offices primarily on the East and West Coast of Australia, include planning, urban design and regeneration, environmental assessment and management, transport and infrastructure, architecture and landscape, engineering and surveying.
Environmental based services in the UK, The Netherlands and Australia include environmental science, the management of water resources, health safety and risk management, laboratory testing, asbestos consulting, air quality and noise and property services.
The business in Europe is managed by a single regional Board.
Both are supported by a number of subsidiary operating Boards.
Our businesses in the Australia Asia Pacific region are similarly managed by a single regional Board.
Central Costs Certain central costs are not allocated to the segments because either they predominantly relate to the running of the Group Head Office function or could only be allocated to segments on an arbitrary basis.
Such costs include the remuneration and support costs of the main board and the costs of the Group finance and marketing functions.
These costs are included in the category unallocated expenses in note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 48.
Further Information A sample of the projects and activities that we undertake are described on our website at www.
4 Report and Accounts 2011 Business Review 2011 Results Results PBTA was towards the top end of market expectations at 50.8 million 2010: 48.0 million.
Adjusted basic earnings per share were 16.68 pence 2010: 15.79 pence.
The underlying profit contribution of each segment was: m 2011 2010 Energy 32.1 25.3 Built and Natural Environment - Europe 18.0 20.2 - Australia, Asia, Pacific AAP 11.0 12.8 29.0 33.0 Total 61.1 58.2 underlying profit is segment profit before amortisation of acquired intangible assets, transaction related costs and reorganisation costs, as defined in note 1 g. Our Energy activities are largely conducted in respect of projects outside Europe.
In combination with our Built and Natural Environment business in Australia Asia Pacific AAP we now have over 70% of our underlying profit being generated outside Europe.
This exposes us to higher growth economies and better opportunities.
A significant proportion of our Built and Natural Environment activity in both Europe and AAP is in respect of projects to provide the infrastructure necessary to process and deliver energy resources.
Consequently, we estimate almost 70% of our underlying profit is now earned in the global Energy and associated infrastructure markets.
Cash Flow, Funding and Dividend The Group continued its excellent conversion of profit into cash.
Operating cash flow was 71.1 million 2010: 57.9 million.
Our balance sheet remains strong, with no defined benefit pension schemes or historic pension liabilities.
We have bank facilities of 125 million available until July 2013 and the cost of these facilities remains at historically low levels.
Net bank borrowings at the year end were 23.5 million 2010: 31.5 million, after investing in acquisitions to the value of 27.2 million 2010: 18.0 million.
We are well positioned to continue to fund the Groups growth strategy.
The Board continues to be confident about the Groups financial strength and is recommending a final dividend of 2.9 pence per share payable on 25 May 2012 to shareholders on the register on 13 April 2012.
If approved the total dividend for the full year would be 5.56 pence per share, an increase of 15% 2010: 4.83 pence per share.
Our dividend has risen at about this rate for eighteen consecutive years.
Energy We provide internationally recognised consultancy services to the oil and gas industries from core bases in the UK, USA, Canada and Australia, with support offices in the Middle East, Asia and Brazil.
Projects are undertaken in many other countries, some in difficult political and working environments which provide both market opportunities and operational challenges for us.
Trading 2011 2010 Fee income ms 186.1 146.8 Underlying profit ms 32.1 25.3 Margin % 17.2 17.2 underlying profit is segment profit before amortisation of acquired intangible assets, transaction related costs and reorganisation costs, as defined in note 1 g. Our 2011 results in all parts of the business were encouraging.
Conditions in the traditional oil and gas exploration and production E&P market improved steadily during the course of 2011.
Our clients increased investment globally, albeit in a cost conscious way.
Our activities in the Middle East and North Africa were disrupted by unrest and conflicts, particularly in Libya, where we have yet to see any material resumption of activity.
Activity levels in the Gulf of Mexico increased during the second half and our performance in both the US and Canada was particularly strong in the year.
com 5 The unconventional liquids and gas markets continued to develop strongly.
During 2011 we have been particularly active in shale oil and gas in North America, shale gas in Europe and broadened our involvement in coal seam gas in Australia.
Our profile in the financial services sector improved and we secured significant competent persons commissions and other transaction support work during the year.
Current indications are that global E & P spend in 2012 will exceed that in 2011.
Our geographical spread and range of skills and involvement at many stages of the project life cycle gives us exposure to most parts of the international market likely to benefit from this increased investment.
The global abundance of gas has reduced gas prices and begun to reduce shale gas activity, particularly in the USA.
Our clients focus has instead moved more towards unconventional liquids, where we are already well positioned.
Activity levels in the Gulf of Mexico seem likely to continue to increase in the coming months.
Activity in North Africa will eventually recommence.
Overall, the Board believes we can look forward to a successful 2012 in this business.
Built and Natural Environment BNE Within these businesses we provide a wide range of consultancy services to many aspects of the property and infrastructure development and management sectors.
These include: the management of water resources, health and safety, risk management, town and country planning, building, landscape and urban design, surveying and transport planning.
2011 Australia Europe Asia Pacific Total Fee income ms 178.2 91.0 269.1 Underlying profit ms 18.0 11.0 29.0 Margin % 10.1 12.1 10.8 2010 Australia Europe Asia Pacific Total Fee income ms 172.9 76.0 248.8 Underlying profit ms 20.2 12.8 33.0 Margin % 11.7 16.9 13.3 underlying profit is segment profit before amortisation of acquired intangible assets, transaction related costs and reorganisation costs, as defined in note 1 g. BNE: Europe Bringing together our businesses in Europe is, as anticipated, enabling us both to increase efficiency and generate new market opportunities and has helped to counteract difficult market conditions in parts of this business, which are likely to continue.
Performance during the course of the year reflected the differing nature of the various markets in which we operate.
Activity in the water management sector grew as our clients increased spend in the second year of the UK regulatory cycles.
We have improved our position in this market significantly in recent years and have benefitted as a result, despite competitive rate pressure.
Our market profile in respect of both the health and safety and risk management markets also enabled us to deliver good results.
The commercial property development market remained subdued throughout the year.
In consequence, we continued to pursue planning and development opportunities in a range of energy infrastructure markets, such as waste to energy facilities, a range of power station proposals nuclear, gas and biomass, on and off shore wind farms, pipelines and grid interconnectors.
Investment for these projects is more readily available and we have done well to position ourselves to benefit from this, although lack of clarity in the UK Governments energy policy is undoubtedly affecting our clients investment levels.
Our main exposure to public sector expenditure is in the Netherlands and Ireland.
Our Dutch business had a good year, underpinned by the regulatory nature of much of what it does.
We continued to downsize our Irish business as needed: as a result it was able to deliver a respectable performance.
Since the year end we have exchanged contracts to enable us to dispose of, for 1.5 million Euros, that part of this business which provides facilities management support to clients with manufacturing activity in Ireland.
Subject to a TUPE process, this disposal will complete in late March.
It will have a minimal affect on the Groups future profitability, but should serve to increase margin in the remainder of the Irish business.
The uncertainties in parts of this business are greater than in other parts of the Group as a result of the subdued economic prospects in the UK and Eurozone.
This is likely to continue to create volume and pricing pressures, probably limiting our growth opportunity in the current year.
6 Report and Accounts 2011 Business Review BNE: Australia Asia Pacific Our recovery from the climatic disruption at the beginning of 2011 continued successfully in the second half.
This was due to the ability of our staff in Queensland both to respond to reconstruction investment whilst also focussing their activities on the fast expanding coal seam gas LNG industry.
This shift in market positioning was made possible by the skills, experience and profile of our local staff, coupled with the skills and market knowledge of our international Energy staff.
As a result of this combination we have quickly become important suppliers to this fast growing industry.
On the west coast we also remain heavily involved in the permitting and licensing of infrastructure to serve the large scale offshore gas exploration projects.
Some of these projects have now reached a more mature stage of development.
Clients are, as a result, becoming more focussed on cost management: this is affecting project timing and budgets.
We also continued to develop our operations in support of oil, gas and mining projects across Asia.
We had particular success in Mongolia supporting our mining clients.
Outside the natural resources sector the Australian economy is less buoyant.
As a result the normal commercial development market in Australia remains subdued.
However, our re-positioning away from this slower moving part of the economy suggests we will be able to deliver further growth in 2012.
Acquisitions During the course of 2011 we continued to develop the capability of the Group with five acquisitions.
Good progress has been made with the integration of all these businesses.
Terranean is now part of BNE: Australia Asia Pacific.
The other four businesses now form part of Energy.
EHI and ASA, in combination, give us a strong position in the metocean consultancy market in both the US and, together with our capability in Australia, internationally.
Nautilus provides an excellent platform to expand our provision of technical training to many parts of the oil and gas industry.
Espey gives us a platform from which to build a water resources consultancy in the US.
Despite continuing economic uncertainty, we still see markets in which there are growth opportunities and are considering how to develop these organically and with further acquisitions.
Ernst & Young, the Groups auditor, indicated that it did not agree with the Groups interpretation that IFRS3 2008 Business Combinations contains a rebuttable presumption in respect of the treatment of contingent deferred consideration, relating to transactions completed since 1 January 2010.
Ernst & Youngs view is that the deferred consideration, due to vendors that is contingent on their continued employment, should be expensed through the profit and loss account, rather than being treated as capital cost, as the Group has done previously.
Ernst & Youngs review of the Groups 2011 interim results had not raised this as an issue.
In view of this, and given the previous auditors certification of the Group accounts at 31 December 2010, the Groups Audit Committee commissioned an independent opinion from another big 4 firm.
This supported the Groups interpretation of IFRS3 2008.
DLA Piper, the Groups lawyers, were also asked to give an opinion on specific legal matters raised by Ernst & Young concerning the structure of our transactions.
DLA also supported the Boards position.
Although the RPS Board remains of the view that these contingent deferred consideration payments can be treated as capital costs, as they were in the audited Report and Accounts 2010, the Audit Committee recommended the policy be changed to adopt the Ernst & Young interpretation.
The Board accepted this recommendation.
The cash position of the Group is unaffected by these changes.
The Audit Committee also considered the impact of this revised treatment on the 2010 accounts and recommended to the Board that the impact is not material as omitting that information from the comparative results in the Report and Accounts 2011 would not influence decisions that were made about the Group.
The Board agreed: the 2010 accounts have, therefore, not been restated.
The Board has now modified the Groups acquisition model to enable it to continue to implement its acquisition strategy without having to expense deferred consideration.
com 7 Group Prospects RPS remains well positioned in markets of long term importance to the global economy.
Our focus on Energy and energy infrastructure markets provides the Group with a substantial underpin to its prospects.
We believe that our strategy of building multi-disciplinary businesses in each of the regions in which we operate to be attractive and achievable.
We will, therefore, continue to develop our business organically, whilst seeking further acquisition opportunities.
Our balance sheet is strong enough to continue to support this strategy.
We have come through the exceptionally challenging circumstances of the last three years in a strong position.
We were able to deliver growth in 2011 and remain on track to produce further growth in 2012.
The acquisitions made in 2011 have continued our international diversification.
This is a trend we anticipate will continue, further strengthening our prospects.
