The Board Brook Land Dr Phil Williams John Bennett Non-Executive Chairman Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Aged 62.
Brook Land was formerly a Aged 59.
Phil Williams joined the Aged 64.
John was appointed to the senior partner of and is now a consultant Group in September 2003 through the Board in June 2006.
He is a Chartered to Nabarro.
He is a director of a number acquisition of Hydrosearch Associates Accountant with 30 years experience of private companies.
Until June 2008 Limited where he held the position in the house building industry.
He was he was Senior Independent Director of of Managing Director.
Phil joined Finance Director of Westbury plc, until Signet Group plc.
He was appointed to Hydrosearch in 1981 and was appointed it was acquired early in 2006.
He has the Board in 1997 and is also Chairman of Managing Director in 1983.
Over the wide experience of financial management, the Nomination Committee.
next 20 years he led Hydrosearch as capital and debt raising, acquisitions and the company developed into one of the investor relations and he played a leading worlds largest energy sector consulting role in the strategic development of Dr Alan Hearne groups.
Phil was appointed to the Board Westbury into a top ten volume house Chief Executive in December 2005. builder in the UK.
John is serving a second three-year term.
He is Chairman of the Aged 59.
Alan Hearne holds a degree Audit Committee and a member of the in economics and a doctorate in Robert Miller-Bakewell Remuneration Committee.
Following Independent Non-Executive Director a period of academic research into environmental planning he joined RPS in Aged 59.
Robert joined the Board in Louise Charlton 1978, became a Director in 1979 and May 2010 and is serving an initial three Independent Non-Executive Director Chief Executive in 1981.
Alan Hearne was year term.
Robert was a Senior Director the plc Entrepreneur of the Year in 2001, of Investment Research at Merrill Lynch Aged 51.
Louise was appointed to the was made a Companion of the Institute from 1998 to 2008 and prior to this Board in May 2008.
She is Group Senior of Management in 2002, a member of worked as an investment analyst with Partner of Brunswick Group LLP, the the Board of the Companions in 2007, a NatWest Markets and its predecessor international corporate communications fellow of Aston Business School in 2006 companies.
Over the previous twenty years group of which she was a co-founder.
and an honorary Doctor of the University his focus was on analysing and advising Louise is a Director and Trustee of the of Kent in 2011. water, waste, transport and environmental Natural History Museum.
She is serving a infrastructure companies both in the UK second three-year term and is a member and internationally.
He is also a member of of the Remuneration and Nomination Gary Young OFWATs Future Regulation Panel.
Finance Director is a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees as well as being Senior Aged 52.
Gary Young graduated from Tracey Graham Independent Director.
Southampton University in 1982 and Independent Non-Executive Director qualified as a Chartered Accountant in 1986 with Price Waterhouse.
Tracey Graham joined the Board he held a number of finance director roles in September 2011 having been Chief including positions within Rutland Trust Executive of Talaris Limited, an international plc and AT&T Capital.
He joined RPS in cash management business, until 2010.
September 2000 and was appointed to the Tracey led the management buy-out of Board in November of that year.
Talaris from fide La Rue Plc, backed by private equity house Carlyle in 2008.
Prior to this Tracey was based in California where she was President of Sequoia Voting Systems, an election systems company.
Traceys background is in Banking and Insurance where she held senior positions with HSBC and AXA Insurance.
She chairs the Remuneration Committee and is a member of the Audit Committee.
