Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 57 Corporate governance annual general meeting in July 2011, and Mr Wilson will be proposed Introduction for election as a director in his place.
In this report we describe the directors approach to corporate The size and certain aspects of the composition of the board and of governance and how the board applies the Combined Code on the audit, nomination and corporate accountability and risk assurance Corporate Governance adopted by the Financial Reporting Council committees are determined primarily by the terms of our relationship FRC in June 2008. agreements with Altria and with BevCo Ltd BevCo, a holding company of the Santo Domingo Group, both of which have been The FRC issued a new UK Corporate Governance Code in May 2010 approved by the shareholders of SABMiller.
which applies to financial years beginning on or after 29 June 2010.
We are not therefore required to report on our application of the new The agreement with Altria limits the size of the board to a maximum of Code for the first time until next year, but if the new Code had applied 15 directors, of whom no more than two are to be executive directors, to the year ended 31 March 2011, we would have reported that we up to three are to be non-executive directors nominated by Altria, up applied all of its principles and provisions, except for the composition to two are to be non-executive directors nominated by BevCo, and of our audit committee, as approved by shareholders, which is as up to eight are to be non-executive directors appointed by the board.
The agreement with BevCo allows BevCo to nominate up to two nonexecutive directors for appointment to the board.
The directors are committed to maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance, which they believe are fundamental to The number of directors on the board currently exceeds the number discharging their stewardship responsibilities, and in his statement permitted under our agreement with Altria.
Altria has consented to on pages 6 to 9 of this report, the Chairman reports personally on this in order to facilitate the progressive renewal of the board and the how we apply the principles of the Code relating to the role and broadening of the diversity of background, gender and experience effectiveness of the board.
at board level, and to assist the company in applying the provision of the Combined Code that at least half of the directors excluding Application of the Combined Code the Chairman should be independent non-executive directors.
The The board applied all of the principles and provisions of the Combined board is grateful to Altria for its agreement to permit the maximum Code throughout the year ended 31 March 2011, except that the audit number of directors allowed under the relationship agreement to be committee did not consist solely of independent directors.
Under our exceeded for the time being, on the understanding that in the absence relationship agreement, as approved by shareholders in 2002 and in of unforeseen circumstances, one longer serving director will retire 2005, Altria Group, Inc. Altria has the right to nominate a director to in 2012, and one will retire in 2013, thereby restoring the number of the audit committee, and has nominated Mr Devitre, whom the board directors to that envisaged by the agreement, while still applying the does not consider to be an independent director for the purposes of provisions of the new Corporate Governance Code.
Altria and BevCo have each exercised their right under their The board nevertheless considers that the composition of the respective agreements to nominate one director for appointment to audit committee remains appropriate, given Altrias interest as the the nomination committee.
Both Altria and BevCo have the right to companys largest shareholder, and is satisfied that, having regard nominate directors for appointment to the corporate accountability to the experience and background in financial matters of Mr Devitre, and risk assurance committee CARAC, which Altria has exercised as a former chief financial officer of Altria, the independence and but BevCo has not, and Altria has the right to nominate one director effectiveness of the audit committee in discharging its functions in for appointment to the audit committee, which it has exercised.
terms of the Combined Code continue to be considerably enhanced and not in the least compromised.
Independence The board considers nine directors Mr Armour, Ms Knox, MrManser, Mr Manzoni, Mr Morland, Dr Moyo, Mr Pieterse, Leadership and effectiveness MrRamaphosa and Ms Weir to be independent for the purposes of the Combined Code.
The board considers five non-executive directors Board of directors: composition, independence and renewal not to be independent for the purposes of the Combined Code: Composition MrBible, Mr Devitre and Mr Willard, as they are nominees of Altria, the The board currently consists of the Chairman Mr Kahn : nine companys largest shareholder: and Mr Santo Domingo and Mr Prez, independent non-executive directors including Mr Manser, the as they are nominees of the Santo Domingo Group, the companys SeniorIndependent Director : five non-executive directors who are not second largest shareholder.
The test of independence under the Code considered to be independent: and two executive directors Mr Mackay, does not apply in relation to the Chairman, Mr Kahn.
the Chief Executive, and Mr Wyman, the Chief Financial Officer.
Short biographies of each of the directors are on pages 50 and 51.
Progressive renewal of the board The board continues to believe that its overall composition remains During the year ended 31 March 2011, Mr Armour, an independent appropriate, having regard in particular to the independence of non-executive director, was appointed to the board in May 2010. character and integrity of all of its directors, and the experience and Lord Fellowes retired from the board in July 2010 after 11 years of skills which they bring to their duties.
Regrettably, Ms Doherty was obliged to resign as a non-executive director with effect from 31 December It is now 12 years since the company listed on the London Stock 2010, as a result of her appointment as Chief Financial OfficerExchange, and SABMiller has been fortunate to retain the services designate of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc.
As Mr Mackay is the senior of several distinguished non-executive directors the Chairman, independent director of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc, it was not Mr Manser, Mr Morland and Mr Ramaphosa for all or most of that thought appropriate for Ms Doherty to continue as a non-executive period.
They have provided considerable stability to the board and the director of SABMiller plc.
board has benefited greatly from the presence of individuals who have over time gained valuable insight into the group, its markets and the Subsequently, in May 2011, we announced the appointment of two industry.
new non-executive directors, Ms Knox and Ms Weir.
If a director has served for a period of nine years or more, the Also in May 2011, we announced the planned retirement of Mr Wyman Combined Code requires the board to consider whether that as chief financial officer, and the appointment as his successor of director continues to be independent.
In respect of each of the three MrWilson.
Mr Wyman will not seek re-election to the board at the independent directors who have served the board for more than 50518 TEXT pgs50-75.
