52 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 Executive committee The executive committee excom is appointed by the Chief Executive.
Itcomprises the Chief Financial Officer, divisional managing directors and directors ofgroup functions.
Its purpose is to support the Chief Executive in carrying out the duties delegated to him by the board.
In that context, excom coordinates brand and Norman Adami 56 Mark Bowman 44 Alan Clark 51 Sue Clark 47 operational execution and BBusSc hons, MBA BCom, MBA MA, DLitt et Phil BSc hons, MBA delivers strategic plans Chairman and Managing Managing Director, Managing Director, Corporate Affairs Director, and budgets for the Director, SAB Ltd SABMillerAfrica SABMillerEurope SABMiller plc boards consideration.
Italso ensures that regular Norman Adami was Mark Bowman was appointed Dr Clark was appointed Sue Clark was appointed financial reports are reappointed Chairman and Managing Director of Managing Director, SABMiller Corporate Affairs Director, presented to the board, Managing Director of The SABMiller Africa in 2007.
He joined SABMiller plc in 2003. that effective internal South African Breweries He joined SABMillers beer SAB Ltd in 1990 as Training Prior to this, she held a controls are in place and Limited SAB Ltd in 2008.
He division in 1993 and has held and Development Manager.
number of senior roles in UK functioning, and that there first joined SAB Ltd in 1979 various senior positions in He has since held a number companies, including Director is an effective risk and has held a number of the group.
These include of senior positions in the of Corporate Affairs, Railtrack management process in senior positions in the group.
Managing Director of group, including Marketing Group from 2000 to 2003 and operation throughout the These include Regional SABMillers Polish subsidiary Director, SAB Ltd, Managing Director of Corporate Affairs, group.
Director, Operations Director, Kompania Piwowarska Director, ABI and Chairman, Scottish Power plc from 1996 Chairman and Managing S. A.
Managing Director of Appletiser South Africa Pty to 2000.
Director, SAB Ltd, President Amalgamated Beverage Ltd. Before joining the group, and Chief Executive Officer, Industries Ltd ABI now he practised as a clinical Sue is a Trustee of the Miller Brewing Company and the Soft Drinks Division of psychologist and lectured in Clore Social Leadership President and Chief Executive SAB Ltd and Chairman of psychology at Vista University Programme.
John Davidson 52 Nick Fell 57 Tony van Kralingen 53 Karl Lippert 50 Ari Mervis 47 MA, BCL Oxon BA hons BA hons M. Eng Mechanical BCom General Counsel Marketing Director, Director: Supply Chain President, Managing Director, andGroup Company SABMiller plc & Human Resources, SABMiller Latin America SABMiller Asia Secretary, SABMiller plc SABMiller plc John Davidson joined the Nick Fell was appointed Tony van Kralingen was Karl Lippert was appointed Ari Mervis was appointed group as General Counsel Marketing Director, SABMiller appointed Director: Supply President, SABMiller Latin Managing Director of and Group Company plc in 2006.
Prior to this, Chain & Human Resources America in January 2011.
Before heworked for Cadbury for the SABMiller group in joined the Group in 1992 and Hejoined SABs soft drinks joining SABMiller, he spent his Schweppes Plc, as President, 2008.
He joined SAB Ltd in has extensive experience in division, ABI, in 1989 and has entire legal career at Lovells, Global Commercial Strategy 1982 and has held a number the global brewing industry.
held various senior positions aleading international law and also as Director of of senior positions in the Prior to his appointment as in sales, marketing, finance firm, where he had been a Marketing, Cadbury Trebor group.
These include President of Bavaria S. A. in and general management.
He previously Operations Director and Colombia in February 2006, He has been Managing specialising in international worked for Diageo plc for 15 Marketing Director, SAB Ltd, Karl was Managing Director of Director of Swaziland Bottling corporate finance, cross years in a number of senior Chairman & Chief Executive Kompania Piwowarska S. A.
Company and Appletiser as border mergers and roles including Global Brands Officer, Plzensk Prazdroj a. s. in Poland, and previously held well as Managing Director acquisitions, and corporate Director, Johnnie Walker, and and, most recently, Chairman senior positions as Managing of SABMiller operations in governance advisory work.
Group Marketing Director, and Managing Director: SAB Director of Dreher in Hungary, Russia and Australia.
John is the current Chairman Guinness Brewing.
In his current role he is Sales and Distribution Director of the GC100 group the accountable for group for SABMiller Europe, and association of general counsel procurement, technical and various positions within SAB and company secretaries of R&D, information technology Ltd in South Africa, including companies in the FTSE 100. and human resources.
General Manager, Distribution Services Manager and Operations Manager.
