2 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 Five minute read Our business in brief SABMiller is one of the worlds leading brewers, with more than 200 beer brands and some 70,000 employees in over 75 countries.
We are also one of the worlds largest bottlers of Coca-Cola products.
Our strategic direction Our brands and business Weve grown through a culture of operational Weve become a global leader by excelling excellence, delivering high-quality products, locally nurturing strong, local brands and innovation and sustainability.
building brand portfolios that meet the needs of consumers in each of our markets.
Our success is built on a clear strategic direction and a shared The attention we give to building local businesses and local brand commitment to the companys vision, mission and values.
portfolios makes us, we believe, the most local of the global brewers.
Our vision: Local brands To be the most admired company in the global beer industry Beer is a local business in that beer brands are deeply rooted in local communities and often have their own rich histories and heritage.
Our mission: At SABMiller we respect and nurture these qualities and allow our To own and nurture local and international brands that are the businesses a high degree of autonomy in meeting local needs.
firstchoice of the consumer We bring deep consumer insight to the building of brands in local markets.
Our values: Our people are our enduring advantage Global brands Accountability is clear and personal Our four global brands all have their own distinct characteristics We work and win in teams from the Italian style of Peroni Nastro Azzurro to the unique heritage of We understand and respect our customers and consumers the worlds first golden beer, the Czech-brewed Pilsner Urquell: from Our reputation is indivisible the Northern European provenance of Grolsch to the American urban cool of Miller Genuine Draft.
Our strategic priorities: Creating a balanced and attractive global spread of businesses For more information on the performance of our brands, Developing strong, relevant brand portfolios that win in the local see pages22 to 33. market Constantly raising the profitability of local businesses, sustainably Leveraging our skills and global scale For more information on our strategic priorities and how we measure against them, see pages 18 and 19.
indd 2 07 06 2011 10:05 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 3 Peroni Nastro Azzurro An intensely crisp and refreshing lager with an unmistakable touch of Italian style, Peroni Nastro Azzurro is a premium lager brewed to the original recipe since 1963.
Origin: Italy First brewed: 1963 www.
com How we manage our business Our performance in 2011 Our strong financial performance in 2011 Our vision to be the most admired company reflects contributions from all parts of the in the global beer industry requires us to demonstrate the highest standards of business and the benefits of a rigorous, transparency, ethics and corporate governance.
sustained focus on the groups strategic priorities.
Our lager volumes were up by 2% with reported group revenue rising Because our business is not separate from society but embedded 7%, while EBITA margin increased to 17.8%.
within it, the success of SABMiller is inextricably linked to the wellbeing of the wider community.
Operational highlights Reported EBITA grew 15%, with organic, constant currency EBITA Sustainable development increasing 12%: Sustainable development is fundamental to our business success.
1 Latin America EBITA grew by 11% due to pricing, lower raw Everywhere we operate, were working to build a strong local material costs and fixed-cost productivity businesswhile also supporting local economic development.
1 Europe EBITA grew by 4%, benefiting from lower costs despite Ourclear, well-embedded approach to sustainable development reduced volumes brings tangible benefits both to our business and to the Disciplined revenue management, synergies and cost savings communitiesin which we work.
increased North America EBITA by 20% Strong volume growth, firm pricing and capacity expansion For more information on our approach to sustainable development, 1 drove Africas EBITA growth of 20% see pages 44 to 47.
1 Asia EBITA increased by 33% with robust volume growth inChina and India Governance 1 South Africa: Beverages EBITA grew 11% due to volume In discharging its stewardship responsibilities, the SABMiller board growthand pricing is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance.
Ourdirectors provide the leadership, controls and strategic oversight For more information on our financial performance, to ensure we deliver value to all the companys shareholders.
For more information on our approach to governance, see pages 57 to 64.
Risk The groups risk management system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failing to achieve business objectives.
The system is regularly reviewed to ensure that business risk is managed in a consistent and sustained way, to deliver business opportunities.
1 EBITA growth is shown on an organic, constant currency basis.
For more information on our approach to risk, see pages 63 and 64.
