62 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance continued Specifically, during the year the work of the remuneration committee The company has in place a formal policy on auditor independence included: and non-audit services, with which the external auditors are required to comply, to ensure that the independence of the auditors is not reviewing trends in global executive remuneration and governance: impaired by the nature of non-audit work.
The policy stipulates work reviewing the key elements and design of the groups long-term which is permitted or not permitted to be performed by the auditors, incentive schemes including peer comparator group composition : and provides for appropriate approval and oversight processes.
reviewing global benchmarking methodologies and outcomes: As a further safeguard, PwC confirm in a formal report to the audit reviewing and approving performance hurdles for short and longcommittee that processes to ensure compliance with this policy are term incentive awards: in place and that these processes are monitored regularly.
This report reviewing and approving long-term incentive awards for executive includes a statement that, in their opinion, PwC believe that the nature committee members and all employees: of their non-audit services has not impaired the audit of the company.
reviewing and approving total remuneration for the executive Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements has a breakdown of directors and executive committee members: and non-audit services provided to the group by the auditors for the year reviewing and approving the draft remuneration report.
More details of the companys remuneration policy and the work of the The audit committee is satisfied that, for the period under review, the remuneration committee can be found in the directors remuneration independence of the auditors has not been affected by the provision report on pages 65 to 75. of non-audit services.
Fees in respect of non-audit services provided by PwC were primarily related to services relating to taxation and our The corporate accountability and risk assurance committee major business capability programme.
CARAC Lord Fellowes chaired the committee until his retirement on 22 July In December 2010, the FRC issued revised Guidance on Audit 2010 and was succeeded by Dr Moyo.
Dr Moyo was a member of Committees as part of the new UK Corporate Governance Code and, the committee throughout the year, as were Mr Kahn, Mr Mackay, as a consequence, the audit committee reviewed and revised the MrManser, Mr Manzoni, Mr Pieterse, Mr Ramaphosa, Mr Willard and groups policy on auditor independence and non-audit services.
Additionally, the Director of Corporate Affairs, Ms Clark, A new policy was adopted with effect from 1 April 2011 which met regularly with the chairman of CARAC to discuss implementation classifies all non-audit services into audit related services being and planning issues, and attended all meetings of the committee.
those services which are effectively required by law or regulation, and other non-audit services, and provides that engagements for other The objective of CARAC is to assist the board in the discharge of non-audit services are subject to formal pre-approval limits, either by its responsibilities in relation to corporate accountability, including the full audit committee or by the chairman of the audit committee, sustainable development, corporate social responsibility, corporate depending on the quantum, and that all requests for approval be social investment and ethical commercial behaviour.
More details accompanied by a detailed justification as to why the appointment of of the committees activities can be found in the sustainable the external auditors to provide the services is in the best interests development review section of this report and in the companys of the company, and how auditor independence is proposed to be separate Sustainable Development Report which is available on the safeguarded in connection with the provision of those services.
companys website and, upon request, in hard copy.
The committee has also implemented a formal system for the review During the year, the CARAC focused on company-specific and of the effectiveness of the external auditors.
This process involves industry issues which are critical to protecting the companys licence the external auditors presenting to the committee their proposed to operate.
audit strategy followed by the output of their initial discussions with management.
At the audit committee meeting in May, the external The disclosure committee auditors present the output of their detailed year-end work.
In making The disclosure committee consists of the Chairman, the Chief its assessment of external auditor effectiveness, the committee reviews Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, the Senior Independent Director the audit engagement letters before signature by management, reviews and the General Counsel and Company Secretary or the Deputy the external auditors summary of group and subsidiary issues and Company Secretary.
The function of the disclosure committee, in managements response to the summary, and conducts an overall accordance with the groups inside information policy, is to meet as review of the effectiveness of the external audit process and the external and when required in order to assure compliance with the Disclosure auditors.
This review is facilitated by the use of templates that rate and Transparency Rules and the Listing Rules, as guided by the effectiveness across 18 key criteria.
Following the review, the committee General Counsel, and to ensure that the routes of communication makes a recommendation to the board on the reappointment of the between excom members, the disclosure committee, the General external auditors by the shareholders.
The committee has not adopted Counsels office, the company secretarial office and investor relations a policy on tendering frequency since it prefers to conduct an annual are clear, and provide for rapid escalation to the disclosure committee assessment of the auditors effectiveness.
There are no contractual and key advisers, and the board, of any decision regarding potential obligations restricting the companys choice of external auditor.
inside information, so that the company is able to comply fully with its continuing obligations under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules With the signing of the audit opinion in this Annual Report, the and the Listing Rules.
audit engagement partner has completed six years in this role.
In 2009 the committee requested PwC pursuant to the Auditing Practices Boards revised ethical standard ES 3 Long association with the audit engagement to agree to an extension of the audit Accountability engagement partners tenure by one year, from five to six years.
This was sought in order to safeguard the quality of the audit, The audit committee primarilydue to the significant changes to key business processes A description of the composition, scope of responsibilities and work arising from implementation of the major business capability undertaken by the audit committee during the year is included in the programme being undertaken throughout the group, and the section dealing with the board and its committees.
consequent shift in the profile of operational, tax, compliance and reporting risks.
PwC acceded to this request.
In the course of Relationship with auditors thisyear, a new audit engagement partner has now been appointed  were appointed as auditors of for the 2012 audit.
the company on 8 February 1999, subsequently becoming  LLP PwC in 2003.
indd 62 07 06 2011 00:45 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 63 Risk management The groups systems of internal control are designed and operated to The groups risk management system is subject to regular review support the identification, evaluation and management of risks affecting to ensure compliance with the Combined Code and the Turnbull the group.
These include controls in relation to the financial reporting Guidance 2005 on internal control and risk management.
process and the preparation of consolidated accounts, but extend across all areas of operations.
They are subject to continuous review Risk and the board of directors ascircumstances change and new risks emerge.
The directors are ultimately responsible for the groups risk management system and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The risk Key features of the systems of internal control are: management system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and there is an ongoing the risk management system described in the preceding section: process in place for identifying, assessing, managing, monitoring and written policies and procedures within our businesses, which are reporting on the significant risks faced by individual group companies detailed in policy manuals: and by the group as a whole.
This process has been in place for clearly defined lines of accountability and delegation of authority: the year under review up to the approval of the Annual Report and minimisation of operating risk by using appropriate infrastructure, Accounts.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the group are controls, systems and people throughout the businesses: set out on pages 20 to 21. business continuity planning, including preventative and contingency measures, back-up capabilities and the purchase Executive committee ofinsurance: Excom has specific responsibility as the risk management committee the company has maintained a state of readiness for compliance for the groups system of risk management.
Excom reviews the with s404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act through the identification and groups significant risks and subsequently reports to the board on testing of key financial controls under its Internal Financial Control material changes and the associated mitigating actions.
This is a voluntary initiative, and has led to a further strengthening of internal control systems and processes In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance 2005, reviews on the within the group: effectiveness of the risk management system were carried out by key policies employed in managing operating risk involve excom, as the risk management committee, in April and September segregation of duties, transaction authorisation, monitoring, 2010 and in April 2011. financial and managerial and comprehensive reporting and analysis against approved standards and budgets: Enterprise-wide risk management a treasury operating framework which establishes policies and Excom views the careful and appropriate management of risk as a key manages liquidity and financial risks, including foreign exchange, management role.
Managing business risk to deliver opportunities is interest rate and counterparty exposures, and incorporates central a key element of all our business activities, and is undertaken using and regional treasury committees that monitor these activities a practical and flexible framework which provides a consistent and and compliance with the policies.
Treasury policies, risk limits sustained approach to risk evaluation.
Business risks, which may and monitoring procedures are reviewed regularly by the audit be strategic, operational, financial, environmental or concerning the committee on behalf of the board: and groups reputation, are understood and visible.
The business context a group tax risk and tax operating framework which forms the basis determines in each situation the level of acceptable risk and controls.
of tax governance across the group and is managed by the group We continue to seek improvement in the management of risk by tax function which monitors tax risk and implements strategies and sharing best practice throughout the organisation.
Key features of the groups system of risk management are: Assurance on compliance with systems of internal control and on their effectiveness is obtained through regular management reviews, review group statements on strategic direction, ethics and values: of key financial controls, internal audit reviews and quality assurance, clear business objectives and business principles: testing of certain aspects of the internal financial control systems by an established risk policy: the external auditors during the course of their statutory examinations a continuing process for identification and evaluation of significant and regular reports to the audit committee by the external auditors.
risks to the achievement of business objectives: The groups divisional finance, control and assurance committees management processes in place to mitigate significant risks to an consider the results of these reviews to confirm that controls are acceptable level: functioning and to ensure that any material breakdowns and remedial ongoing monitoring of significant risks and internal and external actions have been reported to the appropriate boards of directors.
environmental factors that may change the groups risk profile: and Inrelation to the groups associated undertakings or joint ventures, a regular review by the group of both the type and amount of these matters are reviewed at the level of the associates or joint external insurance that it buys, bearing in mind the availability ventures boards or other governing committees.
ofsuch cover, its cost and the likelihood and magnitude of the risksinvolved.
At the half year and at the year end the divisional managing directors and finance directors of all the groups operations, each of the groups In addition to excoms bi-annual reports to the board on key risks, functional directors corporate affairs, legal, marketing and supply there is a process of regular reporting to the board through the audit chain and human resources and each of the direct reports to the committee on the status of the risk management process.
Our approach Chief Financial Officer, are required to submit to the Company was strengthened during 2010 by further integrating strategic planning, Secretary on behalf of the board formal letters of representation internal audit and other risk control specialists into line managements oncontrols, compliance and notification of continuing or potential risk processes and simplifying risk reporting, and this process of gradual material financial and legal exposures.
refinement and strengthening has continued during this year.
These letters form the subject of reports to the audit committee, and Key reports include those that identify, assess and monitor strategic cover all subsidiary companies, as well as MillerCoors and Gold Reef and operational risks in each division and on a group basis.
Resorts Tsogo Sun which submit tailored letters of representation.
Where material, group executives sit on the boards of associated Internal control companies.
Directors and members of the executive committee also The Turnbull Guidance recommends internal control practices for make annual written declarations of interests and are obliged to report UK listed companies to assist them in assessing the application of without delay any potential or actual conflicts of interest which may the Combined Codes principles and compliance with the Combined arise.
Codes provisions with regard to internal control.
