Western Europe North America Latin America Eastern Europe Asia Africa Global 10 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 Global beer market trends Growth driven by emerging markets 1 The global beer market Within the emerging markets, China recorded Alcohol category growth % In the past decade, the global beer market has volume growth of 6% and, despite inflationary Beer share of alcohol trends in major emerging markets gone through a process of rapid change.
In many pressures, an increase in volumes of premium lager.
emerging and developing markets, economic Africa saw healthy growth of 8% with increased Wines 100 andsocietal developments and transformative volume in both the premium and more affordable Spirits improvements in the quality and appeal of beer price segments, driven by Angola, Nigeria, 80 brands have resulted in strong organic growth in Tanzania, Ghana, Uganda and the DR Congo.
Developed markets have also LatinAmerican beer volumes grew by 3% in 2010, 60 undergone change as brewers have responded to with reductions due to a material tax increase 40 constrained or declining beer consumption trends.
inColombia, more than offset by rapid growth Beer incountries such as Peru.
In Eastern Europe, 20 Industry consolidation has continued apace, and beer volumes declined by almost 5% in the face today the four largest brewers Anheuser-Busch of continuing unemployment and depressed InBev, SABMiller, Heineken and Carlsberg produce consumer confidence affecting beer sales in 00 02 04 06 08 10 almost half of all industry volume and generate up to barsand restaurants.
Beer industry consolidation Source: Canadean has continued during the last 12 months, with smaller Beer consumption in developed markets continues transactions in Asia, Africa and Latin America.
to suffer from high unemployment, high fuel prices and constrained consumer spending.
In the USA, Global beer sales by volume in 2010 where unemployment is particularly severe among key beer drinkers, beer volumes have fallen slightly 1 AB-InBev 18% 1 2 SABMiller 14% although accompanied by consumer uptrading 3 Heineken 9% between industry price segments.
Beer volumes 4 Carlsberg 5% 5 Other 54% continue to decrease in Western Europe as 2 consumers switch to other beverages and reduceon-premise consumption.
Outlook 3 In the 2011 calendar year, global beer market volume growth is forecast to be 2.5%, led by continuing 4 5 strong performances in Asia, Africa and Latin America.
China and Africa are expected to grow Source: Canadean byalmost 5% and Latin America by almost 3%.
Alcohol trends Looking ahead to 2015, it is likely that growth will Beer consumption continues to rise in Africa, Latin continue to be led by emerging markets.
The 25 America and Asia, driven by growth in population fastest-growing markets are forecast to deliver and incomes and improvements in beer quality and over5% CAGR in beer volumes.
In this context, many consumers are to account for almost 40% of this growth with shifting from informal and unregulated forms of Vietnam, Brazil, Ukraine, Nigeria, India and Peru alcohol to aspirational, attractively-branded and contributing significantly.
The beer category istherefore growing at the expense of Beer growth trends by volume % subsistencealcohol.
Forecast five-year compound annual growth rate CAGR by region 2011-15 Commercially produced beer has also been 5 claiming a greater share of the regulated commercial alcohol market in emerging countries.
4 On a pure alcohol basis, its share rose from 34% in2000 to 40% in 2010.
3 2 Beer category trends Despite economic pressures, total global beer 1 consumption recovered slightly in 2010, growing atover 2% after a downturn in 2009, caused by 0 theglobal economic recession.
Over the past five years, the global beer category has maintained an average compound annual growth rate CAGR of 3.3%.
In 2010, emerging markets grew at an average CAGR of 5.7% the Source: Canadean main growth coming from China, Africa and South 1 All data sourced from Canadean America while developed markets declined unless otherwise stated by 1.7%.
2 JPMorgan Cazenove report European Beverages, 21 July 2010 50518 TEXT pgs6-21.
