64 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance continued The directors are responsible for the groups systems of internal Remuneration control and for reviewing their effectiveness annually.
The board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the groups internal A description of the composition, terms of reference and scope of controls covering material financial, operational and compliance responsibilities and work undertaken by the remuneration committee controls and risk management systems for the year under review.
during the year is included in the section dealing with the boards Necessary actions have been, or are being, taken to remedy any committees.
significant weaknesses identified from the boards review of the internal control system.
The systems of internal control are designed A detailed description of the companys remuneration policies to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business isincluded in the remuneration report on pages 65 to 75 of this objectives and can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance annualreport.
against material misstatement or loss.
In reviewing these, the board has taken into account the results of all the work carried out by internal and external auditors.
Relations with shareholders The board, with advice from the audit committee, has completed its All shareholders were again encouraged to attend the annual general annual review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control meeting held in July 2010, which provided shareholders with the for the period since 1 April 2010 in accordance with the Turnbull opportunity to ask questions of the board and chairmen of all the Guidance, and is satisfied that this system is in accordance with board committees.
At the meeting, all resolutions were put to a poll, thatGuidance and that it has been in place throughout the year with the results being published on the companys website, and underreview and up to the date of this report.
on the London and Johannesburg stock exchange news services.
Asthe geographic spread of shareholders inevitably means that not Internal audit every shareholder can attend a meeting in the UK, a video and a The global internal audit function consists of the group internal full transcript of the proceedings of the meeting were published on audit team, led by the Chief Internal Auditor, plus regional and SABMiller plcs website.
Similar arrangements are planned for the country audit functions that operate in each of the groups principal forthcoming annual general meeting.
The regional and country functions are centrally co-ordinated by the group internal audit team.
The country internal The company maintains a dedicated investor relations function which audit functions report to local senior finance management but have reports to the Director of Corporate Affairs.
The investor relations team direct access and accountability to local audit committees, the builds and maintains long-term relationships with institutional investors regional heads of internal audit and the Chief Internal Auditor.
and analysts and, in partnership with our corporate and divisional management teams and within the scope of regulatory constraints, Internal audit activities, all of which are risk-based, are performed by gives presentations on regional business outlooks and strives to teams of appropriate, qualified and experienced employees.
Third ensure that these are understood across the global equity markets parties may be engaged to support audit work as appropriate.
The in subsequent one-to-one meetings with investors.
Dialogue on Chief Internal Auditor, who reports functionally to the Chief Financial sustainable developments and socially responsible investment matters Officer and who has regular meetings with the chairman of the audit is handled by the Head of Sustainable Development, who undertakes committee, prepares formal reports for each audit committee meeting focused meetings with interested investors and stakeholders.
as to the consolidated activities and key findings of the global internal audit function.
In addition to scheduled management-led programmes in which executives interact with investors and analysts, the Chairman annually The global internal audit function uses a standardised groupcontacts all shareholders or their representatives holding more wide internal audit methodology which is in compliance with the than 1% of the issued share capital of the company, to enable him International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal to address any queries which shareholders may have about the Auditing of the Institute of Internal Auditors.
The function operates governance of the company or non-operational aspects of company a formal global quality assurance and effectiveness programme.
It is also, more broadly, designed to give the board a greater Accordingly, detailed quality review assessments are performed with awareness of shareholder concerns.
During the year the Chairman regard to the regional and country internal audit teams, to ensure and Mr Manser, as Senior Independent Director, accompanied compliance with defined quality and performance measures.
This by the Company Secretary, met with a number of institutional process provides a basis for the annual review of the effectiveness shareholders.
Alongside the Chairman, the Senior Independent of the global internal audit function and results in a formal report Director and the Company Secretary are also available to discuss prepared by the Chief Internal Auditor to the audit committee issues with shareholders and views expressed are communicated to support the committees formal annual assessment of the by the Chairman to the board.
As part of this initiative the Chairman effectiveness of internal audit.
In addition, a periodic review of offers to meet with significant shareholders in the month before the internal audit is undertaken by an independent external consultant in annual general meeting specifically to deal with issues arising from accordance with the requirements of the Institute of Internal Auditors.
the annual report and notice of the annual general meeting.
All nonexecutive directors of the company are invited to participate in this The audit committee has therefore satisfied itself that adequate, process.
Institutional and shareholder comment on the annual report objective internal audit assurance standards and procedures exist is conveyed by the Company Secretary to the full board and to the within the group, and that continuous improvement in the quality audit and remuneration committees in relation to matters within their and objectivity of the global internal audit function remains a primary respective terms of reference.
John Davidson Whistleblowing measures General Counsel and Group Company Secretary All employees in subsidiaries within the group have the opportunity For and on behalf of the board of SABMiller plc to make confidential disclosures about suspected impropriety or 3 June 2011 wrongdoing.
The Company Secretary or the Deputy Company Secretary, in consultation with the Chief Internal Auditor if appropriate, decides on the appropriate method and level of investigation.
The audit committee is notified of all material disclosures made and receives reports on the results of investigations and actions taken.
The audit committee has the power to request further information, conduct its own inquiries or order additional action as it sees fit.
