Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 53 Directors report The directors have pleasure in submitting their report to shareholders, interest in the enlarged Gold Reef Tsogo Sun business.
At the annual together with the audited annual financial statements for the year general meeting of Gold Reef Resorts Limited to be held on 15 June ended 31 March 2011.
2011, shareholders of Gold Reef will be asked to approve the change of name of Gold Reef to Tsogo Sun Holdings Limited.
Principal activities and business review SABMiller plc is a holding company which has brewing and beverage In March 2011, our Colombian subsidiary, Bavaria S. A. established interests across six continents.
Our principal subsidiaries, associates a COP2,500,000 million US$1,325 million bond and commercial and joint ventures are listed in note 35 to the consolidated financial paper programme, to be used primarily to refinance Bavaria S. A. s statements.
Our principal activities are the manufacture, distribution existing COP1,910,320 million US$1,012 million bonds by means and sale of beverages.
of an exchange offer under which bondholders were offered new securities in exchange for the existing bonds.
The exchange offer was We are required by the Companies Act 2006 to produce a fair review accepted by bondholders representing approximately 93% of the of our business, including a description of the principal risks and aggregate face amount of the existing bonds and, on 31 March 2011, uncertainties we face, our development and performance during the Bavaria S. A. issued new securities with an aggregate face amount year, and our position at the end of the year.
These are all covered of COP1,881,191 million US$1,006 million.
The new securities have in the business review on pages 1 to 42 of this annual report.
Other been registered for trading in the secondary market of the Colombian key performance indicators and information relating to environmental Stock Exchange and admitted to the official list of the Cayman Islands matters, employee matters and social and community issues required Stock Exchange.
by the business review are set out in our sustainable development review and people section on pages 44 to 49 of this annual report.
Post balance sheet events In April 2011 we entered into a five year US$2,500 million committed Significant acquisitions, disposals, financing transactions, syndicated facility, with the option of two one-year extensions.
This investments and material developments during the year facility replaced our existing US$2,000 million and US$600 million In June 2010, pursuant to the Broad-Based Black Economic committed syndicated facilities, which were both voluntarily cancelled.
Empowerment transaction approved by our shareholders in January 2010, our South African subsidiary, The South African Breweries In May SpA Birra Peroni agreed to sell its in-house distribution Limited SAB, issued new shares representing 8.45% of SABs business to the Tuo Group for cash consideration.
Completion of the enlarged share capital to three groups of black participants: SAB sale is subject to customary conditions precedent.
employees: black-owned licensed liquor retailers and retail liquor licence applicants, and registered black-owned customers of ABI, the Also in May 2011, SABMiller Africa BV agreed to sell its 20% soft drinks division of SAB: and the broader South African community shareholding in its associate, Kenya Breweries Limited KBL, to through a newly founded SAB Foundation.
At the end of the 10-year East African Breweries Limited EABL for cash consideration of transaction period, participants will exchange their shareholdings in approximately US$225 million, subject to EABL disposing of its 20% SAB for shares in SABMiller plc.
shareholding in SABMiller Africa BVs subsidiary, Tanzania Breweries Limited, by way of a public offer through the Dar-es-Salaam Stock In July 2010, we published an updated base prospectus relating Exchange.
SABMiller International BV also agreed to terminate a to our US$5,000 million Euro Medium Term Note Programme.
The brewing and distribution agreement with KBL and KBL will cease to Programme was originally established in July 2008 and EUR 1,000 distribute SABMillers brands in Kenya after a short transitional period.
million of notes were issued under the Programme in July 2009.
Nofurther notes were issued during the period under review.
Directors The names and biographical details of the current directors are set In August 2010 we announced that our Ghanaian subsidiary, Accra out on pages 50 and 51.
All the current directors served throughout Brewery Limited ABL, would seek shareholder approval to fide-list the period, except Mr Armour who was appointed to the board on from the Ghana Stock Exchange and that the group would make an 1 May 2010, and Ms Knox and Ms Weir who were both appointed offer to the minority shareholders in ABL to acquire all of their shares.
It is intended that Mr Wyman will retire The fide-listing was approved by shareholders in September 2010, and from the board at the conclusion of the 2011 annual general meeting, became effective in March 2011.
As a result of the offer, the groups and that Mr Wilson will be proposed for election in his place.
Lord shareholding in ABL increased from 69.2% to 96.4%, andoureffective Fellowes served as a director of the company until his retirement on interest increased from 42.7% to 59.7%.
22 July 2010, and Ms Doherty served as a director of the company until 31 December 2010.
Details of the interests in shares and options In September 2010 we announced that a consent solicitation relating of the directors who held office during the period and any persons to our US$300 million 6.625% Guaranteed Notes due August 2033 connected to them are set out in the remuneration report on pages was successfully completed.
As a result MillerCoors was released 65to 75. from its guarantee of payment of principal and interest on the Notes and certain financial thresholds were amended to align with other Corporate governance recently issued SABMiller plc notes.
The directors approach to corporate governance, and statements of our application of the Combined Code on corporate governance are In October 2010, following the effective dollarisation of the set out in the corporate governance report, which forms part of this Zimbabwean economy in 2009, the end of hyper-inflation and the directors report, on pages 57 to 64 and in the remuneration report stabilisation of the economy, we announced that we would include our onpages 65 to 75. share of volumes and financial results of our Zimbabwean associate, Delta Corporation Limited, with effect from 1 April 2010.
We had Share capital ceased to include Delta in our reporting in 2006.
During the year, our issued ordinary share capital increased from 1,654,749,852 shares of 10 US cents each to 1,659,040,014 shares of In November 2010 we acquired Cervecera Argentina S. A. Isenbeck, 10 US cents each.
4,290,162 ordinary shares were issued to satisfy the third largest brewer in Argentina.
In the same month we completed the exercise of options granted under our share incentive plans, the cash acquisition of an 80% effective interest in Crown Foods details of which are shown in note 26 to the consolidated financial Limited, a mineral water and juice business, in Kenya.
At 31 March 2011 we held a total of 72,068,338 ordinary shares in treasury.
In February 2011 the merger of Tsogo Sun, our South African hotels and gaming associate, with Gold Reef Resorts Limited was In addition, we have had 50,000 deferred shares of 1 each in issue completed.
We exchanged our 49% interest in Tsogo Sun for a 39.7% since our incorporation in 1998.
None were issued during the year.
indd 53 07 06 2011 00:45 54 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 Directors report continued Dividends Donations An interim dividend of 19.5 US cents per share was paid to During the year the group contributed US$40.5 million to corporate shareholders on 10 December 2010, in respect of the year ended social investment programmes, of which US$5,050,997 represented 31March 2011.
Details of the final dividend proposed by the board charitable donations.
Of this amount charitable donations amounting forthe year ended 31 March 2011 are set out below: to US$331,875 were made by SABMiller plc and our UK subsidiary, Miller Brands UK Limited, both in the UK and overseas, comprising donations in respect of community development, health and Amount of final dividend education, the environment and other causes.
proposed by the board: 61.5 US cents per share It remains our policy not to make donations to political organisations Total proposed dividend for in the European Union.
Other political donations are only made by the year ended 31 March 2011: 81 US cents per share exception, and where permitted by local laws, and must be consistent with building multi-party democracy.
No political donations were made during the period.
If approved, the final dividend will be payable to shareholders on either section of the register at 5 August 2011 in the following way: Bribery Act 2010 We believe that we have robust policies and procedures for combating Dividend payable on: 12 August 2011 bribery and corruption throughout the group, but we have conducted a thorough review of the application of our group-wide code of Currency of payment: South African rands to business conduct and ethics to ensure that any changes necessary to shareholders on the RSA section comply with the new UK Bribery Act 2010 and the related adequate of the register, procedures guidance are identified and implemented before the legislation comes into force on 1 July 2011.
US dollars to shareholders shown as having an address in Employment, environmental and social policies the USA and recorded on the Our aim is to be the employer of choice in each country in which our UK section of the register unless group companies operate.
To achieve this, each operating company mandated otherwise, designs employment policies which attract, retain and motivate the highest quality of staff.
We are committed to an active equal Pounds sterling to all other opportunities policy, from recruitment and selection, through training shareholders on the UK section of and development, appraisal and promotion to retirement.
constraints of local law, it is our policy to ensure that everyone is treated equally, regardless of gender, colour, nationality, ethnic origin, Ex-dividend dates: 1 August 2011 for shares traded race, disability, marital status, sexual orientation, religion or trade on the JSE Limited, South Africa.
We value the benefits of employing people of different races, genders, creeds and backgrounds.
If employees become 3 August 2011 for shares traded disabled, efforts are made to allow them to continue in their role, or on the London Stock Exchange asuitable alternative role, through making reasonable adjustments.
The rate of exchange for conversion from US dollars will be calculated All employees of all SABMiller group companies must adhere to a on 20 July 2011 and published on the RNS of the LSE and the SENS code of business conduct and ethics.
This sets out our core principles of the JSE Limited on 21 July 2011. of business conduct and ethics, including being fair and ethical in all our dealings and treating people with dignity and respect.
We are committed to the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact, Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements discloses dividends which sets out universally accepted principles in the areas of human waived.
rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption.
Our website sets out these principles and our progress towards achieving them.
Purchase of own shares At the last annual general meeting, shareholder authority was We are committed to regular communication and consultation obtained for us to purchase our own shares up to a maximum of with our employees and we encourage employee involvement in 10% of the number of ordinary shares in issue as at 2 June 2010. our performance.
We have global distribution of real time news This authority is due to expire at the earlier of the next annual general through our global intranet, which is available to all of the groups meeting or 22 October 2011, and remains exercisable provided businesses to help inform employees about what is happening in that certain conditions relating to the purchase are met.
The notice our global operations.
Further information is provided to employees of annual general meeting proposes that shareholders approve at regional and country level by way of newsletters and electronic a resolution updating and renewing the authority allowing us to communication.
Certain employees throughout the group are eligible purchase our own shares.
to participate in the groups share incentive plans.
We did not repurchase any shares during the year for the purpose of cancellation, holding in treasury or for any other purpose.
Annual general meeting Our 2011 annual general meeting will be held at the InterContinental London Park Lane, One Hamilton Place, LondonW1V7QY, UK at 11.00am on Thursday 21 July 2011.
Copies of the Noticeofthis meeting may be obtained from our website.
indd 54 07 06 2011 00:45 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 55 The sustainable development review on pages 44 to 47 gives an Substantial shareholdings overview of the progress against our 10 sustainable development Details of notifications received by the company in accordance with priorities and of the impact of our business on the environment.
More the Disclosure and Transparency Rules as at 2 June 2011 and of detailed information is provided in our sustainable development report persons with significant direct or indirect holdings known to the 2011, available on our website.
company at the year end are set out in the ordinary shareholding analyses on page 170 of this annual report.
Research and development To ensure improved overall operational effectiveness, we place Financial instruments considerable emphasis on research and development in our global Information on our financial risk management objectives and policies technical activities.
This enables us to develop new products, and details of our exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk packaging, processes and manufacturing technologies.
Continued andcash flow risk are contained in note 23 to the consolidated progress was made in our research in the key areas of raw materials, financial statements.
brewing, flavour stability, packaging materials and energy and water saving.
Our total investment in research and development in the year Other disclosures required by the Companies Act and the under review was US$7 million 2010: US$4 million.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules We do not have any contractual or other arrangements that Payment of suppliers individually are essential to the business of the company or the Our policy is to pay invoices in accordance with the terms of payment groupas a whole.
At the year end, the amount we owed to trade creditors was equivalent to 48.8 days 2010: 48.2 days of purchases The structure of our share capital, including the rights and obligations from suppliers.
attaching to each class of share and the percentage of the share capital that each class of share comprises, is set out in note 26 to Overseas branches the consolidated financial statements.
There are no securities of the SABMiller plc does not have any branches registered overseas.
company that grant the holder special control rights.
Going concern and audit At 31 March 2011, our employees benefit trust held 7,437,406 Page 76 details the directors responsibilities for preparing the ordinary shares in the company.
By agreement with the company, the consolidated financial statements.
As set out in that statement, trustees do not exercise the voting rights attached to these shares.
thedirectors are satisfied that SABMiller plc is a going concern.
The directors are responsible for the management of the business of  LLP have expressed their willingness the company and may exercise all the powers of the company subject tocontinue in office as auditors and resolutions proposing their to the articles of association and relevant statutes.
Powers of the re-appointment and authorising the board to set their remuneration directors relating to the issuing and buying back of shares are set out will be submitted to the forthcoming annual general meeting.
in the articles of association.
These powers are subject to renewal by our shareholders each year at the annual general meeting.
Directors indemnities The company has granted rolling indemnities to the directors, Our articles of association give the board of directors power to uncapped in amount, in relation to certain losses and liabilities which appoint directors.
The articles of association may be amended they may incur in the course of acting as directors of the company by special resolution of the shareholders.
Directors appointed by or of one or more of its subsidiaries.
The company secretary and the board are required to submit themselves for election by the deputy company secretary have also been granted indemnities, on shareholders at the next annual general meeting.
Additionally, as similar terms, covering their roles as company secretary and deputy disclosed in the corporate governance report on pages 57 to 64, company secretary respectively of the company and as directors or Altria Group, Inc. Altria and BevCo Ltd BevCo have power ascompany secretary of one or more of the companys subsidiaries.
under their respective relationship agreements with the company The board believes that it is in the best interests of the group to attract to nominate directors for appointment to the board and certain and retain the services of the most able and experienced directors committees.
These relationship agreements also regulate and officers by offering competitive terms of engagement, including processesapplicable in relation to the acquisition or disposal the granting of such indemnities.
ofshares by Altria and BevCo.
The indemnities were granted at different times according to the law in force at the time and where relevant are categorised as qualifying third-party indemnity provisions as defined by Section 309B of the Companies Act 1985 and Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
They will continue in force for the benefit of directors and officers for as long as they remain in their positions.
indd 55 07 06 2011 00:45 56 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 Directors report continued We have a number of facility agreements with banks which contain Transfers of shares listed on the JSE in uncertificated form must be provisions giving rights to the banks upon a change of control of the made in accordance with, and subject to, the Securities Services company.
A change of control of the company would also give The Act 2004, the Rules and Directives of the JSE and STRATE Ltd. Coca-Cola Company certain rights under its bottling agreements Certificated shares may be transferred prior to dematerialisation, with various subsidiaries of the company, and in certain limited but share certificates must be dematerialised prior to trading in the circumstances may give China Resources Enterprise, Limited the STRATE environment.
ability to exercise certain rights under a shareholders agreement in relation to the companys associate CR Snow.
A change of control Pursuant to our code for securities transactions, directors and may also give the Molson Coors Brewing Company the ability to persons discharging managerial responsibilities require, and exercise certain rights under the MillerCoors operating agreement.
employees may in certain circumstances require, approval to dealinthe companys shares.
The company does not have any agreements with any director or officer that would provide compensation for loss of office or No shareholder shall, unless the directors otherwise determine, be employment resulting from a takeover.
entitled in respect of any share held by them to vote either personally or by proxy at a shareholders meeting or to exercise any other right Our articles of association allow directors, in their absolute discretion, conferred by membership in relation to shareholders meetings if to refuse to register the transfer of a share in certificated form which any call or other sum presently payable by them to the company in is not fully paid or the transfer of a share in certificated form on which respect of that share remains unpaid.
In addition, no shareholder will the company has a lien.
If that share has been admitted to the Official be entitled to vote if they have been served with a notice after failing List, the board may not refuse to register the transfer if this would to provide the company with information concerning interests in those prevent dealings in our shares from taking place on an open and shares required to be provided under Section 793 of the Companies proper basis.
The board may also refuse to register a transfer of a Act 2006.
Restrictions on the rights of the holders of convertible share in certificated form unless the instrument of transfer is lodged, shares and deferred shares are set out in note 26 to the consolidated duly stamped if stampable, at the address at which our register is financial statements.
held or at such other place as the directors may appoint, and except in the case of a transfer by a financial institution where a certificate Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to corporate has not been issued in respect of the share is accompanied by the members, by a corporate representative.
The deadline for delivering certificate for the share to which it relates and such other evidence as proxy forms is 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting.
the directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer, is in respect of only one class of share and is in John Davidson favour of not more than four transferees jointly.
General Counsel and Group Company Secretary For and on behalf of the board of SABMiller plc Transfers of shares in uncertificated form must be made in accordance with, and subject to, the Uncertificated Securities 3 June 2011 Regulations the Regulations, the facilities and requirements of the relevant CREST system and such arrangements as the board may determine in relation to the transfer of certificated shares subject to the Regulations.
