Governance Executive Committee biographies Ivan Epstein Pascal Houillon Chief Executive Officer, AAMEA Chief Executive Officer, North America After spending five years at Price Waterhouse Ivan co-founded Pascal Houillon became CEO of Sage North America in Softline.
In 1997 Softline was listed on the Johannesburg April 2011.
He was CEO of Sage France from 1997 and in Stock Exchange with operations in South Africa, Australia, the 2005 also took on responsibility for Sage in Belgium, Brazil, USA and Canada.
Softline was delisted in 2003 upon its Switzerland and Morocco.
He started his career as a systems acquisition by Sage.
Ivan continued as CEO of the Southern analyst for UAP Insurance and in 1987 Pascal co-founded Hemisphere of Sage which includes Softline and Sage Sinequanon, a company that provided business management Australia.
His role was expanded to cover the Middle East solutions to SMEs.
He joined Sage in 1989 in sales and held a and Asia in October 2010.
Ivan has been recognised for his number of management positions as a Regional Director and entrepreneurial attributes and contribution in South Africa Sales Director before leading the Sybel business when it was and in 1999 2000 was the recipient of South Africas Best acquired by Sage in 1995.
For 9 years Pascal was Vice Entrepreneur Award awarded by Ernst & Young, and President of Syntec, the French software and IT association.
continues to serve as a panel judge.
lvaro Ramrez Karen Geary Chief Executive Officer, Europe Group Human Resources Director lvaro Ramrez became CEO of Sage Europe in January Karen Geary has more than 20 years of international HR 2011.
He joined Sage as CEO of Sage Spain in 2003 after the experience across a variety of industries where she has helped acquisition of Grupo SP, which he co-founded in 1989. lvaro organisations through periods of large scale change and grew Grupo SP to become the leader in Spain for entry-level integration.
Her early career was spent at Monsanto Inc. and business management software, with subsidiaries in Portugal Electrocomponents plc.
She spent six years at Stena Line, and across Central and South America.
Since joining Sage, the Swedish transport and leisure operator, ultimately as HR lvaro has grown the Spanish business, both organically and Director.
She has been in her current role at Sage for eight through acquisition, transforming it into a market leading years, following five years as HR Director for Sage in the UK.
He studied in France and Spain, and holds an M. Sc.
Klaus-Michael Vogelberg Group Chief Technology Officer Michael Robinson Company Secretary and Group Legal Director Klaus-Michael Vogelberg was R&D Director and partner of the German KHK Software group, acquired by Sage in 1997.
Michael Robinson was born and educated in the North East In 2000 he joined the Group team to assist Sage operating of England before leaving to study law at Oxford University.
companies and the Board on software architecture and After qualifying as a solicitor, Michael spent 15 years at one technology strategy.
Between 2004 and 2007 Klaus-Michael of the largest law firms in the UK, becoming a partner and acted as R&D Director for Sage UK and Ireland, before taking specialising in a range of corporate finance work, including up his current post of Group Chief Technology Officer.
In 2002 he joined Sage as Group Legal Director and Company Secretary.
Biographies for Executive Committee members also on the Board of directors can be found on page 42.
