Governance Directors report The Directors present their report together with the audited consolidated Statement by the directors on compliance with the financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2011. provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code The Company has been in full compliance with the provisions set out in Principal activities the UK Corporate Governance Code throughout the year.
Information The Sage Group plc is a holding company.
The Groups principal that fulfills the requirements of the Code can be found in the Corporate activities during the year continued to be the development, distribution governance report on pages 46 to 53 and is incorporated into this and support of business management software and related products Directors Report by reference.
and services for small and medium-sized enterprises SMEs.
Going concern Business review The following statement has been included in accordance with the Listing The Group achieved a profit before taxation of 330.8m on revenue Rules: Based on normal business planning and control procedures, the from continuing operations of 1,334.1m.
directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for The Companies Act 2006 requires us to present a fair review of the the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the directors continue to adopt business of the Group during the year to 30 September 2011 and of the the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
position of the Group at the end of the financial year and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
The information Research and development that fulfils the Companies Act requirements can be found in the following parts of the report which are incorporated by reference: Chairmans letter, During the year, the Group invested 151.9m 2010: 145.9m in Chief Executives review, Executive Committee, Our business model, research and development.
This has resulted in the release of a Market overview, Financial review, Key Performance Indicators, Principal number of new and updated products and features as referred to risks and uncertainties, Our priorities, Delivering our priorities, People in the Financial review.
and organisation, and Corporate responsibility.
Charitable contributions and political donations The business review does not contain any information about persons During the year, charitable contributions totalling 0.5m were made.
with whom the Company has contractual or other arrangements, which No political donations were made in the year.
are essential to the business of the Company, as in the directors view, there are no such arrangements.
Directors and their interests Disclaimer A list of directors, their interests in the ordinary share capital of the The purpose of this Annual Report is to provide information to the Company, their interest in its long term performance share plan and members of the Company.
This Annual Report has been prepared for, details of their options over the ordinary share capital of the Company and only for, the members of the Company, as a body, and no other are given in the Remuneration report on pages 58 to 66.
The Company, its directors and employees, agents or advisers a material interest in any significant contract, other than a service contract do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom or contract for services, with the Company or any of its subsidiaries at this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any any time during the year.
such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
As at the date of this report, indemnities which are qualifying third party The Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with indemnity provisions under the Companies Act 2006 are in place under respect to the operations, performance and financial condition of the which the Company has agreed to indemnify the directors of the Group.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future Company and the former directors of the Company who held office events and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ during the year ended 30 September 2011, to the extent permitted materially from those anticipated.
The forward-looking statements reflect by law and by the Companys articles of association, in respect of all knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this liabilities incurred in connection with the performance of their duties as a Annual Report and the Company undertakes no obligation to update director of the Company or its subsidiaries.
Copies of these indemnities these forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report are available for review at the registered office of the Company.
should be construed as a profit forecast.
Employment policy Results and dividends The Group continues to give full and fair consideration to applications for The results for the year are set out on page 69. employment made by disabled persons, having regard to their respective aptitudes and abilities.
The policy includes, where practicable, the Dividends paid and proposed are set out on page 85.
The Board continued employment of those who may become disabled during their proposes a final dividend of 7.07p per share 2010: 5.22p per share employment and the provision of training and career development and taking the proposed full year dividend to 9.75p per share 2010: 7.80p promotion, where appropriate.
The Group has continued its policy of per share.
employee involvement by making information available to employees on matters of concern to them.
Many employees are stakeholders in the business through participation in share option schemes and a long-term performance share plan.
Further details of employment policies are given on pages 36 and 37.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Board, justifies its payment.
All dividends shall be apportioned and paid Creditor payment policy pro rata according to the amounts paid up on the shares.
Given the international nature of its operations, the Group does not operate a standard code in respect of payments to suppliers.
Subsidiary Liquidation operating companies are responsible for agreeing the terms and If the Company is in liquidation, the liquidator may, with the authority of conditions under which business transactions with their suppliers are a special resolution of the Company and any other authority required by conducted, including the terms of payment.
It is the Groups policy to the Statutes as defined in the Articles : ensure that suppliers are aware of those terms and that payments to suppliers are made promptly in accordance with these terms.
Creditor divide among the members in specie the whole or any part of the days for the Group have been calculated at 49 days 2010: 53 days.
assets of the Company: or The Company has no trade creditors 2010: nil.
vest the whole or any part of the assets in trustees upon such trusts for the benefit of members as the liquidator, with the like authority, Substantial shareholdings shall think fit.
At 25 November 2011, the Company had been notified, in accordance Transfer of shares with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following interests in Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer all or any of his or her the ordinary share capital of the Company: certificated shares by an instrument of transfer in any usual form or in any Name Direct shares % Indirect shares % Total shares % other form which the Board may approve.
The Board may, in its absolute LLoyds Banking discretion, decline to register any instrument of transfer of a certificated Group plc 5,756,790 0.44 61,105,949 4.62 66,862,739 5.06 share which is not a fully paid share or on which the Company has a lien.
Aviva plc 66,981,616 5.07 66,981,616 5.07 The Board may also decline to register a transfer of a certificated share Blackrock Inc. 75,700,610 5.74 75,700,610 5.74 unless the instrument of transfer is: i left at the office, or at such other place as the Board may decide, for registration: and ii accompanied by Future developments the certificate for the shares to be transferred and such other evidence The Groups future developments are described in the business review if any as the Board may reasonably require to prove the title of the on pages 1 to 40. intending transferor or his or her right to transfer the shares.
The Board may permit any class of shares in the Company to be held Share capital in uncertificated form and, subject to the Articles, title to uncertificated The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into shares to be transferred by means of a relevant system and may revoke ordinary shares of 1p each.
Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share may be refused where permitted by the Statutes as defined in the Articles.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares Repurchase of shares Voting The Company obtained shareholder authority at the last Annual General In a general meeting of the Company, subject to the provisions of the Meeting held on 2 March 2011 to buyback up to 131,736,058 ordinary Articles and to any special rights or restrictions as to voting attached shares, which remains outstanding until the conclusion of the next Annual to any class of shares in the Company of which there are none : General Meeting on 29 February 2012. on a show of hands, a qualifying person being an individual who is The minimum price which must be paid for such shares is 1p and the a member of the Company, a person authorised to act as the maximum price payable is the higher of 5% above the average of the representative of a corporation or a person appointed as a proxy of mid-market price of the ordinary shares of the Company as derived from a member shall have one vote: and the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days on a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy shall immediately before the purchase is made and the amount stipulated by have one vote for every share of which he or she is the holder.
Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003 in each No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or class case exclusive of expenses.
meeting in respect of any shares held by him or her if any call or other On 30 September 2011 the Group appointed Deutsche Bank AG to sum then payable by him or her in respect of that share remains unpaid.
manage an irrevocable buyback programme during the closed period Currently, all issued shares are fully paid.
which commenced on 4 October 2011 and will run up to 30 November 2011.
From 4 October 2011 to 25 November 2011, the latest practical Deadlines for voting rights date prior to publication of the Annual Report & Accounts, 7,495,884, Full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect of the 247.60 ordinary shares of 1p each were repurchased through Deutsche resolutions to be considered at the Annual General Meeting to be held on Bank AG at an average price of 269.20 pence per share.
The highest and 29 February 2012 will be set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
lowest prices paid for these shares were 275.00 pence per share and 247.60 pence per share respectively.
The purchased shares will all be held Dividends and distributions as treasury shares.
The total number of ordinary shares in issue excluding Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Company may, shares held as treasury shares at 25 November 2011 is 1,316,481,232. by ordinary resolution, declare a dividend to be paid to the members, but no dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
Amendment of the Companys articles of association The Board may pay interim dividends, and also any fixed rate dividend, Any amendments to the Companys articles of association may be made whenever the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 by way of special resolution.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 | The Sage Group plc | 55 Governance Directors report continued Under a note purchase agreement dated 11 March 2010 relating Appointment and replacement of directors to US$200,000,000 senior notes, Series A, due 11 March 2015, Directors shall be no less than two and no more than 15 in number.
US$50,000,000 senior notes, Series B, due 11 March 2016 and Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or US$50,000,000 senior notes, Series C, due 11 March 2017 between the by the Board.
A director appointed by the Board holds office only until Company and the note holders, on a change of control, the Company the next Annual General Meeting and is then eligible for election by the will not take any action that consummates or finalises a change of control shareholders.
The Board may from time to time appoint one or more unless at least 15 business days prior to such action it shall have given directors to hold employment or executive office for such period subject to each holder of notes written notice containing and constituting an to the Companies Act 2006 and on such terms as they may determine offer to prepay all notes on a date specified in such offer which shall be and may revoke or terminate any such appointment.
a business day occurring subsequent to the effective date of the change Under the Articles, at every Annual General Meeting of the Company, of control which is not less than 30 days or more than 60 days after the every director shall retire from office but shall be eligible for election or date of the notice of prepayments.
Where a holder of notes accepts the re-election by the shareholders.
The Company may by special resolution offer to prepay, the prepayment shall be 100% of the principal amount of or by ordinary resolution of which special notice has been given remove the notes together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon and shall be and the Board by unanimous decision may remove any director before made on the proposed prepayment date.
No pre payment under a the expiration of his term of office.
The office of director shall be vacated change of control shall include any premium of any kind.
if: i he or she resigns: ii he or she is or may be suffering from a mental Under the terms of both agreements, a change of control occurs if any disorder: iii he or she is absent without permission of the Board from person or group of persons acting in concert gains control of the Company.
meetings of the Board for six consecutive months and the Board resolves that his or her office is vacated: iv he or she becomes bankrupt or Statement of directors responsibilities compounds with his or her creditors generally: v he or she is prohibited by law from being a director: or vi he or she is removed from office The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the pursuant to the Articles.
Remuneration report and the Group and parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Powers of the directors Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for The business of the Company will be managed by the Board who may each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the Group exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the provisions of the financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Companys memorandum of association, the Articles, the Companies Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and the parent Act 2006 and any ordinary resolution of the Company.
Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Shares held in the Employee Benefit Trust Standards and applicable law.
Under Company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they The trustee of the Sage Group plc Employee Benefit Trust EBT has give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the agreed not to vote any shares held in the EBT at any general meeting.
Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
If any offer is made to shareholders to acquire their shares the trustee will not be obliged to accept or reject the offer in respect of any shares which In preparing these financial statements the directors are required to: are at that time subject to subsisting awards, but will have regard to the interests of the award holders and will have power to consult them to select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: obtain their views on the offer.
Subject to the above the trustee may make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: take the action with respect to the offer it thinks fair.
state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject Significant agreements to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the and parent company financial statements respectively: counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it change of control of the Company: is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
Under a dual tranche US$271,000,000 and 214,000,000 five year The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records multi-currency revolving credit facility agreement dated 24 August 2010 that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position between, amongst others, the Company and Lloyds Banking Group plc of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the as facility agent, on a change of control, if any individual lender so financial statements and the directors remuneration report comply with requires and after having consulted with the Company in good faith for the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, not less than 30 days following the change of control, the facility agent Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding shall, by not less than 10 business days notice to the Company, cancel the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable the commitment of that lender and declare the participation of that lender steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
in all outstanding loans, together with accrued interest and all other Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in the amounts accrued under the finance documents, immediately due and Board of directors on pages 42 and 43, confirms that, to the best payable, whereupon the commitment of that lender will be cancelled and of their knowledge: all such outstanding amounts will become immediately due and payable.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in Interest rate risk accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on floating rate deposits.
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: All principal borrowings, the private placement loan notes, are at and fixed interest rates.
At 30 September 2011, the Group had 118.5m of deposits.
the Directors report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together The Group regularly reviews forecast debt, deposits and interest rates with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Interest rates on debt and deposits are fixed when Each of the persons who is a director at the time of this report management decide this is appropriate.
At 30 September 2011 the confirms that: Groups principal borrowings comprised US private placement loan notes of 192.6m 2010: 190.4m, which have an average fixed interest rate so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of 4.6%.
of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and the director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken Foreign currency risk as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant Although a substantial proportion of the Groups revenue and profit is audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are earned outside the UK, subsidiaries generally only trade in their own aware of that information.
The Group is therefore not subject to any significant foreign This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance exchange transactional exposure within these subsidiaries.
The Groups with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. principal exposure to foreign currency, therefore, lies in the translation of overseas profits into Sterling.
Financial risk management This exposure is partly hedged to the extent that these profits are offset The Groups exposure to and management of capital, liquidity, credit, by interest charges in the same currency arising from the financing of the interest rate and foreign currency risk are summarised below.
Further investment cost of overseas acquisitions by borrowings in the same detail can be found in note 13 of the accounts.
The Group is also exposed to a foreign exchange transaction exposure from the conversion of surplus cash generated by its principal Capital risk overseas subsidiaries.
During the year this risk was partially mitigated by The Groups objectives when managing capital defined as net debt repaying debt in the same currency as the surplus cash to provide a plus equity are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going natural hedge.
concern in order to provide returns to shareholders and benefits for The Groups US Dollar denominated borrowings are designated as a other stakeholders, while optimising return to shareholders through an hedge of the net investment in its subsidiaries in the USA.
The foreign appropriate balance of debt and equity funding.
The Group manages exchange movements on translation of the borrowings into Sterling has its capital structure with respect to changes in economic conditions been recognised in exchange reserves.
and the strategic objectives of the Group.
The Groups other currency exposures comprise only those exposures Liquidity risk that give rise to net currency gains and losses to be recognised in The Group manages its exposure to liquidity risk by reviewing the cash the income statement.
Such exposures reflect the monetary assets resources required to meet its business objectives through both short and liabilities of the Group that are not denominated in the operating and long-term cash flow forecasts.
The Group has committed bank or functional currency of the entity involved.
At 30 September 2011 facilities which are available to be drawn for general corporate purposes and 30 September 2010, these exposures were immaterial to the Group.
The Groups Treasury function has a policy of By Order of the Board optimising the level of cash in the businesses in order to minimise external borrowings.
Credit risk The Groups credit risk primarily arises from trade and other receivables.
The Group has a very low credit risk due to the transactions being principally of a high volume, low value and short maturity.
The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with the exposure spread over a large number of counterparties and customers.
Continued strong credit M J Robinson, Secretary control ensured that in the year ended 30 September 2011 we did not see a deterioration in days sales outstanding.
The credit risk on liquid 30 November 2011 funds is considered to be low, as the Audit Committee approved Group Treasury Policy limits the value that can be invested with each approved counterparty to minimise the risk of loss.
All counterparties must meet minimum credit rating requirements.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 | The Sage Group plc | 57
