Overview Market overview Sage is the leading global supplier of business management solutions for SMEs Competitive environment In the SME space, Sage continues to enjoy a healthy share of the market.
We have built our market leading position by providing local solutions to local customers.
In the small business segment, our competitors are typically 15% local businesses that are privately owned.
Most of them operate in a single country, and often focusing in just a part of that country.
There are a relatively small number of larger companies which compete with us across a number of 10% countries.
In the mid-market, Microsoft Dynamics is our principal competitor, with some other local competitors.
51% As we enter the world of online applications we face both new and traditional competitors.
Mobile applications are becoming Sage 10% more prevalent, as are flexible ways to purchase systems and SAP applications.
There are a significant and growing number of Microsoft competitors in the small and micro online accounting space.
4% Intuit The barriers to entry in our business are high.
Our business 10% Oracle excels because of our leading software and services, our strong brand and our distribution network of partners Others and accountants.
Source: IDC #220937, Worldwide ERP 2008 Vendor Analysis, published December 2009.
Based on ERP revenue small business: 1000 employees 12 | The Sage Group plc | www.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Marketplace trends and factors 1 Legislation and Regulation 3 International solutions During the past few years, there have been significant With globalisation on the increase, we are seeing growing legislative and regulatory changes that impact our customer demand from existing and potential customers who base.
These changes are opportunities for us to provide increasingly operate internationally and need a solution that support and advice to our customers.
works in all of their locations.
These solutions must be robust enough to cope with multiple government legislation, In the current year, the biggest impact has been the adoption currencies and languages, yet be flexible and offer local of the Single European Payments Area SEPA which has customisation.
As a global business with extensive experience resulted in a number of our Euro-based customers upgrading of working with growing SMEs, we understand these their systems.
challenges and have developed solutions that meet the demands international business generates.
2 Technology developments Increasingly, customers and employees want to access their Economy data any time, anywhere.
As a result, the need for providing We are impacted by the global and local economies in which web based access to business applications as well as support we trade and clearly there are currently uncertain macro for new devices and operating systems is becoming important.
The main issue for SMEs remains getting access to For core accounting and ERP products, the significant capital.
The consequence of this is that many businesses majority of demand remains for these products deployed continue to defer substantial investment decisions.
However, as a new generation of web-centric Notwithstanding the economic position, SMEs continue to entrepreneurs start businesses, we expect the proportion of need our products to run their businesses effectively.
SMEs accounting software delivered via the web to increase.
We, are increasingly looking for greater efficiencies and continue to therefore, believe that online business solutions for accounting view our customer support as important as new government will become more relevant to customers in the small and micro initiatives regulation creates demand for up to date business business segment over time.
management software and quality support.
The Sage Business Index International Business Insights The second Sage Business Index International Business We were encouraged by the fact that when asked Insights report was published in September 2011, following previously what businesses planned to do over the first half a survey of over 10,000 small businesses in UK, France, of this year, the majority focused on cost control exercises.
Germany, Spain, the United States, Canada, South Africa, However, during this recent survey we found that Austria, Malaysia and Singapore.
businesses have a much more forward looking attitude.
The research, which took place in July and August 2011, There are some major challenges ahead, including for investigated business confidence and opinions on the many countries the rising costs of fuel, utilities and raw economy and consequently we have developed a compelling materials and finding employees with the relevant skills for picture of the small business landscape.
This is in addition to the widely publicised macro-economic concerns.
Although confidence in the global and local economies is generally declining, the majority of businesses we spoke to The Sage Business Index, plus additional content, had not only increased their revenues over the last six months can be accessed at: but, at the time of publishing, they were also cautiously www.
com positive about the next six months.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 | The Sage Group plc | 13
