Performance Our priorities The objectives of the business are to generate and preserve value over the longer term for our shareholders, our employees and our customers Improving organic revenue growth Driving margins in the medium term 1 2 Acquiring new customers We are targeting medium term growth in our EBITA margin.
We have a scalable business model, and We aim to attract new types of customer at different therefore we expect to see margin expansion with stages in their evolution through our diverse offerings, revenue growth.
such as payment processing services and online business solutions.
In the short term, margins will be maintained at or around the current level as we continue to invest in Selling more to existing customers our business to drive further growth.
We aim to increase revenue from each of our During this year, we invested primarily in our online customers and deepen our customer relationships by business solutions and connected services, whilst also delivering an expanded range of primarily connected continuing to invest heavily in customer service and services, working in an integrated way with our specific high growth areas such as Sage ERP X3.
We are also changing our approach to product Expanding the range of support development by simplifying our product offerings and We will continue to evolve our premium support introducing products that can be utilised across a offering by introducing new tiers of support in our global platform such as Sage One.
contracts, and encouraging our customers to move up the support levels.
Entering new higher growth market segments We are looking to add new businesses to our Group that can leverage our customer base, our distribution channels, our brand and our infrastructure.
We are actively looking for adjacent applications and services that SMEs are known to demand e. g. payments, connected services and online business solutions.
For more information, the online version of our annual report features videos on each case study.
com 2011annualreport 22 | The Sage Group plc | www.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Leveraging the web Re-engaging in M&A 3 4 Connected services We continue to look at acquisitions as an enabler to our growth strategy.
We are providing a portfolio of online and mobile services, integrated with other Sage products and We continually assess the availability of acquisitions designed to solve specific business problems for our to enter new markets and to strengthen our position customers.
Connected services can be purchased in existing markets.
Of increasing interest are higher on a subscription basis or included with a premium growth segments of the market, including the support contract.
They are designed to address a opportunity to buy technologies, including online genuine business need and deepen the relationships business solutions and connected services.
that we have with our customers.
Sage is a financially robust business due to our strong Examples include Alchemex Smart Reporting, Sage cash flow and balance sheet.
Therefore, we are well Mobile for ACT!, Sage Business Info Services for positioned for future M&A opportunities, whilst ACT!, ACT!
remaining prudent in our approach to valuation.
Online business solutions For small businesses, we are delivering online accounting and payroll solutions.
Initially these solutions will be most attractive to new customers but, in time, will also be attractive to migrating customers.
Services such as Sage One, einfachLohn, Ciel Paye Facile, Pastel My Business Online and VIP Liquid Payroll are examples of this type of offer in the market today.
In the mid-market we are delivering cloud versions of some of our existing applications.
These are evolutions of our existing products.
They allow customers to choose their preferred deployment method, on-premise or online.
The cloud versions deliver the benefits of subscription-based pricing, with no IT hardware to manage, frequent releases and seamless upgrading whilst retaining the ability to customise the solution.
Applications such as Sage ERP Accpac Online, SageCRM.
com and Sage SalesLogix Cloud are examples of this type of offer in the mid-market today.
The following pages demonstrate the progress we are making in delivering our priorities, around our business, across the globe Annual Report & Accounts 2011 | The Sage Group plc | 23
