Overview Given the current economic Chief Executives review continued uncertainty, we will continue to manage the business prudently, whilst pursuing We increasingly provide updates automatically to our the significant longer term customers over the web.
As we become online with our on-premise customers, this enables us to promote opportunities we have in our connected services within existing products.
Customers are able to procure these add-on solutions over the web.
our markets Furthermore, we have embedded our Sage Advisor technology in all our key North American products.
This allows us to get direct feedback on the use of our solutions by our customers which means that we can target our support, our training and our future developments at the areas where we know we can deliver the best possible customer experience and value.
Acquisitions country as a place to do business, the role of government, Having not made significant acquisitions since 2006, business challenges and advice and the role of technology.
one of my priorities has been to re-engage with acquisition opportunities as an enabler of our strategy.
Such opportunities The results reveal that whilst confidence appears to be lie in both existing and selected new geographical markets.
returning, this is not universal and, though businesses in each They also lie in opportunities to sell new products and services country face a variety of issues particular to their geography, to our large customer base including web-based solutions.
there are also common challenges, such as legislation and We apply rigorous discipline to the evaluation of these funding.
Entrepreneurial spirit and culture are shown to be opportunities, with appraisal models linked to shareholder alive and well and the report points to how the key driver for value.
Whilst we evaluated a number of opportunities in the adopting new technologies is to improve business efficiency.
year, we did not complete any significant transactions.
The September 2011 report showed a decline in overall confidence about the economic outlook, but when asked Following the year end, in October 2011, we acquired about prospects for their own business, respondents were Alchemex, a company based in South Africa providing business still cautiously optimistic.
We see business intelligence as a key growth area for Sage, and we are embedding Alchemex technology into our products beginning in South Africa, Summary and outlook Australia and North America.
When I took over as CEO of Sage in October 2010, I inherited a business with immensely strong foundations: leading market Brand positions, committed employees, a culture of innovation, and Our strong brand is a source of competitive advantage for us.
However, we had also reached a To that end, this summer we announced the rebranding of point in our evolution where we needed to reposition the our North American accounting and ERP products, which will business towards higher growth by focusing our resources transition to one Sage brand, with individual product brands on areas with the highest potential, further leveraging our no longer being used.
This will allow us, and our partners, customer base, accelerating the development of our online to focus our marketing efforts on a single brand, maximising offers and collaborating more within Sage to meet the the impact of our marketing spend.
In turn, this will help us common challenges our businesses face.
Achieving all these capitalise on our cross-sell opportunities.
objectives will take more than one year, but I am very pleased with the concrete steps we have taken in the year and as set Sage ERP X3 out in this report.
Sage ERP X3, our global offering for the mid-market, As we look forward, there are clearly significant macrocontinues to perform well, with growth of more than 13% economic concerns which may impact SMEs, particularly in the year.
From having had its origins in the French market, in the eurozone, and our customers are telling us through 38% of Sage ERP X3 revenue is now outside France.
In our Sage Business Index that they see the outlook remaining several Sage geographies, the product is still in its very early uncertain.
However, the strengths of our business position us stages so the potential for Sage is significant in this segment well to deal with the ups and downs of the economic cycle.
Given the current economic uncertainty, we will continue to manage the business prudently, whilst pursuing the significant Market environment longer term opportunities we have in our markets.
In February 2011 we released a report The Sage Business Index 2011 International Business Insights, based on research conducted with over 6,000 small businesses in a broad range of industry sectors across the world.
We expanded this research to 10,000 businesses and released the second Sage Business Index in September 2011.
The reports cover business confidence and the economy, each Guy Berruyer, Chief Executive Officer Underlying figures neutralise the impact of foreign exchange movements and exclude amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
Foreign currency results for the prior year ended 30 September 2010 have been retranslated based on the average exchange rates for the year ended 30 September 2011 of $1.61 1 and 1.15 1 to facilitate the comparison of results.
