Governance Board of directors 1 2 3 4 1 Anthony Hobson 2 Guy Berruyer 3 David Clayton 4 Paul Harrison Chairman and non-executive director Chief Executive Director of Strategy and Corporate Chief Financial Officer Development Tony joined the Board in June Guy joined Sage in 1997 to run After a career in senior executive A chartered accountant, Paul 2004 and became Chairman in its French operation.
He was roles at a number of international joined Sage in 1997 from Price May 2007.
He is a chartered appointed to the Board in January technology companies, David Waterhouse to become Group accountant and an MBA who was 2000 as CEO for its Mainland joined BZW in 1995 where, after its Financial Controller.
He joined the previously Group Finance Director Europe business and in 2005 merger with CSFB in 1997, he was Board in April 2000 as Chief of Legal & General Group plc for also took charge of its Asian Managing Director and Head of Financial Officer.
Guy succeeded European Technology Research Paul was appointed to the Board a non-executive director of Paul Walker as Chief Executive until 2004.
He joined the Board in of Hays plc as a Non-Executive Glas Cymru Welsh Water, in October 2010.
Prior to joining June 2004 as a non-executive Director and, in November 2011, Dyson Limited and Esure: and Sage he was Country Manager director before taking up his current became the Senior Independent is Chairman of the Trustees of and then European Managing executive role in October 2007. non-executive director.
Changing Faces, the leading UK Director for Intuit, the US software In December 2009, David was disfigurement charity.
Previously he worked appointed to the Board of SDL at the French hardware company, plc as a non-executive director.
Nominations Committee Chairman Groupe Bull, where he was a Remuneration Committee Director of Marketing, and Claris, as Southern European General Manager.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements 5 6 7 8 5 Tamara Ingram OBE 6 Ruth Markland 7 Ian Mason 8 Mark Rolfe Independent non-executive director Senior Independent non-executive Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director director Tamara, who joined the Board in Ruth is a non-executive director of Ian joined the Board on Mark joined the Board in December 2004, is responsible Standard Chartered plc, a member 1 November 2007.
After qualifying for WPP plcs Procter & Gamble of the Supervisory Board of with McKinsey & Co. and The as a chartered accountant with business worldwide.
She is also Arcadis NV and Chairman of the Boston Consulting Group, he Coopers and Lybrand, Mark joined Executive Vice President, Board of Trustees of WRVS.
She joined Electrocomponents plc Gallaher Group plc in 1986, where Executive Managing Director was formerly Managing Partner, in 1995 as Director of Business he was Finance Director for seven of Grey Global, and sits on the Asia for the international law firm Development becoming Group years, retiring in 2007.
He is also a Development Board for the Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer Chief Executive in July 2001.
Non-executive director of Hornby Almeida Theatre.
and was appointed to the Board He holds an MBA from INSEAD.
plc, Barratt Developments plc and in September 2006 becoming its Debenhams plc and Chairman of Audit Committee Audit Committee Senior Independent director in Lane, Clark and Peacock LLP.
Nominations Committee Nominations Committee March 2011.
Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Audit committee Chairman Audit Committee Nominations Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Chairman Annual Report & Accounts 2011 | The Sage Group plc | 43
