Performance Delivering our priorities Integrated payments success in North America Greg Hammermaster, President, Sage Payment Solutions North America, talks about integrated payments Integrated payments services at Sage are designed to help our customers to address their business needs.
By opening up new sales channels and integrating the payments software with our accounting software, we are helping our customers to increase revenues, to decrease costs and to maximise their investment in their back office systems.
To deliver this integration in 2010 we launched Sage Exchange, a SaaS based solution that allows seamless payments integration across our product lines.
Integration eliminates the manual process of re-entering cheques and payment receipts into accounting software, reducing the risk of human error and saving customers both time and money.
Not only does an integrated approach have great customer appeal but it also provides a significant cross-sell opportunity for Sage.
Penetration of the addressable market in our core US customer base is currently only around 2%, and we expect that number to grow.
The revenue per client opportunity is extremely compelling.
Payment processing revenue is usually slightly greater than that for an average maintenance and support contract.
So, with integrated payments we are effectively doubling the average revenue from each customer.
For 2012 our plan is to broaden the number of Sage products that are integrated with Sage Exchange.
We will also add more payments-related connected services to deepen the value proposition and to introduce new revenue opportunities.
Watch this video online at www.
com 24 | The Sage Group plc | www.
com More than 40% growth in cross-selling of payments into our North American accounting base Underlying figures neutralise the impact of foreign exchange movements and exclude amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
Foreign currency results for the prior year ended 30 September 2010 have been retranslated based on the average exchange rates for the year ended 30 September 2011 of $1.61 1 and 1.15 1 to facilitate the comparison of results.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 | The Sage Group plc | 25 Performance Delivering our priorities Watch this video online at www.
com 26 | The Sage Group plc | www.
com Delivering new business advice services in the UK Brendan Flattery, CEO, Sage UK & Ireland, talks about The Business Advice Unit in the UK The Advice Business Unit in the UK is require additional support.
The service an innovative approach, launching new provides businesses with access to a products and services, which will appeal professional and flexible service when to our customer base and help to they need it.
It gives a tiered support achieve our revenue growth priority.
structure, providing users with flexibility and control over their costs.
Customers We are a trusted partner to more than can choose Pay As You Go options or, 800,000 businesses in the UK.
These with Sage People Manager and Sage businesses are already relying on us for People Director, can select either a six our support and advice to run their own or twelve month contract.
organisations and the business advice service is a natural extension to the The service level experienced by our trusted partner relationship which we People Advice customers is exceptional: have today with our customers.
97% of our customers rate the service good or excellent.
In the future we aim Sage People Advice is a support service to provide a portfolio of advice services covering HR, Employment Law and and we have already launched an Health & Safety advice, which we employee benefits service in partnership launched in October 2010.
We are also investigating is designed for business owners who do other advice options to add further 97% not have in-house HR expertise, as support to help our customers grow.
well as for HR professionals who of customers rate the People Advice service as good or excellent Annual Report & Accounts 2011 | The Sage Group plc | 27 Performance Delivering our priorities Global progress in Sage ERP X3 Christophe Letellier, CEO, Sage ERP X3, talks about our progress in the global mid-market Sage ERP X3 is our global leading The co-development process that has Enterprise Resource Planning solution been launched this year is a new R&D for the mid-market.
The local R&D teams represents a new global approach for and the Central R&D team are working Sage.
We have an international team together in a global R&D effort to ensure to support the development of local Sage ERP X3 is highly relevant to todays businesses by sharing knowledge, customers.
This team includes key skills and resources, as well as product talents from Sages worldwide development, business development businesses, bringing together Sages and more.
local expertise and global resources.
2011 has been a very active year for Sage ERP X3 Standard Edition is Sage ERP X3.
Our results our very designed for local, independent encouraging we are now one of the companies or group subsidiaries with leading ERP vendors globally.
limited IT resources, which still need an ERP system that is easy to implement, We have delivered double digit growth rapid to deploy and with a broad in the year, and we have doubled the functional scope.
Sage ERP X3 Standard business over the past 5 years.
We are Edition is now available in most of now marketing and selling the solution our countries and will be launched in in more than 55 countries, and we have remaining ones during 2012.
Sage ERP recently launched the solution in Eastern X3 Standard Edition is the way for SMEs Europe and expanded our market in to access to a world-class ERP solution.
We now have 3,300 customers worldwide, and signed our first deals in Our plan for Sage ERP X3 is pretty Russia and Australia during this year.
simple: to continue to grow the business with our partners, so that There are two global initiatives that we can continue delivering value to are important to our X3 business: the our customers, helping them realise co-development and Sage ERP X3 their vision.
com 28 | The Sage Group plc | www.
com Now available in more than 55 countries Annual Report & Accounts 2011 | The Sage Group plc | 29 Performance Delivering our priorities Innovative partner programmes in the US Tom Miller, VP of Channel Management, Sage Business Solutions for North America, talks about Fast Track For Growth We have a very broad and deeply experienced business partner channel which works with us to achieve our strategic priorities.
Our business partner channel remains key, particularly in the US where over 60% of new revenue comes from the channel.
We support partners in every facet of their business, and we continue to fuel their success with a broad range of partner programmes.
We are continuously striving to innovate with our partner programmes to increase performance.
All of the partner programmes that we offer are ultimately about helping partners to drive new business, and therefore revenue.
Fast Track For Growth FTFG is one of these programmes.
With FTFG we work closely with the partner by providing one-on-one mentoring on areas including marketing, sales and consulting, with rewards available for incremental new licence revenue.
Our partners are seeing tangible benefits from the programme and interest is growing.
Sage partners participating in FTFG have increased their new customer revenue at a rate that is 30% higher than non-participants.
We have also received external recognition for the FTFG programme.
International Data Corporation has identified FTFG as an industry innovative practice, largely due to the personalised attention given to participants and the corresponding business growth upon course completion.
Given our success we will continue to invest in this, and other, channel programmes that produce measurable increases in new customer revenue growth.
com 30 | The Sage Group plc | www.
com 50% increase in partner enrolments in the year Annual Report & Accounts 2011 | The Sage Group plc | 31 Performance Delivering our priorities Driving premium support in Spain Santiago Solanas, CEO, Sage Spain, talks about the premium support model in Spain At Sage, our support service constitutes far more than just providing assistance to customers over the telephone.
Our customers see real business benefits in the support and advice that we provide: this has been a key growth driver for our Spanish business in a time of deep recession.
To ensure our customers can access the support they need, we have a tiered support service.
In Spain, we offer premium levels of support contracts that offer further services such as online data backup, network security services, HR advisory services, mobile data access and more besides.
We have a four level premium support offer which we have started to implement across our product lines.
We are constantly adding new services to our support offer and have successfully moved customers up the support tiers to enable them to benefit from additional support.
This year, we introduced new service modules such as legislation, data recovery and online backup in order to address the real business needs of our customers.
We also launched a new top of the line service level called Exclusive.
The Exclusive level includes priority telephone assistance, as well as connected services and a right to free upgrades.
More than 15% of our contracts are already Exclusive.
The addition of connected services as you move up the tiers of support is a fairly new concept, and provides the further opportunity for revenue growth.
In FY12 our plan is to continue to launch new service levels across our product lines, and to increase the value perception of customers through the inclusion of more connected services in the service levels.
We will also redesign the support service at the entry level, providing it with a new online support system which can be accessed from within the product.
com 32 | The Sage Group plc | www.
com 15% of customers on Exclusive premium support contracts Annual Report & Accounts 2011 | The Sage Group plc | 33 Performance Delivering our priorities 14% organic revenue growth in South Africa in 2011 Underlying figures neutralise the impact of foreign exchange movements and exclude amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
com Growing organically into Africa Steven Cohen, Managing Director, Softline Pastel, South Africa talks about our progress in Africa The African market offers sustainable revenue streams in our core business, based on our business model that has been so successful in South Africa.
The expansion into Africa was the next logical step for our business in South Africa.
Our business approach to this new market has been conservative.
At first we tested the market by working with local business partners to leverage their knowledge and skills.
Now that we are confident in the demand and growing opportunities, for example, from international companies expanding into Africa, we are being more robust in our approach.
Three years ago we demonstrated our commitment by opening an office in Nairobi.
Additionally, where we do not yet have offices we still operate through the reseller network.
In the future we plan to bed down the operations we have, and we will further demonstrate our commitment by opening a new office in Nigeria, expected in the next 12 months.
Our growth into Africa sits very well with Sages long term revenue growth priority.
Our success in Africa has contributed to organic revenue growth of 14% in the South African results, and we continue to target double digit revenue growth in Africa in the future.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2011 | The Sage Group plc | 35
