Overview Our business model We have a strong business model offering significant growth potential, whilst at the same time, high levels of profitability and cash generation Our recurring revenue, strong balance sheet and high cash generation are all influenced and determined by the software and services that we offer, the channels and principles that we employ to distribute them and, most importantly, our loyal customer base.
com s e l p i c n i r p g n i d i u g r u O 4 k r o w t e n n o i t Overview Performance Governance Financial statements u b i r t s i d r u O 2 s e c i v r e 3 s O d u n r a c u e See page 8 Value See page 11 See page 9 Recurring revenue Strong balance sheet High cash generation See page 10 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 | The Sage Group plc | 7 r s t a o w m t f e o r s s r u O 1 s e l p i c n i r p g n i d i u g r u O 4 Overview Our business model continued 1 Our software and services We provide our customers with high quality software and services to manage the processes that are the core of their business Accounting Over two thirds of our revenue is recurring, generated through subscription contracts for our HR and payroll software and services Payment processing Software and services Our software and services range from accounting, Enterprise Resource Planning ERP and payroll software through to Customer payment processing, Customer Relationship Management CRM and industry-specific solutions such as manufacturing, non-profit Relationship and construction.
Management The majority of our products are developed and sold locally to match CRM local fiscal, legal and regulatory environments.
Where appropriate, a more centralised approach is adopted.
Subscription contracts For our large base of smaller customers, often with no in-house IT department, we provide essential day-to-day support on how the software works, and advice on business critical topics and events such as tax, employee regulations and payroll.
For our larger customers, we generally work with our partners to provide support to customers and we also provide software updates.
We are increasingly providing premium contracts to customers, which include software, support and other priority services such as guaranteed response times and mobile functionality.
Over two thirds of our contracts are premium in nature.
In addition, our payment processing services are an increasingly important element of our subscription revenue.
Across the business, more than 40% of our people work in technical support and customer service and we answer on average over We continue to design 30,000 calls from our customers every working day.
and develop a range of online products and services to meet the needs of our customer base.
Read more about our approach to leveraging the web See page 23 8 | The Sage Group plc | www.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements 2 Our distribution network Our distribution channels are a key competitive advantage.
We work with over 28,000 business partners and 40,000 accountants who recommend and market Sage products worldwide Business partners are not only key in Direct sales by telesales teams or our websites promoting our software and services, but also in providing local expertise to customers who demand increasing levels of tailored software and specialised services Direct including via the web Many of our products and services are sold direct by our telesales teams or via our websites, especially at the entry level where product implementation is easier.
Business partners Our business partners form part of our Sage ecosystem Our business partners are part of the Sage ecosystem and provide additional local expertise, implementation, training and support as well as customisation and specialist sector knowledge, particularly in the mid-market.
Accountants Our size and experience means our software and services are trusted by accountants worldwide to manage their clients businesses.
Our network of accountants are accredited as Sage experts and receive the support of a dedicated account team to help market Sage products and services and provide installation, configuration and training.
Retail Retail sales account for a small part of our total revenues.
However, it is an important channel in welcoming new customers to Sage.
As these businesses grow, they upgrade and extend their software solutions, leading to future revenue streams.
Our network of accountants are accredited as Sage experts Retail sales are an important channel of attracting new customers Annual Report & Accounts 2011 | The Sage Group plc | 9 Overview Our business model continued 3 Our customers More than 6 million companies around the world use our software and services.
These range from small businesses to larger organisations and divisions of multi-national corporations We strive to deliver an experience to our customers that gives them peace of mind and the freedom to get on with running their businesses Mid-market Up to 5,000 employees Represents 21% of our customer base Customer split Sage SalesLogix provides us with a more efficient solution for managing customer relationships and storing customer information.
Sage SalesLogix Customer, Harry Rosen Inc. 21% Small business Up to 25 employees Represents 79% of our customer base One of the best things about Sage One is its so easy to use and it saves us lots of time when doing our books.
Recording invoices is really quick and simple.
The 24 7 telephone support is great too.
Weve called and got an answer immediately.
79% Sage One customer, E. Watson & Sons 10 | The Sage Group plc | www.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements 4 Our guiding principles At Sage, we nurture a common culture, regardless of where we are in the world.
We live by five key principles of simplicity, trust, integrity, innovation and agility Our principles underpin our thinking and decision making in everything that we do Simplicity Whether it is software which is easy to use or support that is easy to access, simplicity is a key driver of our business.
Trust Our customers place important, confidential information in our hands so it is imperative that they fully trust us to deliver.
Integrity Whether providing reliable, high quality products or giving advice on business critical topics, integrity is critical to us when building long-term customer relationships.
Innovation We need to think ahead, to anticipate our customers needs and be creative in how we develop our software and services, continually innovating to improve the customer experience we deliver.
Agility We have to be responsive to customer needs and market changes and ensure we are agile enough to adapt our products and services to meet these demands.
Find out more about our guiding principles online at www.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2011 | The Sage Group plc | 11
