he Group has a dominant acreage position North Kutei in the North Kutei Basin through operated T interests in the Bontang PSC 100% and the Southeast Sangatta PSC 75%.
The Kutei is one of the most prolific basins in Indonesia, yet its northern An independent report by section has been lightly explored and Salamander ISIS concluded that the Groups is the first operator actively to explore in this part of the basin for over 25 years.
four most drill ready prospects have mean unrisked resource In 2010, Salamander made the Angklung-1 discovery that flowed gas from Pliocene sandstones.
Angklung discovery was a play-opening well as it proved the presence of reservoir quality sandstones in the North Kutei.
Furthermore, it validated the Groups hypothesis that the bright amplitude anomalies visible on the 3D seismic correspond with gas in Pliocene sandstones.
Multiple follow-up prospects have been identified from the 3D seismic on the Bontang PSC and SE Sangatta PSCs.
An independent report by ISIS Petroleum Consultants concluded that the Groups four most drill ready prospects have gross mean unrisked resource potential of 676 MMboe.
The Group plans to drill up to eight exploration wells across its acreage to prove up resources starting in 4Q 2012.
There are a number of options for commercialisation of gas in the event of further exploration success.
The Bontang LNG plant, which is less than 100 km from the Groups prospects, provides an attractive commercialisation option with two of eight trains idle and recent export prices of $17 per Mcf.
In addition there are multiple local industrial and power generation markets which would be expected to realise in excess of $7 per Mcf.
As the dominant acreage holder, Salamander is uniquely positioned North Kutei, Indonesia to exploit this emerging new play in the North Gas appraisal and exploration of the Kutei basin.
A rig is expected on location in 2H 2012, when the Group will embark on a 7 multi-well programme.
2 1 3 4 5 6 SE Sangatta PSC 75%, operator 1 North Kendang 2 Rehab Nose 3 South Kendang Bontang PSC 100%, operator 4 Angklung discovery 5 Kecapi 6 Bedug 7 Tutung discovery Further information 8 Business review Operational review.
Pages 16 17 Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 1 1 1 Migration modelling across the Bontang PSC.
North Tutung Kendang 2 Muira Besar discovery Mahesi Prospect map across Bontang Rampak and SE Sangatta PSC.
Rehab Kolingtang 3 SE Sangatta 3D Angklung-1 well flaring gas during testing.
Angklung Rehab North Nose 3 3 4 Calung Canyon and channel mapping Goong in the Bontang PSC.
Angklung discovery Kecrik Kecapi Bedug Bedug South South Kendang Kledi Doli-Doli 2 4 9 9 Business r Business review eview Salamander Salamander Ener Energy gy PLC PLC Annual Annual Report Report 2011 2011
