Senior management Steve Adams Nick Comrie-Smith Ken Jones Tony Rouse Business Development Exploration Manager Regional Drilling Manager Group Financial Controller Manager Nick joined Salamander Ken Jones is Salamanders Tony joined Salamander at its Steve has extensive in 2006 and is currently Regional Drilling Manager.
inception in 2005 as Group worldwide experience in Exploration Manager based He has over 30 years of global Financial Controller.
He brings the oil and gas industry and in Bangkok.
He has over industry experience and with him 20 years of financial joined Salamander from 23 years industry experience, prior to joining Salamander experience which he gained Murphy where he was predominantly with Ken was working for Shell as working with such companies Deepwater Exploration ConocoPhillips, and has a drilling consultant on its as Premier Oil plc for three Manager with responsibility been involved with exploration operations in Cameroon.
years, LASMO plc seven for exploration activity and and appraisal projects in Ken has also worked as a years and BP eleven years.
Turkey, the North Sea, Gulf consultant on drilling matters Some of Tonys assignments Steve has also worked of Mexico, and for the last to OMV Venezuela, and Gaz abroad have taken him to such for BP, LASMO, ENI, CNR 14 years, South East Asia.
Prior to countries as Myanmar, Colombia, and PEXCO.
He brings an in depth this Ken worked for LASMO Libya and Egypt.
Prior to joining knowledge of hydrocarbon for over 12 years, with Salamander, Tony was running Graham Balchin plays across the region, and assignments in Indonesia, his own consultancy franchise significant experience in Pakistan and the UK, as well providing advice to small and General Manager, Thailand new ventures exploration.
as spells with Amoco and medium-sized companies.
Graham joined Salamander Union Oil.
from BG Group where he has Don DiBenedetto Jerry Smart worked on numerous projects Charles Morgan around the globe, most Senior Manager Exploitation Exploration Manager, recently running its activities Don has over 25 years of Group General Counsel Indonesia in Trinidad & Tobago.
Graham reservoir and petroleum Charles has over 25 years Jerry joined Salamander has over 25 years industry engineering experience in the experience providing legal in 2011 and is Exploration experience, having also worked oil and gas industry.
Starting counsel in the international Manager, Indonesia.
Jerry has for AGIP, LASMO, Amerada his career with Exxon in upstream oil and gas sector, 30 years industry experience, Hess and BP.
Canada, Don has also lived having previously worked principally with LASMO and and worked in North Africa, for companies such as Eni SpA.
He was previously John Bell East Africa and the Middle BP, LASMO and CEPSA.
based in Indonesia for five East.
He has worked privately He received his MA in years with LASMO in the Group Technical Director as a consultant and with Jurisprudence from Oxford early-mid 90s and has also John was appointed Group state oil companies.
Most and was admitted to the managed exploration projects Technical Director in January recently, he was Engineering Bar of England and Wales in Libya, Pakistan, Ghana, 2012, having previously been Manager with Talisman and California, USA.
Brazil, Venezuela, the Gulf Salamanders General Manager, Energy Indonesia.
of Mexico, Alaska and the Thailand.
He has over 25 years Shaun Richardson North Sea.
experience in the oil and gas Guus Harting industry, a number of which Regional Geoscience Director Craig Stewart were spent in Southeast Asia.
Regional Operations Director Shaun Richardson has over Guus is Salamanders Regional 30 years of industry experience General Manager, Indonesia John worked for LASMO for Operations Director.
He and was most recently Craig has over 30 years 17 years and subsequently has over 30 years of industry Exploration Director for Harvest industry experience and joined spent four years with ENI, experience managing Natural Resources with Salamander in April 2012 from before working for Hess.
production and development responsibility for South East Vico Indonesia where he was operations in both onshore Asia.
Prior to that Shaun spent President and CEO.
nearly 18 years with BG Group, Indonesia is one of the main He started his career with including a spell as Chief operators in the Kutei basin: it Shell and has also worked for, Geologist in Jakarta.
He also produces over 80,000 boepd or as a consultant to, Qatar worked earlier in his career for and employs 700 people and General Petroleum Company, Gearhart, Britoil plc and BP 1,800 permanent contractors.
Mobil Oil, Chevron and SBM.
Craig started his career as a drilling engineer with Unocal before moving on to take managerial roles with Unocal in both Thailand and Indonesia and with Eni in Indonesia.
36 Business review Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
