alamander operates the Bangkanai PSC in Greater Kerendan the Barito basin, Central Kalimantan, having S acquired a 69% operated interest in this PSC in 4Q 2010 and deepened its interest to 80% in 4Q 2011.
The licence contains the Kerendan gas field The Kerendan gas field contains development and a number of additional step-out 280 Bcf of certified resource.
During 2011 the Group signed a The Kerendan gas field contains 280 Bcf of certified resource.
During 2011 the Group signed GSA for the supply of 120 Bcf of a gas sales agreement GSA for the supply of gas leading to the Group booking 120 Bcf of gas leading to the Group booking 19 MMboe of 2P reserves.
The gas is being sold to 19 MMboe of 2P reserves.
PLN for local power generation.
A 320 MW power plant is being constructed 3 km from the Kerendan field with the capacity to handle three times the volume of the initial GSA.
Given this ready market for the gas, the Group hopes to commence the process of commercialising the remaining 160 Bcf of certified contingent on completion of its 2012 development drilling.
Furthermore, there is over one Tcf of exploration upside on the Bangkanai PSC.
The most immediate prospects for drilling are West Kerendan and Sungai Lahei, which are scheduled to be drilled in 2H 2012.
In the event the Group discovers upwards of 1 Tcf of gas in the Greater Kerendan area then it will be economical to build a pipeline to East Kalimantan where there are multiple commercialisation options at a higher price than those that can be realised from local power.
The Group has also been awarded two Joint Study Areas adjacent to the Bangkanai PSC.
These present it with potential acreage additions in an area where the Group is developing its understanding of the regional petroleum geology and where there is a Greater Kerendan, Indonseia clear market for incremental gas volumes to be Gas development and exploration commercialised.
Salamanders position in the Greater Kerendan area exhibits a number of the characteristics the Group looks for when entering a new region: hard resource with upside development potential to anchor position: exploration and appraisal upside: and the opportunity to expand into surrounding acreage.
NE Bangkanai joint study 100% West Bangkanai joint study 100% Bangkanai PSC 80%, operator Kerendan gas field Further information 6 Business review Operational review.
Page 15 Salamander Energy PLC Corporate responsibility.
Page 32 Annual Report 2011 1 1 1 Kerendan 2 Kerendan 1 Kerendan 3 Staging area at Luwe Hulu.
2 Cross section of the Kerendan gas field.
Platform interior Platform rim Platform margin 3 Salamander employees Acidic basinal inspecting the access road to Lagoonal wackestones waters expelled from the West Kerendan location.
and packstones compacting shales not porous 3 4 An isochron showing the Middle carbonate build-up Oligocene platform rim facies.
A Kerendan field B West Kerendan location Lower carbonate with shale A Reefal boundstones and adjacent packstones Porous grainstones: Moldic and micro-porosity low permeability B Platform rim wackestones to packstone low porosity Porous due to late vuggy dissolution, high permeability 2 4 7 Business review Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
