Board of Directors and advisers Charles Jamieson N Chairman Charles Jamieson is Salamanders Chairman and a founder of Salamander.
He holds an MBA from INSEAD and is a chartered accountant.
Prior to joining Salamander, he spent over 25 years with Premier Oil plc where he held a number of posts, including Finance Director Charles Jamieson James Menzies Mike Buck and Chief Executive Officer.
Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Operating Officer He is currently also Chairman of Vostok Energy plc.
James Menzies Chief Executive Officer James Menzies is a founder of Salamander and its Chief Executive Officer.
He holds a BSc Hons in Geology and an MSc in Geophysics and Planetary Physics.
After a period as a geophysicist at Schlumberger and ERC, he Dr Jonathan Copus Struan Robertson Dr Carol Bell spent eleven years at LASMO Chief Financial Officer Senior Independent Non-executive Director plc holding a variety of posts Non-executive Director including Senior Geophysicist in Vietnam, Chief Geophysicist in Indonesia, Head of Corporate Development and Head of Strategy and Corporate Affairs.
He spent four years as a Senior Partner at Lambert Energy Advisory prior to the founding of Salamander.
He is currently a Non-executive Director of Transunion Petroleum Limited.
Robert Cathery James Coleman John Crowle Mike Buck Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Chief Operating Officer Mike Buck is Salamanders Chief Operating Officer.
He holds a BSc Hons in Geology with Geophysics and an MSc in Petroleum Geology dist..
He spent 20 years with LASMO plc as a Geophysicist in Indonesia and the UK Continental Shelf, Chief Geophysicist in Colombia, Exploration Manager in Vietnam and Exploration Michael Pavia and General Manager in Non-executive Director Libya.
He then spent four years with ENI as Managing Director in Tehran and Managing Director in Pakistan.
Overall he has 30 years of international exploration and production experience.
34 Business review Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 Dr Jonathan Copus Dr Carol Bell company was acquired by Memberships of Salamander on 17 March 2008.
Board committees Chief Financial Officer Non-executive Director He is currently a Non-executive Jonathan Copus is Carol Bell is an Independent # Committee Chairman Director of Anterra Energy Inc Salamanders Chief Financial Non-executive Director of the and a Non-executive Chairman N Nominations Officer and was appointed to Company and was appointed of Sulliden Exploration, Inc, Committee member the Board in October 2011. to the Board in January 2012.
Energold Drilling, Inc and He began his oil and gas career She began her career in R Remuneration Gold Reserve, Inc all publicly working as an exploration corporate planning and Committee member quoted companies in Canada.
geologist for Shell International business development in the A Audit Committee member in its Deepwater E&P team exploration and production John Crowle based in Holland and Houston.
sector at Charterhouse Corporate advisers R A He then left industry, working Petroleum and RTZ Oil & Gas.
Non-executive Director John Crowle is an Independent for more than 10 years as a She enjoyed a successful career Joint corporate brokers Non-executive Director of the highly ranked oil and gas in the City, as a Managing Goldman Sachs and Company with over 35 years equity research analyst, most Director of Chase Manhattan Oriel Securities Ltd experience in the oil industry.
recently with Deutsche Bank, Banks Global Oil & Gas Group, Registered auditor He was educated at Durham where he was a Director Head of European Equity Deloitte LLP University and Stanford of the Oil and Gas Equity Research at JP Morgan and University Business School.
Jonathan has several years as an equity Bankers He spent more than 18 years a PhD from the University of research analyst in the oil and HSBC Bank plc at Enterprise Oil where he held Cambridge and a First Class gas sector at Credit Suisse Legal advisers a number of posts, including BSc in Geology from the First Boston and UBS Phillips Clifford Chance LLP University of Durham.
She is currently a Group Exploration Manager.
Non-executive Director of Between 2002 and 2004 he Financial PR Struan Robertson Det norske oljeselskap ASA, was at Royal Dutch Shell as Brunswick Group LLP Petroleum Geo-Services ASA General Manager of New Senior Independent and Hardy Oil and Gas plc.
Ventures Organisation Cluster, #N R A Non-executive Director She is also a trustee of based in The Hague.
He is Struan Robertson is the Renewable Energy currently a Non-executive Salamanders Senior Foundation and a member Director of Rockhopper Independent Non-executive of the Investment Advisory Exploration plc and a member Director.
He was educated Committee of Gemini of the Durham University Earth at the University of Natal and Oil & Gas.
the University of Cape Town, followed by Wharton Business Robert Cathery Michael Pavia School.
He spent over 23 #R N #A years at BP plc where he Non-executive Director Non-executive Director held a number of posts, Robert Cathery is an Michael Pavia is an including CEO of Oil Trading Independent Non-executive Independent Non-executive International, Executive Director of the Company and a Director of the Company Chairman of BP Asia Pacific, founder of Salamander.
He was and was appointed to the based in Singapore, and a Director of Vickers da Costa Board in July 2007.
A chartered Downstream Senior Vice and Schroders Securities as accountant, he has had a President for Technology and well as Head of Corporate distinguished career in the Marketing, based in London.
Sales at SG Securities London energy sector, having been Between 2000 and 2004 Ltd.
He also spent four years Finance Director of UK he was Group Chief Executive as Head of Oil & Gas at independent LASMO plc and of Wates Group Ltd.
He is then SEEBOARD plc now a currently Non-executive currently a Non-executive subsidiary of EDF Energy plc.
Chairman of Eredene Capital Director of Vostok Energy plc, He is currently a Non-executive PLC and holds non-executive SOCO International plc and Director of Thames Water directorships with Henderson Central Asia Metals plc.
Utilities Ltd, Telecom Plus PLC, TR Pacific Investment Trust plc Wales & West Utilities Ltd and Group 5 Ltd, listed in James Coleman and Non-executive Chairman Johannesburg.
of PetroGranada Ltd, a Non-executive Director Colombian E&P company.
James Coleman is an Michael is also the Hon.
Independent Non-executive Treasurer and a Director of the Director of the Company.
He charity Elizabeth Finn Care.
is a Canadian citizen and a Senior Partner, former Chairman of the international law firm of Macleod Dixon based in Calgary and was a Board member of GFI Oil & Gas Corporation until that 35 Business review Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
