Directors Report DIRECTORS REPORT Gross margin has increased to 58% from 57% in 2010, The directors present their report and the Group accounts primarily as a result of an increasing proportion of for the year ended 31 December 2011. revenues derived from our technology businesses 41% RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS compared to 39% in 2010.
Profit before taxation and amortisation was 39.7 million compared to 35.4 million The Group profit for the year, after taxation, was 25.7 in 2010, an increase of 12%, in line with the increase in million 2010: 22.0 million.
The business continued to selectively invest in strategic growth areas including innovation, investment in The directors recommend a dividend of 5.8 pence per acquisitions and new offices, building sales and marketing share to the AGM reflecting their continuing confidence in capability and expanding in key long term growth the operational cash generation capability of the business.
Headline operating margins were therefore This represents a 5.5% increase over the maiden dividend stable year on year at 17.3%.
paid in the preceding year.
The directors are of the view that the business is at a stage when it is appropriate to Operating cashflow from operations was 32.6 million offer a yield to those investors who value income as well as 2010: 27.1 million.
Average Days Sales Outstanding was capital growth.
The dividend is not intended to adjust the stable and ensured that the business maintained strong positioning of SDL as primarily a capital growth share.
cash flow during the year.
At the end of 2011 the Group had 70.4 million of cash on the balance sheet which, PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES combined with 20 million of undrawn revolving credit facilities, provided a robust base for the completion of the The Groups activities during the year continued to be the Alterian acquisition on 27 January 2012.
Further details provision of Global Information Management solutions on the results for the year are given in the Operating and through the provision of software and services to a wide Financial Review section of these accounts.
These Global solutions enable SDL clients to engage with their clients in multiple POSITION, FUTURE PROSPECTS AND BUSINESS RISKS languages and across multiple channels.
Cross leveraging across the Group has continued to impact In 2011, the Group acquired Calamares, a strategically positively the revenues during 2011.
The growth prospects important investment adding video and rich media of the Group remain positive, based on our strong management capability.
Calamares, now branded SDL technology and services capabilities.
We have further Media Manager, has been integrated with SDL Tridion.
increased our technologies during 2011 with the launch The Alterian Plc acquisition completed in January 2012 of many new products including Tridion 2011 rated as a brings data analytics, campaign management and social leader by Forrester and Gartner, SDL Trados Studio 2011, media to the Group.
SDL LiveContent 2011 and SDL EasyTranslator.
REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS The Board believes its continuing strategy to create compelling end-to-end content management solutions is Revenue for the year was 229.0 million an increase of gaining significant traction with approximately 380 clients 13% on 2010 203.5 million.
All businesses contributed purchasing two or more SDL solutions.
The business positive revenue growth in 2011.
Headline revenue growth continued to invest in global infrastructure in 2011, includes acquisition related growth of 2%, a 1% decrease strengthening infrastructural investment in China, Japan, due to foreign exchange, and underlying organic growth the Nordics and South America.
Performance in Content Management continued to be particularly strong, with The integration of the 2011 acquisition of Calamares constant currency revenue growth of 19%, driven by progressed rapidly and it is now fully integrated into demand for Tridion 2011, a new product release to SDL processes and systems.
We are also advanced in the the global marketplace, and continued penetration of planning and execution of the integration of the 2012 structured content products into the burgeoning technical Alterian acquisition.
Increased cross selling activity has also underpinned growth.
The Board consider the Group to be well positioned for the future.
Whilst macro-economic concerns exist, particularly 84 84 STATUTORY INFORMATION Deliver thought leadership and innovation in all we in some European economies, we are experiencing growth do.
in other economies particularly North America.
Our clients Act as one global and professional organisation.
are based in a wide range of geographies and vertical Create an inspiring and rewarding environment for sectors.
Be a role model in the communities in which we The Group generates approximately 59% of its revenue operate.
from service solutions and approximately 41% from technology.
Our corporate social responsibility framework continues to target three primary areas of employment and The Board continues to believe that Asia, the emerging employee engagement, the environment and community economies in Eastern Europe, selective markets in Latin involvement.
Community activities are wide ranging America and the Nordic region offer solid long term and, through our registered charity, the SDL Foundation, growth opportunities for SDL.
The Board have continued include support for educational projects, infrastructure their strategy of growth investments in these countries.
The Board remains confident that the business has The Board continues to hold the opinion that given the potential for long term value creation.
nature of the Groups business activities, which do not involve heavy manufacturing, material risks from social, Details on the risks associated with the business are given in the Operating and Financial Review.
environmental and ethical issues are limited.
The Board however takes very seriously its broader responsibility to BRANCHES society and takes a progressive approach in ensuring it meets its broader social obligations.
The Company operates branches in Lebanon, Taiwan and Employment and Employee Engagement Germany.
EVENTS SINCE THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL The diversity of our global workforce is a key strength of POSITION DATE SDL, which creates a truly international perspective across the SDL Group and the ability to effectively service global On 27 January 2012 the Company acquired Alterian plc clients.
There have been no other material events since 31 December 2011.
The Directors recommend a dividend of The Group rejects all forms of discrimination and operates 5.8 pence per ordinary share as set out in note 25. an equal opportunities policy.
We expressly prohibit discrimination on grounds such as sex, race, religion CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY or belief, age or perceived age, sexual orientation or disability.
4 Framework The quality of our employee relations is a priority for SDL We are building a reputation of being a model corporate and we are proud of the high level of commitment and citizen in the communities in which we operate and loyalty from our employees.
The Group aims to provide our employees are actively involved in community our employees with genuine opportunity to meet their investment programmes worldwide.
We have an career aspirations with SDL, encouraging employees important contribution to make to our local communities to build long term careers through progressive role by carrying out our business in a socially and ethically advancement and clear and transparent performance responsible manner.
Operating our businesses with core frameworks and personal development plans.
At the values of integrity and transparency is crucial to our long route of effective employee engagement is leadership term reputation.
We also have clear internal values of communication and a process is in place to communicate innovation, collaboration and communication which are performance monthly, which is started by the Chief reflected in our five core values: Executive Officer and then cascaded through the operating Partner with our customers to drive their success - line leadership in the various operating segments and creating exceptional customer experience.
85 85 S SD DL A L An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd F d Fiin na an nc ciia al S l St ta at te em me en nt ts 2 s 20 01 11 1 Directors Report functions.
Other information sources are available and Employee Involvement employees are also encouraged to access the Groups corporate intranet and website.
There is strong emphasis Employee engagement practices are viewed as extremely on building effective teams which place the five core important to the Board.
Critical to employee engagement values at the heart of their operating agenda.
Decision is effective and frequent internal communication to processes always seek to maximise value for SDL as a employees.
This is achieved through a number of whole.
mechanisms including monthly company performance and strategy presentations which the Chief Executive SDL supports employee share ownership and employees Officer provides to a group of approximately 240 have the opportunity to participate in share ownership employees.
This presentation is provided to all segment plans where practicable.
In 2012 eligible employees in CEOs and directors, general managers and senior Canada, The Netherlands, the UK and the USA will be functional leaders for cascade through their own invited to participate in the share save plans.
There is constructive engagement between Executive Directors and the different We aim to provide employees with the right tools, operations within the Group enabling broad input on induction, training and development experiences to business strategic matters and corporate direction.
The perform effectively in their roles and to provide meaningful Chief Executive Officer also communicates fully via performance assessment and clarity of personal objectives senior operating leadership the logic and rationale for and priorities that are aligned to company goals.
training framework includes new manager training, skill enhancement, team building and cross functional SDL continued through 2011, a knowledge series initiative training.
In 2011, refreshed mission, vision and values were which seeks to inform all employees through webinars launched.
A variety of companywide and targeted training about SDLs different businesses, strategy, products activities were undertaken.
We have found independent and processes.
This initiative has been very popular in reviews and assessment by peer groups, through 360 type engaging and keeping employees informed and is a very mechanisms, to be successful in promoting awareness valuable training tool.
The Chief Executive Officer actively of leadership development needs.
Where necessary, SDL supports this initiative.
continues to support overseas assignments or secondment of employees and obtains work permits or visas to enable The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for human employees to benefit from a period overseas.
We have resource issues encompassing all aspects of recruitment, also seen continued movement of employees across development and retention and dispute resolution, different operating segments in 2011, which is effective in delegating as necessary to the members of the executive transferring best practice and sustaining culture.
management team or human resources team for policy dissemination and execution.
Disabled Employees The SDL Executive Team meets approximately quarterly SDL values applications from disabled or handicapped to discuss matters impacting the Group.
This meeting is persons and our policy is to always consider in full attended and chaired by the Chief Executive Officer and employment applications from disabled or handicapped also attended by the Chief Financial Officer, segment persons where that person can perform the job CEOs and functional leaders in the Group.
Team is the major decision making vehicle for operational matters impacting the Group as a whole and plays a major Where existing employees become disabled, it is the role in ensuring alignment between operating segments.
Groups policy wherever practicable to provide continuing employment under normal terms and conditions and Similar executive groups also meet for each operational disabled people are afforded the same training and segment and each segment has a fully formed Executive development opportunities for personal growth as other Leadership Team.
The forums serve a critical purpose employees within the organisation.
in leveraging best practice and collaboration across the Group.
Network office mangers and senior functional Under no circumstance will discrimination due to disability group management teams also meet regularly to distil either direct or implied be tolerated.
and decide on common issues affecting the Group as a whole.
In 2011, Language Services senior management 86 STATUTORY INFORMATION supportive of broader community engagement allowing held a global conference to share best practises and employees time off as appropriate.
This policy underpins to drive the strategy for the division.
In 2011, the CTO the SDL Foundations primary objective of giving employees continued to meet with all of the heads of development the opportunity to get involved in working with and together to share experience, permeate best practice supporting charities close to their own communities.
in agile development and drive roadmap delivery.
This innovation Group has been a major support to transfer of The Group continues to actively support translation as a best practice.
profession and has developed progressive relationships with several language facilities of universities in the countries There is a strong emphasis placed on face to face in which it operates.
This serves as a way for the Group to communication with employees and senior managers are develop the translation profession as well as providing a required to cascade relevant information from Executive valuable potential career outlet for students and a source meetings to employees via face to face meetings.
These of potential future employees.
In 2011, we have developed briefings generate feedback, consultation and employee relationships with a number of universities including interest.
Works councils and similar bodies are maintained University of Gdansk, Shanghai Maritime University, and consulted with in accordance with local statutory University College Dublin and University of Massachusetts.
Senior leadership are also encouraged to communicate face to face with employees whenever they The Group has also enhanced academic collaboration in its make site visits.
Environment A whistleblowing policy is in place which enables employees to bring matters of concern to the attention of The SDL Group has no manufacturing processes so the the Senior Independent Director in confidence.
No matters goal of any environmental projects needs to be focussed were raised via this route in 2011. on facilities management and indirect impacts on the environment such as travel.
During 2011, the Board extended The Board is strongly supportive of providing employees CO2 emissions management to other offices around the with opportunities to invest and participate in the wealth Group.
In Maidenhead where comparative data exits, creation of the Group through participation in the share emissions were reduced by 13%.
We set out these measures save scheme.
The first share scheme vested during the and our environmental program on page 39 of this Annual year and a further offer was made during the year under Report.
By raising awareness of environmental matters this scheme.
Our first offer under the Netherlands scheme SDL seeks to stimulate employees to directly help protect went ahead in the year.
the environment and minimize the overall environmental Community, Charity and The SDL Foundation burden of operations.
SDL has raised consciousness about waste generation, recycling and resource conservation The SDL Foundation, independently chaired by Alastair in its operations and recognising travel as a key driver to Gordon, was set up by the Board in 2008.
The SDL environmental impact, sought alternatives to minimize travel 4 Foundation seeks to provide investment to sustainable, via use of technology such as web conferencing and more micro income generation and infrastructure projects effective travel scheduling.
Cycle to work initiatives and car around the world.
The Foundation actively screens all pooling schemes also aim to take employee related traffic off proposals from employees and, where appropriate, the road.
engages directly with the charities involved to validate that projects effectively transfer aid and are in line with Environmental efficiency is always given consideration the objectives of the Foundation.
Some of the projects when selecting new office premises and energy efficient supported by the SDL Foundation in 2011 are highlighted systems are promoted and used where they provide on page 42 of this report making a very big difference to shareholder return by reducing energy consumption.
The Foundation trustees Board considers that there is often a strong fit between requested that the SDL Board pledge 260,000 to the SDL energy use reduction and commercial return.
Foundation in respect of 2011 operations and the SDL Board agreed to this request.
The environmental impact of disposal of outmoded or obsolete equipment is minimized and provision of Employees also participate via the SDL Foundation recycling facilities, reuse or donation schemes are actively in activities outside of the work environment.
87 SDL Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Directors Report DIRECTORS AND THEIR INTERESTS The directors and their interests in the share capital of the Group as at 31 December 2011 all beneficially held according to the register of directors interests are detailed as follows: Class 2011 2010 Number Number Mark Lancaster Ordinary 618,651 537,983 John Hunter Ordinary 69,287 28,750 Matthew Knight Ordinary - - Chris Batterham Ordinary 86,895 86,895 John Mattews Ordinary 15,000 15,000 Joe Campbell Ordinary - - David Clayton Ordinary - - Jane Thompson Ordinary - - The above list represents all persons who were directors at any time during the year, with the exception of Cristina Lancaster who resigned on 31 March 2011.
Details of options and long-term incentive plan shares held by directors at the year-end are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 81 to 82.
There have been no further changes to any directors interests in shares including options and long term incentive plan shares since the end of the financial year up to a date that is not more than one month before the date of the notice of general meeting.
The company has granted an indemnity to one or more of its directors and subsidiary company directors against liability in respect of proceedings brought by third parties, subject to the conditions set out in the Companies Act 2006.
Such qualifying third party indemnity provision remains in force as at the date of approving the directors report.
INDEMNIFICATION OF DIRECTORS As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under which the company has agreed to indemnify the directors, to the extent permitted by law and the companys articles of association, in respect of all losses arising out of, or in connection with, the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities, as directors of the company or any of its subsidiaries.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE The statements of compliance with the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 are set out on page 64 of the Annual Report.
The Corporate Governance Statement on pages 64 to 68 forms part of the Directors Report.
88 STATUTORY INFORMATION TAKEOVER DIRECTIVE The Company has implemented the requirements of the Takeover Directive in the year and discloses the following information: The structure of the Companys capital and the rights and obligations attached to those shares are given in note 18 to the accounts.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities of the Company, including limits on holdings and requirements to obtain approval of the company or other holders for a transfer.
All persons with a significant holding, along with the value of that holding are given in the table below share price at 6 March 2012: 723 pence.
Holding at % of issued Value of Holding 6 March 2012 share capital 000 Blackrock 10,050,097 12.68 72,662 Baillie Gifford 5,163,931 6.51 37,335 Standard Life Investments 5,109,760 6.44 36,944 F&C Asset Management 4,788,507 6.04 34,621 Old Mutual Asset Managers 4,652,350 5.87 33,636 Axa Investment Managers 4,346,244 5.48 31,423 Herald Investment Managers 2,976,269 3.75 21,518 Legal & General Investment Management 2,810,156 3.54 20,317 Aviva Investors 2,513,232 3.17 18,171 Montanaro Investment Managers 2,434,389 3.07 17,601 Fidelity Investments 2,433,314 3.07 17,592 There is no person holding securities with special control rights.
All shares issued under employee share schemes have rights which are directly exercisable by the employees.
There is no restriction on voting rights.
There are no agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on 4 voting rights.
Amended Articles, taking account of changes in English company law brought about by the Companies Act 2006, were approved by shareholders at the Annual General meeting on 23 April 2010.
The powers of the directors are given in the Articles of Association plus those granted by special resolution at the AGM dated 24 April 2009 governing shares issuance.
There are no significant agreements entered into by the Company that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid.
The agreements between the company and its directors for compensation for loss of office are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 78.
89 SDL Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Directors Report CONTRACTUAL RELATIONSHIPS FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS There are no individual contracts which are considered An explanation of the Groups financial instrument risk to be significant or critical to the overall business of the management objectives, policies and strategies are set out Group.
in the Operating and Financial Review on pages 50 to 59.
Group policy prohibits operating units from entering into CREDITOR PAYMENT POLICY AND PRACTICE derivative or financial instrument transactions and this must be done at Group level under the control of the Chief It is the Groups policy that payments to suppliers are Financial Officer.
made in accordance with those terms and conditions agreed between the Group and its suppliers, provided POLITICAL AND CHARITABLE DONATIONS that all trading terms and conditions have been complied with and that there are no disputes.
This policy was During the year no political donations were made.
applied consistently in 2011 and the ethical treatment of Charitable donations amounting to 2,051 were made to suppliers is of importance to the supply relationships with external charities and 260,000 was donated to The SDL the extensive list of individual freelance translators that Foundation as noted above.
form an integral part of the translation supply chain and AUDITOR on whom SDL relies.
Any changes in supplier terms and conditions are through negotiation.
A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor will be put to the members at the Annual General Meeting.
At 31 December 2011, the Company had an average of 36 days purchases outstanding in trade creditors 2010: 34 DIRECTORS STATEMENT AS TO DISCLOSURE OF INFORdays.
MATION TO AUDITOR RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES The directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving the directors report are listed on page The Group conducts research and development 155.
Having made enquiries of fellow directors and of the activities in a number of locations including the UK, companys auditor, each of these directors confirms that: USA, Netherlands, Ukraine, Bulgaria and Romania.
These activities are concentrated on maintaining the Groups to the best of each directors knowledge and belief, software products in providing Global Information there is no information relevant to the preparation Management solutions in the form of Language Services, of their report of which the companys auditor are Language Technologies and Content Management unaware: and solutions.
Research and development expenditure each director has taken all the steps a director might increased by 8% in 2011 to 14.8 million.
reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditor is aware of that information.
90 STATUTORY INFORMATION RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT OF THE DIRECTORS IN RELATION TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In accordance with the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge that: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the Chairmans Statement, Chief Executive Officers Statement, Operating and Financial Review and the Directors report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
SPECIAL BUSINESS AT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING At the Annual General Meeting, items 1 to 13 inclusive are proposed as ordinary resolutions and items 14 and 15 as special resolutions.
These resolutions together with explanatory notes, as appropriate, are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Where Shareholders are in any doubt as to what action to take in this matter they should consult appropriate independent advisors.
Where all securities have been sold or transferred by the person receiving this document, it should be passed to the person for whom the sale or transfer was affected for transmission to the purchaser or 4 transferee.
COMPANY NUMBER The Company number of SDL PLC is 2675207.
By order of the Board Matthew Knight Director 16 March 2012 91 SDL Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
