ACT AS ONE GLOBAL AND PROFESSIONAL ORGANISATION SDL now operates in 70 offices across 38 countries.
To be the best partners to our customers and operate the most efficiently, we act as one, expanding globally as our requirements develop.
We present the entirety of our global solution sets to our customers in a compelling way: focusing on enterprise level impact and scale.
We see our global geographic and cultural diversity as a strength and view the SDL team as stronger than any individual.
30 SDL STRATEGY C H A N N E L R E M U BUILDING OUR BRAND Our vision, mission and values have been updated after consultation with our customers.
These are key to our brand development and re-confirming the foundations that underpin it.
2 Our brand leverages the strengths of the past and paints a compelling direction for the future one of creativity, innovation, vision and strategic partnership with our customers and partners.
SDL has grown both organically and through acquisition and our vision is intended to create one unified organisation, with a clear sense of direction and purpose bound by a single modern brand.
In 2011, we have undergone a branding update for SDL.
We sought input from our key customers into how SDL can deliver value for them into the future.
Our customers have strongly contributed to our vision, mission and values, which embrace customer partnership as a core principle.
The four main elements of our brand are: Our Tagline Because Business is Global Visual Identity Based on our values, the core of our The refreshed look and feel presents SDL business is to provide compelling solutions in a more modern way and reflects our that help global businesses inspire a positive innovative and entrepreneurial spirit.
Core Values Brand Architecture SDL is committed to driving success through All products and brands continue to come a cohesive set of core values that underpin under the main SDL brand and our logo is strategic operations.
SDL is the recognised Leader in Global Information Management, servicing 41 of the top 50 global brands.
Customer Analysis & Experience Intelligence Optimisation It builds brand equity, drives revenue growth and accelerates speed to market for new products.
It maps the customer journey and drives the customer Content Multi-Channel Creation & experience, by reducing complexity, and addressing Engagement Management multi-channel engagement and relevancy.
With the recent acquisition of Alterian, SDL is now a Leader in Customer Experience Management.
Campaign Language Management Management 31 SDL Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 S N O C C O N T E N T & L A N G U A G E
