SDL STRATEGY CASE STUDY 2 SDL Helps OSIsoft Enable Customers to Find the Information they Need OSIsoft delivers the PI System, the industry standard in enterprise infrastructure for management of real-time data and events.
The PI System enables users to manage assets, mitigate risks, comply with regulations, improve processes, drive innovation, make business decisions in real time and to identify competitive business and market opportunities.
Customers and employees of OSIsoft need specific technical information and user assistance quickly at their fingertips.
Responding to this need, the OSIsoft technical publications team envisioned an online library that makes it easy for customers to search and find just the right information.
To achieve this vision, the OSIsoft team partnered with SDL and set out on a path to move their technical information out of large technical documents into topics of information that could be delivered dynamically based on customer needs.
The topics include collaborative features to collect feedback and monitor usage.
To enable this process, the team selected SDL Trisoft and SDL LiveContent.
The two solutions from SDLs suite of Structured Content Technologies makes it possible for the OSIsoft team to develop content in topics that can be dynamically published to online channels and enable customers to more easily find just the right information to manage their mission critical applications.
Online dynamic library of information with topic commenting and analytics Centralised content resource with versioning features and localisation support Multi-channel online publishing to support static document deliverables and dynamic library 23 SDL Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 CASE STUDY Compassion International Partners with SDL to Strengthen Online Brand Marketing Compassion International has launched its new website employing SDL Tridion SDLs Web Content Management solution.
As one of the worlds leading child development organisations, this solution significantly increases the charitys online presence and enables it to effectively engage with and provide a positive user experience for its donors.
The redesign enabled the charitys internet marketing staff to easily deploy over 5,000 Web pages through SDL Tridions BluePrinting technology.
Additionally the new website facilitated a new shopping cart donation system, which allowed people to donate to the charity and pay for a child sponsorship in one transaction: increasing the average donation made by each visitor by 55 percent.
The implementation of SDL Tridion attracted more attention from Google and other search engines to the new website and since June 2011 the search engine traffic has grown by 25 percent.
Enhanced user experience for Compassion Internationals donors Increased the average donation by 55% Increased search engine traffic by 25% 24 SDL STRATEGY CASE STUDY 2 National Instruments Chooses SDL to Meet Global DITA Content Requirements National Instruments NI transforms the way engineers and scientists design, prototype and deploy systems for test, control, and embedded design applications.
NI had a partnership with SDL, to provide them with the ability to reuse translation content.
As an extension to this partnership, NI started to work with SDLs Structured Content Technologies Division, to improve the efficiencies of managing many different product releases.
SDL Trisoft was a logical fit for National Instruments, as the product roadmap aligns with the vision of the technical communications team.
This set out to deliver more information at higher velocity, through multiple channels and in more of their customers languages.
SDL Trisofts ability to manage advanced product documentation versions and configurations in multiple languages was key for NIs complex product lines, in which content is reused across product teams throughout the content development lifecycle.
Robust support for the OASIS DITA v1.2 standard was a core requirement including the ability to easily configure specialisations and metadata to meet the business needs of NI.
The deployment of SDL Trisoft builds upon the technology partnership created with NIs use of SDL Trados Studio for translation memory management.
Optimised customer experience Increased consistency through content reuse across the organisation Advanced product documentation version control 25 SDL Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 CASE STUDY Yara International ASA Builds on Partnership with SDL to Enhance Web Presence in 26 Languages Yara International ASA is the worlds leading chemical company that converts energy, natural minerals and nitrogen from the air into essential products for farmers and industrial customers.
Yara is a truly international company with production, sales and services, research and support operations in the Americas, Europe, Africa and Asia.
It uses global strength to deliver local benefits.
Yara has an extensive web presence through its 26 language sites.
Having previously selected SDL Tridion as their Web Content Management system, Yara decided to partner with SDL Language Services division to translate content to populate their website in over 26 languages.
They also needed to deliver high quality translations for their corporate communications and marketing material, environmental reports, research and development analysis, human resources, legal documents and video content.
SDLs solution for Yara will make it possible to have an automatic workflow from their content management system to SDLs translation management system, including Desktop Publishing DTP and client validation online.
It was important to address Yara Internationals fragmented translation spend and provide a central automated solution in which to reuse translations between departments and jobs and provide consistency in terminology.
This helps them improve brand consistency globally and achieve faster time-to-market.
Web visibility in 26 languages Central automated solution for improved efficicencies and accelerated time-to-market Enhanced brand consistency across global communications 26 SDL STRATEGY 2 27 SDL Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
