IMPLEMENTING OUR STRATEGY SDL STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES SDL has implemented a five-element growth strategy designed to deliver strong financial performance, drive brand equity and maximise shareholder returns.
Key Account Growth Account management is key, supported by thorough account planning and targeting processes.
Target marketing campaigns and events for specific markets or regions.
Expand consulting proposition for enterprises wishing to trade effectively in international markets and dealing with the challenges of globalisation.
Focus on selected vertical market sectors.
Cross Selling Deploy multiple SDL solutions allowing our customers to leverage end-to-end efficiencies in their Global Information Management.
Cross selling penetration into the SDL customer base.
Leadership and territory collaboration focus.
Partner Channels and Strategic Partnership Selective channel expansion with complementary partner organisations.
Partner to expand into new vertical market segments.
Territory Expansion Asia strategy based around Japan, China and Korea.
Selective expansion in Latin America.
Address specific customer and vertical market opportunities in Nordics.
Technical Leadership and Innovation Innovate around the core of our products to maintain a market-leading position.
Maintain significant investment in innovation.
Strong focus on prioritisation via product roadmaps.
Selective IP asset acquisition strategy.
18 SDL STRATEGY Measuring Our Success Strategic Performance Indicators Revenue underlying constant currency growth of 12% achieved.
2 Profit before tax and amortisation growth of 12% achieved.
Net cash flows from operating activities growth of 20% achieved.
Technology revenues grown to 41% of group total.
Acquisition Expanded presence in Customer Experience Management with the acquisition of Alterian, and acquired Calamares.
Innovation 37 new product launches in 2011, delivered to plan.
Cross selling 380 customers in total.
19 SDL Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
