SDL FOUNDATION In In 2011, the SDL Foundation has continued its support for less fortunate communities around the world, contributing to a total of 18 separate projects.
Acting as role models within the communities in which we operate is one of SDLs key values and SDL employee involvement remains a crucial part of the Foundations work.
Increased participation from individuals and teams has been evident both with additional fund raising activities and direct charity involvement.
The Princes Trust UK Rejoice Charity Thailand In 2011, SDL became a patron to Rejoice Charity provides medical, the Technology Leadership Group social and educational support to TLG of The Princes Trust, the communities infected with and UKs leading youth charity.
This affected by HIV AIDS.
Throughout provides over 400 UK-based SDL 2011, the SDL Foundation has employees the opportunity to become contributed to the medicine and personally involved in fundraising and formula milk programmes as well as a development activities.
In September, scholarship programme, sponsoring 30 SDL employees signed up to take 12 children who otherwise may not part in the annual Palace-to-Palace bike have been able to attend school.
The ride event, cycling 45 miles around SDL Thailand office remains actively London and raising 5,500 for The involved with this charity.
I would like to thank SDL is clearly committed to making a you for helping me.
I will use the positive impact on the communities in money in useful ways I promise, for which it operates and we look forward studying, school equipment and to working with SDL employees as they food.
Thank you for giving me this support the work of The Princes Trust scholarship.
Technology Leadership Narummon Wongdee, Age 15.
Group Committee 42 SDL STRATEGY 2 Xieng Nguen School Laos Mencap UK This application was nominated Mencap, a UK based charity, provides by an SDL employee based in comprehensive care and respite to Stuttgart, Germany having learnt people with learning disabilities and about the villages poor schooling their families.
The SDL Foundation conditions whilst on vacation.
The pledged 10,000, with the Sheffield SDL Foundation has funded the office raising additional funds through construction of new classrooms a range of successful fund-raisers allowing full time schooling regardless including cake sales, a breakfast club of the weather.
SDL is a shining example of how fantastic corporate fundraising can be and we are so grateful to have been your chosen charity for 2011 Lucy McKane, Sheffield Mencap.
43 SDL Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 3 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 44 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 3 45 SDL Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
