SDL STRATEGY ORGANISATIONAL CAPABILITY 2 SDL is a global business with a geographically and culturally diverse employee base.
We are committed to building presence in developing markets and developed markets where we see the greatest opportunity.
High quality locally led organisations, backed by SDLs global capabilities and group wide processes and systems are key to our success.
We have invested in expanding capacity in Asia, where China has been a significant growth market, spearheaded by Language Technologies.
The Nordics region also grew in 2011, where we have invested in account development and new leadership capability.
We are investing in selective expansion of South American operations.
We have expanded key account management capability to enable the most effective working relationships possible with our largest clients across their business units and geographies.
Development teams are organised globally, directed by the Chief Technology Officer.
We have increased the use of lower cost, high skill nearshore and offshore centres.
Staff in these locations have increased by around 30% to 13% of total employees.
PROCESSES AND STANDARDS Processes Management Development Training rolled out in Europe and North America.
A global methodology for risk management has been established and piloted in the UK which will be rolled out in 2012, including ISO 27001 certification for key locations.
Global supply chain optimisation has delivered efficiencies and savings across the business.
Standards Achieved ISO 27001 recognised Information Security Management System for the UK.
Expanded the scope of ISO 9001 quality management system and EN 15038 translation to cover most global operations.
Achieved ISO 13485 quality and risk management system for the medical device industry to support growing business in this vertical sector.
Product attestations Forrester SDL Tridion named a Leader.
Gartner SDL Tridion a leader in Magic Quadrant.
SDL BeGlobal won the Best New Product in the SaaS category in the 2011 International Business Awards.
KMWorld Hall of Fame award for SDLs contribution to the content industry.
33 SDL Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
