IMPLEMENTING OUR CORE VALUES In 2011 we sought customer feedback of their perception of SDL and our brand.
This has enabled us to further clarify our vision, mission and core values and ensure these are tightly aligned to our strategic direction and customer requirements linking organisational culture and behaviours strongly to the overall strategy for the Company.
In the 2010 annual report, we reported on progress in implementing our strategy against seven key focal points.
As part of updating our vision, mission and values, we have streamlined these focal points into five core values to capture how we will deliver our vision.
Linked to these values are key performance indicators, set out in the table below, together with implementation highlights for 2011.
At the core of what we do is our belief that everyone should be able to engage with the information they require in the way they want, leading to a compelling customer experience.
Core Value Key Performance Indicators Implementation Highlights New business acquisition We have had an excellent year for new customer gain strategically important acquisition, performing above target.
Mattel, Brother, Semcon and Sharp.
Leverage SDLs global We have grown the number of account managers and Partner with capability to achieve growth in customers under account management, driving penetration our customers high value, key accounts with and cross selling which increased to 380 customers in 2011. to drive their cross sell opportunity.
success creating Develop channel sales via We have increased our channel partners in 2011 and see exceptional partner organisations to significant future growth potential in channel sales.
customer broaden SDLs sales reach and The Alterian aquisition adds highly strategic marketing experience potential customer base.
20 SDL STRATEGY Core Value Key Performance Indicators Implementation Highlights Achieve development roadmap Investment in development has increased by 8% to 14.8m, goals through a targeted and achieved increased efficiencies via low cost, high skill innovation investment nearshore and offshore centres.
Deliver thought Deliver planned product We have released 37 new products and versions as planned 2 leadership and launches.
in 2011 including: innovation in all - SDL Tridion 2011 - SDL Trados Studio 2011 we do - SDL LiveContent 2011 - SDL TMS 2011 - SDL EasyTranslator - SDL WorldServer 2011 Engage with our customers to We have communicated with customers through direct align our product vision.
customer research, GIM events in Europe, North America and Asia, sector trade shows and our own sector events and webcasts.
Build our brand with customers, We have sought feedback from customers in updating our staff and the marketplace.
brand, which has been refreshed in 2011.
Our new Mission, Vision and Values were rolled out globally.
Geographic and cultural Expansion of customer base in Japan, China and Korea.
global and professional organisation Implement global quality There has been significant progress harmonising global processes.
processes and gaining ISO accreditations in 2011.
Expand the Knowledge Series to The Knowledge Series has been expanded and we are further develop and harmonise progressively introducing a certification framework for staff communication standards training related components.
Create an inspiring and Implement development A Management Development Training Plan has been rewarding training for operational implemented in Europe and North America.
for employees Implement structured A structured performance management process has been performance management rolled out to target divisions.
process Create a succession pool for key A group talent review process has been implemented technical roles and management Global communities for statistical science and development appointments.
Contribute towards the SDL SDL Foundation funding was 260,000.
were funded in Thailand, Laos, India, Africa, South America and the UK.
Six projects from 2010 were completed, which included schools projects in India and Laos, and a local infrastructure project in Nepal.
Be a role model in the communiRoll out the code of conduct to The code of conduct has been communicated through a ties in which we all staff.
written policy, the Knowledge Series and presentations at operate various office locations globally.
Expand the carbon emission Carbon emission measurement was expanded from the UK assessment to more sites to locations in Europe, US and Asia.
For the UK Head Office, globally.
21 SDL Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 PARTNER WITH OUR CUSTOMERS TO DRIVE THEIR SUCCESS We see our own success as dependent on our customers success, proactively helping customers achieve their business goals by intimate understanding of their needs and delivery of compelling value propositions to meet those needs.
We view our customer relationships as partnerships and use every customer interaction as an opportunity to inspire and build the relationship.
