Capabilities and market overview Aerospace 2011 Capabilities fLUID SYSTEMS fluid conveyance systems Delivery of air, hydraulic fluids and fuel to critical airborne system functions.
Capability for end to end delivery systems in a range of composite and metallic Fluid conveyance systems materials.
Design of maintenance-free product solutions for harsh environments that are subject to high temperatures, pressures and vibration levels.
Structures Focused on precision machined products and assemblies for airframe structures and systems.
Ability to replace complex assemblies with single piece monolithic parts.
Adding value by kitting and assembling for original equipment manufacturers.
Gas turbine engines Manufacture of precision engineered products that operate in a missioncritical, harsh environment.
Provision of engine core, ancillary systems and Gas turbine engines related structural products to major engine manufacturers.
Adding value through the development of advanced manufacturing processes.
Market overview Large commercial aircraft Revenue growth of 23% underpinned by increasing build rates in Airbus and Boeing large commercial aircraft platforms.
Deliveries of the new B787 and B747-8 aircraft commenced in Q4.
Build rates on all major platforms expected to increase in 2012 and beyond.
Record OEM order books of approximately eight years of production at Structures current build rates, underpin Seniors future continued growth prospects.
Airbus and Boeing announced plans to build new fuel efficient narrow bodyaircraft, the A320neo and 737 MAX respectively, with over 1,400 firmorders for these aircraft secured by the year end.
Developing new opportunities on these aircraft provide potential for further growth as theycome to market in the second half of the decade.
Military aerospace Revenue increased by 10% in 2011, reflecting a robust footprint on well established platforms.
Seniors main military programmes are the C-130J transport aircraft and the AEROSTRUCTURES Black Hawk helicopter, well funded core programmes that also benefit from export sales.
Short-term outlook remains stable, although with some risk in the mediumterm due to pressure on the US defence budget and the prospect of reduced military activity in Iraq and Afghanistan.
Healthy shipset content on new programmes, such as the A400M military Market segments Aerospace Flexonics transport aircraft and the Joint Strike Fighter should help mitigate the impact Markets of any reduction in funding that may affect established programmes.
A Large Commercial Aircraft 25% K Regional and business jets J B Military & Defence 17% I Regional jet production increased slightly from a low base.
A C Regional and business jet 9% H Business jet market remains subdued.
D Space & non-military helicopter 2% Seniors sales to regional and business jet programmes, outperformed the E Other 7% G market, increasing by 5% and 11% respectively.
F Passenger vehicles 12% Regional jet sales are likely to continue to improve for Senior in the medium G Truck 9% B F term driven by new platforms e. g. Bombardier CSeries, Mitsubishi MRJ, H Power & energy 7% Sukhoi SuperJet 100.
I Heating, ventilation and solar 5% E C D Business jet sales benefited from Seniors exposure to large cabin J Petrochemical 3% platforms where there is strong international demand.
K Other industrial 4% Continued modest recovery in the business jet sector is forecast for 2012.
8 Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Overview business review Governance financial statements Other information Senior is a market-leading engineering solutions provider for its customers, delivering quality products on time, utilising its design and manufacturing engineering capabilities to optimise customer value.
flexonics 2011 Capabilities fLExONICS Land vehicle emission control Focus on development of emission control products for the truck and offLand vehicle emission control highway transport sector as well as select passenger vehicle applications.
Adding value through design of engineered products for customers to meet an increasingly stringent regulatory environment.
Industrial process control Design and manufacture of fluid conveyance products for a range of industrialprocess control applications mainly in the petrochemical and powergeneration industries.
Significant exposure to maintenance and upgrade requirements including provision of on-site services.
Increasing development of heat exchanger technologies for increased fuel efficiency andto meet tightening emission standards.
Market overview Land vehicle emission control Total truck and off highway sales increased by 31%, principally due toincreased production of medium and heavy duty truck engines in NorthAmerica.
Industrial process control New truck programmes in Europe, Brazil and India were of benefit to theGroup.
Increased focus on truck off-highway applications will continue with furtheropportunities sought in emerging markets.
Sales in the passenger car sector declined by 5%, due to reduced sales inEuropean markets and a slight decline in Brazil.
However, markets in India continue to grow steadily.
Increasing emission regulations, both in the EU, the USA and developing countries e. g. Brazil, India and China continue to drive product development cycles.
Production footprint in low-cost countries Brazil, India, South Africa, CzechRepublic continues to grow.
Industrial process control Industrial revenues increased by 14% with recoveries being seen in global power generation and petrochemical markets.
Major capital expenditure in power generation industry in the USA remains subdued due to uncertainty in timing of emission regulations relating to the Clean Air Act, although some signs of increased activity occurred towards the year-end.
Continued success with securing major overseas large industrial expansion joint projects.
Projections for 2012 reflect continued steady recovery in the energy andpetrochemical sectors, combined with potential benefits from the Products implementation of clean air regulations in the USA when passed.
A Airframe structural parts 13% A B Enging structures and mountings 13% L C High pressure ducting 13% K D Helicopter machined parts 5% B J E Low pressure ducting and other composites 4% I F Fluid control systems 4% C G Other 8% H D H Exhaust flexes 8% G E F I Emission control 9% J Fuel distribution 4% K HVAC ducting 5% L Expansion joints, dampers, diverters and bellows 14% Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 9 AEROSPACE STRUCTURES OPERATIONAL ExCELLENCE UNDERPINNED bY PEOPLE AND PROCESSES Operational excellence within Senior means providing customers with quality products, delivered on time and produced in the most efficient way, utilising state of the art equipment and Lean Manufacturing principles, all supported by high quality people and processes.
For example, the Groups AMT facility, based in Arlington near Seattle USA, machines monolithic aluminium wing rib kits for the Boeing 737 which are supplied direct to line at Boeings nearby Renton facility.
Senior services all aerospace sectors with a wide range of structural products and assemblies from its global footprint located in the UK, USA, Mexico, Continental Europe and Thailand.
10 Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Overview business review Governance financial statements Other information AEROSPACE FLUID CONVEYANCE SYSTEMS PROVIDING MARkETLEADING SOLUTIONS Senior provides its fluid systems customers with a wide range of engineered integrated fluid conveyance products and system solutions.
These are typically installed on large commercial aircraft, business jets, regional jets, military aircraft and rotorcraft.
Both metallic and composite technologies are utilised in order to optimise delivery of air, fuel and hydraulic fluids.
Senior also provides a range of engineered fluid-related control devices.
Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 11 AEROSPACE STRUCTURES AND GAS TURBINE ENGINES PORTfOLIO ENhANCEMENT ThROUGh fOCUSED ACQUISITIONS Senior acquired UK-based Weston EU Limited and its subsidiary, Weston SEA Limited based in Thailand collectively Weston in November 2011.
Weston manufactures and assembles a variety of precision machined structural parts and flight critical gas turbine engine components principally for Airbus end platforms.
Weston is an excellent strategic fit for Senior, enhancing the Groups hard metal machining capabilities and expanding its presence in rotating gas turbine engine components.
Westons European and Asian facilities are also highly complementary to Seniors existing, largely North American and Boeing-based, aerospace businesses.
12 Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Overview business review Governance financial statements Other information Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 13 FLEXONICS INDUSTRIAL PROCESS CONTROL DESIGN, fAbRICATION ANDINSTALLATION Of ENGINEERED PRODUCTS fOR DEMANDING INDUSTRIAL OPERATING ENVIRONMENTS Senior offers a through life cycle service from design to fidecommissioning for a range of products utilised in large industrial process control facilities.
These critical function products, including expansion joints, dampers and diverters, are typically provided to the petrochemical, nuclear, power generation and industrial processing industries.
Seniors global footprint is leading to increasing emerging market opportunities in this sector.
Senior is also investing in alternative energy solutions including solar and fuel cell technologies.
14 Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Overview business review Governance financial statements Other information FLEXONICS LAND VEHICLE EMISSION CONTROL PROVIDING ENGINEERED PRODUCTS TO MEET INCREASINGLY STRINGENT EMISSION CONTROL LEGISLATION Senior services a wide range of OEM customers for passenger, truck and off-highway platforms from its global operations.
Focused upon emission control technologies, it is continually developing fuel distribution and emission control products to meet more stringent emission control regulations.
Senior is also successfully expanding its footprint in developing markets through its facilities located in India, Brazil, South Africa and Mexico.
Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 15 Senior designs, manufactures and markets Key growth high-technology components and systems for the principal original equipment drivers producers in the worldwide aerospace, defence, land vehicle and energy markets.
Global GDP Market share Growth in global GDP will have a direct impact on a number of the Provision of market-leading engineering solutions and high-technology Groups global and regional market demand drivers.
The most notable components in its chosen market sectors are key Group strategic of these are global passenger air miles flown, which will support higher objectives.
The Group also places significant emphasis on operational demand for new commercial aircraft, and increased consumer demand excellence, driven by Lean Manufacturing techniques, as an essential which will result in increased sales of trucks and passenger vehicles as component of delivering relative performance that is consistently well as higher energy usage.
Medium-term forecast trends in these ahead of its peers.
In combination, achievement of these objectives areas are positive, which can be expected to underpin further increases isa key driver of market share gains, evidenced by increasing shipset in Group revenue.
content on a number of major platforms achieved in recent years that will continue to support future growth.
Environmental legislation Content on new programmes Demand for the majority of the Groups products is linked either Securing programme wins, in particular content on new aircraft or land directly or indirectly to the increasingly stringent global requirements vehicle programmes with significant growth prospects, is a key focus for reduced carbon emissions.
This arises either through environmental for Senior that drives sustainable long-term growth in revenues and regulation, principally evident today in the form of reduction targets profits.
The Group has developed strong relationships with its key foremissions from industrial process plants and from land vehicles, customers in order to be positioned to bid for new opportunities as orthrough the drive for cost savings via increased fuel efficiency in they emerge.
Current examples of recent success in this area include engines that power aircraft, trucks and passenger vehicles.
These the Boeing B787 Dreamliner, the Airbus A350, A320neo and both regulatory factors and cost-reduction motives are expected to increase Bombardiers and Gulfstreams next families of business jets.
Senior in the coming years, which in turn should support increased demand isdeveloping heat exchanger and other exhaust gas recycling solutions for the Groups existing products and its product development within its land vehicle businesses for the next generation of heavy-duty portfolio, such as fuel cell and heat exchanger technologies.
diesel engines, and is also pursuing potential growth opportunities for both heavy-duty diesel engine components and industrial products in anumber of emerging markets, including China.
16 Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Overview business review Governance financial statements Other information Large commercial aircraft build rates Acquisitions The group has healthy shipset content on all key large commercial The Group has a good track record of acquiring and successfully aircraft platforms.
During 2011 the Group acquired two new integrating new businesses, utilising an acquisition framework that has been developed as part of the strategic planning process.
Significant businesses, Damar Machine Company.
and Weston EU Limited, whichboth have additional content on a number of these platforms.
balance sheet capacity has been generated in recent years through very strong free cash flow generation.
This is now being utilised to The Groups most significant existing platforms include Boeings B737, B777, and the Airbus A330 and A380 which will be complemented by support a targeted and complementary acquisition programme, aiming at building further on the Groups capabilities in both the Aerospace the B787, where the Group has its largest shipset content ever, as production of this platform ramps up in the coming years.
Senior will and Flexonics Divisions.
In line with this strategy, the Group acquired two businesses in its Aerospace Division in 2011, Damar Machine also benefit from increases in the current narrow body A320 and B737 build rates, which are set to increase through 2013.
and Weston EU Limited, which together significantly enhance its capabilities and geographical presence in the large term Senior expects its shipset content on the A350 platform, and its developing position on the new more fuel-efficient A320neo and B737 commercial aircraft sector.
MAX aircraft, to further enhance its significant growth prospects in what is already the most important market sector for the Group.
world annual traffic revenue passenger km world energy outlook 2011 Forecast annual growth in global passenger air traffic is the key driver of Projected increases in global energy usage will drive higher revenue for Senior demand for new commercial aircraft, and hence for many of Seniors core through increased sales of large industrial expansion joints and other emissionaerospace products.
4500 China Middle East ICAO Airbus 4000 India Rest of the world total trafc GMF 2011 12 3500 Source: ICAO, Airbus Other developing Asia OECD 10 3000 Russia 2500 8 Source: OECD IEA 2011 2000 6 Air trafc has doubled Air trafc will double 1500 every 15 years in the next 15 years 4 1000 2 500 0 0 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2020 2030 2010 2015 2020 2025 2030 2035 Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 17 RPK trillion Mtoe
