Board of Directors 1 2 5 3 4 6 7 8 38 Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Overview business review Governance financial statements Other information Main board 3 Andy Hamment Non-executive Director.
Joined the Board in April 2011 The main Board met a total of nine times during the period 1 January and is also the Group Marketing Director of Ultra Electronics plc: he had 2011 and 31 December 2011. joined Dowty in 1988 as Managing Director of its Controls business and participated in the management buy-out process that created Ultra Audit Committee Electronics.
The Board considers Andy Hamment to be independent.
David Best Chairman, Andy Hamment and Ian Much.
The Committee met three times during the year.
4 Mark E. Vernon Non-executive Director.
Joined the Board in April 2011 and is also Group Chief Executive of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc.
Nominations Committee He was previously Group Vice-president of Flowserves Flow Control Martin Clark Chairman, David Best, Andy Hamment, Ian Much and Business Unit and of Durco International and President of Valtek Mark E. Vernon.
The Board considers Mark E. Vernon to be independent.
Remuneration Committee 5 Ian Much Non-executive Director and Senior Independent Director.
Ian Much Chairman, David Best, Martin Clark and Mark E. Vernon.
Joined the Board in 2005 and is also non-executive director of The Committee met five times during the year.
Chemring Group plc and BTG PLC.
He was formerly Chief Executive ofDe la Rue plc.
He is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
health, Safety & Environment Committee TheBoard considers Ian Much to be independent.
Mark Rollins, Mike Sheppard Chief Executive of Flexonics, Jerry Goodwin Chief Executive of Aerospace Structures and Launie Michael Steel Formerly a Non-executive Director: he retired from Fleming Chief Executive of Aerospace Fluid Systems.
The Committee theBoard at the Companys Annual General Meeting 2011. met four times during the year.
James Pomeroy, the Group HSE Manager, also attends each Committee meeting.
Executive Directors 6 Mark Rollins Group Chief Executive.
A Chartered Accountant, he Apologies for non-attendance were received from Andy Hamment for joined the Group in 1998 from Morgan Crucible plc, and became Group one Board meeting.
With this exception, there was full attendance at Finance Director in 2000, when he joined the Board.
He became Group every meeting of the main Board and of the Committees of the Board Chief Executive, and Chairman of the Health, Safety & Environment during the year.
He is a non-executive director of WSP Group plc.
Non-executive directors 1 Martin Clark Non-executive Chairman.
Martin Clark has announced 7 Simon Nicholls Group Finance Director.
A Chartered Accountant, that he will retire from the Board at the Companys Annual General hejoined the Group and was appointed to the Board in 2008.
Joined the Board in 2001 and is also a nonanon-executive director of Hamworthy plc from August 2011 until the executive director of Shepherd Building Group Ltd.
He was previously completion of Hamworthys takeover in February 2012.
Hewas a non-executive director of BPB plc, Blick plc, Clarkson plc, and ICM previously Chief Financial Officer for Hanson plcs North American Computer Group PLC.
He is Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
He is Chairman of the Groups Treasury Committee.
Charles Berry To be appointed to the Board on 1 March 2012, and to Group Company Secretary succeed Martin Clark as the Groups Chairman at the close of its 8 Andrew Bodenham Chartered Secretary, joined as Group Company Annual General Meeting on 27 April 2012.
He is also non-executive Secretary in 2002.
He acts as Secretary to the Senior plc Board and director and the Chairman of Drax plc.
itsCommittees and also sits on the Groups Treasury Committee.
Joined the Board in 2007: was also a non-executive director of St Ives plc until November 2010.
He is a Chartered Accountant and was formerly Group Finance Director of Xansa plc.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee and of the Trustee Board of the Senior plc Pension Plan.
The Board considers David Best to be independent.
Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 39
