Section 4 | Governance Directors profiles Alastair Lyons CBE 58 Role: Chairman Appointment: Alastair was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Serco Group plc in March 2010, becoming Chairman at the conclusion of the Companys AGM in May 2010.
Responsibilities: Alastair is responsible for the effective operation of the Board and oversight of corporate governance.
He is Chair of the Nomination Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Experience: In his executive career Alastair was Group Finance Director and subsequently Chief Executive of the National & Provincial Building Society.
When the society was acquired in 1996 by Abbey National he joined the Abbey National main Board as Managing Director of its Insurance Division.
In 1997 he became Chief Executive of the pensions specialist NPI where he led its demutualisation and acquisition by AMP, subsequent to which he joined NatWest in 1999 as Director of Corporate Projects.
A chartered accountant with an MA in economics from Trinity College Cambridge, Alastair has been a non-executive director of, successively, the Department for Work & Pensions and the Department for Transport.
External appointments: Alastair has been Chairman of Admiral Group plc, the direct motor insurer, since 2000.
In 2008 he was appointed Deputy Chairman of Bovis Homes Group PLC, one of the UKs leading quoted housebuilders and in March 2010 Senior Independent Director and Audit Chair of Phoenix Group Holdings, the UKs largest closed life and pension fund consolidator.
In February 2011 he was appointed Chairman of the Towergate Insurance Group.
Christopher Rajendran Hyman CBE 48 Role: Chief Executive Appointment: Chris was appointed Chief Executive of Serco Group plc in 2002.
Responsibilities: Chris is responsible for the formation and implementation of the Groups global strategy, as well as the day-to-day management of the business operations and our relationship with the City and key stakeholders.
He provides leadership and representation of the Group with major customers, shareholders and industry organisations.
Chris is a member of the Nomination Committee.
Experience: Chris graduated from Natal University in Durban, South Africa and qualified as a chartered accountant, serving with Arthur Andersen and Ernst & Young before joining Serco in 1994 as the European Finance Director.
He was appointed Group Company Secretary in 1996, Corporate Finance Director in 1997 and Group Finance Director in April 1999.
External appointments: Chris is Chairman of HRH The Prince of Waless charity In Kind Direct, is a Trustee Director of the Board for Business in the Community BITC and is Chairman of The Princes Seeing is Believing BITC Programme.
In the 2010 Queens Birthday Honours List Chris was awarded a CBE for his services to business and charity.
Andrew Mark Jenner 43 Role: Finance Director Appointment: Andrew was appointed Group Finance Director in May 2002.
Responsibilities: Andrew is responsible for the Groups financial management, reporting and control, for operational efficiency and for our risk management and assurance framework.
He shares responsibility with the Chief Executive for our relationship with shareholders and the City.
Experience: Andrew, a chartered accountant, joined Serco in 1996 as Group Financial Controller, having previously worked for Unilever and Deloitte & Touche LLP.
He became Corporate Finance Director with additional responsibility for treasury activities in 1999 before joining the Board in 2002.
External appointments: Andrew is a non-executive Director of Galliford Try plc, one of the UKs leading construction and housebuilding groups and is Chairman of its Audit Committee.
94 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 Angie Risley 53 Role: Non-Executive Director Appointment: Angie joined Serco as a Non-Executive Director on 1 April 2011.
Responsibilities: Angie is a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Experience: As Group Human Resources Director of Lloyds Banking Group plc, Angie is a member of the Lloyds Banking Group Executive Committee and has responsibility for developing group-wide people practices for over 100,000 employees and is also sponsor for the companys Diversity and Inclusion programme.
Previously, she was an executive director of Whitbread PLC until May 2007, having joined the Whitbread Group in 1989.
She has also been a member of the Low Pay Commission, and a non-executive director of Biffa plc and Arriva plc.
External appointments: Angie is Group Human Resources Director of Lloyds Banking Group plc.
David Richardson 60 Role: Senior Independent Director Appointment: David joined Serco as a Non-Executive Director in June 2003.
Responsibilities: David is Chair of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Experience: David, a chartered accountant, has previously held the position of Finance Director of Whitbread, where his roles in a 22-year career included eight years as Strategy Director.
David was instrumental in transforming Whitbread from a brewing and pubs company into a market leader in hotels, restaurants and leisure clubs.
Until June 2011 David also served as a Chairman of Forth Ports plc.
External appointments: David is a non-executive Director of Assura Group Limited and Chairman of BBGI SICAV SA and a Director of the Supervisory Board of World Hotels AG.
Leonard V. Broese van Groenou 65 Role: Non-Executive Director Appointment: Leonard joined Serco as a Non-Executive Director in April 2006.
Responsibilities: Leonard is Chair of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit Committee.
Experience: Leonard was previously Vice-President Human Resources and member of the corporate executive committee of Pennsylvania-based Air Products, a New York-listed company serving customers in technology, energy, healthcare and industrial markets worldwide where he served for nearly 30 years.
His career at Air Products spans numerous international roles including financial control, business planning, operational management and human resources.
External appointments: Leonard is the Chairman of the Netherlands Benevolent Society.
Ralph D. Crosby Jr 64 Role: Non-Executive Director Appointment: Ralph joined Serco as a Non-Executive Director on 30 June 2011.
Experience: Ralph was Chairman of EADS North America until his retirement from that position at the end of December 2011.
He joined EADS in 2002 as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of EADS North America and also served as a member of the EADS global Executive Committee until 2010.
Previously, Ralph held numerous positions with Northrop Grumman Corporation, concluding over 20 years of service as President of their Integrated Systems Sector.
Prior to his industry career, Ralph served as an Officer in the US Army.
Ralph has an MA in Public Administration from Harvard, an MA in International Relations from the Graduate Institute of International Studies, Switzerland, and a BSc from the United States Military Academy at West Point, NY.
External appointments: Ralph is a non-executive Director of American Electric Power Co Inc. and Ducommun Inc. in the United States.
Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 | 95 Financial statements Governance Our performance Our business Overview
