Section 3 | Our performance Operating Review | Americas Above: Serco provides missioncritical services to the US Air Force Space Command.
Our Americas segment provides professional, technology and management services focused primarily on the US Federal government, including every branch of the military, a broad range of civilian agencies and the National Intelligence community.
We also provide services to the Canadian government, selected US state governments and municipal governments.
Revenue on a constant currency as well as on an organic basis During 2011, Serco was one of four awardees that won an declined by 6%.
Revenue on a reported basis, given the weakening important IDIQ vehicle, the US Navys Space and Naval Warfare of the US Dollar, fell by 9% to 868m 2010: 954m and Systems Command SPAWAR Sea Enterprise Global contract represented 19% of Group revenue.
Adjusted operating profit, with a ceiling value of US$1.4bn over five years.
Under this contract before corporate expenses, reduced by 6% on a reported currency we support Command, Control, Communications, Computers, basis, with the margin slightly increasing to 8.4%, reflecting efficient Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance C4ISR systems cost management.
on US Navy surface ships and shore stations, and in 2011 we won task orders under this new contract valued at US$13m.
Further task The funding of the US Federal government functioned under a orders valued at US$18m had been won earlier in 2011 under the series of continuing resolutions for most of 2011 due to partisan predecessor Sea Enterprise I IDIQ contract.
A further IDIQ contract gridlock and rising concerns about federal deficits.
Having still win to provide engineering, testing, and support services to grown constant currency revenues by 3% in the first half of the year, SPAWAR has a ceiling value of US$34m to Serco over five years.
the impact was felt greatest in the second half of the year given a particularly strong performance in the equivalent period in 2010.
Serco provides similar services to the US Air Force Space The challenges facing the 2011 budget process included Command, with the customer electing to exercise an additional government agencies postponing contract award announcements, two-year option period on the Command, Control, Computer, delaying work under existing contracts and cancelling or reducing Communications, Intelligence and Reconnaissance C4IT2SR IDIQ the scope of many contracts and task orders.
Serco is the sole prime contractor under this US$800m Serco has been focusing on markets that we expect will continue contract, under which we provide a range of mission-critical to receive funding support and on assisting government customers engineering and IT services, and we were awarded new task orders to achieve greater efficiencies and higher productivity with during 2011 with a total value of US$115m.
These services include constrained resources.
engineering, systems integration, hardware procurement, software development, technical support, installation testing, operations US government agencies are increasingly using multi-award and maintenance.
contract vehicles to issue task orders on a rapid-cycle, competitive basis.
Qualifying for and winning business under such Indefinite Under our HRsolutions IDIQ with the US Army we won a Delivery, Indefinite Quantity IDIQ contract vehicles is a key recompeted US$33m task order to support the US Armys contributor to Sercos growth.
OneSource initiative, which was established to provide comprehensive community support and service delivery for soldiers and their families regardless of geographic location.
Also under HRsolutions, we renewed a US$52m, three-year contract to provide 48 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 Below right: Our logistics team Far right: We support the US in Williamsburg, Virginia, works Navys procurement, handling and with the US Navy Expeditionary disposal of hazardous materials.
Right: We provide driver Below: We provide air traffic control examination services in services at 63 towers for the Ontario, Canada.
transition and employment assistance to soldiers and family Other defense-related contracts included: a renewed five-year, members transitioning out of the military under the Armys Career US$12m contract with the US Navy for Training and Operational and Alumni Program.
Serco has provided career counselling Readiness Information Services TORIS to provide web-based support to over 2.2 million service members, army civilians and their training support and capture readiness data for all US Navy surface families over the past two decades under this programme.
ships: a renewed three-year, US$13.5m contract with the US Air Additionally, Serco won a new US$10m, three-year task order to Force Special Operations Forces for engineering, financial and provide civilian workforce transition services and a new US$9 million logistics management: and a US$15m contract extension for three-year task order to provide financial management services to personnel management support services at the Walter Reed the Army Defense Military Pay Office locations.
During 2011, Serco National Military Medical Center.
won task orders with a total value of US$169m under our three HRsolutions IDIQs.
Growth in the intelligence arena came from an expansion of programme management work and from success in growing our We were one of seven large contractors to win an IDIQ contract footprint with a new intelligence customer.
Serco also recompeted to provide training services to the US Armys Maneuver Center and was awarded a contract with an intelligence agency.
of Excellence at Fort Benning, Georgia, with a ceiling value The contract is valued at US$15m over five years to provide of US$458m over five years.
We also won an IDIQ contract to pre-employment processing for potential employees for the agency.
provide Manpower, Personnel, Training and Education MPTE planning support, policy and programme analysis, financial Other contract awards included a US$25m, five-year rebid contract programme management and training solutions for the US Navy, to provide fleet management and maintenance services to Louisville with a ceiling value of US$47m over three years.
Gas & Electric, a utility company based in Kentucky.
During 2011, Serco was awarded a one-year extension and Serco was selected by the Boeing Company as its Supplier of expansion to the VA for Vets contract with the Department of the Year in the technology category.
This is a tremendous honour, Veterans Affairs.
Under this contract we are providing: programme especially when considering that Boeing gave awards to only 16 out management: a knowledge management-based web portal with job of its more than 17,500 suppliers worldwide.
This award recognises hiring tools, e-Learning elements and simulations, videos and chat Serco for its enterprise architecture work.
This is the second time rooms: mobile web technologies: a call centre and career coaching.
Sercos enterprise architecture team has received Boeings Supplier Serco also manages the MyArmyBenefits website, providing site of the Year award.
Vetrepreneur Magazine cited Serco as one of architecture, IT development, programming, content management, the 10 Best Corporations for Veteran-Owned Businesses to work benefits help desk and retirement and survivor planning.
This achievement emphasises Sercos continued contract was renewed with a three-year total value of US$10m.
dedication to working with the veteran community.
Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 | 49 Financial statements Governance Our performance Our business Overview
