Section 3 | Our performance Resources Business relationships Customers Developing long-term relationships with our customers is central to our business.
Day-to-day responsibility for meeting our customers needs lies with our contract directors.
Our approach to working with our customers is set out in our Governing Principles see pages 18 to 19, which aim to empower our contract directors and ensure that we deliver high-quality service.
We maintain relationships at all levels with our customers, so they are aware of how we can help them and we can anticipate their changing needs and identify opportunities at an early stage.
These relationships lie with our divisional and Group leaders.
Our reputation with our existing customers is also vital in winning new work.
Many factors influence our reputation, including: the quality of our service our values and service ethos our capacity to innovate, and our engagement with our employees and other stakeholders, As part of this, we have enhanced the governance of our key such as local communities.
This includes defining the key points of contact between us, writing account plans which set out what We believe that our high rebid and new bid win rates demonstrate we both intend to achieve and commitments to regular meetings.
the strength of our reputation with new and existing customers.
In the UK, we held a conference attended by 50 of our largest Suppliers suppliers, enabling us to brief them on our business, as well Effective procurement contributes to achieving our vision as ways we could work together more closely.
In 2012 we will and delivering high-quality service to our customers.
We are be organising informal regional events for our suppliers to meet professional in all our dealings with suppliers and aim to key Serco people and to network with each other.
Serco works with thousands of smalland medium-sized SME We have a Procurement and Supply Chain team, which is suppliers and we continue to improve our interaction with them.
responsible for putting this approach into practice.
Our businesses This includes setting up a Small Business Advisory Body in the UK, have many common purchasing needs which we strive to fulfil with with representatives of SMEs from across the business.
The Body preferred suppliers, enabling us to achieve better terms and guides us on our communications with and support to SMEs.
conditions and make the most of our scale.
In 2011, we put in place a number of commercial arrangements for services we buy globally, In the US, we have a supplier mentor programme which provides such as telecoms.
Our teams also procure services locally when guidance to small businesses on key matters such as growing their appropriate, drawing on the expertise of our divisional procurement businesses and creating budgets.
We received a Commendation of specialists to manage the process effectively.
Excellence award from the Department of State for exceeding small business subcontracting goals, one of only three contractors to be We continue to focus on developing our supplier relationships.
During 2011, we introduced a supplier relationship management strategy, which will help us to further improve the way we work Our other initiatives include developing a welcome pack, which we with our suppliers.
send to all new suppliers.
This provides information such as how to register as a supplier and how our payment process works.
We also moved to standard payment terms of 30 days in the UK, aligning us with the Governments guidelines on supplier payment.
70 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 Joint venture partners Strategic partners Serco has many joint ventures with commercial partners and We often deliver services as part of a consortium, either as prime customers, examples of which are set out below.
This allows us to bring together companies with the skills to meet the precise requirements of a bid.
In the UK, AWE Management Limited, our highly successful joint venture with Lockheed Martin and Jacobs Engineering Our values and the open and honest way in which we work also Group Inc. manages the Atomic Weapons Establishment.
make us an attractive partner for voluntary sector organisations, We also have a joint venture with Wincanton to provide prisoner who often lack the scale and experience to access major escort and custody services.
Examples include: In Australia, DMS Maritime, our joint venture with P&O Maritime our model for providing welfare to work services in the UK, Services, is a key partner for the Australian Defence Force ADF which utilises a network of commercial and voluntary sector and other agencies.
In partnership with Sodexo, we deliver garrison partners, and support services to the ADF through Serco Sodexo Defence Services Pty Limited.
our partnership with Catch22 and Turning Point at HMP & YOI Doncaster, UK, to reduce reoffending rates and help integrate We also have successful joint ventures with customers.
For example, GSTS Pathology is a joint venture with Guys and St Thomas NHS Foundation Trust and Kings College Hospital Responsibility for relationships with our strategic partners lies NHS Foundation Trust.
ACCESS is our joint venture with Glasgow with the relevant contract and divisional management.
City Council, designed to streamline and maximise the use of the Councils property and ICT assets.
Strong relationships, based on mutual trust and respect and clarity of roles, are essential ingredients if a joint venture is to deliver excellent customer service.
Our divisional management teams are responsible for relationships with our joint venture partners, supported by members of the Group Executive Committee and Board as appropriate.
This includes holding regular strategy and review meetings with our partners.
Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 | 71 Financial statements Governance Our performance Our business Overview
