Section 3 | Our performance Operating Review | Local Government and Commercial Right: The Listening Company opened its ninth major UK contact centre.
Below right: We are a major provider of support services to hospitals.
Below: We made good progress in our first year operating our largest environmental contract at Sandwell, in the UK.
Local Government and Commercial comprises our UK and European IT-enabled BPO services, integrated and environmental services, leisure, education, consulting and commercial businesses.
Revenue on a reported basis grew 1% to 860m 2010: 854m has transferred to Serco, along with delivery of support services and represented 18% of Group revenue.
Excluding the revenue including customer services, procurement, revenues and benefits contribution from the acquisition of The Listening Company, collection and payment, and property services.
The partnership revenue on an organic basis declined by 7%.
Adjusted operating with Peterborough is expected to grow, with further services profit, before corporate expenses, reduced by 6%, with the margin being brought into scope as part of Sercos involvement in the reducing from 6.5% to 6.1%.
The organic revenue decline was driven by the impact of Supplementary work has been added to our other local authority government spending reductions in a number of areas and relationships.
Our ground-breaking strategic partnership with the return of education services to Bradford Council following Hertfordshire County Council commenced in April 2011, providing our successful ten-year intervention contract.
The majority front and back office operations including information and of our regional Business Link services have closed and our communication technology ICT services, business processes businesslink.
uk contract significantly scaled back as a such as finance, payroll and HR, and support services such as result of the funding cuts borne by Regional Development facilities management, customer contact centres and occupational Agencies and central government departments.
The initial 350 staff increased to over 450 in 2011 with the 2010 Comprehensive Spending Review, we have continued to see addition of Hertfordshires customer services centre.
Since the start some customers delay decisions on discretionary project work, of full operations, we have been awarded an extension to the scope which has also impacted margin.
Strong performances in our of our core contract to transform the customer experience and strategic growth markets, including our citizen-centric partnership deliver a much wider scope of services, including adult social care contracts with local authorities, have not been sufficient to offset and highways, which will take staff numbers to over 600 by April the impact of these other areas of funding cuts.
Sercos property and IT joint venture with Glasgow City expect some further impact of the current economic climate, Council, known as ACCESS, has been extended to include ICT this does not alter our belief in the significant market opportunities support for the authoritys secondary schools.
Since the joint and the drivers of future growth in this sector.
venture begun in 2008, our contract value has grown by over 40%.
IT-Enabled BPO Services In March 2011, Serco acquired The Listening Company, a UKSerco won a significant new local authority strategic partnership based provider of outsourced customer contact services to both with Peterborough City Council.
Providing frontline and back private and public sector organisations.
It specialises in bespoke office support services, the contract has an initial value of 100m solutions for managing customer interaction ranging from customer over ten years.
The Councils in-house shared service centre acquisition to retention, renewal and growth, and it operates across 46 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 Right: We continue to grow our IT-enabled BPO work with local authorities.
Below right: Serco is one of the leading private sector partners in education and childrens services.
The business therefore adds significant contact centre scale and expertise which strengthens our capability to deliver high-volume call handling and frontline customer services.
Wins at The Listening Company included becoming the new provider of West Sussex County Councils UK contact centre.
During the year The Listening Company opened its ninth major UK contact centre.
This will manage sales and customer service activity for a range of UK-based organisations, including Shop Direct Group, the UKs largest online and home shopping retailer.
Serco has continued to strengthen its position as a leading provider of services to European institutions.
A contract was successfully rebid to provide a wide range of IT operational and support services to a major European banking organisation, valued at 20m over four years.
This was followed by a new win at the same organisation to provide IT development, security engineering and maintenance activities across the organisations IT infrastructure and application services, worth an estimated 50m over eight years.
A contract was renewed to provide specialist technical engineering support services at the European Organization for Nuclear Research CERN, valued at 42m over seven years.
Other smaller contracts were won at the European Organisation for the Exploitation of Meteorological Satellites, the European Space Operations Centre and the Italian Space Agency.
contract, the Sandwell 25-year Waste Improvement Plan, valued at around 650m.
The new waste transfer station is under Reflecting the delivery of synergies with The Listening Company, development, an improved recycling service has been introduced, Serco expanded its existing IT support services to a major with strong links forged with the local community through a series European institution by winning a contract to provide a voiceof successful community engagement initiatives to improve the based contact centre.
This multilingual contact centre will maintain local environment.
a base capability of at least nine languages but will also support all 25 EU languages whenever required.
Education Reflecting changes to UK government policy within the Education Integrated and Environmental Services Bill 2011, Serco is partnering with councils where schools buy back Serco signed a 15-year partnership with Sport England to provide for the provision of school improvement and related services, with support services at two of Sport Englands National Sports Centres, wins in the second half including North East Lincolnshire Council, Bisham Abbey and Lilleshall.
Under the contract, valued at over Warrington Borough Council and Halton Borough Council.
The 100m, Serco will provide a number of services to these centres combined total value of these and other recent education-related as well as playing a major part in the development of new contracts is estimated at approximately 50m over the next three accommodation and sporting facilities at both sites, and upgrading to five years.
existing facilities and conference venues.
This contract will focus upon delivering the best customer experience at each site.
As previously announced, our ten-year contract with Bradford Supporting the National Governing Bodies of Sport and UK Sport Council came to an end in September 2011 and we transferred the based at these facilities, emphasis will be placed on youth responsibility for all education services back to the Council.
We are development, community engagement and ensuring the facilities delighted with the significant improvements that have been made are managed to give home-grown athletes a competitive over the duration of the contract.
In 2001, SATS Key Stage 2 pupils advantage as they prepare for the London 2012 Olympic and achieving Level 4 or higher was 66% for English and 59% for Maths, Paralympic Games.
with this improving to 71% in each subject in 2011.
In 2001, GCSE pupils achieving five A Cs was 34.3%, improving to 79% in 2011.
Under challenges to meet government recycling targets and reduce Our contract in Walsall has been delivering similar successes, costs such as landfill taxes, Serco has won a new contract for and its schools were confirmed as the eighth most improved at refuse and recycling services for Wandsworth Borough Council five A C GCSEs in 2011.
The contract will end in 2013, reflecting valued at 44m over eight years.
Good progress has also been the shift to direct funding to purchase services previously provided made in the first year of operating Sercos largest environmental through government grants to local education authorities.
Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 | 47 Financial statements Governance Our performance Our business Overview
