Section 3 | Our performance Chairmans Statement Last year, as I spoke of my assessment of Sercos principal strengths in my first statement as Chairman, I identified the breadth of Serco across both geography and sector: our ability to bring people together from across different parts of our business to share experience, skills and ideas: and our application of innovative thinking to derive better service outcomes.
That we have been able to achieve the quality of results of which What these new capabilities make possible is amply evidenced by Chris Hyman writes in detail in his Chief Executives Statement is Serco achieving single bidder status to operate the Anglia Support testament to these strengths against the backdrop of challenging Partnership, our first shared services proposition in the emerging conditions in our largest markets.
To have achieved good organic market for middle and back office support to the UK health sector.
revenue growth, further improvement in operating margins, and Not only does this demonstrate the strength of our BPO credentials contract awards totalling over 5bn when we have seen pressures but also our growing presence in health operations.
This is a sector in certain areas of UK Government spending, in particular in local where expertise demonstrated in one geography has enabled us government, and delays and cancellations of previously anticipated to build a presence in another, which is a key feature of the Serco work in the US, is a great credit to our management and our business model.
Our being selected to provide non-clinical support people, to whom I give my thanks on behalf of the Board for all services at the new Fiona Stanley hospital near Perth in Western their hard work and commitment.
Australia a ten-year contract with a total value of A$1.3bn drew on our proven hospital support services operations in the UK, such Our strategic drive to broaden the base of our business in order to as at the NHS Forth Valley Royal Hospital in Scotland.
In the same increase our resilience and our capability to pursue new commercial way as Forth Valley demonstrated Sercos innovation including opportunities was exemplified by our acquisition of Intelenet, pioneering the use of robots within the service infrastructure, so a leading provider of Business Process Outsourcing BPO services at Fiona Stanley Serco will demonstrate its innovation through to the private sector around the world and in the domestic Indian the integration of non-clinical services applying state-of-the-art market.
Serco has historically been predominantly a provider of technology to ensure the smooth running of the whole hospital.
frontline services on behalf of the public sector.
We have now We see strong prospects for our healthcare services to grow added the ability to service a broad range of middle and back office further in both developed and emerging economies.
requirements and a high-quality private sector customer base that provides excellent referenceability.
These will enable us both to The design of innovative solutions to public sector service provision expand our BPO activity in existing and new markets and offer is central to Sercos ability to grow profitably, particularly when full service solutions front, middle and back to our extensive governments are so focused on delivering more for less.
As a public sector customer base.
The acquisition of Intelenet was for instance, when we successfully rebid the contract to operate complemented by smaller acquisitions of The Listening Company Doncaster Prison, this was based on a new payment by results in the UK and Excelior in Australia, both leading providers of pilot a first for the UK prison sector under which 10% of Sercos outsourced contact centre services in their domestic BPO markets.
annual revenue is contractually dependent upon prisoners not In his statement Chris sets out the enormous potential to be derived reoffending in the year after their release.
from bringing together all of our BPO related skills and capabilities as a new Serco Global Services division.
20 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011
