Section 3 | Our performance Operating Review | Civil Government The Operating Review is presented according to the five divisions into which we were organised in 2011: Civil Government Defence, Science and Nuclear Local Government and Commercial Americas AMEAA Africa, Middle East, Asia and Australasia.
The section outlines contract wins which are significant because of their value or their strategic contribution to our business.
We have also won numerous other smaller and medium-sized contracts, details of some of which can be found on our website at www.
Civil Government includes our UK and European operations in transport, home affairs custodial, immigration and field services, and border security and control, welfare to work and clinical healthcare.
Revenue on a reported basis grew 6% to 1,199m 2010: 1,127m Transport and represented 26% of Group revenue.
Revenue on an organic Northern Rail continues to perform well, with 2011 punctuality basis also increased 6%.
Adjusted operating profit, before metrics of 91.7%, just ahead of the industry average and corporate expenses, increased by 20%, with the margin increasing maintaining the significant improvement achieved over our from 5.9% to 6.6%.
Northern Rail was named Public Transport Operator of the Year Rail at the 2011 National Transport Revenue growth was supported by previous large contract awards Awards, awarded the top transport title from the Royal Society for that became operational or saw revenues build through the course the Prevention of Accidents for the third year running, as well as the of 2010 and 2011.
These included the timing of revenues earned Sustainable Business of the Year for 2011 in the Environment and under the previous Flexible New Deal welfare to work contracts and Energy Awards, supported by Sustainable Business.
In May 2010, passenger growth on the Docklands Light Railway.
The expansion Northern Rail was awarded an extension to its franchise through of the GSTS Pathology joint venture to include Kings College to September 2013.
We expect a further short extension through Hospital NHS Foundation increased revenues but challenged to April 2014, which would see the rebid process begin next year.
the achievement of efficiency improvements.
The overall margin improvement reflected the higher than average bid costs in 2010 Merseyrail has also had a strong operational performance in the and the strong performance in 2011. year, with the majority of its business indicators showing a stable and healthy performance, including punctuality at 95.1%, well above the industry average.
This comes on top of being the UKs most punctual rail operation as well as the most highly rated in terms of customer satisfaction during 2010.
Merseyrail has also achieved the Investors in Excellence Standard, an internationally recognised mark of quality, for achieving continuous improvement as well as ongoing success and sustainability.
Docklands Light Railway saw customer satisfaction improve to 96.7% in December 2011, the best result for four years.
Service reliability has also increased to an average throughout the year of 97.7% of trains running to schedule and passenger growth has continued following the previous years increase in capacity with 40 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 Opposite page, top: The Barclays Cycle Hire Scheme continued to grow its customer numbers.
Below: Our Prisoner Escort and Custody Services contract handles 650 prisoner movements each day.
Top left: Merseyrails punctuality is well above the industry average.
Top: Northern Rail was Public Transport Operator of the Year.
Above: Docklands Light Railway is a key part of the London 2012 Olympic transport network.
the full roll-out of the three-carriage service.
Docklands Light Home Affairs Railway was highly commended twice in the annual Light Rail The UK Governments Ministry of Justice awarded Serco a contract Awards for the quality of its customer communication and to provide Prisoner Escort and Custody Services within the new community engagement.
In August 2011, the Stratford International National Offender Management Service NOMS region of London extension opened, a key part of the London 2012 Olympic and and the East of England, with a potential value to Serco of 420m Paralympic transport network: it includes four new stations and over ten years.
This new contract replaces Sercos previous connects five Games venues.
agreement to provide prisoner escorting services to the NOMS regions of London and the South-East, which had reached the Sercos partnership of the Barclays Cycle Hire scheme continued end of its seven-year term.
Serco is working in partnership with to see growth in customer numbers which brought some Wincanton plc to provide the safe, timely and secure transportation operational challenges: Serco has implemented a number of of prisoners between police stations, courts and HM Prisons.
changes to deliver improved service standards on this innovative Whilst at court, Serco staff manage custody suites and accompany scheme.
Since the launch in August 2010, more than ten million prisoners in courtroom docks.
The contract solution brings together journeys have been made.
The success of the scheme has seen experience and expertise to deliver an innovative approach, Serco awarded an expanded contract by Transport for London high-quality services and considerable savings for the taxpayer.
to support growth to East London, adding new docking stations in West London and an increase in the number available in the Serco was awarded the contract to continue operating HM Prison existing area.
The expansion will add over 200 new docking and Young Offender Institution Doncaster in the UK.
The new stations, approximately 4,500 new docking points and 2,300 new contract commenced in October 2011 and is valued at around bikes into the scheme.
On average 25,000 customers use Barclays 250m over 15 years.
As part of the contract, management and Cycle Hire each day and the scheme now has over 140,000 staff are working in partnership with social enterprise Turning Point registered customers.
The contract expansion is in total valued at and the leading charity Catch22 to pilot a rehabilitation programme, approximately 50m and will run until 2015, in line with the existing on a payment by results basis, to reduce reoffending.
This is the 140m six-year contract awarded to Serco in August 2009. first such pilot in the UK, and the Secretary of State for Justice has Recognition for the scheme has included an Infrastructure Award described its success as central to the Governments rehabilitation at the Institution of Civil Engineers Awards, Innovative Transport reform strategy.
Project at the London Transport Awards and a Design of the Year award at the Brit Insurance Design Awards for innovation from around the world.
Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 | 41 Financial statements Governance Our performance Our business Overview Section 3 | Our performance Operating Review | Civil Government Far right and below right: Serco is working with a strong network of organisations to help long-term unemployed people into employment.
Right: We are piloting an offender rehabilitation programme on a payment by results basis at HMP & YOI Doncaster.
The new prison at Belmarsh West in London, to be known as Welfare to Work HMP Thameside, will become operational from 30 March 2012.
On 30 June 2011, Serco began operating two new contracts The contract has a value to Serco of approximately 415m over to deliver the Work Programme in the West Midlands and 26 years.
Serco-operated HMP Lowdham Grange received the South Yorkshire for the UK Department for Work and Pensions.
highest possible performance rating in NOMS annual survey and Serco is working with a strong network of some 33 organisations, was described by the HM Chief Inspector of Prisons recent report around half of which are from the voluntary sector, so jobseekers as among the most impressive category B training prisons in the can benefit from a rich mix of experience and expertise.
HMP & YOI Ashfield was also described as impressive by same start-up period, our Work Programme performance is ahead the Chief Inspector, and HMP Dovegate, working with Staffordshire of that under the previous Flexible New Deal contracts.
In initial University, has helped to professionalise prison staff by developing performance data released by the Department for Work and the first Foundation Degree in Offender Management.
Pensions, our contracts are ranked top out of all 40, thereby ranking Serco the top provider out of all 18.
Our contract to manage Yarls Wood Immigration Removal Centre has been extended by two years.
The contract has also been Revenues received under our previous Flexible New Deal contracts expanded to include provision for male residents, increasing the were greater than the previous year.
This reflected the anticipated total value of the extension to approximately 25m.
build-up of activity in the first half of the year and the successful cessation of the contracts in July 2011.
These contracts have Serco signed a new contract as prime contractor with the UK supported the entry of over 25,000 people into sustainable Border Agency to provide service management for the e-Borders employment since October 2009. system, valued at 29m over two years.
Having successfully agreed the cessation of the previous arrangements as a subcontractor, Serco has been awarded two new contracts by the UK Ministry the new contract means Serco continues to operate the e-Borders of Justice to help ex-offenders into work in the South-East and service and the National Border Targeting Centre, which is the East of England.
The four-year contracts, valued in total at 15m, central hub of the multi-agency border security system.
Together are the second phase of an initiative called Job Deal which aims with our ongoing support to the UK Border Agencys CYCLAMEN to support ex-offenders into work by improving their employment programme, which provides radiological and nuclear scanning prospects and tackling barriers to employment.
Serco already at ports, this means that Serco is making a significant contribution delivers the first phase of Job Deal in these two regions via to national security and public safety.
a network of subcontractors from the charitable, voluntary and private sectors.
The contracts are co-financed by the European Social Fund and NOMS.
42 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 Far right and centre: Our GSTS Pathology joint venture added Kings College Hospital as a partner.
Below and right: Braintree Community Hospital provides a comprehensive range of services to day surgery patients.
Health To expand our clinical capabilities, Serco has acquired for 1.6m Braintree Clinical Services Limited, which manages and operates the Braintree Community Hospital in the UK on behalf of the Mid-Essex Primary Care Trust.
The recently built hospital provides a comprehensive range of services to day surgery patients Above: We are a leading provider under one roof.
These include general surgery, plastic surgery, of custodial health services.
orthopaedics, ophthalmology and the diagnosis of ear, nose and throat disorders.
It also provides outpatients, diagnostic services and has 24 community in-patient beds.
Sercos aim is to make the best use of the state-of-the-art facilities to improve local healthcare.
Serco has consolidated its position as one of the UKs leading providers of primary healthcare support with the signing of a renewed contract with NHS Cornwall and Isles of Scilly for GP out-of-hours care.
Serco has provided this service to more than half a million people since April 2006, working closely with local acute healthcare providers and community services to manage unscheduled care in its entirety.
The five-year contract has a total value of approximately 32m.
Our GSTS Pathology joint venture has now obtained substantial scale having added Kings College Hospital as a further partner.
This increased 2011 revenues compared to the previous year.
There remains significant management focus on delivering greater efficiency improvements in 2012.
Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 | 43 Financial statements Governance Our performance Our business Overview
