Section 2 | Our business Our business model Our business model draws on our competitive advantages, which enable us to create value for our stakeholders.
In particular, we have: a broad business with significant scope and scale, which allows Summary of the Business Lifecycle us to pick the best opportunities in whichever market or country Governance Process they occur the ability to transfer our skills around the world, helping us to Selecting markets 1 open up new markets the experience to bring fresh perspectives to customers problems, for example by creating new contracting or partnership models or bringing together unique combinations of skills from across the Group Identifying opportunities 2 a devolved structure and a strong management system, which empower our people by pushing responsibility for service delivery to the contract level.
This structure also makes our business scalable, enabling us to manage a growing contract portfolio a strong track record of delivery and a reputation for high-quality Bidding selectively 3 service, which helps us to retain contracts and to win new ones long-term customer relationships, some of which span several decades, which allow us to fully understand our customers needs, increase the scope of the work we do for them and enhance our chances of retaining the contract at rebid.
Transitioning effectively 4 Our competitive advantages underpin our Business Lifecycle Governance Process, which formalises Sercos approach to value creation and managing the associated risks.
The Business Lifecycle Governance Process The Business Lifecycle Governance Process is part of the Serco Management System SMS.
We use it to: Delivering operational excellence 5 determine the markets we want to be in bid successfully for contracts that add most value transition these contracts to deliver this value, and Deciding to rebid 6 retain and grow them.
Yes No 7 Rebidding 8 Exit 16 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 1 Selecting markets 5 Delivering operational excellence We look for markets that: We aim to deliver operational excellence and continual improvement.
are politically and economically stable Devolving responsibility to our contract directors allows them to innovate and respond to our customers needs.
The SMS sets offer multiple contracts and good growth out our control framework, ensuring we work safely and responsibly, and safeguard the needs of our stakeholders, people and Serco.
provide appropriate margins and cash flow, and Every decision we make must be in line with our Governing Principles see pages 18 to 19. allow us to differentiate ourselves from the competition.
Working in the right way helps us to build long-term relationships.
We also analyse many other factors, including: This often leads to the customer expanding our contract during its life, which is important for our growth.
It also positions us to win the markets drivers the contract at rebid.
our understanding of the customers and the way they procure 6 Deciding to rebid any ethical or human rights issues, and As we near the end of a contract, we decide whether or not to rebid it.
whether we can provide an attractive working environment for our people.
We will choose to rebid a contract because: In new markets, we also consider our entry strategy and whether the market continues to grow and can support our margin we need an innovative contracting model.
requirements, and the opportunity represents a good return on our investment.
2 Identifying opportunities Once we know the market is attractive, we identify opportunities to pursue.
We then test the quality of each opportunity, including: 7 Rebidding Our long-term relationships and service quality help us retain our understanding of the customers business and vision around 90% of our contracts at rebid and extension.
their funding for the project, and We approach the rebid as if it were a new contract, designing ways to deliver even greater quality and productivity.
Often the customer how likely they are to procure.
requests more services over a longer term, so a rebid can be considerably larger than the original contract.
We also compare opportunities against each other, to determine the best use of our resources.
Once we have secured the rebid, we return to the transition phase, bedding-in our innovations and any new services we have taken on.
3 Bidding selectively Bidding can be expensive and take many months, so we only bid 8 Exit for opportunities that meet our criteria and where we have a strong When we finish a contract, we do so in the right way.
Where appropriate, we work closely with the incoming contractor The bidding stage has numerous steps, from our initial submission, to protect the interests of both the customer and any people who to being shortlisted, to our final bid.
During the process, we develop will transfer from us when our contract ends.
This is also important a detailed solution for the customer and test it thoroughly.
At every because we may have other contracts with the customer or want step we review the opportunity and confirm that we want to proceed.
to work with them in the future.
Once the customer selects us, the final step is to negotiate and sign the contract.
4 Transitioning effectively Effectively transitioning a new contract is vital.
We ensure that we have the right planning and controls in place to start work seamlessly on day one, as we implement the solution we developed during bidding.
We also transfer knowledge from the bid team to the contract management, and continue to strengthen our customer and stakeholder relationships.
Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 | 17 Financial statements Governance Our performance Our business Overview Overview
