Section 3 | Our performance Market opportunities and drivers This section on market opportunities and drivers reflects our new organisational structure: UK and Europe Americas AMEAA Africa, Middle East, Asia, and Australasia Global Services.
Right: The UK custodial sector continues to open up and modernise.
UK & Europe In the area of non-custodial sentencing, other opportunities include The UK represents our most developed market, accounts for the Community Payback schemes, the first of which to come to market vast majority of our operations in Europe as a whole, and continues is the London region, with Serco bidding in partnership with the to show future growth potential with markets such as justice and London Probation Trust.
We are also on a national framework to bid healthcare already becoming increasingly active.
As well as an for further regions.
In the growing market for court fines enforcement, increasing focus on economic growth, there remains a clear fiscal Serco acquired in October 2011 Philips Collection Services Limited, imperative for the UKs coalition government to reduce the countrys the UKs largest independent revenue recovery company.
budget deficit within its originally prescribed timeline.
This deficit reduction plan has led to spending cuts in public sector markets.
Serco was recently selected by the UK Border Agency as preferred However, competitive outsourcing remains a solution to funding bidder to deliver the COMPASS project in two regions, providing pressures as well as a means of improving the standard of services, accommodation, associated services and transport for asylum with numerous markets already presenting new opportunities or applicants.
Expected to commence in late 2012, this contract would being under active review.
draw upon our skills in a number of related services, reinforces an already strong customer relationship and positions Serco for further Demonstrating continued political will in this direction, The Open similar opportunities in other markets.
Public Services White Paper represents ambitious plans to introduce greater competition and reform into more areas of public services.
The demand for police operational support is expected to grow as There is a particular emphasis on the promotion of more complex forces, such as West Midlands and Surrey, seek to concentrate on contract and delivery vehicles, greater involvement of the third frontline delivery of service to the public and look for private sector sector and SMEs, partnering models and payment by outcomes.
partners to manage their middle and back office functions.
Serco is highly experienced in these areas and has a proven track record of efficient, high-quality and innovative service provision.
Health We therefore expect to continue making progress in our core market.
In health we are seeing the emergence of a global market for enabling services that combine facilities management, support Home Affairs services and patient administration to improve service quality and Following an initial market testing of existing public sector prisons productivity.
These services are enabled by high-quality technology in early 2011, a further nine prisons eight in the public sector and solutions and an engaged workforce.
Our successes in the UK one being run by a private sector operator are currently being and recently in Western Australia position us well in this market.
competed with the outcome expected in late 2012.
This forms part of the UK Ministry of Justice programme of opening up and In clinical services we continue to develop opportunities to operate modernising the custodial sector, set out in its Competition both hospital and community-based services, either on our own Strategy for Offender Services published in July 2011. or in partnership with some of the worlds best clinical operators.
28 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 Above left: We are developing opportunities to operate hospital and community-based clinical services.
Above: A global market is emerging for health support services.
Left: The UKs armed forces are seeking new ways of delivering and supporting frontline services.
In the UK, the market is driven by the impact of fiscal pressure Defence and Science and the proposed structural reforms, whilst in global markets After recent reviews into the structure and management of the we anticipate that investment in establishing healthcare systems MOD and the UKs armed forces, new ways of working and more will underpin both enabling and clinical service opportunities.
radical approaches are being sought for the delivery and support of frontline services.
Serco is well placed to provide support for Transport, Welfare and Local Government innovative models for change management, transition and the In transportation, our recent contract to expand the Barclays Cycle provision of other complex integrated services.
Hire scheme and the operation of the Docklands Light Railway through the Olympic period will support short-term growth.
Serco Additional opportunities are expected to emerge in the defence now has excellent credentials in urban transport systems which market for such services as infrastructure management and asset position us well for future growth in the UK and elsewhere around management, business process and whole enterprise outsourcing, the world.
Our other UK rail franchises in Northern Rail and and technical and engineering services.
In the energy field there Merseyrail continue to deliver growth in passenger numbers is an emerging market for delivering energy management services and achieve strong operational metrics.
to industry to help businesses reduce their energy bills and thereby reduce their carbon footprint and become more efficient.
As a leading welfare to work provider, we continue to assess the market potential in what is a significant area of government Our involvement in managing and operating critical assets such expenditure both in the UK and internationally.
Our two Work as the Atomic Weapons Establishment and leading Public Sector Programme contracts have started well and build upon our Research Establishments such as the National Nuclear Laboratory experience and success in the previous Flexible New Deal and National Physical Laboratory, also present a number of related contracts.
Our place on the Department for Work and Pensions opportunities.
This includes further whole enterprise outsourcing Framework for the Provision of Employment Related Services as well as delivering growth through existing customer relationships enables us to bid for tenders in seven UK regions, including as we add additional responsibilities to drive further efficiencies.
opportunities that attract European Social Fund support.
Americas In local government frontline services, reductions in funding and The US federal government services industry faced dramatic increased service demands from citizens are driving more interest challenges in 2011 given the federal budget pressures, growing in strategic partnering, service sharing and personalisation of national debt and uncertainty created by the inability of the services.
This is expected to support growth in environmental government to reach agreement on budget priorities.
This services and other opportunities in integrated facilities management.
uncertainty resulted in delays in contract awards, cancellations to previously anticipated work and the reduction in scope of existing task orders.
The bidding environment in many segments has Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 | 29 Financial statements Governance Our performance Our business Overview Section 3 | Our performance Market opportunities and drivers become increasingly competitive, reinforced by the governments greater emphasis on price.
For the government fiscal year to September 2012, all federal budgets have been approved with relatively flat spending levels compared to the previous year.
However, the industry is likely to face continued short-term attrition due to the ongoing uncertainty regarding budget levels beyond this.
Given the upcoming Presidential election and gridlock in Congress on how to deal with the national debt, we do not expect much clarity or improvement in contracting conditions until 2013.
Despite these challenges, Serco continues to see attractive mediumand longer-term growth opportunities in the Americas division.
The US Federal government services market remains the largest in the world, with over $300bn spent annually on contracted services, out of which $125bn is addressable by Serco.
Within this market, Serco focuses on six key areas, with an established track record in each: Communication & Information Systems: Logistics & Program Management: National Intelligence: Human Capital Management: Business Process Outsourcing: and Transportation & Asset Management.
As the federal government seeks to adjust to a tightening budget environment, we expect to see a broad range of opportunities to grow our business by helping customers to achieve more with limited resources.
We are focusing our portfolio towards cost analysis to help the military and other government agencies long-term higher growth markets that are less susceptible to to achieve procurement cost savings.
Incorporating these skills margin pressures, so as to respond to the new fiscal realities into our programme management support services can provide and competitive landscape.
additional opportunities with the Intelligence community and across the defense sector.
Within information technology-related services, Command, Control, Communications, Computer, Intelligence, Surveillance The transportation and infrastructure asset management markets and Reconnaissance support continues to be in strong demand, are also expected to see good growth opportunities.
The growth reflected by further task orders from the US Navy and US Air Force.
of global air travel and the move to space-based air traffic control Related opportunities with the federal civilian agencies are expected sees Serco well placed as one of the worlds largest private sector from government-mandated migration of data and applications to Air Navigation Services Providers.
In surface transportation, our the cloud, enabling the government to eliminate redundant data growing reputation in traffic management systems, operations and centres and infrastructure, and lower operating costs.
The back office processing may open up further prospects in state and Department of Defense is expected to increase its focus on areas local markets in the US and Canada.
such as Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance, unmanned assets, space and cybersecurity.
Specifically for our navy customers, While general market conditions are likely to remain challenging we expect growth through modernisation work to extend the service in 2012, the Company continues to pursue a strong pipeline of life of the existing fleet.
opportunities across the federal government including the US Army, US Navy, US Air Force, Department of Homeland Security, Federal Demand for human capital management services will be supported Aviation Administration, Veterans Affairs, the intelligence community, by future changes to the size and shape of the armed forces, Department of State, and various Canadian government bodies.
as the military transitions returning combatants to domestic stations and civilian status, and looks to provide increased health and AMEAA social services.
Defence and federal civilian agencies are adopting The AMEAA region is experiencing the fastest growth of our portfolio new tools and technologies for recruiting and training, as well and still presents some of our strongest market opportunities and as other specialised human capital services to manage drivers for future growth.
Having grown to represent around 17% transformation programmes.
of Group revenue, the region accounted for over a quarter of the Groups pipeline as at 31 December 2011.
Our existing operations In BPO, modernising legacy systems and delivering more in Australasia, the Middle East and India each present strong cost-effective solutions are expected to result in considerable prospects, with other territories in the Middle East and South East opportunities in areas such as records and application Asia offering possible further potential.
In another area, Serco has been providing economic 30 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 Opposite page, top: We continue to see attractive mediumand longer-term opportunities in the Americas division.
Opposite page, bottom: The AMEAA region presents some of our strongest market opportunities.
Right: We expect the BPO market to continue to show attractive growth.
In Australia, while volume-related activity in contracts such as our work with Australias immigration services may reduce, there remains a growing range of opportunities.
In the justice sector we see a number of new-build and existing prisons being put to the market as governments deal with capacity and efficiency challenges.
Serco is strongly placed through its excellent track record and recent wins in the custodial markets in Australia and New Zealand.
Following recent contract awards there are related opportunities in the youth justice and court escorting markets, as well as other areas of justice support.
Our defence strategy in Australia has a firm base of garrison support and navy support Global Services contracts to build from, with further potential from systems As referenced in the Chief Executives Statement section on pages integration and back office function support as performed 25 to 26, Serco is forming a new Global Services division.
This new in some of our other geographic markets.
division will bring together a number of related operations and capabilities currently reported and managed in different Serco We continue to pursue the emerging health markets in Australia, divisions.
It will enhance our market position and bring together the Hong Kong and the Middle East, as governments encourage common market opportunities and drivers in the provision of middle the private and voluntary sectors to develop models for the build, and back office services.
finance and operation of hospitals.
The Fiona Stanley Hospital contract represents a significant development, building upon As companies and public sector organisations seek out new ways substantial experience and expertise from our operations within to improve their service and reduce costs, we expect the BPO UK hospitals and our other healthcare services in Australia.
market to continue to show attractive growth and opportunities.
Our acquisition of Intelenet has significantly enhanced Sercos The Middle East continues to show strength and resilience to the positioning in this market, bringing highly valued capabilities and economic downturn as governments progress with their social a strong customer base, which together with economies of scale, infrastructure improvement programmes while seeking value for and a presence across four continents mean we can access new money and whole-life asset management.
Growth in the region opportunities and strengthen our existing propositions.
Intelenet has will be supported from expansion both in terms of new sectors a significant pipeline of opportunities across its five vertical markets and new territories.
Significant opportunities are emerging in of: Banking, Financial Services & Insurance: Travel, Hospitality & the healthcare market and other integrated facilities management Transportation: Healthcare, Utility, Retail & Manufacturing: Telecom, areas including in the education and commercial sectors: in Technology & Online Services: and Media, Education & Government.
support of this, we made a small acquisition of JBI Properties With the selection for the Anglia Support Partnership, the first Services Company LLC, which specialises in integrated facilities revenue synergies arising from having Intelenet within Serco are management in the region.
With new capabilities in middle and back office services, our integrated offering will present further such Building on our leadership in air traffic control and metro opportunities to transform public services.
systems we continue to see a strong pipeline in aviation, urban transportation and related services.
Countries such as Saudi Our work with local authorities to help them transform their services Arabia, Qatar and Kuwait have taken significant steps to improve show a strong pipeline of opportunities.
Sercos existing IT-enabled transparency and adopt international best practices for their BPO service delivery and credentials are strong, as represented by procurement processes, and are starting to present new longerexisting operations at Hertfordshire County Council and Glasgow term prospects for the Group.
City Council, both of which have been expanding, and recent wins such as Peterborough City Council.
There are numerous In India, our frontline service capabilities offer opportunities similar strategic partnerships in our pipeline, with local authorities in sectors such as transport including rail, traffic management increasingly looking for a customer-centric approach and private and aviation, as well as healthcare and education, with major sector expertise.
infrastructure investment being made in each.
For example, a number of light metro rail and urban traffic projects are being The smaller acquisitions of The Listening Company in the UK developed.
Our presence in the Indian domestic BPO market has and Excelior in Australia are also key components of our future been significantly enhanced to a leading position by the acquisition proposition as their significant onshore contact centre capabilities of Intelenet.
allow us to promote easier access to frontline services as well as encouraging the migration to the use of more effective and efficient customer contact channels.
We expect this to enhance our capability to deliver both public sector transformation programmes and improve our market position to support the private sector.
Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 | 31 Financial statements Governance Our performance Our business Overview
