Section 3 | Our performance Our strategy in action Serco has a clear strategy for achieving our partnership, for example, can help us to build vision.
The case studies on the following a balanced portfolio and ensure that we pages show some of the ways that we put deliver high-quality service.
New ideas can this strategy into action during 2011.
We have include developing new models or finding grouped the case studies into key themes ways to enhance our service.
Developing for our business partnership, new ideas, new markets through strategic acquisitions developing new markets and transferring will, in turn, give us a platform for organic skills around the world.
growth that broadens our contract portfolio.
The contracts and businesses in these More information on our strategy and our achievements case studies typically illustrate more than during the year can be found on page 14 one aspect of our strategy.
Working in Partnership Working in partnership is fundamental to our business.
It can mean forming a relationship with other companies or the third sector, working hand in hand with our customers or acting alongside public and community bodies.
32 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 Above: Our partnership with Top right: Part of our work with the Catch22 and Turning Point Defense Ammunition Center is to at Doncaster Prison aims to ensure military personnel have the reduce reoffending.
Left: Working with Wincanton Right: Joining with local partners will help us deliver further savings has helped us create jobs in and innovation for our customer.
Serco has provided prisoner escort and custody services to the UK The Defense Ammunition Center DAC is the US militarys Ministry of Justice since the mid-1990s.
When the contract came up one-stop shop for explosive safety.
Our contract started in 2004, for renewal, we wanted a partner who could help us deliver further with four Serco people supporting DACs purchase of a learning savings and innovation.
management system to provide tools and training to support the storage and handling of explosive materials, both at home and Our partnership with Wincanton combines Sercos custodial and in overseas theatres of war.
Since then, through our successful people care expertise with Wincantons knowledge of logistics partnership with DAC, this project has grown to include 20 full-time and vehicles.
For our 1,240 employees, managing 184 vehicles, Serco people providing training, academic services, knowledge covering 131 police stations, 73 courts and 25 prisons in London management and support to DACs programme management and the East of England, Wincanton has helped introduce new office.
Our close relationship also helps us to innovate and meet routing and scheduling technology which is vital to our operation DACs evolving needs.
For example, Serco has developed two with some 650 daily prisoner transfers and movements.
Together, iPhone applications to give military personnel access to the latest we have developed more adaptable vehicles, allowing us to cater learning materials and explosive safety information.
for differing prisoner needs, such as for pregnant women and young people.
We have optimised our bases, using two existing Our welfare-to-work contracts use partnerships with the third Serco and five new Wincanton sites.
The outcome is lower cost, sector to help long-term unemployed people into work.
But weve greater visibility of our vehicle availability and deployment, reduced also created another partnership with the Welsh Assembly, waiting times for prisoners and a more flexible service.
Denbighshire County Council, Rhyl City Strategy and Jobcentre Plus to catalyse the regeneration of Edward Henry Street in Rhyl, At HMP & YOI Doncaster, our partnership with charity Catch22 and part of one of the most deprived communities in Wales.
By locating social enterprise Turning Point aims to reduce reoffending.
It draws a business processing centre there, we have created local jobs on our work inside the prison and our partners volunteer networks, for local people.
Several of our employees from Rhyl have already which support young people and those with substance abuse gone on to other roles within Serco, a real achievement in an problems.
Prisoners are allocated a Catch22 case manager on area where many thought they would never work again.
The local arrival, who assesses their needs and works with them during their authority and the Welsh Assembly have since bought houses time in custody and, crucially, in the community following their in the street with the aim of building on our initiative and turning release from prison when they are most at risk of reoffending.
the street into an in-town business park.
Doncaster is now the worlds first prison to have fully scaled payment by results built into its contract.
This means that 10% of our revenue depends on achieving a five percentage point reduction in reconviction rates.
We believe our shared values and alliance with specialist organisations will allow us to succeed.
Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 | 33 Financial statements Governance Our performance Our business Overview Section 3 | Our performance Our strategy in action New ideas Our customers often need to achieve more with tight budgets, so they value fresh thinking and new perspectives.
This might mean using technology, creating systems that improve efficiency or developing new contracting models.
34 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 Left: We use the latest technology to provide excellent patient nutrition to support patient care.
Below: Our unique project tracking system saved our customer money when we fitted a new computer system on the USS Nimitz.
Opposite page: We developed a collaborative model to finance alternative radar technology.
At the Forth Valley Royal Hospital in Scotland, we use the latest assurance and earned value management.
Every day, our people technology to support patient care.
Uniquely, we were able to submitted reports, which were fed into the system and weighted contribute to the hospitals design, ensuring it was simple to clean according to the project stage.
We audited the installation as we and maintain and that it could accommodate robotic systems.
went along, testing the trackers accuracy and giving our customer These systems take care of logistical tasks such as moving waste, comfort.
This allowed us to adjust our staffing levels, saving the linen and catering around the hospital.
This allows our people to customer US$0.5m from a US$10m budget.
We have since rolled the concentrate on making a difference to the patient experience.
system out across our Engineering business unit in North America.
Nutrition is vital to patient welfare, for example, so we introduced an In the UK, we have developed a model that combines the introduction electronic food ordering system.
A ward housekeeper comes to the of technology with new funding.
This is enabling major windfarm patients bedside and enters their meal choice into a PDA, sending projects, which will help the Department of Energy and Climate Change it to chefs who cook the meals on-site.
Food is delivered to the to meet its commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
wards using robots, keeping it fresh and allowing our staff to plate it at the bedside.
They can then adjust portions to the patients Windfarms interfere with radar systems that form a vital part appetite, making the meal more appealing and cutting waste to of UK security.
Serco has gained a detailed knowledge of radar less than 5%.
In a recent NHS Scotland survey, Forth Valley scored performance through a long-standing maintenance contract.
99% for standards of patient nutrition and we have also received We knew that introducing an alternative radar technology would numerous awards for innovation and cleanliness.
solve the problem and allow the governments defence and renewable energy commitments to co-exist.
In the US, a Serco-developed system has enhanced our project management and saved money for customers.
When we installed With the government facing budget constraints, we instigated a new computer system on the USS Nimitz, we needed an accurate a collaborative model, under which the energy companies that are way of tracking our progress.
The USS Nimitz is one of the worlds building the windfarms pool their budgets, raising enough money largest warships, so the job was vast, involving 40 racks of to finance an area radar solution and safeguarding the companies equipment and more than 100 miles of cable.
We have installed one device, with a second scheduled for 2012 and a third for 2013, which will ensure Traditionally progress could only be estimated, so projects were that all the stakeholders interests are met.
often heavily staffed to ensure that deadlines were hit.
Our solution was a unique tracking system that showed objectively what we had achieved.
The system, known as Sercos Program Integrated Reporting and Installation Tracker SPIRIT, combines quality Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 | 35 Financial statements Governance Our performance Our business Overview Section 3 | Our performance Our strategy in action Developing new markets Broadening our contract portfolio provides an additional platform for organic growth.
Making strategic acquisitions often assists this.
They allow us to gain new skills and to enter markets where we see attractive opportunities.
36 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 In 2011, we built a significant capability in business process Innovative customer management capability like this opens new outsourcing, a fast-growing and higher margin segment of the opportunities for Serco to provide truly transformational solutions services market.
for organisations in both the public and private sectors.
As part of this, we acquired The Listening Company, a UK-based Health is another growth market for Serco and in 2011 we bought business employing over 4,000 people providing multichannel the company which manages Braintree Community Hospital in customer management services to organisations in the public and the UK, which delivers NHS care on behalf of Mid-Essex Primary private sectors.
This gives us direct experience of clinical delivery, to add to our long-standing capabilities in non-clinical services.
Faced with the challenge to reduce costs while still attracting, The hospital provides a range of clinical services, including day retaining and developing customer relationships, organisations surgery, outpatients, imaging, physiotherapy, endoscopy, a rapid are increasingly turning to lower cost web self service channels assessment unit and a 24-bed inpatient ward.
to expand the capabilities of the traditional contact centre.
The Listening Company has used web chat to successfully Serco has effectively transformed the hospital, developing improved drive incremental online sales for BT since 2007. policies, procedures and processes, and enhancing its systems.
A critical innovation was building a partnership with the Mid-Essex Visitors to BTs consumer and business websites can browse Hospital Services NHS Trust, creating a unique arrangement under for information on BTs products and services.
If they appear which Mid-Essex provides consultants to Braintree.
It also includes to be having difficulty, they can be presented with a personalised an agreement for the types of cases Braintree should handle, with invitation to chat directly with a specialist at The Listening Company, more complex cases referred directly on to Mid-Essex.
The result who will seamlessly guide them through what they want to achieve.
has been a transformation in service quality, with many of Braintrees Through The Listening Company, BT is able to proactively reach key performance indicators such as waiting times turned from red more customers, to sell more products and services, and feed to green.
We have also maintained a 0% infection rate since taking information directly into their marketing teams, strengthening the over the hospital.
consistency of brand messages and improving the quality of their website.
Braintree now gives us a valuable reference point for future bids.
The hospital straddles both community and acute care, which will help us to bid for community health services and potentially for other failing hospitals.
Our experience is also giving us pointers for enhancing our non-clinical services and we will be using this knowledge as we design the services we will be providing at the Fiona Stanley Hospital in Australia.
Opposite page and top: Acquisitions such as Intelenet and The Listening Company give us significant global BPO capability.
Left: Our work at Braintree Community Hospital gives us a valuable reference point for future bids.
Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 | 37 Financial statements Governance Our performance Our business Overview Section 3 | Our performance Our strategy in action Transferring skills Our ability to transfer skills around the world and adapt them to local needs opens up new and exciting opportunities for us.
38 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 In 2011, we signed a major new contract with the Western The Mount Eden Corrections Facility in New Zealand is the first in Australian Department of Health to provide non-clinical support the country to be transferred from the public to the private sector.
services at the new Fiona Stanley Hospital near Perth.
The winning In February 2011, we signed the contract to run Mount Eden, using bid was the result of a partnership between our AMEAA and UK an operational model based on the one we developed at HMP & divisions, drawing on experience of UK hospital services and YOI Doncaster in the UK.
For example, one of the key concepts AMEAAs deep understanding of the customer, local government in our bid was to introduce performance measurement around procurement and the health system.
reducing reoffending, drawing on the work we have done at Doncaster.
We are also building strong links to the local community.
Serco will be responsible for providing nearly 30 different non-clinical services, ranging from procurement to IT to human The transition process was complex: we took over an existing resources.
When the hospital opens in 2014 we will use state-of-theprison, closed an old one and opened a new site within three art technology to integrate our work with the clinical services and months, while implementing the first-ever national ban on smoking staff, creating a seamless environment.
The contract team benefits in prison.
We achieved this without disrupting services to the from our experience at our UK hospitals, including Forth Valley courts or suffering a major incident.
We also worked hard with Royal Hospital in Scotland, where we provide many similar services manawhenua groups to incorporate Maori values alongside our in a high-technology environment, but the breadth of our role at own value system, as we introduced an ethos of decency and Fiona Stanley is even greater and will in turn develop new and respect for prisoners.
This has already delivered important changes valuable skills for us.
Our strong brand of prisoner engagement helped reduce violent incidents by around 15% and virtually eliminated We have an outstanding reputation for air traffic control ATC self-harm incidents at the new site.
Nowhere is this reputation stronger than in the Middle East, where we have successfully operated in the ATC market for some 60 years.
This stood us in good stead as Iraq emerged from a post-conflict era.
It recognised the importance of rejoining the aviation community and needed a partner that could help it develop ATC services to international standards.
We were able to leverage our global ATC knowledge to win the contract.
In a team effort, experienced Serco staff from the Middle East helped to manage the mobilisation and transition of the contract.
Our people on the ground, meanwhile, also had to adapt to Iraqs unique and challenging conditions.
During 2011, the US military handed vast tracts of airspace back to the Iraqi civilian authorities, with substantial assistance from Serco.
These processes can take years but we achieved it all in less than ten months.
In addition, we introduced internationally recognised ATC procedures, to increase the capacity for aircraft flying through the airspace generating more revenue for Iraq and have begun training local people to develop Iraqs ATC expertise.
The outcome has been significant month-on-month growth in air traffic, outstripping global and regional growth by some margin.
Sercos efforts have resulted in an approximate 30% increase in overflying traffic since the contract started on 1 January 2011.
Above: Our operational model at Mount Eden Corrections Facility in New Zealand is based on one we developed in the UK.
Left: The contract team at Fiona Stanley Hospital near Perth benefits from our experience at our UK hospitals where we provide similar services.
Opposite page: We are leveraging our global air traffic control experience in Iraq.
Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 | 39 Financial statements Governance Our performance Our business Overview
