Section 2 | Our business Our strategy Each element of our strategy contributes to reducing our exposure to market fluctuations, strengthening our position in our markets and developing new skills and capabilities for the future.
Strategy Description Key achievements in 2011 Building a We aim to reduce risk and increase Our performance in 2011 shows the benefit of a balanced portfolio, opportunities by building a balanced contract with the strongest growth coming from the AMEAA region and 44% balanced portfolio, across markets.
This reduces our of our revenue now generated in markets outside the UK.
portfolio exposure to market fluctuations, enables us to select the best opportunities whichever market We also continued to strengthen our portfolio, with 4.7bn of contracts they are in, and allows us to transfer expertise signed and a further 0.4bn of preferred bidder appointments.
from one market to another.
The formation of our Global Services division in 2012 will further develop our balance, with its emphasis on middle and back office service provision for which there are significant opportunities in the private sector.
Delivering Delivering excellent service means meeting The quality of our service is reflected in our high contract win rates.
and often exceeding customer expectations.
We continued to win 90% of rebids and extensions, and one in two excellent We do this by having the responsible new bids.
service behaviours enshrined in our values at the We also frequently receive external recognition for our work.
Some heart of everything we do.
examples of our awards and commendations in 2011 can be found under A year in the life of Serco on pages 4 to 5.
This enables us to build long-term customer relationships, to expand the scope and scale of contracts during their life, retain contracts at rebid and win new contracts.
Making While we are primarily focused on organic The acquisitions of Intelenet, a leading provider of international BPO, growth, we make acquisitions to gain skills The Listening Company in the UK and Excelior in Australia significantly strategic which will be important for future growth increased our ability to offer related services to companies and the acquisitions and to enter markets where we see public sector globally.
Other small acquisitions of specialist skills include: clinical and community healthcare skills through Braintree Clinical Services Limited: public sector debt management through Philips Collection Services Limited: and integrated facilities management expertise in the Middle East through JBI Properties Services Company LLC.
Developing We respond to emerging opportunities by We have successfully introduced payment by results into the prison finding new ways to deliver services.
This may market, through our new contract to operate HMP & YOI Doncaster.
new models mean innovative approaches to assessing We expect this to be featured in the development of this market.
and rewarding our performance, collaboration ACCESS, our joint venture with Glasgow City Council, has seen further between our divisions, bringing together skills organic growth in the year and supported the wins of new strategic and experience which few other companies partnerships, such as that for Peterborough City Council.
can replicate, or partnering with our customer or the voluntary sector.
Our ability to lead change keeps us at the forefront of our markets.
Developing our business strategy Divisions are responsible for creating five-year strategic plans Our strategy is the means for delivering our vision.
To ensure on a rolling annual basis that cover, amongst other things: our strategy remains on course, we have a planning process detailed market and capability analysis that follows a four-stage annual cycle: strategy June, business sources of competitive advantage planning October, financial commitments November and people growth plans, both organic and through acquisition, and March.
Each stage informs the next, is clearly defined in terms the associated talent, resource and systems plans.
of outcomes and expectations and is managed as a discrete These plans are aligned to the vision and corporate strategy, programme of work.
Group, divisions and business units all have and executed through business plans which translate the specific roles in strategy development and the process is run in rolling five-year strategies into deliverables, revenue and costs.
Divisions then implement processes that enable them to meet The Serco Group plc Board sets our vision and corporate strategy: the requirements and timescales of the strategic planning cycle.
what and where we want to be and how we are going to get Corporate functions are responsible for the overall corporate there.
The Executive Committee is individually and collectively strategic plan, with each developing specific objectives and responsible for supporting our vision and delivering against the targets for their areas of responsibility.
14 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011
