Our business drivers Demand for high-quality and efficient services Our competitive environment The differing economic environments around the world present Competition is necessary for our markets to operate, as it: opportunities for Serco.
These stem from governments need to: encourages customers to put services out to tender deliver efficient and lower cost public services provides a benchmark to ensure they are getting best value, and invest to improve or create new services, and drives innovation.
tackle structural challenges including economic development, ageing and growing populations, unemployment, migration, Our business breadth means we have a large number of security, congestion and climate change.
competitors for both public and private sector contracts.
These competitors are primarily companies but for government contracts Governments continue to recognise the benefits of opening they can include public sector and voluntary bodies.
As we enter new areas of public service to competition, to reduce cost and new markets, we meet competitors who specialise in those areas.
While we see effective competitors in every market, no organisation competes with us in all of them and only a few operate in more Our private sector customers are seeking help to improve their than one.
Our expanded BPO platform opens up a significant growth area for Serco as we seek to offer a wider range of services to both our public and private sector customers.
Good potential for market growth Our markets are large but still have appreciable scope for growth.
With only 10-15% of total spend typically opened up to competition in our major government markets, we have confidence in our mediumand long-term opportunities.
Strong growth in the private sector BPO market is also expected.
The number of markets we can address also expands as we broaden our skills, either by combining skills from around our business, through acquisitions or by partnering with other companies, the voluntary sector or our customers.
Our varied portfolio demonstrates this.
The scale of our markets means that we can be selective about the opportunities we bid for.
It also means that our share of any one market does not affect our ability to grow.
For more on our prospects in our individual markets, see pages 28 to 31 Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 | 13 Financial statements Governance Our performance Our business Overview Overview
