Section 3 | Our performance Operating Review | AMEAA Top and right: Serco successfully completed a complex transition Our AMEAA segment consists at Mount Eden Corrections Facility, taking over an existing prison, of Africa, the Middle East, Asia and closing an old one and opening Australasia, in which we provide a a new site within three months.
range of services including transport, Above: We work with the Australian Department of Immigration justice, immigration, health, defence, and Citizenship to transform its immigration services.
Revenue on a reported basis grew 62% to 780m 2010: 481m Serco signed a new contract with the Western Australian and represented 17% of Group revenue, up from 11% in 2010.
Department of Corrective Services to provide Court Security Revenue on a constant currency basis, which excludes the impact and Custodial Services including key services such as of the strong Australian Dollar, grew by 56%.
Excluding the revenue inter-prison transfers, court security services, and the operation contribution from acquisitions, principally Intelenet, revenue on an of court custody centres.
The contract, which commenced organic basis grew 37%.
Adjusted operating profit, before corporate on 31 July 2011, has a value to Serco of around A$210m expenses, increased by 70% on a reported basis, with the margin approximately 140m over five years, with two options to increasing from 6.8% to 7.1% which includes the contribution of the extend to a maximum ten-year term.
This contract builds on our higher margin Intelenet operations which more than offset higher than achievements and record at Acacia Prison in Western Australia, average bid and related costs for major contracts won in the year.
as well as our expertise in providing this vital part of the criminal justice system in the UK.
The exceptionally high organic revenue growth reflects new contracts that became operational in late 2010 and during 2011 Our contract for Acacia Prison in Western Australia was renewed as well as the expansion of existing contracts.
The previous five-year contract awarded to Serco in 2006 had a total value of A$155m, while the new five-year Our home affairs business in Australia works with the Australian contract is valued at approximately A$310m and has the potential Department of Immigration and Citizenship DIAC to transform for extension.
Under the new operating contract, Serco will deliver its immigration services.
Serco is committed to continuous all prison services working alongside the Department of Corrective improvement in the delivery of a dignified service for the people Services which is managing the development of new living units in our care.
The average number of people in immigration detention and supporting infrastructure to accommodate a further 387 in 2011 was higher than 2010.
The increases in the contract values, prisoners, bringing the total capacity to 1,387.
Revenues will since the contracts were originally signed, reflects the significant increase through the lifespan of the contract as the prison expansion of the detention network: as a result of this volume-related capacity increases.
growth, the operations are currently now one of the largest of the Group.
Over the life of the contract, Serco has been recognised by Sercos commendable performance at Acacia Prison was validated our customer for the transformation we have achieved, our humane by the independent report by the Western Australian Office of the approach and success in dealing with the challenges of substantially Inspector of Custodial Services, released in May.
This stated that higher volumes than originally anticipated.
The number of people in Acacia is without doubt one of the best performing prisons in immigration detention reduced throughout the second half of 2011, Western Australia, if not the best and it is also providing a financial reflecting government policy initiatives and improvements in visa saving to the State.
We are working closely with DIAC to respond effectively to their changing needs.
50 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 For the same customer, Serco is preferred bidder to operate infrastructure management, has an option for extension for a further and maintain a new young adults facility in Western Australia.
four years, and is valued at around NZ$300m over the full ten years.
The facility is the first of its kind in Western Australia and marks Responsibility for managing the prison facility began in May, with Sercos entry into the youth justice sector in this region.
The the transition completed in August 2011. contract is valued at around A$50m for five years with two extension options of five years.
The contract is expected to commence In defence, DMS Maritime our 50:50 joint venture with P&O shortly with the facility accommodating up to 80 male offenders Maritime Services which provides harbour and offshore services aged 18-24 years.
Serco will provide: rehabilitation and reintegration to the Royal Australian Navy, had its contract renewed in 2010. services: care and well-being services: custody and containment In 2011, a new contract was signed for the support of patrol boats services: and facilities management.
Our bid emphasised the under the Australian Department of Defence Pacific Patrol Boats importance of seamless case management, coupled with a Programme.
This provides participating Pacific Island countries through-care approach, specifically focused on individual with patrol boats to police their Exclusive Economic Zones.
rehabilitation and reintegration into the community.
DMS will provide technical, engineering and logistic support services for the 19 patrol boats in 11 countries and refits for eight A new five-year contract has been signed with Queensland of those vessels, for a period of five years, with options to extend Corrective Services to manage and operate the new 300-bed for a further 12 years.
The contract is worth around A$50m to high-security South Queensland Correctional Centre in Gatton, Serco over the entire contract life of 17 years.
transferring operations from Borallon Correctional Centre near Brisbane.
The contract, which commenced on 1 January 2012, Serco signed a new contract with the Australian Defence Force is valued at around A$100m over five years, with an option to ADF to provide logistics and base support services in the Middle extend to ten years.
This replaced and extended a similarly valued East.
The two-year contract is valued at around A$50m and has two five-year contract, due to end in January 2013, to manage the one-year extension options.
Under the contract, Serco will deliver Borallon Correctional Centre which is one of the oldest facilities fully integrated support services in the Middle East, ensuring the in Queensland and is being temporarily decommissioned as provision of high-quality services in areas such as healthcare, part of a wider reorganisation of the states prisons.
maintenance, ground refuelling, accommodation and catering services.
Drawing on our 15-year experience of working with the Serco signed and commenced its contract at Mount Eden Australian military as a trusted provider of complex, integrated Corrections Facility in Auckland for the New Zealand Department services, together with our well-established capabilities in the Middle of Corrections.
The six-year contract, to provide rehabilitation and East, we are ideally placed to provide these vital services for the ADF.
reintegration programmes for prisoners as well as logistics and Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 | 51 Financial statements Governance Our performance Our business Overview Section 3 | Our performance Operating Review | AMEAA Right: The Dubai Metro has more than tripled ridership and won the Best Rail Operator Award in the Middle East.
In 2010 we expanded into a new market with the appointment by Great Southern Rails revenue has been broadly stable in 2011 the Western Australian Department of Health as preferred bidder to despite the adverse market conditions from the strong Australian provide vital non-clinical support services at the new Fiona Stanley Dollar and weak consumer spending impacting the Australian Hospital near Perth.
The ten-year contract was signed in July 2011 tourism market.
For the second year running, The Ghan was at a total value to Serco of A$1.3bn approximately 850m and awarded best luxury rail journey in Luxury Travel magazines also has two five-year extension options.
During the current esteemed Gold List Awards, winning over competition from various pre-operational phase annual revenues will be approximately famous international rail journeys.
From the opening of the hospital in 2014, annual new travel schedules, the expansion of the Platinum Service on revenues will be approximately A$160m.
the Indian Pacific and a second successful season of our newest train, Southern Spirit, have contributed to this result.
The 783-bed hospital will be one of the leading hospitals in Australia and the major tertiary hospital serving communities south of Perth In the Middle East, the Dubai Metro has sustained its high level and across Western Australia.
Under the Facilities Management of service, with availability and punctuality continuing to exceed Services contract, Serco will integrate non-clinical services through 99%.
Ridership has more than tripled from 60,000 per weekday state-of-the-art technology to ensure the smooth running of on opening in September 2009 to 206,000 per weekday in January the whole hospital.
We will be responsible for 30 service lines, 2012.
In November 2011, the total number of customer journeys including: procurement for the fit-out of the hospital: management reached 100 million.
The Dubai Metro won the Best Rail Operator and maintenance of hospital assets including medical equipment: Award in the Middle East in 2011 for outstanding performance, information and communication technology ICT services: while the Palm Jumeirah Monorail which we also operate was estate and property management: recruitment and HR processes shortlisted among other finalists.
The Green Line of the Dubai for all clinical staff: safety and incident management: design Metro commenced service in September 2011, adding a further and provision of integrated bedside information and patient 24 kilometres of track, 18 additional stations, 17 more trains entertainment systems: the management of patient electronic and a third depot.
medical records and a wide range of other support services.
52 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 Left: The Ghan was awarded best luxury rail journey for the second year running.
Below left: We have a 60-year history of providing air traffic control services in the Middle East, experience which is helping us in Iraq.
Below: Intelenet has opened new delivery centres in India and Dubai to support new contract wins.
In the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the contract to deliver operations Intelenets order book is now approximately 600m.
Since and maintenance consultancy services to the Al Mashaaer Al acquisition, contracts with a combined total value of over 50m Mugaddassah Metro Southern Line in Makkah has been extended have been awarded, including good traction with existing clients by one year, with an annual value of around 5.2m.
This extension in both the international BPO and the Indian domestic markets.
strengthens Sercos position as a leader in the global light The opening of new delivery centres has also supported this and rail market.
future growth, with openings in Lucknow in India and in Dubai to support new contract wins in the Middle East.
Also of significance Serco has successfully secured an extension for air traffic control is Intelenets involvement in the selection as single remaining bidder and aeronautical engineering services to the General Civil Aviation to operate the Anglia Support Partnership ASP, Sercos first Authority of the UAE, valued at approximately 30m over three shared services proposition in the emerging market for middle and years.
This complements the successful rebid earlier in 2011 of back office support to the UK health sector.
ASP was not included air navigation services at Abu Dhabi International Airport, Al Ain in the value of 2011 awards.
Further revenue synergies such as this, International Airport and Al Bateen International Airport valued at where the Groups combined capabilities and breadth of integrated 22m over two years, and reaffirms Sercos position as a leading offering are able to transform public services, are expected to aviation services provider in the Middle East region.
During 2011, continue to emerge in the future.
Serco has also completed the full transfer of air traffic control services for lower airspace in Iraq.
In July 2011, Serco acquired Intelenet, a leading provider of BPO services to the private sector around the world and in the domestic Indian market, for up to 386m.
The revenues and Adjusted operating profit consolidated by Serco since July were 84m and 10.7m respectively, reflecting the delivery of organic growth and maintained margins during this period.
The integration of Intelenet into Serco is largely complete and Sercos existing India BPO operations have been incorporated into Intelenet to the full satisfaction of customers and with all operational performance measures maintained or improved.
Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 | 53 Financial statements Governance Our performance Our business Overview
