Section 4 | Governance Directors Report Annual report and accounts The Directors have pleasure in presenting the Annual report and accounts of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2011.
Comparative figures used in this report are for the year ended 31 December 2010.
The Corporate Governance Report set out on pages 82 to 89 forms part of the statutory Directors Report.
Activities Serco Group plc is a holding company which operates via its subsidiaries and its joint ventures to improve services by managing people, processes, technology and assets more effectively.
Serco supports governments, agencies and companies who seek a trusted partner with a solid track record of providing assured service excellence.
Our people offer operational, management and consulting expertise in the aviation, BPO, defence, education, environmental services, facilities management, health, home affairs, information and communications technology, knowledge services, local government, science and nuclear, transport, welfare to work and the commercial sectors.
The Chairmans Statement and the remainder of the Our Performance section on pages 20 to 81 report on the activities during the year, post-balance sheet events and likely future developments.
The information in these reports which is required to fulfil the requirements of the Business Review is incorporated in this Directors Report by reference.
Share capital The issued share capital of the Company, together with the details of shares issued during the year, is shown in note 29 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The powers of the Directors to issue or buy back shares are restricted to that approved at the Companys annual general meeting.
The rules relating to the appointment and replacement of Directors are contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
Changes to the Articles of Association must be approved by the shareholders in accordance with the legislation in force from time to time.
Dividends An interim dividend of 2.50p 2010: 2.20p per ordinary share was paid on 14 October 2011.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 5.90p 2010: 5.15p per ordinary share which, if approved by shareholders at the annual general meeting, will be paid on 22 May 2012 to those shareholders on the register at the close of business on 9 March 2012.
Interests in voting rights As at 27 February 2012 the Company had been notified under Rule 5 of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority of the following holdings of voting rights in its shares the percentage figure is at date of notification : Number of shares millions % held UBS Investment Bank 29.1 5.90 Morstan Nominees Limited 25.1 5.11 Capital Research and Management Company 25.0 5.08 AXA S. A.
24.4 4.95 Lloyds Banking Group plc 24.2 4.96 Fidelity International Limited 23.9 4.93 Baillie Gifford & Co 24.0 4.92 Newton Investment Management Limited 23.6 4.85 BlackRock Inc 21.8 4.42 HBOS plc 20.5 4.22 Legal & General Group plc 19.5 3.99 Ignis Investment Services Limited 15.5 3.15 The Directors are unaware of any restrictions on transfer of securities in the Company or on voting rights.
There are also no known agreements between holders of the Companys securities which may result in such restrictions.
90 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 Directors The current members of the Board, together with biographical details of each Director, are set out on pages 94 and 95.
On 28 March 2011, the Company announced the appointment of Angie Risley as a Non-Executive Director of the Company with effect from 1 April 2011.
Both Angies and Paul Brooks appointments were approved at the 2011 AGM.
Additionally, on 30 June 2011, the Company announced the appointment of Ralph D. Crosby Jr as a Non-Executive Director of the Company with effect from that date.
Ralph will stand for election at the Companys AGM on 14 May 2012.
As announced on 20 March 2012, at the conclusion of the Companys 2012 AGM Leonard V. Broese van Groenou will retire as a Non-Executive Director of the Company and, accordingly, will not be standing for re-election.
Angie Risley will take over as Remuneration Committee Chairman on Leonards retirement.
All other Directors will stand for re-election at the AGM.
With the sad and untimely passing of Paul Brooks in January 2012, an externally led recruitment process is underway to address Board composition and succession planning.
Directors interests With the exception of the Executive Directors service contracts and the Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment, there are no contracts in which any Director has an interest.
Certain change in control conditions are included in the service contracts of Directors which provide compensation or reduction of notice periods in the event of a change in control of the Company.
Details of the Directors interests in the ordinary shares and options over the ordinary shares of the Company are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 96 to 107.
Annual general meeting The annual general meeting of the Company will be held at Linklaters LLP, One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ on 14 May 2012 at 11.30am.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting together with explanatory notes is sent to shareholders with this Annual report.
Financial risk policies A summary of the Groups treasury policies and objectives relating to financial risk management, including exposure to associated risks, is on pages 142 to 148.
Employment policies The Board is committed to maintaining a working environment where staff are individually valued and recognised.
Group companies and divisions operate within a framework of human resources policies, practices and regulations appropriate to their own market sector and country of operation, whilst subject to Group-wide principles.
The Group is committed to ensuring equal opportunity, honouring the rights of the individual, and fostering partnership and trust in every working relationship.
Policies and procedures for recruitment, training and career development promote equality of opportunity regardless of gender, sexual orientation, age, marital status, disability, race, religion or other beliefs and ethnic or national origin.
The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment, career development and promotion received from the disabled and offers employment when suitable opportunities arise.
If employees become disabled during their service with the Group arrangements are made wherever practicable to continue their employment and training.
The Group remains proud of its record of managing employee relations and continues to believe that the structure of individual and collective consultation and negotiation are best developed at a local level.
Over the years, the Group has demonstrated that working with trade unions and creating effective partnerships allows improvements to be delivered in business performance as well as terms and conditions of employment.
Where employees choose not to belong to a trade union, employee communication forums such as works councils exist to ensure involvement of staff within the business.
Participation by staff in the success of the Group is encouraged by the availability of sharesave schemes, and a share option scheme and a long-term incentive plan for senior management which effectively aligns their interests with those of shareholders by requiring that performance criteria are achieved prior to exercise.
Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 | 91 Financial statements Governance Our performance Our business Overview Section 4 | Governance Directors Report Corporate responsibility The Group maintains a focus on corporate responsibility through a structured model that is applied across the business.
Our corporate responsibility model focuses on our people, safety, the environment and the communities we serve.
This model forms an integral part of our Management System and is supported by defined policies in all of the areas it covers.
These are applied within the context of our policies on Business Conduct and Ethics.
Activities are reported quarterly as part of our internal assurance reporting process.
Further information on our approach to corporate responsibility and how we have delivered our commitments is contained in the Corporate Responsibility Report which is available online at www.
This site also provides an overview of our approach to corporate responsibility, our management system and our policies.
Creditor payment policies The Group requires each of its business units to negotiate and agree terms and conditions for payment for the supply of capital and revenue items just as keenly as they negotiate prices and other commercial matters.
Suppliers are made aware of the terms and the way in which disputes are to be settled.
Payment is then made in accordance with those terms.
The Groups average creditor payment terms in 2011 were 32 days 2010: 31 days.
Donations The Group continues to encourage all staff to participate in their local communities and has a process to assess both the value and type of investment on a worldwide basis.
This measure is based upon the Business in The Community reporting format.
The value of this investment in 2011 at 2,532,175 2010: 2,271,575 represents 1.06% of the Groups pre-tax profit.
During the year neither the Company nor the Group made political donations and they intend to continue with this policy.
Within the US business there exists a Political Action Committee PAC, which is funded entirely by employees and their spouses.
The Serco PAC and its contributions are administered in strict accordance with regulatory requirements.
Employee contributions are entirely voluntary and no pressure is placed on employees to participate.
Under US law, an employee-funded PAC must bear the name of the employing company.
Financial statements At the date of this report, as far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditors are unaware.
Each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: Joanne Roberts Secretary 27 February 2012 As at 5 March 2012, the Company had not been notified of any changes or additions to these interests.
92 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011
