Section 3 | Our performance Operating Review | Defence, Science and Nuclear Defence, Science and Nuclear brings together our businesses providing support to the armed forces in the UK and European defence markets, science-based businesses such as our contracts at the Atomic Weapons Establishment AWE, the National Physical Laboratory and the National Nuclear Laboratory, our energy market operations and our nuclear safety and assurance business.
Revenue on a reported basis grew 3% to 939m 2010: 911m As strategic partner appointed by the Defence Science and and represented 20% of Group revenue.
Revenue on an organic Technology Laboratory Dstl in 2006, Serco has now been basis also increased 3%.
Adjusted operating profit, before awarded additional work to oversee and deliver part of Dstls corporate expenses, increased by 3%, with the margin held Helios programme, which was granted Ministerial approval to at 8.5%.
The Helios Programme will see the relocation of all of Dstls activities from its Fort Halstead site to, Revenue progress in 2011 has reflected a number of short-term and the provision of new facilities at, its Head Office at Porton project awards, and was achieved in the face of strong competitive Down.
The programme will enable Dstl to achieve its future strategic pressures and some delays to decision making and major contract goals, to protect technical capability and to provide additional cost awards as a result of customer budgetary reviews.
With the new buildings and facilities to be provided by other areas, including an exceptionally strong performance at AWE 2016, the capital projects and associated support equipment has and a greater number of smaller value contract awards, has offset a total value to Serco of around 80m, and follows the successful particular challenges in the level of higher margin discretionary completion of Project INSPIRE, which delivered award-winning, project work and the timing of efficiency improvements in our state-of-the-art science facilities at Dstl Porton Down.
Serco has been awarded a five-year extension to its contract to In the UK defence market, Serco provides a range of operational provide air traffic control, air traffic engineering, flight briefing and support, engineering and training services, known as Multi-Activity operations support services at Cranfield Airport, Bedfordshire in the Contracts MAC, at various bases for the UKs armed forces, with UK.
Serco has provided similar services at Cranfield Airport, which these relationships continuing to strengthen.
Our maintenance and is owned and operated by Cranfield University, continuously since support services at the Depth Maintenance Facility for the Royal the 1950s.
We have also secured an extension for the Woolwich Navys Merlin helicopter fleet at Royal Naval Air Station Culdrose Ferry, valued at approximately 14m.
in Cornwall had its contract renewed with AgustaWestland, valued at 33m to Serco over five years, with our engineers also awarded a Commander-in-Chief Fleets Commendation for outstanding support to flying training.
A new MAC was won for RAF Valley, supporting their crucial role in training fast jet pilots for both the RAF and the Royal Navy, valued at 20m over five years.
After the year-end, there were further MACs successfully rebid, with a combined total potential value to Serco of over 100m.
44 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 Opposite page and below left: We have Multi-Activity Contracts at several bases for the UKs armed forces.
Left: The National Physical Laboratory continues to deliver world class research.
Below: Our joint venture at AWE continues to achieve excellent results.
Our joint venture with Lockheed Martin and Jacobs Engineering, In support of the UK Ministry of Defences nuclear propulsion which manages and operates AWE, continues to achieve excellent programme, Serco has been awarded a new three-year framework results.
The contract incentivises us to save money against the contract by Rolls-Royce Marine for the provision of research and future programme and our results reflect the benefit of providing technology services, with a total value of 15m.
In addition, Serco substantial savings whilst achieving excellent performance in was also awarded a new contract by the MoD to build a series the quality and timeliness of our delivery.
Following the building of five test rigs that will be used to study  of the largest plasma physics research facility in the UK in recent corrosion of materials.
Other smaller wins in technical services years, the technical schedule continues apace.
In addition, include those for the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority an AWE-led consortium was selected as preferred bidder to Radioactive Waste Management Directorate.
deliver elements of the Strategic Weapons Systems support at Royal Naval Armament Depot Coulport.
In our European defence operations, we have seen significant growth in our German revenue.
Key contract wins have included Operations of the National Physical Laboratory continue to develop.
our multi-activity contract for MBDA, a world leader in missiles and We achieved a record number of peer-reviewed publications 240 missile systems, which was successfully rebid.
Mainly comprising and received international recognition for the worlds most accurate facilities management services at Schrobenhausen in Germany, atomic clock precise to one second in 138 million years.
We have the contract is worth 14m over two years.
Serco is also providing tripled third-party income since 2004 to represent around one third installation and support of a new radar system for Germanys of overall income.
The Shareholder Executive has extended our Ministry of Defence.
contract with Battelle and University of Manchester to manage the National Nuclear Laboratory NNL.
In 2011, NNL won work from the European Space Agency that will utilise NNLs world-leading expertise and state-of-the-art facilities to evaluate powering future European space missions.
Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 | 45 Financial statements Governance Our performance Our business Overview
