Section 2 | Our business Our business The following pages describe our operations around the world.
This discussion is set out using the divisional structure that applied during 2011.
In January 2012, we announced the creation of a Global Services division and the amalgamation of our UK and European operations into a single division.
More information about our new structure can be found on pages 25 to 26.
Revenue by division 2011 Revenue by division 2010 11% 17% 26% 26% 22% 19% 20% 21% 20% 18% Civil Government Civil Government Defence, Science and Nuclear Defence, Science and Nuclear Local Government and Commercial Local Government and Commercial Americas Americas AMEAA AMEAA Revenue by geography 2011 Revenue by geography 2010 20% 27% 56% 60% 20% 17% United Kingdom United Kingdom United States United States Other countries Other countries More on the services provided by each of our divisions is included in the Operating Review, which begins on page 40 06 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 Civil Government We are a key provider of transport services in the UK.
With our partner Abellio, we run both Northern Rail, the UKs largest train franchise, and Merseyrail, the UKs most punctual train operator.
In London, we operate the Docklands Light Railway, the Barclays Cycle Hire scheme and the East London Traffic Control System.
We also deliver national motorway traffic infrastructure services and install and maintain road safety cameras.
In home affairs, we are a leading private provider of custodial accommodation in the UK, operating four prisons, with a fifth becoming operational in 2012.
We also run a young offender institution and a secure training centre.
We provide prisoner escort and custody services, as well as electronically monitoring offenders within the community.
We run two immigration removal centres and provide border control and security, and technology services.
In health, we have a groundbreaking pathology joint venture with Guys and St Thomas and Kings College Hospital NHS Foundation Trusts.
We are one of the UKs leading providers of occupational health services, supporting over 450,000 of our customers employees nationwide.
We are also the leading independent provider of custodial health services, providing for thousands of people in custody across the UK.
We 2011 revenue deliver GP out-of-hours services in Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly, providing medical assistance to residents and 1,199m tourists across the region.
At Braintree Community Hospital, we offer a comprehensive range of clinical services including general and plastic surgery, 6% orthopaedics, ophthalmology, diagnosis of ear, nose 2010: 1,127m and throat disorders, outpatient and diagnostic services.
In welfare to work, we have two contracts supporting the UK Governments Work Programme, under which Civil Government includes our UK we help long-term unemployed people into work in South Yorkshire and the West Midlands.
We also have and European operations in transport, contracts with the UK Ministry of Justice, co-funded home affairs, welfare to work and by the European Social Fund and National Offender clinical healthcare.
Management Service, to help offenders into work in the South-East and East of England.
For more information on our Civil Government division, see pages 40 to 43 Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 | 07 Financial statements Governance Our performance Our business Overview Overview Section 2 | Our business Our business Defence, Science and Nuclear In the UK, we provide training, engineering and operational support to the Royal Air Force and the aviation arms of the British Army and Royal Navy.
We also support the Royal Navys three main UK bases and operate and maintain strategic assets such as secure satellite communications, the Defence Academy of the United Kingdom, the Emergency Planning College and the UKs ballistic missile early warning system.
We provide systems engineering, safety assurance and risk management services, and support the essential research carried out at the Defence Science and Technology Laboratory.
Serco has supported the German armed forces for more than 40 years, delivering training, logistics and operational support services.
We also provide facilities management, prison and IT services to commercial companies and the German Government.
In the science market, we manage the UKs National Physical Laboratory, one of the worlds major scientific establishments.
With our partners Battelle and the University of Manchester, we also manage the National Nuclear Laboratory, one of the UKs leading technology service providers and a centre of excellence in nuclear non-proliferation.
2011 revenue We have an integral role in the UK nuclear defence industry.
Our joint venture with Lockheed Martin and 939m Jacobs Engineering manages the Atomic Weapons Establishment, which provides the warheads for the UKs nuclear deterrent.
In addition we have provided 3% nuclear safety advice to the Royal Navys submarine 2010: 911m fleet for nearly half a century.
We also offer specialist technical support to the UKs civil nuclear industry and the wider energy market, providing Defence, Science and Nuclear brings safety, environmental, risk and asset management advice and operational solutions.
We support the operation of together our businesses supporting more than 20 nuclear reactors.
the armed forces in the UK and Europe, our science-based businesses, our energy market operations and our nuclear safety and assurance business.
For more information on our Defence, Science and Nuclear division, see pages 44 to 45 08 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 Local Government and Commercial Our work in IT-enabled BPO services includes joint ventures and strategic partnerships with local authorities.
We provide frontline capability with middle and back office operations ranging from property services to finance and human resources.
Our acquisition of The Listening Company adds significant contact centre scale and expertise, strengthening our ability to deliver high-volume call handling and frontline customer services.
We are also a leading provider of services to European institutions, including the European Commission, the European Central Bank and CERN.
In integrated and environmental services, we provide a full range of waste management services, including refuse collection, recycling, street cleansing and grounds maintenance, to local authorities throughout the UK.
We are a major provider of support services to hospitals, including the newly opened Forth Valley Royal Hospital in Scotland.
We offer a full range of enabling services, allowing hospital staff to focus on patient care.
Our facilities management customers also include many major companies, who look to us for services ranging from help desks to buildings maintenance.
Serco is one of the leading private sector partners in the education and childrens services sectors.
We partner 2011 revenue with councils and individual schools to provide school improvement and related services.
Our other services 860m include inspections on behalf of the Office for Standards in Education, Childrens Services and Skills Ofsted, delivering training packages on behalf of the National 1% College for School Leadership and providing 2010: 854m management information systems for schools.
Our leisure business provides a comprehensive range of health, leisure, fitness, well-being and community focused Local Government and Commercial services, managing 68 facilities on behalf of community leisure trusts, local authorities and universities.
LG&C is made up of our UK and European IT-enabled BPO services, Serco Consulting provides advisory, design and integrated and environmental services, delivery expertise in the areas of operations strategy, education, leisure, consulting and transformation, programme delivery, outsourcing, people performance and selection, change management and commercial businesses.
It helps clients improve their business by giving them a competitive edge growing revenue, reducing costs, becoming more efficient and improving customer service.
It advises and helps deliver these benefits to both private sector companies as well as governments, For more information on our Local Government and in the UK and internationally.
Commercial division, see pages 46 to 47 Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 | 09 Financial statements Governance Our performance Our business Overview Overview Section 2 | Our business Our business Americas We apply our award-winning enterprise architecture to define, design and satisfy defense agencies Command, Control, Communications, Computer and Intelligence requirements.
We provide communication system installations for the US Navys fleet and have a 15-year track record as one of the largest systems engineering and technical assistance contractors for the US Air Force Space Command, supporting a wide range of military satellite systems.
We have installed detection systems in over 100 locations in 30 countries, to help prevent a nuclear threat from entering the US.
We help soldiers transition to civilian life and have provided personnel and family services to more than two million military personnel and their families.
We support military veterans with career counselling, employment workshops and job fairs to help them continue their career as a civilian within the Federal Government.
We have designed software and now provide systems, data centres and call centres to support four million government employees with their retirement plans.
We have issued more than 1.5 million identification cards to defense personnel at over 65 military ID card offices around the world.
We processed 36 million visa transactions in 2011 for the Department of State and managed more than 62 million 2011 revenue active records and related immigrant applications for the Department of Homeland Security US Citizenship 868m and Immigration Services.
Our work includes performing the pre-classification of all US patents.
We also provide web-based support for USA.
gov and other -9% e-government initiatives.
2010: 954m Our transportation business includes the management of 63 Federal Aviation Administration control towers and approximately 192,000 square miles of airspace Our Americas business provides in five countries.
In Canada, Sercos Driver Examination Services administer two million tests per year, including professional, technology and vision, knowledge and road tests for Ontario drivers.
management services that are focused primarily on the US Federal Government, including every branch of the military, key civilian agencies and the intelligence community.
For more information on our Americas division, see pages 48 to 49 10 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 AMEAA In Australia, our two defence joint ventures make us a key provider of support services to the Australia Defence Force.
Our two Australian prisons have received numerous awards and positive independent inspections, and we provide court security and custodial services to the Western Australian Department of Corrective Services.
We work with the Australian Department of Immigration and Citizenship to transform its immigration services, and have entered the Australian health market through a significant contract at Fiona Stanley Hospital.
In transport, we own and operate Great Southern Rail.
Serco has the only contract in New Zealand for a privately operated prison, at Mount Eden Corrections Facility in Auckland.
In Hong Kong, we are the largest operator of road tunnels.
The Middle East is home to some of Sercos oldest contracts in aviation, which continue to expand as the regions air traffic grows.
We are the largest international player in surface transport in the region.
Most notably, we operate the Dubai Metro, the worlds longest and most-advanced driverless light rail system.
Our technology business serves the telecommunications, marine and biomedical sectors.
We also provide integrated facilities management services to the education and commercial sectors.
We concluded the 2011 revenue acquisition of JBI Properties Services Company LLC from Mubadala in December 2011, which provides a stronger 780m platform for our integrated facilities management services in the region.
62% India is the second-fastest growing economy in the 2010: 481m world and presents significant opportunities for Serco.
The acquisition of Intelenet in 2011 significantly added to the scale and depth of our capabilities, making Serco a leading provider of BPO services to the private sector AMEAA consists of Africa, the Middle around the world and number one in the domestic Indian market.
Our BPO-related operations now provide East, Asia and Australasia, where we transactional, process and voice support, finance provide a range of services including and accounting services, and business transformation transport, home affairs, health, defence, consulting, making us strongly placed to offer our BPO and facilities management.
customers around the world a broad range of end-to-end business services.
India also presents opportunities beyond BPO.
Our global frontline service capabilities offer entry into promising sectors such as rail, traffic management and aviation, as well as healthcare and education, with major infrastructure investment being made in each.
For more information on our AMEAA division, see pages 50 to 53 Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 | 11 Financial statements Governance Our performance Our business Overview Overview
