26 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Directors report The directors present their report, together with the audited financial HM Revenue and Customs, makes an annual award of shares to statements of the group, for the year ended 31 March 2011.
Severn Trent Plc and Severn Trent Water Limited employees, based on performance against the KPIs.
Principal activity The principal activity of the group is to provide and treat water and Research and development remove waste water in the UK and internationally.
Expenditure on research and development is set out in note 7 to the accounts on page 75.
Details of the principal joint ventures, associated and subsidiary undertakings of the group at 31 March 2011 appear in notes 19, Treasury management 20 and 40 to the financial statements on pages 83 and 111.
The disclosures required under the EU Fair Value Directive in relation to the use of financial instruments by the company are set Business review out in note 32 to the accounts on pages 92 to 103.
Further details The Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review, on our treasury policy and management are set out in the financial the report and performance reviews for the groups main review on page 24. businesses and the financial review on pages 10 to 25 provide detailed information relating to the group and its strategy, the Post balance sheet events operation of its businesses and the results and financial position Details of post balance sheet events are set out in note 38 to the for the year ended 31 March 2011. group financial statements on page 110.
Details of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the group are Dividends set out in the risk and assurance section on pages 56 to 58.
An interim dividend of 26.04 pence per ordinary share was paid on 14 January 2011.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 39.05 All of the above are incorporated by reference in and are deemed pence per ordinary share to be paid on 29 July 2011 to shareholders to form part of this report.
This would bring the total dividend Directors and their interests for 2010 11 to 65.09 pence per ordinary share 2010: 72.32 pence.
Biographies of the directors currently serving on the board are set The payment of the final dividend is subject to shareholder approval out on pages 30 and 31. at the AGM.
Details of changes to the board during the year and of the directors Capital structure offering themselves for reappointment at the Annual General Meeting Details of the companys issued share capital and of the movements AGM are set out in the Chairmans letter on pages 33 to 38. during the year are shown in note 29 to the financial statements on page 91.
The company has one class of ordinary shares which Details of directors service agreements are set out in the Directors carries no right to xed income.
Each share carries the right to one remuneration report on page 50.
The interests of the directors in the vote at general meetings of the company.
The issued nominal value shares of the company are shown on pages 52 to 55 of that report.
of the ordinary shares is 100% of the total issued nominal value of Directors indemnities all share capital.
The companys articles of association provide that directors of the There are no specic restrictions on the size of a holding nor on company shall be indemnified by the company against any costs the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general incurred by them in carrying out their duties, including defending any provisions of the articles of association and prevailing legislation.
proceedings brought against them arising out of their positions as The directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of directors in which they are acquitted or judgment is given in their the companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer favour or relief from any liability is granted to them by the court.
of securities or on voting rights.
Employees Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 33 to the The average number of employees within the group is shown in financial statements on pages 103 to 107.
For shares held by the note 9 to the financial statements on page 76.
Severn Trent Employee Share Ownership Trust, the trustee abstains Severn Trent believes that a diverse and inclusive culture is a key from voting.
factor in being a successful business.
Apart from ensuring an No person has any special rights of control over the companys individual has the ability to do the job we do not discriminate in any share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
way and make every effort to ensure that those with disabilities are able to be employed by us.
We ensure that training, career With regard to the appointment and replacement of directors, the development and promotion opportunities are available for all our company is governed by its articles of association, the Combined employees irrespective of their gender, race, age or disability.
Code on Corporate Governance, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
The articles may be amended by special The group actively encourages employee involvement and resolution of the shareholders.
The powers of directors are consultation and places emphasis on keeping its employees described in the Board Governance document, the articles and the informed of its activity and financial performance by way of briengs Chairmans letter on pages 33 to 38. and publication to staff of all relevant information and corporate announcements.
To help develop employees interest in the Under its articles of association, the directors have authority to allot companys performance, Severn Trent offers two employee share ordinary shares, subject to the aggregate nominal amount limit set plans.
The Severn Trent Sharesave Scheme, an HM Revenue and at the 2010 AGM.
Customs approved SAYE plan, is offered to UK employees on an There are a number of agreements that take effect after, or annual basis.
The Severn Trent Share Incentive Plan, approved by terminate upon, a change of control of the company, such as Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 27 commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, property lease opportunity for longer term partnerships.
In addition we provide arrangements and employee share plans.
None of these is donations to employee nominated charities through a matched considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on the funding scheme and health and safety reward schemes.
We are business of the group as a whole.
There are no agreements also committed to supporting WaterAid, the UKs only major charity between the company and its directors or employees that provide dedicated to improving access to safe water, hygiene and sanitation for compensation for loss of ofce or employment that occurs in the worlds poorest countries.
In 2008 09 a provision of 5 million was established for additional Substantial shareholdings contributions to the Severn Trent Charitable Trust as agreed with As at 23 May 2011 the company had been notied in accordance Ofwat.
Severn Trent Water paid 2 million additional contributions in with chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the that year and a further 2 million in 2009 10.
The remaining 1 million following major shareholdings: was paid in 2010 11 provided for in previous years, to the Severn Trent Trust Fund which helps people out of poverty and debt.
Percentage of voting rights and No.
of ordinary Severn Trents policy is not to make any donations for political issued share shares of 17 Name of holder capital 97 19p each purposes in the UK, or to donate to EU political parties or incur EU political expenditure.
Accordingly neither Severn Trent Plc nor its Norges Bank 3.98% 9,438,492 subsidiaries made any political donations or incurred political Legal & General Group Plc 3.97% 9,403,273 expenditure in the financial year under review.
Aegon Asset Management 3.04% 7,214,266 Under the provisions of the Political Parties Elections and Percentages rounded to two decimal places Referendums Act 2000 the relevant provisions of which are now Authority to purchase shares contained in Part 14 of the Companies Act 2006, shareholder The company was given authority at its AGM in 2010 to make authority is required for political donations to be made or political market purchases of ordinary shares up to a maximum number expenditure to be incurred by the company or any of its subsidiaries of 23,697,346 shares.
Similar authority will again be sought from in the EU and disclose any such payments in the annual report.
shareholders at this years AGM.
No market purchases were made The legislation gives a wide denition of what constitutes political by the company during the year ended 31 March 2011. donations and political expenditure including sponsorship, subscriptions, payment of expenses, paid leave for employees Supplier payment policy Individual operating companies within the group are responsible for fullling public duties and support for bodies representing the establishing appropriate policies with regard to the payment of their business community in policy review or reform.
The company has therefore obtained limited authority from shareholders as a suppliers.
The companies agree terms and conditions under which precautionary measure to allow the company to continue supporting business transactions with suppliers are conducted.
It is group policy that provided a supplier is complying with the relevant terms the community and such organisations without inadvertently breaching the legislation.
and conditions, including the prompt and complete submission of all specified documentation, payment will be made in accordance with At the 2010 AGM, shareholders gave the company authorities to agreed terms.
It is also group policy to ensure that suppliers know make political donations or to incur political expenditure in the EU the terms on which payment will take place when business is which would not ordinarily be regarded as political donations up agreed.
Details of supplier payment policies can be obtained from to an aggregate annual limit of 50,000 for the company and its the individual companies at the addresses shown in note 40 to the subsidiaries.
Pursuant to those authorities, during the year ended financial statements on page 111.
Trade creditors for the group at 31 March 2011 the group incurred costs of nil 2010: nil.
Those the year end are estimated as representing 24.4 days purchases authorities will expire at the 2011 AGM and, in line with market 2010: 44.1 days purchases.
practice to renew the authorities on an annual basis, the board has decided to put forward a resolution to this years AGM to renew the Contributions for political and charitable purposes Donations to charitable organisations during the year amounted to authorities to make donations to political organisations and to incur 181,843 2010: 326,382.
Donations are given to charities whose political expenditure up to a maximum of 50,000 per annum.
As permitted under the Companies Act 2006, this resolution also projects align closely with our aim to promote the responsible use covers any political donations made, or political expenditure of water resources and waste water services which provide the incurred, by any subsidiaries of the company.
co. uk or on The board is responsible for the groups system of internal control written request to the Company Secretary at the address given on and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The board reviews the the back cover.
There is no charge for this publication.
effectiveness of the system of internal control, including financial, Going concern operational and compliance and risk management, at least annually The groups business activities, together with the factors likely to in accordance with the requirements of the Combined Code for affect its future development, performance and position are set out effectiveness and adequacy.
The internal control system can only in the Chief Executives review on pages 6 and 7 and the business provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material reviews of Severn Trent Water and Severn Trent Services on misstatement or loss, as it is designed to manage rather than pages 8 to 19.
The financial position of the group, its cash ows, eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the The Audit Committee reviews the groups risk management process Financial review on pages 22 to 25.
The groups objectives, and the effectiveness of the system of internal control on behalf of policies and processes for managing its capital and its financial the board and keeps under review ways in which to enhance the risk management objectives are described in the Financial review control and audit arrangements.
The Audit Committee receives and in the Governance report on pages 26 to 58.
Details of the reports every six months from the Chief Executive detailing the groups financial instruments, hedging activities and exposure to significant risks and uncertainties faced by the group, an credit risk and liquidity risk are described in note 32 to the group assessment of the effectiveness of controls over each of those financial statements.
risks and an action plan to improve controls where this has been The groups principal operating subsidiary, Severn Trent Water, is a assessed as necessary.
During the course of its review of the regulated long term business characterised by multi year investment system of internal control in 2010 11, the Audit Committee has not programmes.
The groups strategic funding objectives reect this.
identied nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it The group therefore seeks to attain a balance of long term funding has determined to be significant.
Therefore a conrmation in respect or commitment of funds across a range of funding at the best of necessary actions has not been considered appropriate.
Average debt maturity is 16 years and the The Internal Audit department provides objective assurance and effective average interest cost during the year was 6.4%.
The group advice on risk management and control.
The external auditor also is in a strong liquidity position with 315.2 million in cash and liquid reports on significant financial control issues to this committee.
reserves and 500 million of undrawn committed bank facilities, which are expected to be sufficient to fund its investment and cash The board confirms that procedures providing an ongoing process ow needs until March 2013 in the normal course of business.
for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the group have been in place for the year to Severn Trent Water operates in an industry that is currently subject 31 March 2011 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report, to economic regulation rather than market competition.
Ofwat, the which is in accordance with the revised guidance on internal control economic regulator, has a statutory obligation to set price limits that published in October 2005 the Turnbull Guidance.
it believes will enable the water companies to finance their activities.
As a consequence the directors believe that the group is well placed External auditor to manage its business risks successfully despite the current In the case of each of the persons who were directors of the uncertain economic outlook.
company at the date when this report was approved: After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation so far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant audit that the company and the group have adequate resources to information of which the companys auditor is unaware: and continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
each of the directors has taken all the steps that he she ought to Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in have taken as a director to make himself herself aware of any preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
relevant audit information and to establish that the companys Annual general meeting auditor is aware of that information.
The AGM of the company will be held at the International Convention Relevant audit information means information needed by the Centre, Broad Street, Birmingham B1 2EA at 11am on Wednesday companys auditor in connection with preparing its report.
The notice convening the meeting, together with details of the business to be considered and explanatory notes for each This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance resolution, is distributed separately to shareholders.
It is also available with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. on the companys website www.
Deloitte LLP have indicated their willingness to continue as auditor.
By order of the board A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP will be proposed at this years AGM.
The Audit Committee has recommended to the board the reappointment of Deloitte LLP and a resolution to that effect will be on the agenda at the AGM.
The Audit Committee will also be Fiona Smith responsible for determining the audit fee on behalf of the board.
General Counsel and Company Secretary Accounts of Severn Trent Water Limited 26 May 2011 Regulatory accounts for Severn Trent Water Limited are prepared and sent to Ofwat.
A copy of these accounts will be available from
