32 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Executive Committee The Chief Executive is supported in his role by the executive During the year, the Executive Committee met to consider management team and together they comprise the Executive strategy, business management, policy and planning, and Committee.
During the year, the Executive Committee comprised operational performance.
the executive directors and senior executive managers responsible Members of the Executive Committee are delegated responsibility for key operational and central functions.
Photographs of the to sit on steering groups that oversee the delivery of our strategy members of the committee, together with their biographies are and business management.
During the year, steering groups set out below.
were set up to oversee areas such as our move to Severn Trent The Executive Committee oversees the development and Centre, the integrated delivery of our year end results and execution of the Severn Trent strategy.
It also has accountability annual June Return to Ofwat and our leadership development.
The terms of reference of the Executive Committee are available on the companys website www.
com or from the Company Secretary.
Leonard Graziano MBA 49 Chief Executive FCA FIIA 53 45 Waste Water Services BEng 65 President and Chief Please see full biography on page 31.
Director of Internal Audit Director Executive officer, Severn Trent Joined Severn Trent in June 2007.
Joined Severn Trent in July 2009.
Martin Kane BSc CEng Prior to that, he worked for Cadbury Simon is an electrical engineer by Joined Severn Trent in January CEnv MICE MIWEM FIW 58 Schweppes Plc, leading the companys training and began his career in military 2000.
Prior to joining Severn Trent Director of Customer Relations global internal audit service from communications working for Plessey Services, Len served as President of 2000-2005.
Before joining Severn and then GEC.
He previously worked for Please see full biography on page 31.
Chemineer, Inc. a unit of Robbins & Trent, he worked for RSM Robson London Electricity in various operational Myers, Inc. a global leader in industrial 3.
Michael McKeon MA CA Rhodes as a Director and a member of and management roles and, more mixing and agitation equipment and the management board responsible for recently, for National Grid where he was 54 Finance Director technology.
He also served as a Risk Assurance Services.
Alec is a Head of UK Operations Performance President of Johnston Pump Company, Please see full biography on page 31. fellow of the ICAEW.
and Planning, then Commercial Director a full line vertical pump, parts and for the gas and electricity business in the 4.
Fiona Smith LLB 52 repair company.
Andy Smith BTech Hons UK and Europe, and more recently held General Counsel and Company 50 Director of Water Services the position of Chief Procurement Officer 11.
Evelyn Dickey Secretary before joining Severn Trent.
Please see full biography on page 31.
BSc Hons 48 Joined Severn Trent in February Director of Human Resources 2006.
Fiona is a Solicitor and was 9.
Dr Tony Ballance BSc Joined Severn Trent in November previously General Counsel and Chief Information officer Hons MA Econ PhD 46 2006.
Evelyn has wide HR experience Company Secretary at National Grid Joined Severn Trent in April 2008.
Director, Strategy and leading design and delivery of major plc, where she worked for 15years, Myron has delivered major IT strategic change programmes, business Regulation before becoming General Counsel at programmes, reorganised corporate IT restructuring, employee relations, Transport for London for two years, Please see full biography on page 31. units and deployed high performance resourcing, organisational capability prior to joining Severn Trent.
IT practices in previous roles for NYK and performance management Logistics and Unipart.
Before joining Severn Trent executive sponsor of the companys Evelyn worked in HR consultancy and SAP ERP transformation programme.
as HR Director HR Operations for Boots the Chemists.
