30 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Board of directors Severn Trent Plc board of directors as at 31 March 2011 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 Board committees Management committee A R C N E Audit Remuneration Corporate Nominations Executive Senior independent Committee Committee Responsibility Committee Committee non-executive director Baroness Noakes C Richard Davey C Committee Andrew Duff C Tony Wray C Richard Davey Dr Bernard Bulkin Dr Bernard Bulkin Dr Bernard Bulkin C Dr Bernard Bulkin Dr Tony Ballance Richard Davey Andrew Duff Andrew Duff Richard Davey Simon Cocks General Counsel and Kerry Porritt S Martin Lamb Gordon Fryett Gordon Fryett Evelyn Dickey Company Secretary Fiona Smith S Tony Wray Martin Lamb Len Graziano Fiona Smith Kerry Porritt S Baroness Noakes Myron Hrycyk Tony Wray Martin Kane Fiona Smith S Michael McKeon C Chairman Alec Richmond S Secretary Andy Smith Non-executive director Fiona Smith Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 31 1.
Andrew Duff BSc FEI 52 Hons MA Econ PhD 46 FRSC FRSA FIE 69 Senior independent Non-executive Chairman Appointed to the board in May 2010.
Director, Strategy and Independent non-executive non-executive director Andrews strong track record working in Appointed to the board in January Regulation director regulated business gives him the relevant 2006.
Richard is Chairman of the Appointed to the board in Appointed to the board in January experience to make him the right Remuneration Committee.
Bernard is the Chairman of the Chairman to lead the group through Richard has an investment banking Tonys extensive experience in utility Corporate Responsibility Committee.
the next phase of development.
Other background and was formerly Head of policy and regulation working for Ofwat Bernards involvement in both innovation directorships and offices: Senior Investment Banking at NM Rothschild as Chief Economist and then as an and policy on climate change and independent director of Wolseley Plc, and Sons.
With extensive experience of economic consultant leaves him ideally renewable energy, together with an Member of the board of trustees of the financial services sector, having run placed to lead the companys strategic understanding of how to guide improved Macmillan Cancer Support, Group Rothschilds Financial Services Group and regulatory work.
Other performance on safety and Chief Executive Officer, RWE npower and working with a number of high street directorships and offices: Chief environmental operational issues, 20032009, Fellow of the Energy banks and insurers, Richard brings Economist, Office of Water Services enables him to contribute significantly Institute.
valuable financial expertise to the board Ofwat 19961999, director of London to the board.
Other directorships and and Audit Committee and as chair of the Economics 19992000, director of offices: Chairman of Chemrec AB, N R C Remuneration Committee.
Other Stone and Webster Consultants a Swedish company, non-executive directorships and offices: non- 20002005. director of REAC AB in Sweden and of executive Chairman of London Capital Ze-gen Corporation in Boston, Venture E Holdings Plc, Vice Chairman of Yorkshire Partner at Vantage Point, an international Building Society, non-executive director venture capital firm, Chair of the Office of Amlin Plc, non-executive director of of Renewable Energy Deployment, Freeserve Plc 19992001, nonUK Department of Energy and Climate executive director of Scottish Widows Change, was Chief Scientist at BP Plc Fund and Life Assurance Society 20002003.
Michael McKeon MA CA 54 Independent non-executive CEnv MICE MIWEM FIW 58 Independent non-executive Finance Director Appointed to the board in director Director of Customer Relations director December 2005.
Appointed to the board in July 2009.
Appointed to the board in October Appointed to the board in Michael has extensive international Gordons extensive experience working 2007.
Martin has been Director of February 2008. business experience having worked in and with international businesses, Customer Relations, Severn Trent Martin has extensive experience of overseas for CarnaudMetalbox, Elf accountability for managing large areas Water, since May 2006. managing and developing large Atochem and Price Waterhouse.
He also of capital expenditure and a broad range Martin joined Severn Trent Water in 1975 engineering businesses in all parts of the held various senior roles with Rollsof executive and operational experience and has held various senior posts giving world.
His strong commercial acumen, Royce Plc from 1997 to 2000 including in a highly customer facing environment, him an extensive understanding of the experience of managing complex Finance Director of Aerospace Group enables him to bring a great deal of design, construction and operation of projects, and familiarity with current and was Finance Director of Novar Plc experience and expertise to the board.
water and waste water treatment plants, market pressures as a serving Chief from 2000 to 2005.
Michael is a Other directorships and offices: water distribution networks and Executive leave him well placed to add Chartered Accountant and a Member Group Property Director of Tesco, CEO sewerage systems.
Other directorships value to the Severn Trent business.
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Tesco Ireland 20012006, Director and offices: board member of UK Water Other directorships and offices: of Scotland.
Other directorships and of International Support for Tesco Industry Research Limited, board Chief Executive of IMI plc, non-executive offices: non-executive director and 19972001, Alumnus of INSEAD.
member of Utilities and Service director of Spectris plc 19992006.
Chairman of the Audit Committee of Industries Training Limited.
C N R N The Merchants Trust Plc, Finance E Director of Novar Plc 20002005.
Tony Wray BSc Hons 49 LLB FCA 61 50 Chief Executive Appointed to the board in March 2005 Independent non-executive Director of Water Services and became Chief Executive in Appointed to the board in director October 2007.
Appointed to the board in February Tonys experience of a wide range of Andy has worked in the UK and overseas 2008.
Sheila Noakes is the Chairman operational and strategic leadership roles with BP, Mars and Pepsi, in engineering of the Audit Committee.
in the Energy, Telecoms, Water and and operational management roles, and Sheila is a Fellow of the Institute of Waste industries enables him to bring a as group HR director and a member of Chartered Accountants in England and multi disciplined approach to the board.
Andy brings a broad Wales and served as its President from Other directorships and offices: range of executive and operational 19992000.
She was a senior partner of non-executive director Energy and experience from different sectors to the KPMG from 1983 to 2000.
She is an Utility Skills, the sector skills council, board.
Other directorships and experienced audit committee chairman Member of the Business Advisory Board offices: director of Boots Group Plc and currently chairs the Carpetright Plc for Living with Environmental Change, 20022003 Audit Committee.
Other directorships director of Networks at Eircom, the and offices: senior independent E Republic of Irelands telephone operation director of Carpetright Plc, director 20032005, director roles within of the Thomson-Reuters Founder Share Transco and National Grid Transco Company, non-executive director of 19972003.
Imperial Chemical Industries Plc 20042008, non-executive director C N E of Hanson Plc 20012007, Member of the Court of the Bank of England 19942001.
