8 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Our strategy Sustainable growth Providing high standards of service to Acting responsibly, operating safely Sustainable our customers, strong environmental and doing the right things performance, a fair return for investors The very nature of our business makes We need to strike the right and a great place to work for our people corporate responsibility part and parcel of Running a sustainable business, balancing our everyday business activities.
What we balance to maintain a healthy the needs of all our stakeholders, along with do affects the environment, local and business.
We do this by: the needs of the environment in which our regional communities, our people and businesses operate.
Acting responsibly, operating safely and doing the right thing Making sure our business is efficiently also play important roles in enhancing our nanced, with a exible and sustainable reputation with our stakeholders.
It therefore balance sheet makes sense to make ethical and As well as ensuring we are securely funded responsible business practices an integral we work to manage our balance sheet part of our strategy, incorporated into our sensibly and keep our credit ratings stable.
business planning and risk management.
We keep our renancing needs under constant review to take advantage of favourable market conditions.
Key Strategic Intentions Severn Trent Water Our strategy is based on Our vision is to be the best water and waste water company in the eight Key Strategic Intentions UK.
We aim to achieve this by providing the highest standards KSIs which reect what matters to our customers and and lowest charges and through great people.
We focus on four wider stakeholder groups.
key areas customers, environment, people and value.
We measure our performance within each KSI against our Customers People 18 Key Performance Our customers have the lowest, on average, Our drive to work safer, better and faster Indicators KPIs : bills in England and Wales.
But keeping is the cornerstone of our business customers satisfied is not just about low transformation initiatives.
Providing a continuous charges and value for money.
We also need we have the right processes and systems supply of quality water to reect their needs and priorities in our in place, underpinned by a strong safety plans, communicate clearly, keep our culture, is a fundamental part of our drive 2.
Dealing effectively with promises and apologise if things go wrong.
for operational excellence and continuous waste water improvement.
Responding to customers Our operations depend on the environment Value needs in which we operate.
Our activities can have The more efficiently we work, the higher 4.
Minimising our carbon a significant impact and we take our our standards.
In turn this improves our footprint stewardship of the environment very ability to keep our costs low and generate seriously, looking for innovative ways to progressive, sustainable returns which 5.
Having the lowest possible manage our river catchments, and minimise earns the trust of our shareholders.
charges pollution and our carbon footprint.
Having the right skills to deliver 7.
Maintaining investor Our key focus: confidence 8.
Promoting an effective regulatory regime Customers Environment People Value Delivering quality Reducing Investing in the Making our services at pollution and our right people with business prices customers carbon footprint the right skills attractive to can afford investors Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 9 Growing Severn Trent Water in the financial performance, backed by a Growth UK through investment in our networks significant programme of change, puts us and services in a strong position to prosper from future We create and release value by We are committed to reaching the highest changes to the way we are regulated.
standards in the industry and to continually focusing on water and waste Deploying our Severn Trent Services improving our performance in every area of business into new markets water.
We achieve this by: our business, from the resilience of our This business operates at the forefront networks to the energy we consume and the of the demand for water and waste water way we interact with our customers.
We achieve growth in this reason the improvement targets we set business by expanding the scope of our ourselves are ambitious, and often more existing markets, entering new high growth challenging than our regulatory requirements.
markets and investing in innovative Winning in a changing world technologies.
positioning Severn Trent to capitalise Developing new treatment technologies on opportunities in a new regulatory Our research and development teams framework investigate treatment technologies to Our industry has delivered significant improve our efficiency and continually benets in the two decades since reduce our environmental impacts.
However, we believe that challenging traditional approaches we are changes to the regulatory and policy able to introduce groundbreaking solutions framework are now needed in order to make that require less capital investment and the industry sustainable.
Our strategy of lower operational costs.
continually improving our operational and Key Strategic Initiatives Severn Trent Services Eight Key Strategic Initiatives We aim to maintain strong operational performance through define our strategy and set cost control and revenue growth and by capitalising on the out how we intend to achieve our objectives: right opportunities for growth in the higher return, unregulated market sectors.
Deliver what customers value Severn Trent Services is one of the leading Operational performance water and waste water businesses in the As a competitive business, it is crucial that 2.
To achieve our strategy we focus on: we build on our strengths in order to secure contracts and strong sales new business and maintain high levels of channel relationships Expanding the scope of our operating contract renewals in Operating Services.
services to existing clients around the 3.
Expand our global For our Water Purication Products world.
technology programme business this means continuing innovation Continuing the geographic expansion to develop high-end products taking 4.
Continuously improve of our products.
advantage of market opportunities while quality, health, safety staying focused on water.
We also aim to and environmental Enhancing products and operations to preserve our operational margins through performance improve our effectiveness and efficiency.
Invest in strategic Developing new technologies at the We are always looking for ways to improve partnerships to forefront of water and waste water our standards and operate more efficiently.
We achieve this through supply chain cost growth reduction in component sourcing and lower 6.
Optimise processes and cost locations for engineering and organisational capabilities assembly: and by improving our environmental and health and safety 7.
Continue to build a strong, performance.
Increase employee engagement Overview 10 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review Severn Trent Water Performance We are particularly pleased with progress Underlying improvements in Our challenge is to keep in our work to tackle sewer ooding, one operational performance were of the biggest causes of disruption and continually improving how we affected by a challenging distress to our customers.
We also halved engage with our customers.
the total number of pollution incidents in the business and economic We need to maintain our category 1 and 2 bands, with none in the environment, together with most serious, category 1 classication.
efficiency while making our the coldest December in Our business also underwent change customers feel more valued.
during the year as we set up to deliver 100 years.
However, overall our ambitious AMP5 programme.
Our progress remains strong with streamlined new supply chain is now significant business change in place and major improvements in technology and ways of working have been resulting in the delivery of implemented, including the move to a state planned efficiencies.
of the art operational centre in Coventry.
Customers Our aim is to deliver the highest standards Our customers combined average water and lowest prices for customers and one of and sewerage bills are the lowest in the best standards of drinking water in the England and Wales and the quality of the UK.
At an average of 298, Severn Trent water we provide is amongst the best in the Water customers also paid the lowest industry.
We also score well on the process average combined water and sewerage bill side of dealing with our customers we in England and Wales over the last year.
aim to deal with customer issues at first For those customers struggling to pay, we point of contact.
Although we solve helped to manage their payments, whilst problems efficiently, we need to improve reducing our own bad debt risk.
the way we engage with our customers.
Our challenge is to maintain our The harsh December had a significant impact on our operations, particularly on efficiency whilst making our customers feel more valued.
our leakage performance, with a sharp peak in leakages at the height of the freeze thaw events.
The severe weather We worked with customer also meant that our capital programme got off to a slower start than we had aimed for.
focus groups to redesign our customer bills so they t our customers needs.
8.2m 82p We serve 8.2 million people Average customer pays just 82 pence per day 298 Lowest combined average water and sewerage bill in England and Wales at 298 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 11 Customer experience Flooding and pollution Case study We are committed to providing the best We are ahead of our target for reducing the Transferring sewer customer experience possible.
Ofwats number of properties on the sewer ooding ownership Service Incentive Mechanism SIM, a new risk register, thanks to investments in our way of measuring the customer experience, network and our proactive monitoring, which We anticipate the transfer of will help us keep track of our performance.
allows us to identify and x problems before private drains and sewers It measures whether our customers feel they result in failure.
We have reduced the PDAS will take place in valued when we interact with them, as well number of network failure-related repairs by October 2011.
At the moment as how well we respond to their telephone 15%, resulting in less disruption to customers home owners are responsible and written communications.
The 2010 11 and reduced ooding and pollution.
for everything up to the main financial year is our first full year of data.
Managing debt sewer, including the We are using the information we gather to Our challenge is to reduce bad debt while connection.
After the transfer put together a Customer Experience helping people who genuinely want to pay, we will own around 37,000km programme that covers recruitment, training, but are nding it difficult to meet their of sewers which are currently our telephone performance and improving payments.
In 2010 we introduced a new privately owned, and be every single touch point customers have credit management system that helps us responsible for their repair with Severn Trent.
target our efforts more efficiently.
We also At times, and especially during the harsh our Relationships team, which works with expect roughly 4,000 winter, our customers found it difficult to social housing landlords to track tenants pumping stations to be contact us as we were inundated with calls moving in and out of rented accommodation transferred in stages over the from people with frozen domestic pipes.
and stay on top of debt in this sector, we following five years.
We This has increased complaints which we reduced bad debt to 2.3% of sales.
Our believe this will benefit some are working hard to resolve.
region is still feeling the effects of the customers in a number of economic change the country is currently ways such as reducing their A continuous supply of quality water experiencing and for this reason our outlook liability and repair costs, In 2010 we delivered 99.98% overall mean on debt reduction is cautious.
but will lead to higher bills zonal compliance with DWI drinking water in general to fund the quality regulatory standards.
However, To help people on lower incomes who want necessary continued our unplanned interruptions to supply to be good payers but have fallen into debt, investment.
Our plans for the performance over the year was not at the we are piloting the new Together Tariff, transition are well advanced level we expect.
Three major events caused where we match payments made by and we have been engaging significant disruption and regrettably a customers.
We have contributed 4.5 million with regulators and number of our customers were without to the Severn Trent Trust Fund, helped over government to make sure water for some time.
We have a dedicated 4,800 customers through our WaterSure we provide customers with programme in place to improve performance.
tariff and signed up 43,549 people to an efficient service after Water Direct.
Customer written complaints per 1,000 First time call resolution for billing properties 5.73 2011 4.95 2010 90% 2011 89% 2010 Properties at risk of low pressure per 1,000 properties 0.07 2011 0.122010 For more information on KPIs see page 123 Business review
