Governance Board of Directors Adrian Auer, Tom Drury, BA, MBA MA Chairman Group Chief Executive Adrian joined the Board in 2005 and was Tom joined the Company as Group appointed Chairman in July 2006.
He Chief Executive Designate in September chairs the Nomination Committee and 2007 and was appointed Group Chief is also a member of the Remuneration Executive in October of that year.
Adrian is also Chairman of Following an early career with Unilever Readymix plc, a non-executive director of and  he went Electrocomponents plc and AZ Electronic on to a distinguished career with United Materials S. A and the Senior Independent Utilities plc, being appointed a main Director of Umeco plc.
Previously he has board director in 2005.
In 1996 he was held the position of Finance Director in a appointed Managing Director of a new number of major companies, notably in the commercial enterprise, Vertex, which building materials and construction sectors, grew to become the second largest firm as well as senior finance positions with BP in the UKs business process outsourcing and ICI.
He is also Chairman of Addaction, sector until the sale of that business in Britains largest specialist drug and alcohol March 2007 to US private equity.
Eric van Amerongen, Chris Surch, Senior Independent Director B. COM ACC, ACA Group Finance Director Eric was appointed to the Board in February 2007 and sits on the Audit, Chris joined the Board in May 2009 as Group Remuneration and Nomination Finance Director.
Following an early career Committees.
In July 2007 he was with  he joined TI appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Group plc in 1995 where he held a number Committee and Senior Independent of audit and finance roles.
He was until January 2008 a merger of TI Group with Smiths Group plc non-executive director of Corus Group in December 2000 he went on to hold plc, a position he held for seven years.
further senior finance roles, most recently Eric has wide ranging European business as Finance Director of their Specialty experience and holds a number of nonEngineering division.
72 Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Stephen Riley, Jacques Petry, B ENG, PHD MBA Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Stephen was appointed to the Board in Jacques was appointed to the Board March 2007 and is a member of the Audit, in September 2010 and sits on the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
He is currently the CEO & President, UK-Europe He was Chairman and Chief Executive of with International Power plc.
Prior to this SITA from 1996 and of parent company Suez he was a director of International Power Environnement, one of the worlds leading plc from January 2004 to February 2011, water and waste management groups, when he resigned from the Board following from 2001 until 2004.
From 2005 to 2007 he the combination of International Power was Chief Executive of Sodexo Continental and GDF SUEZ Energy International.
He is Europe and South America.
Since 2007 responsible for managing all aspects of he has advised corporate and financial their performance in Europe including plant sponsors, initially as Global Head, RBS operations, finance, energy trading and Environmental Services Sector and more business development.
He is a chartered recently as an independent consultant, with engineer and joined International Power in regard to Infrastructure and Environmental 1985, holding senior positions in two UK power Services sector investments worldwide.
He stations before being appointed Managing has extensive international non-executive Director of their Australian operations in 2000. experience and has served on the boards of various listed companies.
In December 2009 he was appointed a non-executive director of Idex SA, the French energy and facility management company, becoming Chairman of their Advisory Board in January 2011.
Peter Johnson, BA, ACA Non-executive Director Peter joined the Board in May 2005 and is the Chairman of the Audit Committee and also sits on the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Peter is a chartered accountant and was Finance Director of Taylor Wimpey plc from 2002 until October 2008.
Previously he has held a number of senior positions in the Financial Services sector including those of Group Finance Director of Henderson plc, Chief Financial Officer for Pearl Assurance and Finance Director of Norwich Union Life.
He was until December 2010 a non-executive director of Oriel Securities Limited.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Shanks Group plc 73 Information Financial Governance Performance Strategy Overview
