Governance Directors Report deemed to form part of, this Report together with the Directors The composition of the Board of Directors at the other information referred to in this Directors Report.
date of this Report, together with their biographical details, is shown on pages 72 and 73.
Mr A Auer, Acquisitions and Disposals During the year acquisitions have been made for an Mr T Drury, Mr E van Amerongen, Mr P Johnson, Dr S Riley and Mr C Surch all served on the Board initial cash consideration of 6.9m 2010: nil.
On 21 October 2010, the Group acquired the UK waste throughout the financial year under review.
Mr J Petry was appointed as a non-executive PFI PPP interests of United Utilities plc for an initial cash consideration of 1m, with deferred director on 30 September 2010.
Mr A Auer, Mr E van Amerongen, Mr P Johnson and consideration of 5.1m contingent upon the successful financial closure of individual projects Dr S Riley will be offering themselves for annual re-election at the Companys AGM to be held on and which will be payable from win fees.
On 24 February 2011, the Group acquired Allied Waste 21 July 2011 in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association whilst Mr J Petry will be Services business from The Henry Grant Group for a cash consideration of 5.9m and deferred seeking his first election by shareholders.
Mr T Drury is also standing, it being three years since his last consideration of 0.6m.
Further details are set out in note 17 of the financial statements.
The Board commends to shareholders the re-election and election of these directors, all 2010 the Group sold all the subordinated debt and 80% of the equity in both the East London Waste of whom continue to demonstrate commitment to their respective roles and all of whose individual Authority and Dumfries and Galloway PFI contracts to John Laing Investments for 24.6m 2010 disposals: performance continues to be effective.
Further details are set out in note 4 of the financial statements.
Qualifying Third Party Indemnities As at the date of this Report, the Company has Research and Development granted indemnities in favour of its directors to the extent permitted by law, in respect of certain The Group spent 274,000 2010: Nil on research and development during the year ended 31 liabilities incurred as a result of carrying out the role as a director of the Company.
This expenditure related to the Groups participation in a four year project by a consortium are qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006.
In of universities, research centres and commercial companies in Belgium aimed at developing respect of those liabilities for which the directors may not be indemnified, the Company maintained technologies for mapping landfill sites, optimising waste decomposition processes and the recovery a Directors and Officers liability insurance policy throughout the financial year and has renewed of energy and materials through excavation techniques and waste pre-treatment.
Results and Dividends Principal Activities and Business Review Shanks Group plc is one of Europes leading waste The Groups Consolidated Income Statement appears on page 94 and note 3 to the financial management businesses, with operations in the Netherlands, Belgium, the UK and Canada providing statements shows the contribution to revenue and profits made by the different segments of the a range of recycling and energy recovery solutions and technologies to customers in the public and Groups business.
The Groups profit for the year amounted to 21.9m 2010: 37.6m.
The Group has more than a hundred facilities handling more than seven million tonnes of The directors recommend a final dividend of 2.25p waste a year, of which more than 75% is recycled or recovered.
Group activities range from mechanical 2010: 2.0p per share be paid on 5 August 2011 to ordinary shareholders on the register of members biological treatment and anaerobic digestion to recycling and waste collection operations.
at close of business on 8 July 2011.
This dividend, if approved by shareholders, together with the interim The Overview, Strategy and Performance sections dividend of 1.0p 2010: 1.0p per share already paid on 14 January 2011, will make a total dividend for the of this Annual Report refer to the objectives and strategy of the Group, its competition and the year of 3.25p per share 2010: 3.0p.
markets in which it operates, the principal risks and uncertainties it faces, a review of the development Statement of Going Concern and performance of the business for the year After making enquiries, the directors have formed ended 31 March 2011, the Groups financial position, the view, at the time of approving the financial key performance indicators and likely future statements, that the Company and the Group have developments of the business.
Together with the adequate resources to continue in operational Governance section, the information referred to existence for the foreseeable future and that the above fulfills the requirements of the business review Groups business is a going concern.
For this reason provisions in section 417 of the Companies Act 2006 the directors continue to adopt the going concern and is incorporated by reference into, and is basis in preparing the financial statements.
86 Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 d any shareholder or shareholders present in Notifiable Interests As at 25 May 2011 the Company had been notified of person or by proxy or represented by corporate representatives and holding shares conferring a the following direct and indirect interests in voting rights equal to or exceeding 3% of the ordinary share right to attend and vote at the meeting on which there have been paid up sums in the aggregate capital of the Company: equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum Number of shares Percentage paid up on all the shares conferring that right.
In Schroders plc 59,750,929 15.06 the case of joint holders of an ordinary share, the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, whether Artemis Investment in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the Management LLP 29,489,347 7.43 exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders.
Norges Bank 16,312,838 4.11 Seniority is determined by the order in which the names of the joint holders appear in the Legal & General Companys register of members in respect of the Group plc 12,391,938 3.12 joint holding.
The deadline for appointing proxies to exercise voting rights at any general meeting Share Capital is set out in the notice convening the relevant The Companys share capital comprises ordinary meeting.
The Company is not aware of any shares of 10 pence each par value.
As at 31 March agreements between holders of shares that may 2011 and as at the date of this Report there were result in restrictions on voting rights.
During the year ended 31 March 2011 no ordinary shares were Return of capital in the event of the liquidation issued other than those issued in respect of the of the Company, after payment of all liabilities exercise of options or awards under the Companys and deductions taking priority, the balance of share schemes, details of which are given in note 7 assets available for distribution will be distributed to the financial statements.
The principal rights and among the holders of ordinary shares according obligations attaching to the ordinary shares are to the amounts paid up on the shares held by as follows: them.
A liquidator may, with the sanction of a special resolution of the shareholders and any Dividend rights holders of the Companys other sanction required by applicable legislation, ordinary shares may, by ordinary resolution, divide among the shareholders in kind the whole declare dividends but may not declare dividends or any part of the Companys assets or vest the in excess of the amount recommended by the Companys assets, in whole or in part, in trustees directors.
The directors may also pay interim upon such trusts for the benefit of shareholders, dividends.
No dividend may be paid other than but no shareholder is compelled to accept any out of profits available for distribution.
Payment or assets upon which there is any liability.
satisfaction of a dividend may be made wholly or partly by distribution of assets, including fully paid Restrictions on the Holding or Transfer of Shares shares or debentures of any other company.
The There are no restrictions under the Companys directors may deduct from any dividend payable Memorandum or Articles of Association that to a member all sums of money if any payable restrict the rights of members to hold or transfer by such member to the Company in respect of the Companys shares.
Certain restrictions may ordinary shares of the Company.
however from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example insider trading laws.
The Voting rights voting at any general meeting is by Company is not aware of any agreements between a show of hands unless a poll is duly demanded.
holders of its shares that may result in restrictions on Voting at this years AGM will be by a poll only.
On a show of hands every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy or represented Control Rights Under Employee Share Schemes by a corporate representative at a general The Company operates a number of employee meeting has one vote regardless of the number of share schemes.
Under one of those schemes, shares held by the shareholder.
On a poll, every ordinary shares may be held by trustees on behalf shareholder who is present in person or by proxy of employees.
Employees are not entitled to or represented by a corporate representative has exercise directly any voting or other control rights one vote for every share held by that shareholder.
in respect of any shares held by such trustees and A poll may be demanded by any of the following: the trustees have full discretion to vote or abstain a the chairman of the meeting: b at least five from voting at general meetings of the Company in shareholders entitled to vote and present in respect of such shares.
person or by proxy or represented by corporate representatives at the meeting: c any shareholder Retail Bond or shareholders present in person or by proxy or As at 31 March 2011 and as at the date of this Report the represented by corporate representatives and Company had in issue a retail bond comprising 100 representing in the aggregate not less than onemillion 5% guaranteed notes due 22 October 2015, tenth of the total voting rights of all shareholders each of 1 par value.
entitled to attend and vote at the meeting: or Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Shanks Group plc 87 Information Financial Governance Performance Strategy Overview Governance Directors Report continued There are no restrictions under the instrument the ability of the directors to cause the Company governing the guaranteed notes that restrict the to issue shares, securities convertible into shares rights of investors to hold or transfer the guaranteed or rights to shares, otherwise than pursuant to an notes.
The Company is not aware of any agreements employees share scheme, is restricted.
Under the between the holders of guaranteed notes that Companies Act 2006, the directors of a company may result in restrictions on the transfer of are, with certain exceptions, unable to allot any guaranteed notes.
equity securities without express authorisation, which may be contained in a companys articles Appointment and Replacement of Directors of association or given by its shareholders in The Company shall appoint not less than two general meeting, but which in either event cannot directors disregarding alternate directors.
The last for more than five years.
Under the Companies appointment and replacement of directors may Act 2006, the Company may also not allot be made as follows: shares for cash otherwise than pursuant to an employees share scheme without first making an The Companys members may, by ordinary offer to existing shareholders to allot such shares resolution, appoint any person who is willing to to them on the same or more favourable terms act to be a director.
in proportion to their respective shareholdings, unless this requirement is waived by a special The Board may appoint any person who is willing resolution of the Companys shareholders.
The to act to be a director.
Any director so appointed Company received authority at the last AGM to shall hold office only until the next AGM and shall allot shares for cash on a non pre-emptive basis then be eligible for election.
up to a maximum nominal amount of 1,983,956.
This authority lasts until the earlier of the AGM of Each executive director shall retire from office the Company in 2011 or 30 September 2011. no later than at the third AGM after the AGM at which he or she was last elected but he or she Repurchase of shares subject to authorisation may be reappointed by ordinary resolution if by shareholder resolution, the Company eligible and willing.
may purchase all or any of its own shares in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and Each non-executive director shall retire from the Listing Rules.
Any shares which have been office at every AGM but he or she may be bought back may be held as treasury shares or, if reappointed by ordinary resolution if eligible not so held, must be cancelled immediately upon and willing.
completion of the purchase, thereby reducing the amount of the Companys issued share capital.
The Company may, by special resolution, remove The Company received authority at the last AGM any director before the expiration of his or her to purchase up to 39,679,127 ordinary shares.
This period of office or may, by ordinary resolution, authority lasts until the earlier of the AGM of the remove a director where special notice has been Company in 2011 or 30 September 2011. given and the necessary statutory procedures are complied with.
Borrowing powers the directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the Company to The office of any director must be vacated if any borrow money and to mortgage or charge all or of the circumstances in Article 100 of the Articles any part of the Companys assets, provided that of Association arise.
the aggregate amount of borrowings does not exceed the limit set out in the Companys Articles Powers of Directors of Association, unless sanctioned by an ordinary The Articles of Association of the Company provide resolution of the Companys shareholders.
that the business of the Company shall be managed by the Board which may exercise all the powers of Amendment to Companys Articles the Company, whether relating to the management The Company may alter its Articles of Association by of the business of the Company or not.
This power is special resolution passed at a general meeting.
subject to any limitations imposed on the Company by legislation.
It is also limited by the provisions of Corporate Governance the Articles of Association of the Company and by The Board is fully committed to high standards any directions given by special resolution of the of corporate governance.
Details relating to the members of the Company which are applicable Companys compliance with the Combined Code on the date that any power is exercised.
Specific on Corporate Governance for the financial year provisions relevant to the exercise of power by the are given in the Corporate Governance and directors include the following: Remuneration Reports on pages 74 to 85.
Pre-emptive rights and new issues of shares Corporate Responsibility while holders of ordinary shares have no preInformation on Corporate Responsibility matters emptive rights under the Articles of Association, including the environment, employment policies, 88 Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 health and safety and community relations are set out The 2001 notes issued under the Groups private on pages 26 to 30.
The Group Corporate Responsibility placement contain an option for the noteholders Policy is available on the Group website as is the full to enforce prepayment between 30 and 60 days Group Corporate Responsibility Report.
from a change of control of outstanding principal and interest which would have amounted in total at Charitable and Political Donations 31 March 2011 to 32.1m.
In addition, a make-whole During the financial year donations made by the payment amounting to 1.9m which is not provided Group for charitable purposes amounted to 19,000 for in these financial statements would be payable 2010: 2,000.
Included within this total the Board to private placement noteholders based on treasury are pleased to report their support for the UK youth yields at 31 March 2011. charity, the Princes Trust, with a funding commitment of 15,000 per annum for the next three years.
The Subsequent to 31 March 2011, 17.9m 15.9m of private Board will also look for opportunities to support placement notes were repaid on maturity on 11 April similar charities in the Netherlands and Belgium.
2011 and 40m 35.4m of new notes were issued under the facility dated 24 March 2011.
These notes In the UK, through the Landfill Communities Fund, the contain the same requirements as the 2001 notes in Group has applied 546,000 2010: 552,000 via notthe event of a change of control.
for-profit organisations to undertake projects such as disused land restoration, public park maintenance and In addition, the rules of the Companys employee habitat conservation.
In addition, staff at individual share plans provide that awards and options may Group businesses have organised various fund raising vest and become exercisable on a change of events to support local and national charities.
No donations were made by the Group for political Persons with Whom the Group has Essential purposes during the financial year 2010: Nil.
Contractual and Other Arrangements The Groups largest customers for its products and Payment of Suppliers services include local authorities and municipalities.
The Company does not currently subscribe to In the UK these include, notably, long term integrated any code or standard on payment practice.
It is waste management contracts with the East London the Companys policy, however, to settle terms of Waste Authority, Dumfries and Galloway, Argyll & payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms Bute and Cumbria Councils.
Under these contracts of each transaction, to ensure that suppliers are the Group is responsible for managing the municipal made aware of the terms of payment and to abide wastes and recyclables collected by the local by the terms of payment.
The amount owed to authority or their subcontractors.
In the Netherlands, trade creditors at the year end in proportion to the Groups hazardous waste business has long the amounts invoiced by suppliers during the year, term contracts with the oil and gas industry and expressed as a number of days, was 67 days 2010: is a major supplier of cleaning services to the 66 days for the Group and was 35 days 2010: 33 petrochemical industry.
The Netherlands business days for the Company.
also has a number of long term source segregated organic contracts with municipalities and provinces.
Change of Control - Significant Agreements In Belgium there are a number of municipal waste The Groups principal financing instrument at 31 collection contracts, the largest being for the city of March 2011, a 200m term loan and multicurrency Liege.
In Canada there are long term contracts with revolving credit facility with six major banks, the London and Ottawa municipalities.
contains an option for those banks to declare by notice that all sums outstanding under that Annual General Meeting agreement are repayable immediately in the event Notice of the AGM of the Company to be held of a change of control of the Company.
Any such at the offices of the Royal Bank of Scotland, notice may take effect no earlier than 30 days from 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA on Thursday the change of control and, if exercised at 31 March 21 July 2011 at 11.00am will be made available to 2011, would have required the repayment of 89.3m shareholders, together with a form of proxy, and in principal and interest.
will also be available on the Group website at www.
In addition to the routine The Groups five year Retail Bond issued in October 2010 resolutions, an ordinary resolution will also be requires notice to be given to bondholders within 7 proposed to approve a new long term share business days of a change of control following which incentive plan.
The directors consider that all the the holders have an option to seek repayment at a 1% resolutions to be proposed at the AGM are in the premium, within 60 days of that notice.
Such repayment best interests of the Company and its shareholders must be made within 10 business days of the expiry of as a whole and they recommend unanimously the option period.
If change of control occurs prior that all shareholders vote in favour of the to 22 October 2011 the repayment is at a premium of resolutions, as they intend to do in respect of their 1.875%.
If exercised at 31 March 2011, repayment of 92.1m own shareholdings.
in principal and interest would have been required.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Shanks Group plc 89 Information Financial Governance Performance Strategy Overview Governance Directors Report continued Directors Responsibilities Statement Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 72 to 73 of the Annual Report The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted Company law requires the directors to prepare by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the Group and the Directors Report contained on pages 86 to 90 Parent Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards of the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that that it faces.
they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: they have taken all the steps that they ought select suitable accounting policies and then apply to have taken as directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit them consistently: information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: By order of the Board state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume Philip Griffin-Smith that the Company will continue in business.
Company Secretary 26 May 2011 The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and Shanks Group plc explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial Registered in Scotland no.
SC077438 position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
90 Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
