8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:12 Page 42 42 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Board of Directors 1 4 Matthew Emmens 60 David Kappler 64 Chairman Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Mr. Emmens was appointed Chairman on June 18, 2008 Non-Executive Director and has been a member of the Board since March 12, Mr. Kappler has been a member of the Board since April 5, 2003.
He is also a member of the Nomination Committee.
He was appointed Senior Independent Non-Executive Mr. Emmens was the Companys Chief Executive officer Director in July 2007 and Deputy Chairman in June 2008. from March 2003 to June 2008.
He is also Chairman of the Nomination Committee and of the Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee.
Mr. Emmens brings to the Board his operational knowledge 1 of Shire and his wealth of international sales, marketing, Mr. Kappler brings to the Board his extensive knowledge integration and operational experience in the pharmaceutical and experience in financial reporting, risk management and sector.
He is Chairman of Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. internal financial controls.
He is a Non-Executive Director Mr. Emmens was President and Chief Executive officer of InterContinental Hotels Group plc.
of Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. to February 2012 and He was Chairman of Premier Foods plc until September is a former Director of Incyte Corporation.
2010 and held directorships at Camelot Group plc and Mr. Emmens began his career in international HMV Group plc.
Mr. Kappler retired from Cadbury pharmaceuticals with Merck & Co, Inc. in 1974, where he Schweppes plc in April 2004 after serving as Chief Financial held a wide range of sales, marketing and administrative officer since 1995.
He worked for the Cadbury Schweppes positions.
In 1992, he helped to establish Astra Merck Inc. Group between 1965 and 1984 and rejoined the company 2 a joint venture between Merck and Astra AB of Sweden, in 1989 following its acquisition of the Trebor Group, becoming President and Chief Executive officer.
In 1999, he where he was Financial Director.
Mr. Kappler is a Fellow joined Merck KGaA and established EMD Pharmaceuticals, of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
the Companys US prescription pharmaceutical business.
He later served as President of Merck KGaAs global 5 prescription pharmaceuticals business in Germany.
William Burns 64 Mr. Emmens holds a degree in Business Management.
Non-Executive Director Mr. Burns was appointed to the Board on March 15, 2010 2 and is a member of the Remuneration Committee, the Angus Russell 56 Nomination Committee and of the Science & Technology 3 Chief Executive officer Committee.
Mr. Russell was appointed Chief Executive officer on June Mr. Burns brings to the Board extensive experience in 18, 2008 and has been a member of the Board since international sales, marketing, integration and operational December 13, 1999.
He is also Chairman of the Companys experience in the pharmaceutical sector.
He is a Director Leadership Team.
Mr. Russell was the Companys Chief of Biotie Therapies Corp. Roche Holdings Ltd, Chugai Financial officer from December 1999 to June 2008.
Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd and Genentech, Inc. and is a Mr. Russell brings to his position his operational knowledge former Director of Crucell N. V. of Shire and his extensive finance, risk management, Mr. Burns worked for many years for Roche, holding the strategic and operational experience in the pharmaceutical position of CEO of their pharmaceuticals division from 2005 4 sector.
He is a Non-Executive Director of InterMune, Inc. to 2009 and was a member of the Roche Group Corporate and is a former Non-Executive Director of the City of Executive Committee.
Among his many achievements London Investment Trust plc.
Between 1980 and 1999, during his time with Roche, he had significant involvement he held a number of positions of increasing responsibility in the acquisition and privatization of Genentech, he led the at ICI, Zeneca and AstraZeneca plc, including Vice integration of Boehringer Mannheim Therapeutics and he President, Corporate Finance at AstraZeneca and Group played a lead role in the negotiations resulting in Roche Treasurer at Zeneca.
Mr. Russell is a Chartered Accountant becoming a majority owner of Chugai in Japan.
Mr. Burns and is a Fellow of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
3 6 5 Graham Hetherington 53 Dr. David Ginsburg 59 Chief Financial officer Non-Executive Director Mr. Hetherington has been the Chief Financial officer Dr. Ginsburg, MD was appointed to the Board on June 16, and a member of the Board since July 1, 2008.
He is also 2010 and is a member of the Science & Technology a member of the Leadership Team.
Mr. Hetherington brings to his position a broad range of Dr. Ginsburg brings to the Board his clinical medical international finance management and planning, audit, risk background in Internal Medicine, Hematology-Oncology, management and M&A experience.
He was Chief Financial and Medical Genetics, as well as his extensive basic officer of Bacardi in 2007 and Chief Financial officer biomedical laboratory research expertise.
He is currently of Allied Domecq plc from 1999 to 2005.
Mr. Hetherington 6 James V. Neel Distinguished University Professor of Internal is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Medicine Human Genetics, and Pediatrics at the University Accountants.
of Michigan and a Howard Hughes Medical Institute Investigator.
Dr. Ginsburg obtained his BA at Yale University, MD at Duke University and completed his medical and research training at Harvard Medical School, before joining the faculty at the University of Michigan.
Dr. Ginsburg is the recipient of numerous honors and awards, including election to membership in the National Academy of Sciences, the Institute of Medicine and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
com Governance Shire plc Annual Report 2011 43 7 Former Non-Executive Directors Susan Kilsby 53 Non-Executive Director Patrick Langlois 66 Non-Executive Director Ms. Kilsby was appointed to the Board on September 1, Patrick was a member of the Board from November 11, 2005 to 2011 and is a member of the Audit, Compliance & Risk November 10, 2011.
He was also a member of the Audit, Compliance Committee.
& Risk Committee and of the Remuneration Committee until November 10, 2011.
Ms. Kilsby brings to the Board her extensive mergers and acquisitions and finance experience.
She is a Director of Patrick brought to the Board his extensive experience in financial Hong Kong listed global skin care company, LOccitane reporting, audit and risk management.
He is a Director of Scynexis 7 International S. A. Ms. Kilsby has a distinguished global Inc. Nanobiotix S. A. Exonhit S. A. and Newron Spa.
Patrick previously served as Vice Chairman of the Management Board of career in investment banking having held senior positions Aventis S. A. having been Group Executive Vice President and Chief with The First Boston Corporation, Bankers Trust, Barclays Financial officer for several years.
He also spent many years in senior fide Zoete Wedd and most recently Credit Suisse where she financial roles with the Rhne-Poulenc Group, including three years was Chairman of the EMEA Mergers & Acquisitions team as a member of the Executive Committee and Chief Financial officer.
until 2009 and continues in a part-time senior advisory Patrick holds a PhD in Economics and a diploma in banking studies.
Ms. Kilsby holds a BA in Economics and a MBA.
Dr. Jeffrey Leiden 56 8 Vice Chairman and Non-Executive Director Anne Minto OBE 58 Dr. Leiden was a member of the Board from January 2007 to January 8 2012, and was Vice Chairman from April 2009 to January 2012.
Non-Executive Director He was also a member of the Remuneration Committee and of the Ms. Minto was appointed to the Board on June 16, 2010 Nomination Committee and Chairman of the Science & Technology and is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Ms. Minto brings to the Board her extensive legal, Dr. Leiden brought to the Board his extensive operational experience commercial and remuneration experience.
She held the in pharmaceutical companies and his operational and scientific position of Group Director, Human Resources at Centrica experience in clinical research, development and registration.
plc from October 2002 to June 30, 2011 and sat on the Dr. Leiden is President and Chief Executive officer of Vertex Centrica Executive Committee until the end of June 2011.
Her extensive business career includes senior management Dr. Leiden was a Managing Director at Clarus Ventures LLC roles at Shell UK, the position of Deputy Director-General 9 and held board positions at a number of pharmaceutical of the Engineering Employers Federation and the position and biotechnology companies.
Dr. Leiden was President and of Group Director Human Resources at Smiths Group plc.
Chief Operating officer, Pharmaceutical Products Group and Chief scientific officer at Abbott Laboratories from 2001 to Ms. Minto has also held directorships at Northumbrian 2006: during this time he held directorships at Abbott and TAP Water plc and SITA UK.
Following her law degree at Pharmaceutical Products, Inc.
Prior to joining Abbott, Dr. Leiden Aberdeen University and a post graduate diploma in Human held several academic appointments.
Dr. Leiden holds a medical Resources she qualied as a lawyer.
Ms. Minto is a Fellow degree, a PhD, and an honorary MA from Harvard University.
of the Chartered Institute of Personnel & Development, the Royal Society of Arts and the London City and Guilds and a Member of Law Society of Scotland.
She is on the Council of the London City and Guilds and is Patron of the University of Aberdeen Alumni Fund.
9 David Stout 57 Non-Executive Director Mr. Stout was appointed to the Board on October 31, 2009 and is a member of the Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee and of the Remuneration Committee.
Mr. Stout brings to the Board extensive international sales, marketing, operational and supply chain experience gained in the pharmaceutical sector.
He is a Director of Allos Therapeutics, Inc. Jabil Circuit, Inc. and Airgas Inc. Mr. Stout was President, Pharmaceutical Operations at GlaxoSmithKline, where he was responsible for the companys global pharmaceutical operations, from January 2003 to February 2008.
Prior to that, he was President of GlaxoSmithKlines US Pharmaceuticals Business and before that SmithKline Beechams North American Pharmaceuticals Business.
Before joining SmithKline Beecham, Mr. Stout worked for many years at Schering-Plough.
Mr. Stout holds a BA in biology.
