8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:12 Page 44 44 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Directors report The Directors present their Annual Report on the affairs of the Group Liquidity, cash flow and going concern together with the audited consolidated financial statements for the The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to year ended December 31, 2011.
The Corporate Governance Statement affect its future development, performance and financial position are set out on pages 48 to 54 forms part of this report.
set out in the Chairmans and Chief Executive Officers reviews and Financial review.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, Principal activities liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Liquidity Shire plc the Company and its subsidiaries collectively referred and capital resources section of the Financial review.
The Financial to as the Group or Shire is a leading specialty biopharmaceutical review also includes information concerning the Groups objectives, company that focuses on meeting the needs of the specialist policies and processes for managing capital: its financial risk physician.
management objectives: details of its hedging activity: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Details of the Groups Shire focuses its business on attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, financial instruments are disclosed in Note 21 to the consolidated human genetic therapies, gastrointestinal diseases and regenerative financial statements.
medicine as well as opportunities in other specialty therapeutic areas to the extent they arise through acquisitions.
Shires balance sheet includes $620.0 million of cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2011.
Substantially all of Shires debt The subsidiaries and equity method investees principally affecting relates to its $1,100 million 2.75% convertible bond the Bonds the profits and or net assets of Shire in the year are listed in Note 30 which matures in 2014, although these Bonds include a put option to the consolidated financial statements, including their country which could require repayment of the Bonds in May 2012.
Shire has committed multicurrency revolving and swingline facilities of $1,200 million which mature in 2015 and are currently undrawn, Business review the RCF.
At February 21, 2012 the Bonds were trading at above Shire seeks to set out in this report a fair review of the business of the par, and the Company does not currently consider it likely that the Group during the financial year to December 31, 2011, the position Put Option will be exercised in 2012.
However, if the Bonds were of the Group at the end of that financial year, and a description of the redeemed in 2012, the Groups operating cash flow together with principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
The information available cash, cash equivalents and the RCF would be sufficient that fulfils the requirements of the Business Review can be found to enable repayment of the Bonds.
In lieu of settling any such in the Chairmans review on pages 6 and 7, Chief Executives review redemption wholly in cash, the terms of the Bonds also permit the on pages 8 to 11, the Financial review on pages 12 to 41 and Company to deliver the underlying Ordinary Shares and, if necessary, the Corporate governance report on pages 48 to 54 which are a cash top up amount.
incorporated in this report by reference.
The Financial review and Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements also provide a The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the as well as the Groups risk management objectives and policies.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
There were no significant events subsequent to the balance sheet date.
Share capital Results and dividends At December 31, 2011 the Companys issued share capital comprised The income before income taxes, and equity in earnings of 562,472,830 Ordinary Shares.
Further details of the authorized and equity method investees for the year to December 31, 2011 was called up share capital of the Company as at December 31, 2011 $1,090.1 million 2010: $769.3 million.
The net assets of Shire at are set out in Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Company was given authority at the 2011 AGM to make market In respect of the six months to December 31, 2011 the Board resolved purchases of up to 56,196,681 of its own Ordinary Shares.
That to pay a second interim dividend of 12.59 US cents 2010: 10.85 authority will expire at the 2012 AGM and in accordance with usual US cents per Ordinary Share.
Together with the first interim payment practice a resolution to renew it for another year will be proposed.
of 2.48 US cents 2010: 2.25 US cents per Ordinary Share, this The Company did not purchase any of its shares during 2011. represents total dividends for 2011 of 15.07 US cents 2010: 13.10 US cents per Ordinary Share.
Directors interests in material contracts Other than the insurance indemnity provisions disclosed under ACS HR Solutions Share Plan Services Guernsey Limited Trustee, Directors liability insurance and indemnification below, none of the trustee of the Shire Employee Benefit Trust, has waived its entitlement Directors had a material interest in any contract of significance to to any dividends, which become due and payable in respect of shares which the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings was a party or other securities, which are registered in the name of the Trustee during the period under review.
or its nominee s, from time to time, except the right to receive 0.0001 pence per Ordinary Share.
Related party transactions There were no related party transactions in the year to December 31, 2011.
Governance 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:12 Page 45 c Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 45 Directors Employment policies Biographical details of Directors who have served on the Board As of December 31, 2011 Shire employed 5,251 personnel, of which during the year appear on pages 42 and 43.
69% are based in the US, 10% in the UK, 4% in Switzerland and 17% in the rest of the world.
As Shire continues to grow, we remain Details of the current Directors interests in the share capital of the dedicated to creating an environment in which employees are highly Company, together with details of the share awards granted to engaged and committed to achieving Shires goals.
Executive Directors, are disclosed in the Directors remuneration report on page 55.
Engagement happens at every level of the business, from the one-to-one performance discussions between managers and their Directors liability insurance and indemnification staff, to the regular all-employee meetings held at our major sites.
In the year under review, the Group maintained an insurance policy for Shire communicates with all employees via an active internal its Directors and Officers in respect of liabilities arising out of any act, communications program which includes a worldwide intranet, allerror or omission while acting in their capacity as Directors or Officers.
employee emails from the CEO, and a global employee magazine.
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions were also in place during the During 2011, the CEO used a quarterly blog to communicate in real year under review for the benefit of Directors in relation to certain losses time and online with Shire employees around the world.
Within each and liabilities which they may potentially incur to third parties in the business HGT, SP and Regenerative Medicine, the Presidents have course of their duties.
These remain in force at the date of this report.
their own internal communications strategies and plans to ensure employees are kept aware of priorities and have the opportunity to Research and development exchange views.
Shire believes in having a progressive, collaborative Shire has incurred, under its research and development program, and positive workplace in which everyone feels valued and is treated costs of $770.7 million in the financial year to December 31, 2011 fairly, and that is reflected in the way we work together, every day.
Further details on the Groups research and Details of the Groups employee share schemes are set out in Note 29 development program can be found in the Financial review on to the consolidated financial statements.
These costs have been charged to the consolidated income statement in accordance with Shires accounting policy.
Shire operates an equal opportunities policy that aims to treat individuals fairly and not to discriminate on the basis of sex, race, Substantial shareholdings ethnic origin, disability or on any other basis.
Applications for As at the date of this report, the Company had been notified of the employment are fully considered on their merits, and employees following holdings in voting rights of 3% or more in the issued Ordinary are given appropriate training and equal opportunities for career Share capital of the Company: development and promotion.
BlackRock Inc. has a holding of 5.93%: It is Shires policy to ensure that applications for employment by disabled FMR LLC has a holding of 5%: and persons are given full and fair consideration, bearing in mind the aptitude of the applicant relative to the requirements of the position in question.
Legal and General Group plc has a holding of 3.96%.
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with Shire continues and that Political donations appropriate training or accommodation is arranged.
It is Shires policy Shire did not make any donations to EU political parties during that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons the year ended December 31, 2011 2010: $nil.
should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees and that reasonable accommodation is made wherever possible.
Charitable donations During the year donations to charities including matching of funds The Directors are committed to ensuring the health, safety and welfare raised by employees, not-for-profit organizations and entities of Shires employees at work.
Accordingly, it is Shires policy to manage supporting medical education amounting to $5.0 million were made its activities so as to avoid causing any unnecessary or unacceptable of which $0.8 million were made in the UK.
risk to employees and those who may be affected by the Groups business.
In addition, Shire takes its corporate responsibilities seriously, For further information, please refer and maintains an active Responsibility coordination Team as well to Shires Responsibility website as a global environmental health and safety team devoted to promoting at www.
com shireplc en resp employee safety at and outside work.
Payment of creditors It is Shires policy to agree payment terms with all its suppliers, making sure the supplier is aware of those terms, and to abide by them.
As at December 31, 2011 the Group trade creditors days outstanding based on the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers during the year were: 2011 2010 Days Days Group 29 29 The Company is non-trading and accordingly has no trade creditors.
8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:12 Page 46 46 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Directors report Financial instruments Additional information for shareholders Details of Shires use of financial instruments can be found in the Financial review on pages 40 and 41 and in Note 21 to the Rights and obligations attaching to shares consolidated financial statements.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Ordinary Shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Association the Articles.
The Audit information Articles may only be changed by special resolution of the members The Directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no of the Company.
relevant audit information of which the Groups auditor is unaware and that they have taken all steps that they ought to have taken as Issue of shares a Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit Subject to applicable statutes and subject to and without prejudice information and to establish that the Groups auditor is aware of that to any rights attached to existing shares, shares may be issued with information.
such rights and restrictions as the Company may by special resolution decide or, if no such resolution has been passed or so far as the Significant agreements resolution does not make specific provision, as the Board may decide.
The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the Subject to the Articles, the Companies Jersey Law 1991, as amended counterparties to exercise the following rights in the event of a change the Companies Act and other shareholders rights, unissued shares of control of the Company: are at the disposal of the Board.
under the $1,100 million 2.75% convertible bonds due 2014 issued Voting by the Company pursuant to a trust deed dated May 9, 2007 It is the Companys practice to hold a poll on every resolution at and a supplemental trust deed dated April 15, 2008, upon a change annual and extraordinary general meetings.
Every member present of control Bondholders will, for 60 days after receiving notice of in person or by proxy has, upon a poll, one vote for every share held the change of control, be able to exercise their right to convert their by him.
In the case of joint holders of a share the vote of the senior bonds into Ordinary Shares in the Company at a more advantageous who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted price than normal, as specified in the terms and conditions of the to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and, for this bonds, unless the change of control is effected by a Scheme of purpose, seniority shall be determined by the order in which the Arrangement which results in the interposition of a new holding names stand in the register of members in respect of the joint holding.
company between the Companys shareholders and the Company, and certain other conditions are met an Exempt Scheme.
As at December 31, 2011 the Shire Employee Benefit Trust held 1.92% With respect to an offer or a scheme to acquire all or most of of the issued share capital of the Company on trust for the benefit of the Ordinary Shares in the Company, further requirements are participants of the Companys employee share plans.
The voting rights also imposed on the Company, including a requirement to in relation to these shares are exercised by the Trustee.
The Trustee notify Bondholders of the offer or scheme and to use reasonable may vote or abstain from voting in any way it thinks fit and in doing so endeavors to procure the making of an equivalent offer to may take into account both financial and non financial interests of the Bondholders, unless the scheme is an Exempt Scheme.
For these beneficiaries of the Trust or their dependants.
Historically the Trustee purposes, a change of control is defined as the acquisition, pursuant has not exercised its right to vote.
to an offer or a scheme, by a party of the ability to control more than half the votes at a general meeting of the Company: and Restrictions on voting No member shall, unless the Board otherwise decides, be entitled under the $1,200 million credit facility agreement dated November to attend or vote at any general or class meeting in respect of any 23, 2010 between, amongst others, the Company and a number shares held if any call or other sum payable by him remains unpaid.
of its subsidiaries, Barclays Bank plc as the facility agent and the Also, a member may not be entitled to attend or vote if served with banks and financial institutions named therein as lenders, upon a a restriction notice as defined in the Articles.
change of control any lender may, following not less than 30 days notice, cancel its commitments and require prepayment of its The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders participation in any outstanding loans.
For these purposes, a change of securities that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
of control occurs if any person or group of persons acting in concert gains the ability to control more than half the votes at a general The Company maintains an American Depositary Receipt ADR meeting of the Company or holds more than half the equity share program in the US.
Each American Depositary Share ADS capital of the Company.
A waiver of the mandatory prepayment represents three Ordinary Shares.
An ADS is evidenced by an ADR provision would require the consent of each lender under the issued by Citibank, N. A. as depositary, and is listed on the NASDAQ agreement.
As at February 23, 2012, no amounts are outstanding Global Select Market.
Each ADS holder is entitled to the financial under the credit facility agreement.
rights attaching to such shares although the ADR Depositary is the registered holder of the shares.
Governance 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:12 Page 47 c Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 47 Dividends and distributions Powers of the Directors Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the Company Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the Articles and may by ordinary resolution from time to time, declare dividends not directions given by the Company in general meeting by special exceeding the amount recommended by the Board.
Subject to the resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board Companies Act, the Board may pay interim dividends, and also any which may exercise all the powers of the Company whether relating to fixed rate dividend, whenever the financial position of the Company, the management of the business of the Company or not.
In particular, in the opinion of the Board, justifies its payment.
the Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money and to mortgage or charge all or any part of the undertaking, The Board may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends property and assets present and future and uncalled capital of the or other monies payable in respect of the shares from a person with Company and, subject to the Companies Act, to issue debentures a 0.25% interest as defined in the Articles if such person has been and other securities, whether outright or as collateral security, for a served with a restriction notice as defined in the Articles after failure debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of a third party.
to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Articles.
Appointment and replacement of Directors Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution Shire has put in place income access share arrangements which or by the Board.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed ordinarily for enable shareholders to elect to receive their dividends from a Shire a term of two years, subject to shareholder approval.
Non-Executive Group company resident for tax purposes in the UK.
A shareholder Directors who have served on the Board for nine years or more are who holds 25,000 or fewer shares at the first dividend record date after appointed for one year terms.
Re-appointment of Non-Executive first becoming a shareholder will be deemed to have made an Income Directors following the expiry of their term of appointment is subject Access Share IAS Election such that dividends will be paid from to Board approval.
The Board may from time to time appoint one a UK tax resident company, unless the shareholder notifies the or more Directors to hold any executive office for such period and Company in writing to the contrary.
Pursuant to the Articles, where any on such terms as it may determine and may also revoke or terminate dividend is paid by the Company, an amount is paid to the IAS Trustee any such appointment.
representing the dividend entitlement of persons who have elected to receive dividends from a UK resident company and such amount is The Articles provide that at each AGM all those Directors who have paid by the IAS Trustee to shareholders who have made or are deemed been appointed by the Board since the last AGM, or who held office to have made an IAS Election.
The dividend which would otherwise at the time of the two preceding AGMs and who did not retire at either be payable by Shire to such shareholders will be reduced by an of them, or who has held office with the Company, other than executive amount equal to the amount paid to such shareholders by the IAS office, for a continuous period of nine years or more at the date of the Trustee.
If the dividend paid on the IAS and on-paid by the IAS Trustee meeting, shall retire from office and may offer himself for re-election to shareholders is less than the total amount of the dividend by the members.
However, in accordance with the UK Corporate announced or declared by Shire on its Ordinary Shares, Shire will be Governance Code, all Directors will be subject to annual re-election.
obliged to pay a dividend on its Ordinary Shares equivalent to the amount of the shortfall.
The income access share arrangements may By order of the Board be suspended or terminated at any time and for any reason by the Company, without financial recompense to shareholders.
Variation of rights Subject to the Companies Act, rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with written consent of the holders of not less than two thirds in nominal value of the issued shares of that class calculated excluding any shares held as treasury stock or with the sanction of a Tatjana May special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of those Company Secretary shares.
At each such separate general meeting, except an adjourned February 23, 2012 meeting, the quorum shall be two persons holding or representing by proxy not less than one third in nominal value of the issued shares of that class calculated excluding any shares held as treasury stock.
Restrictions on transfer of shares There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company, except: i that certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example insider trading laws : and ii pursuant to the Listing Rules of the UK Financial Services Authority whereby certain employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the Companys Ordinary Shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities.
