SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 board of direCtors leslie van fide Walle hec chris davies Ba oxon doug roBertson Ba, fca non-executive chairman chief executive finance director Leslie Van fide Walle age 55 became a Non-Executive Chris Davies age 58 joined Sheffield Insulations in 1994, Doug Robertson age 58 joined the Group in November Director on 1 October 2010 and became Non-Executive having previously gained UK and overseas management 2011 and was appointed Finance Director on 1 December Chairman on 1 February 2011.
He is also Chairman of the experience of manufacturing, contracting and specialist 2011.
He was previously Finance Director of Umeco plc Nominations Committee.
He is a Non-Executive Director distribution in the metals and construction industries.
He from 2007 until 2011 and Finance Director of Seton of Aviva plc, DCC plc and La Seda fide Barcelona S. A. moved to a Group role in 1996 and in 2001 took up the House Group Limited from 2002 until 2007.
From 1994 Formerly he was Chief Executive Officer of Rexam plc, post of Managing Director Europe.
He was appointed to to 2000 he held a variety of Divisional Finance Director Executive Vice President of Global Retail, a division of Royal the main Board on 12 February 2007 and was appointed roles within Williams plc and, in 2000, became Managing Dutch Shell plc and Non-Executive Director of Aegis Group plc.
Deputy Chief Executive on 10 January 2008.
He was Director of Tesa Group, Chubbs hotel security division.
He formerly held a number of senior management positions appointed Chief Executive on 1 July 2008. with Cadbury Schweppes plc and United Biscuits Limited.
chris geoghegan fraes Jonathan nicholls Ba, aca, fct Janet ashdoWn Bsc hons non-executive director non-executive director non-executive director Chris Geoghegan age 57 became a Non-Executive Jonathan Nicholls age 54 became a Non-Executive Janet Ashdown age 52 became a Non-Executive Director Director on 1 July 2009.
He is the Senior Independent Director on 6 November 2009 and is Chairman of the on 11 July 2011.
She is currently Chief Executive Officer of Harvest Energy Limited and Blue Ocean Oil Trading Limited, Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
He is a Non-Executive Director of DS He is currently Chairman of E2V Technologies plc and a Smith plc and Great Portland Estates plc.
Most recently he the UKs largest independent road fuels marketing and import business.
She previously worked for BP p. l. c. for 29 years Non-Executive Director of Volex plc and Kier Group plc.
was Group Financial Director of Old Mutual plc and prior Prior to his retirement he was Chief Operating Officer of to that he was Group Finance Director of Hanson plc.
from 1980 to 2009, serving in a variety of posts in the UK, continental Europe and the US ranging from manufacturing to BAE Systems plc with responsibility for all European joint ventures and UK defence electronics assets.
He is a Fellow supply & trading to retail marketing.
Her last role in BP was as Head of BPs Fuels Marketing & Distribution business in the of the Royal Aeronautical Society and a past President of the Society of British Aerospace companies.
Janet holds a degree in Energy Management.
Board committees audit committee Mr. J. C. Nicholls Chairman Ms. J. E. Ashdown Mr. M. Ewell Mr. C. V. Geoghegan remuneration committee Mr. C. V. Geoghegan Chairman Ms. J. E. Ashdown Mr. M. Ewell Mr. J. C. Nicholls mel eWell Bsc hons non-executive director nominations committee Mel Ewell age 53 became a Non-Executive Director on Mr. L. Van fide Walle Chairman 1 August 2011.
He is currently Chief Executive and an Ms. J. E. Ashdown Executive Director of Amey Plc, one of the UKs leading Mr. C. J. Davies infrastructure services providers.
He previously held Mr. M. Ewell a number of senior management positions for TNT Mr. C. V. Geoghegan International, Xerox and ADI Group.
