SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 InsulatIon and energy management SiG is the largest supplier of insulation and related products in Europe.
The Group is the market leader in the uK, ireland, Germany and Poland and is the leader in industrial insulation in France.
Insulation products have three main applications: thermal management: fire protection: and sound control.
Government regulation the use of insulation is subject to specific building regulations which are at a glance becoming increasingly stringent and complex.
Reducing emissions driven by Government policy, increasing importance is being placed on the Key MarKet drivers use of appropriate insulation materials to help Reducing energy consumption reduce emissions of greenhouse gases.
Government regulation Based on these drivers, demand for insulation products is expected to outperform overall Reducing emissions construction demand in the medium to long term.
RetRofittinG of insulation contInuIng revenue: into domestiC pRopeRties 1,251.7m In the UK, through its Energy Management 45.6% of group revenue business, the Group retrofits thermal insulation in the walls and lofts of existing residential properties.
Demand is driven through a number of Government supported schemes such as the Carbon Emissions Reduction Target CERT.
aiR handlinG and aiR ConditioninG SIG has built upon its extensive experience in the industrial and Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning HVAC insulation market to develop into the adjacent and complementary area of air handling and air conditioning, with activities spread across eight countries in Europe.
This market offers excellent growth prospects driven by insulation pRoduCts have increasing regulation on thermal efficiencies in the thRee main appliCations non-residential environment.
thermal management the most widespread Countries of operation use for insulation is to retain heat within a building United Kingdom siGs Competitive advantaGe or industrial process or to keep heat out, such as The Group has 243 trading sites 71 of which also for cold stores.
Ireland supply interiors products which are able to provide fire protection good design, material Germany and Austria a wide stock holding and rapid service and delivery.
specification and installation are vital in protecting France As building regulations become more complex buildings from fire.
customers are increasingly relying upon the expert Poland sound control the ability to minimise the advice only a specialist distributor such as SIG transmission of noise between dwellings is now Czech Republic and Slovakia can provide.
an integral part of building design, with technical Benelux SIGs sales and technical staff receive continuous capabilities developing apace.
training in the latest legislation, building methods, products and applications.
insulation demand dRiveRs Reducing energy consumption increasingly SIG works closely with manufacturers to introduce higher energy costs drive the use of insulation wide ranges of new, specialist, sustainable products products across a wide range of construction and to progress innovative building methods.
02 Review of the year SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 our produCts Flooring Installation of insulation air tightness testing thermal insulation Waterproofing SIG also supplies: air conditioning air handling & treatment Refrigeration & cold storage Pipe insulation acoustic insulation Dry lining Roof insulation Fire protection 03
