SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 exterIors SIG is the largest specialist supplier of exterior roofing products in the UK and ireland and a leading independent supplier in France.
it is also a key regional supplier in Germany and Poland.
The Exteriors division supplies products for pitched, flat, industrial and agricultural applications sourced from the leading manufacturers of roofing materials.
In addition, SIG supplies a range of photovoltaic products in France, Germany and the UK, which are also sold through the Groups UK Energy Management business.
exteRioRs demand dRiveRs essential Rmi requirement the ongoing at a glance need for repair or replacement of existing roofs, whether as the result of natural wear and tear or of storm damage, creates a resilient market for Key MarKet drivers roofing materials.
Essential RMI requirement new products to reduce building exterior New products maintenance costs and improve energy efficiency.
Growth of specialist distribution channels Growth of specialist as the main supply route displacing distribution channels builders merchants and direct sales from the manufacturers.
contInuIng revenue: siGs Competitive advantaGe 888.6m As the largest specialist supplier of roofing materials 32.4% of group revenue in Europe, with 341 trading sites, SIG is able to provide its customers with a level of technical know-how unrivalled in the market.
Our specialist nature means that we can hold a broad range of local stock which is ideally suited to supplying products particularly for emergency repairs.
As well as specialist roofing materials, each location offers a range of accessories such as tools and fixings, ventilation, access equipment, safety products and insulation materials.
Many of these accessories are core product areas for other Group businesses and the Exteriors business is able to draw on the technical knowledge of its sister businesses and take advantage of Group procurement.
Countries of operation SIG is also a leading supplier in the UK of reclaimed and pre-used roof tiles and slates, which have two United Kingdom key advantages over newly manufactured products.
Ireland Firstly, they remove the need for energy consuming manufacture and secondly, their aged and worn Germany and Austria character provides an aesthetically pleasing France appearance to match that of the local environment.
Poland 04 Review of the year SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Flat roofing our produCts Roofing membranes Single ply Liquid waterproofing Mastic asphalt Green roofs Roof paving systems Rooflight and domes Photovoltaic solar kits panels Sheeting and cladding Fibre cement sheeting Profiled metal sheeting Insulated panels Slating and tiling Concrete tiles Rainwater goods Clay tiles Slates natural and man-made glass Shingles Ventilation Metal roof tiles Roofline products Soffits Fascias Barge boards Building plastics uPVC windows and doors Conservatories Plastic cladding 05
