SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 statutory information PrinciPal activity and Business revieW The principal activity of the Group is the supply of specialist products to construction and related markets in the UK, Ireland and Mainland Europe.
The main products supplied are Insulation and Energy Management, Exteriors and Interiors.
The Chairmans Statement and Business Review on pages 8 to 37 contain a review of these activities and comment on the future outlook.
The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Company are set out in the Business Review on pages 30 to 36.
As at the date of this report, there have been no important events affecting the business of the Company, or any of its subsidiaries, which have occurred since the end of the financial year.
Details of the Groups policies in relation to employees including disabled employees and information on charitable and political donations are disclosed in the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 46 to 47.
Details of the Groups policies in relation to corporate governance are disclosed on pages 55 to 60. cautionary statement The purpose of the Annual Report is to provide information to the members of the Company, as a body, and no-one else.
The Company, its Directors, employees, agents and advisers do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disdained.
The Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the operations, performance and financial condition of the Group.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ from those anticipated.
The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
grouP results and dividends The Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31 December 2011 is shown on page 73.
The movement in Group reserves during the year is shown on page 77 in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
Segmental information is set out in Note 1 on pages 84 and 85.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 1.50p per share 2010: nil which, together with the interim dividend of 0.75p per share 2010: nil, makes a total for the year ended 31 December 2011 of 2.25p 2010: nil.
Payment of the final dividend, if approved at the Annual General Meeting, will be made on 30 May 2012 to Shareholders registered at the close of business on 4 May 2012. directors The Directors who held office during the year were: Mr. L. Van fide Walle Non-Executive Chairman previously Non-Executive Director from 1 October 2010 appointed Non-Executive Chairman on 1 February 2011 Mr. L. O. Tench Non-Executive Chairman resigned 31 January 2011 Mr. C. J. Davies Chief Executive Mr. G. W. Davies Group Finance Director resigned 30 November 2011 Mr. M. J. Chivers Executive Director resigned 31 December 2011 Mr. D. G. Robertson Group Finance Director appointed 1 December 2011 Ms. J. E. Ashdown Independent Non-Executive Director appointed 11 July 2011 Mr. M. Ewell Independent Non-Executive Director appointed 1 August 2011 Mr. C. V. Geoghegan Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Mrs. V. Murray Independent Non-Executive Director resigned 16 March 2011 Mr. J. C. Nicholls Independent Non-Executive Director Biographical details of the Directors holding office at the date of this report appear on page 48.
Details of Committee memberships are set out on page 48.
There is no maximum number of Directors but there shall at no time be less than two.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A Director appointed by the Board shall hold office only until the next Annual General Meeting and shall then be eligible for re-appointment by the Shareholders.
The Board may from time to time appoint one or more Directors as Managing Director or to fulfil any other Executive function within the Company for such term, remuneration and other conditions of appointment as they may determine and may revoke such appointment subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts.
election and re-election of directors All Directors are subject to election at the Annual General Meeting immediately following their appointment and to re-election every three years pursuant to the Companys Articles of Association.
However, pursuant to the UK Corporate Governance Code, it is intended that all Directors will be subject to re-election annually.
The Company may, by ordinary resolution, of which special notice has been given in accordance with the Companies Acts, remove any Director before the expiration of his her period of office.
The office of a Director shall be vacated if: i he she ceases to be a Director by virtue of any provision of law or is removed 50 Corporate governance SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 election and re-election of directors continued pursuant to the Companys Articles of Association or he she becomes prohibited by law from being a Director: ii he she becomes bankrupt or compounds with his her creditors generally: iii he she becomes of unsound mind or a patient for any purpose of any statute relating to mental health and the Board resolves that his her office is vacated: iv he she resigns: v he she fails to attend Board meetings for six consecutive months without leave of absence from the Board and the Board resolves that his her office is vacated: vi his her appointment terminates in accordance with the provisions of the Companys Articles: vii he she is dismissed from Executive office: viii he she is convicted of an indictable offence and the Directors resolve that it is undesirable in the interests of the Company that he she remains a Director: or ix the conduct of the Director is the subject of an investigation and the Directors resolve that it is undesirable in the interests of the Company that he she remains a Director.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors will seek election or re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Ms. Ashdown, Mr. Ewell and Mr. Robertson will seek election, having been appointed to the Board since the last Annual General Meeting.
It is the view of the Board that each of the Non-Executive Directors standing for election or re-election brings considerable management experience and an independent perspective to the Boards discussions and is considered to be independent of management and free from any relationship or circumstance that could affect, or appear to affect, the exercise of their independent judgement.
It is the view of the Board that each of the Executive Directors standing for election or re-election brings considerable management experience to the Boards discussions.
Full details of Directors remuneration, interests in the share capital of the Company and of their share options are set out on pages 61 to 69 in the Directors Remuneration Report.
related Party transactions Save as disclosed in Note 30 to the accounts on page 113 and except for Directors service contracts, the Company did not have any material transactions or transactions of an unusual nature with, and did not make loans to, related parties in the periods in which any Director is or was materially interested.
directors and officers liaBility insurance and indemnities The Company purchases liability insurance cover for Directors and Officers of the Company and its subsidiaries which gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against them.
The Company has also provided an indemnity for its Directors to the extent permitted by the law in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
The indemnity would not provide any coverage to the extent that a Director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
No claims or qualifying indemnity provisions and no qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions have been made either during the year or by the time of approval of this Statutory Information Report.
financial instruments Information on the Groups financial risk management objectives and policies and on the exposure of the Group to relevant risks of financial instruments is set out on pages 34 to 36 and in Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 100 to 103. disPosals Details of disposals during the year are covered in Note 12 and in the Business Review on page 17. share caPital The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into ordinary shares of 10p each.
At 31 December 2011, the Company had a called up share capital of 590,829,339 shares of 10p each 2010: 590,829,339.
During the year ended 31 December 2011, no options were exercised pursuant to the Companys share option schemes.
No new ordinary shares have been allotted under these schemes since the end of the financial year or to the date of this report.
Details of outstanding options under the Groups Employee and Executive Schemes are set out in Note 25 on page 109 which also contains details of options granted over unissued share capital.
rights attaching to shares The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are defined in the Companys Articles of Association.
The Articles of Association may be changed with the agreement of Shareholders.
A Shareholder whose name appears on the Companys Register of Members can choose whether his shares are evidenced by share certificates i. e. in certificated form or held in electronic i. e. uncertificated form in CREST the electronic settlement system in the UK.
Subject to any restrictions below, Shareholders may attend any general meeting of the Company and, on a show of hands, every Shareholder or his representative who is present at a general meeting has one vote on each resolution and, on a poll, every Shareholder or his representative who is present has one vote on each resolution for every ordinary share of which they are the registered Shareholder.
A resolution put to the vote of a general meeting is decided on a show of hands unless before or on the declaration of the result of a vote on a show of hands, a poll is demanded by the Chairman of the meeting, or by at least five Shareholders or their representatives present in person and having the right to vote, or by any Shareholders or their representatives present in person having at least 10% of the total voting rights of all Shareholders, or by any Shareholders or their representatives present in person holding ordinary shares in which an aggregate sum has been paid up of at least one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all ordinary shares.
Shareholders can declare final dividends by passing an ordinary resolution but the amount of the dividends cannot exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board can pay interim dividends on any class of shares of the amounts and on the dates and for the periods they decide provided the distributable profits of the Company justify such payment.
The Board may, if authorised by an ordinary resolution of the Shareholders, offer any Shareholder the right to elect to receive new ordinary shares, which will be credited as fully paid, instead of their cash dividend.
Any dividend which has not been claimed for twelve years after it became due for payment will be forfeited and will then belong to the Company, unless the Directors decide otherwise.
51 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 statutory information Continued rights attaching to shares continued If the Company is wound up, the liquidator can, with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed by the Shareholders, divide among the Shareholders all or any part of the assets of the Company and he can value any assets and determine how the division shall be carried out as between the members or different classes of members.
The liquidator can also transfer the whole or any part of the assets to trustees upon any trusts for the benefit of the members.
No Shareholders can be compelled to accept any asset which would give them a liability.
voting at general meetings Any Form of Proxy sent by the Company to Shareholders in relation to any general meeting must be delivered to the Company, whether in written form or in electronic form, not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting at which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote.
No Shareholder is, unless the Board decides otherwise, entitled to attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting or to exercise any other right conferred by being a Shareholder if he or any person with an interest in shares has been sent a Notice under Section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 which confers upon public companies the power to require information with respect to interests in their voting shares and he or any interested person failed to supply the Company with the information requested within 14 days after delivery of that Notice.
The Board may also decide that no dividend is payable in respect of those default shares and that no transfer of any default shares shall be registered.
These restrictions end seven days after receipt by the Company of a Notice of an approved transfer of the shares or all the information required by the relevant Section 793 Notice, whichever is the earlier.
transfer of shares The Board may refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share which is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not prevent dealings in shares in the Company from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The Board may also refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share unless: i the instrument of transfer is lodged, duly stamped if stampable, at the registered office of the Company or any other place decided by the Board accompanied by a certificate for the share which it relates and such other evidence as the Board may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: ii is in respect of only one class of shares: and iii is in favour of not more than four transferees.
Transfer of uncertificated shares must be carried out using CREST and the Board can refuse to register a transfer of an uncertificated share in accordance with the regulations governing the operation of CREST.
The Board may decide to suspend the registration of transfers, for up to 30 days a year, by closing the register of Shareholders.
The Board cannot suspend the registration of transfers of any uncertificated shares without gaining consent from CREST.
There are no other limitations on the holding of ordinary shares in the Company.
variation of rights If at any time the capital of the Company is divided into different classes of shares, the special rights attaching to any class may be varied or revoked either: i with the written consent of the holders of at least 75% in nominal value of the issues shares of the class: or ii with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of the shares of the class.
The Company can issue new shares and attach any rights to them.
If there is no restriction by special rights attaching to existing shares, rights attaching to new shares can take priority over the rights of existing shares, or the new shares and the existing shares are deemed to be varied unless the rights expressly allow it by a reduction of paid up capital or if another share of that same class is issued and ranks in priority for payment of dividend or in respect of capital or more favourable voting rights.
agreements With emPloyees and significant agreements There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The Companys banking arrangements are terminable upon a change of control of the Company.
Certain other indebtedness becomes repayable if a change of control leads to a downgrade in the credit rating of the Company.
fixed assets In the opinion of the Directors, there is no material difference between the book value and the current open market value of the Groups interests in land and buildings.
crest The Companys ordinary shares are in CREST, the settlement system for stocks and shares.
2012 interim rePort In 2007 the Company changed its Articles of Association to permit the use of electronic communications for all Notices, documents and information to be sent to Shareholders, in accordance with Shareholder preference.
This would enable the Company to use website communication with Shareholders as the default position.
The Company has at this time not made any decision as to whether to move to electronic communication as the default position.
Shareholders will therefore for the time being continue to receive paper copies of all Company communications.
Current regulations, do however, permit the Company not to have to send copies of its Interim Reports to Shareholders and therefore Interim Reports will no longer be sent to Shareholders.
The Interim Report will be published on the Companys website at www.
52 Corporate governance SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 acquisition By the comPany of its oWn shares Shareholders authority for the purchase by the Company of 59,082,930 of its own shares existed at the end of the year.
The Company has made no purchases of its own shares pursuant to this authority.
The Company will seek to renew this authority at the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
suBstantial shareholdings As at 31 December 2011, the Company had received notification of the following material shareholdings pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority: Number of % of ordinary shares issued voting Shareholder of 10p each share capital Aviva plc 52,412,239 8.87 IKO Enterprises Limited 41,752,603 7.07 Schroders plc 29,961,817 5.07 Investec Asset Management 29,728,826 5.03 Ameriprise Financial Inc. 28,953,030 4.90 Blackrock Inc. 28,756,072 4.87 Legal & General plc 23,547,821 3.99 Norges Bank 17,762,016 3.01 No interests have been disclosed to the Company in accordance with DTR 5 between the end of the period under review and 13 March 2012, being the date of this Report.
Payment to suPPliers The Group follows the CBIs prompt payment code and operates and abides by a clearly defined policy, which has been agreed with all major suppliers.
As at 31 December 2011 the Company had no trade creditors, as it does not trade in its own right.
The Groups average number of days outstanding for continuing operations on a like for like constant currency basis as at 31 December 2011 in respect of trade payables was 34 2010: 35. statement of the directors on the disclosure of information to auditor The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Statutory Information confirm that: so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. going concern After making enquiries the Directors have formed a judgement, at the time of approving the Accounts, that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The key factors considered by the Directors in making this statement are set out on pages 36 and 37 of the Business Review.
auditor On the recommendation of the Audit Committee in accordance with Section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, resolutions are to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting for the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as Auditor of the Company and to authorise the Board to fix its remuneration.
The remuneration of the Auditor for the year ended 31 December 2011 is fully disclosed in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 87. annual general meeting The Notice convening the Annual General Meeting which is to be held at the Aston Hotel, Britannia Way, Catcliffe, Sheffield S60 5BD at 12 noon on Friday 18 May 2012, together with explanatory notes on the resolutions to be proposed and full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights, is contained in a circular which will be circulated to all shareholders at least 20 working days before such meeting along with this report.
This document will also be available on the SIG plc website.
All shareholders are invited to the Companys AGM, at which they will have the opportunity to put questions to the Board.
Signed on behalf of the Board richard monro Company Secretary 13 March 2012 53
