Directors report Governance 55 Other disclosures Business review Charitable and political donations The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to set out in the Contributions to charitable organisations by the group during the Directors report a fair review of the business of the Company during year totalled 2.7m 2010 2.8m.
No political donations were the financial year ended 17 September 2011 including an analysis made during the year.
of the position of the business at the end of the financial year and Financial instruments a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Details of the groups use of financial instruments, together with Company the Business review.
The purpose of the Business information on our risk objectives and policies and our exposure to review is to enable shareholders to assess how the directors have price, credit, liquidity, cash flow and interest rate risks, can be found performed their duties under section 172 of the Companies Act in note 24 on pages 93 to 104.
2006, being the duty to promote the success of the Company.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business Payments to suppliers review can be found in the following sections of this report: The Company has no material trade creditors but has a group policy on payment of suppliers set out in its business principles which t Chairmans statement on pages 4 and 5: states that the group settles its bills promptly, being a signatory to t Our group at a glance on pages 2 and 3: the Prompt Payment Code.
Suppliers are made aware of the terms of this policy.
Further information concerning this Code, and copies t Operating review on pages 16 to 27, which includes a review of of it, can be found at www.
the external environment, key strategic aims and performance measures: Employees Employees are the groups most important resource, and it therefore t Financial review on pages 28 and 29: abides by the following principles: t Corporate responsibility on pages 30 to 33: t equal opportunities it is committed to offering equal t Principal risks and uncertainties are described on pages 46 to 48: opportunities in recruitment, training, career development and promotion to all people, including those with disabilities, having t details of the principal operating subsidiaries are set out on regard for their particular aptitudes and abilities.
As a matter of page 106: and policy, full and fair consideration is given to applicants with t information on essential contracts or arrangements on page 57. disabilities and every effort is made to give employees who become disabled whilst employed by the group an opportunity Principal activities for retraining and for continuation in employment.
It is group policy The activities of the group principally concern the processing and that the training, career development and promotion of disabled manufacture of food worldwide and textile retailing in the UK and persons should, as far as possible, be the same as that of other continental Europe.
Comments on the development of the business employees: during the period under review and on the future outlook are t health and safety health and safety are considered as equal contained within the Chairmans statement on pages 4 and 5 in importance to that of any other function of the group and its and the Operating review on pages 16 to 27. business objectives.
The policy and a full global report is available The Company is the holding company for the Associated British on the Companys website at www.
co. uk: Foods plc group the group.
Details of the principal operating subsidiaries are set out on page 106. t harassment the group will not tolerate sexual, mental or physical harassment in the workplace.
It expects incidents of harassment The audited financial statements of the group and Company appear to be reported to the appropriate human resources director: on pages 60 to 112. t human rights managers must take account of the core Results and dividends OUFSOBUJPOBMBCPVS 0SHBOJ[BUJPO MBCPVS DPOWFOUJPOT BOE TUSJWF The consolidated income statement is on page 60.
Profit for to observe the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, by the financial year attributable to equity shareholders amounted respecting the dignity and human rights of its employees and to541m.
in particular as stated below: The directors recommend a final dividend of 16.85p per ordinary Universal respect for an observance of human rights and share, to be paid, if approved, on 13 January 2012 which, together fundamental freedoms for all without discrimination as to race, with the interim dividend of 7.9p per share paid in July, amounts sex, language or religion.
It remunerates fairly with respect to skills, performance, its peers Research and development and local conditions.
Innovative use of existing and emerging technologies will continue to be crucial to the successful development of new products and processes for the group.
The Company has a major technical centre in the UK at the Allied Technical Centre.
"Facilities also exist at ACH Food Companies in the US, Weston Technologies and ABMauri in Australia and the FUIFSMBOET BOE ""# &O[ZNFT JO FSNBOZ 5IFTF DFOUSFT TVQQPSU the technical resources of the trading divisions in the search for new technology and in monitoring and maintaining high standards of quality and food safety."
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors report Other disclosures 56 Other disclosures continued t Communication the group will brief and consult employees and Appointment of directors their representatives on all relevant matters on a regular basis in The Companys Articles of Association the Articles give the order to take their views into account with regard to decisiondirectors power to appoint and replace directors.
Under the terms making and to achieve a common awareness of all the financial of reference of the Nomination committee, any appointment must and economic factors affecting the performance of the group.
be recommended by the Nomination committee for approval by Information relevant to the employees will be provided the board of directors.
A person who is not recommended by the systematically to employees.
directors may only be appointed as a director where details of that director have been provided at least seven and not more than t Security the security of our staff and customers is paramount 35 days prior to the relevant meeting by at least two members and the group will at all times take the necessary steps to of theCompany.
minimise risks to their safety.
The Articles also require directors to retire and submit themselves for Property, plant and equipment election at the first annual general meeting following appointment and The groups property, plant and equipment are included in the all directors who held office at the time of the two preceding annual financial statements at depreciated historic cost.
The properties are general meetings, and in any event not less than one third of the employed in the business and many of them were acquired when relevant directors excluding those directors who retire other than market values were substantially lower than at present.
The directors by rotation, to submit themselves for re-election.
However, it is consider that a surplus over book value exists, but have not the boards intention that all directors will stand for re-election at the quantified the excess.
annual general meeting this year in compliance with the UK Corporate Substantial shareholding and controlling interest Governance Code with the exception of Galen Weston, who has Details of a controlling interest in the shares of the Company are resigned from his role as a non-executive director of the Company given in note 28 on page 106. effective as at the close of that meeting.
No other interests have been disclosed to the Company in Power of the directors accordance with Disclosure and Listing Rule 5 either during the The directors are responsible for managing the business of the year under review or as at 1 November 2011.
Company and may exercise all the powers of the Company subject to the provisions of relevant statutes, to any directions given by Power to issue shares special resolution and to the Companys Articles.
The Articles, for At the last annual general meeting, held on 10 December 2010, example, contain specific provisions and restrictions concerning the authority was given to the directors to allot unissued relevant Companys power to borrow money.
As indicated above, powers securities in the Company up to a maximum of an amount equivalent relating to the issuing of shares are also included in the Articles and to two thirds of the shares in issue of which one third must be such authorities are renewed by shareholders at the annual general offered by way of rights issue.
This authority expires on the date meeting each year.
of the annual general meeting to be held on 9 December 2011.
No such shares have been issued.
The directors propose to renew this Articles of Association authority at the annual general meeting to be held on 9 December The Articles themselves may be amended by special resolution 2011 for the following year.
A further special resolution passed at that meeting granted authority Directors indemnities to the directors to allot equity securities in the Company for cash, Three directors of operating subsidiaries benefited from qualifying without regard to the pre-emption provisions of the Companies Act third-party indemnity provisions provided by the Companys wholly 2006.
This authority also expires on the date of the 2011 annual owned subsidiary, ABF Investments plc, during the financial year general meeting and the directors will seek to renew this authority and at the date of this report.
significant agreements The group has contractual arrangements with many parties including Power to purchase own shares directors, employees, customers, suppliers and banking groups.
The Companies Act 2006 empowers the Company to purchase The following arrangements are considered to be significant in terms its own shares subject to the necessary shareholder approval.
of their potential impact on the business of the group as a whole: The Company has no existing authority to purchase its own shares.
Directors t the group has a number of borrowing facilities provided by The names of the persons who were directors of the Company during various banking groups.
These facility agreements generally the financial year and as at 8 November 2011 appear on page35.
All include change of control provisions which, in the event of directors are standing for re-election at this years annual general a change in ownership of the Company, could result in their meeting in December with the exception of Galen Weston, who has renegotiation or withdrawal.
The most significant agreements resigned from his role as a non-executive director of the Company are the 1.15bn syndicated loan facility which was signed on effective as at the close of that meeting.
13July 2010 and under which 438m was drawn down at the year end and the 120m Finance Contract from the European Investment Bank which was signed on 5 December 2007 and under which 120m was drawn down at the year end.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2011 57 t in addition to these bank facilities, in March 2009 the Company Directors responsibility statement issued US$610m of private placement notes to institutional t the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International investors.
In accordance with the scheduled maturities, no repayment Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, give a true of these notes had taken place by the year end.
In the event of and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit a change in ownership of the Company, the Company is obliged of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation to make an offer of immediate repayment to the note holders: and taken as a whole: and t in September 2010, the group entered into contracts for the t pursuant to Disclosure and Transparency Rules, Chapter 4, the supply to the UK business of electricity and gas.
following sections of the Companys annual report contain a fair review of the development and performance of the business and These agreements include provisions which, in the event of a the position of the Company, and the undertakings included in the change of control of the Company, could result in the agreement consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the being altered or terminated.
principal risks and uncertainties that they face: Essential contracts or arrangements 1.
The Chairmans statement on pages 4 and 5: Individual companies in the group have contractual and other 2.
Operating review on pages 16 to 27, which includes a review arrangements with many third parties in support of the groups of the external environment, key strategic aims, future business activities.
Such contracts and arrangements may be development and performance measures: deemed essential to one or more operating companies but there 3.
Financial review on pages 28 and 29: are no contracts or arrangements considered to be essential to the 4.
Other disclosures: Research and development: group as a whole, save that British Sugar has a contract with the 5.
Other disclosures: Financial instruments: National Farmers Union, the Inter-Professional Agreement.
Other disclosures: Property, plant and equipment: consists of approximately 4,000 identical but individual contracts 7.
Other disclosures: Power of the directors: and with sugar beet growers.
Other disclosures: Principal risks and uncertainties.
Further information Further information that fulfils the requirements of Part 6 of the On behalf of the boardBSHF BOE.
"FEJVN TJ[FE $PNQBOJFT BOE SPVQT ""DDPVOUT BOE Reports Regulations 2008 and which should be treated as forming Charles Sinclair part of this report by reference are included in the following sections Chairman of the annual report: t details of the structure of the Companys share capital and the George Weston rights attached to the Companys shares set out on page 89: and Chief Executive t details of share schemes set out on pages 91 and 92, including John Bason the voting policy of the trustee of a trust holding ordinary shares Finance Director of the Company."
8 November 2011 Disclosure of information to auditors The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
For these purposes, relevant audit information means information needed by the Companys auditors in connection with the preparation of their report on page 59.
Auditors In accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution for the reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company is to be proposed at the forthcoming annual generalmeeting.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2011 D Diire rec ct to or rs s re rep po or rt t G Go ove ver rn na an nc ce e 58 C So ta rpora temetn et o go fv d eirnanc rector e s c r oe n stinue ponsd ibilities in respect of the annual report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting group and parent company financial statements in accordance with records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys applicable law and regulations.
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are law they are required to prepare the group financial statements in reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
responsible for preparing a Directors report, Remuneration report and Corporate governance report that complies with that law and Under company law the directors must not approve the financial those regulations.
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and parent company and of The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the group and the corporate and financial information included on the Companys parent company financial statements, the directors are required to: website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation t select suitable accounting policies and then apply them in other jurisdictions.
consistently: t make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: t for the group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by theEU: t for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and t prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the parent company will continue in business.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2011
