Business Review Financial review continued The discount rate is determined by reference to market yields on high Factors affecting Smith & Nephews results of operations quality corporate bonds, with currency and term consistent with those Government economic, scal, monetary and political policies are all of the liabilities.
In particular for the UK and US, the discount rate is factors that materially affect the Groups operation or investments of derived by reference to an AA yield curve derived by the Groups shareholders.
Other factors include sales trends, currency uctuations actuarial advisers.
Each of these factors is discussed in further in Our business, marketplace and other factors that could affect us on pages See Note 19 of the Notes to the Group accounts for a summary of how 14to18 and Taxation information for shareholders onpages 147to148.
the assumptions selected in the last five years have compared with actual results.
Critical accounting policies Contingencies and provisions The Groups significant accounting policies are set out in Notes 1 to 24 of the Notes to the Group accounts.
Of those, the policies which require The recognition of provisions for legal disputes is subject to a significant the most use of managements judgement are as follows: degree of estimation.
Provision is made for loss contingencies when it is considered probable that an adverse outcome will occur and the Inventories amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.
In making its estimates, management takes into account the advice of internal and A feature of the Orthopaedics business segment whose nished external legal counsel.
Provisions are reviewed regularly and amounts goods inventory makes up approximately 74% of the Group total updated where necessary to reect developments in the disputes.
The nished goods inventory is the high level of product inventory required, ultimate liability may differ from the amount provided depending on the some of which is located at customer premises and is available for outcome of court proceedings and settlement negotiations or if customers immediate use.
Complete sets of product, including large investigations bring to light new facts.
and small sizes, have to be made available in this way.
These sizes are used less frequently than standard sizes and towards the end of the The Group operates in numerous tax jurisdictions around the world.
product life cycle are inevitably in excess of requirements.
Adjustments Although it is Group policy to submit its tax returns to the relevant tax to carrying value are therefore required to be made to orthopaedic authorities as promptly as possible, at any given time the Group has inventory to anticipate this situation.
These adjustments are calculated unagreed years outstanding and is involved in disputes and tax audits.
in accordance with a formula based on levels of inventory compared significant issues may take several years to resolve.
In estimating the with historical usage.
This formula is applied on an individual product probability and amount of any tax charge, management takes into line basis and is first applied when a product group has been on the account the views of internal and external advisors and updates the market for two years.
This method of calculation is considered amount of provision whenever necessary.
The ultimate tax liability may appropriate based on experience, but it does involve management differ from the amount provided depending on interpretations of tax judgements on customer demand, effectiveness of inventory law, settlement negotiations or changes in legislation.
deployment, length of product lives, phase-out of old products and efficiency of manufacturing planning systems.
Legal proceedings The Company and its subsidiaries are parties to various legal Impairment proceedings, some of which include claims for substantial damages.
In carrying out impairment reviews of goodwill, intangible assets and The outcome of these proceedings cannot readily be foreseen, but property, plant and equipment a number of significant assumptions management believes none of them will result in a material adverse have to be made when preparing cash ow projections.
These include effect on the financial position of the Group.
The Group provides for the future rate of market growth, discount rates, the market demand for outcomes that are deemed to be probable and can be reliably the products acquired, the future profitability of acquired businesses or estimated.
There is no assurance that losses will not exceed the products, levels of reimbursement and success in obtaining regulatory provision or will not have a significant impact on the Groups results approvals.
If actual results should differ or changes in expectations ofoperations or financial condition in the period in which they arise, impairment charges may be required which would adversely arerealised.
Product liability claims Retirement benets In August 2003, the Group withdrew voluntarily from all markets the A number of key judgements have to be made in calculating the fair macrotextured versions of its OXINIUM femoral knee components.
value of the Groups dened benefit pension plans.
These assumptions Anumber of related claims have been led, most of which have been impact the Balance Sheet liability, operating profit and other finance settled.
The aggregate cost at 31 December 2011 related to this matter income costs.
The most critical assumptions are the discount rate and is approximately $214m.
The Group has sought recovery from its mortality assumptions to be applied to future pension plan liabilities.
For primary and excess insurers for costs of resolving the claims.
The example as of 31 December 2011, a 0.5% increase in discount rate primary insurance carrier has paid $60m in full settlement of its policy would have reduced the combined UK and US pension plan deficit by liability.
However, the excess carriers have denied coverage, citing $96m whilst a 0.5% decrease would have increased the combined defences relating to the wording of the insurance policies and other deficit by $109m.
A 0.5% increase in discount rate would have matters.
In December 2004, the Group brought suit against them in the decreased profit before taxation by $5m whilst a 0.5% decrease would US District Court for the Western District of Tennessee, and trial is have increased it by $5m.
A one year increase in the assumed life expected to commence in 2013.
An additional $22m was received from expectancy of the average 60 year old male pension plan member in a successful settlement with a third party.
both the UK and US would have increased the combined deficit by $36m.
In making these judgements, management takes into account the advice of professional external actuaries and benchmarks its assumptions against external data.
28 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Business Review A charge of $154m was recorded in 2004 for anticipated expenses in Since the Groups entry into the negative pressure wound therapy connection with macrotexture claims.
Most of that amount has since business in 2007, Kinetic Concepts, Inc. KCI has pursued claims of been applied to settlements of such claims.
Management believes that patent infringement against the Group in the US, UK, Germany and the $17m provision remaining is adequate to cover remaining claims.
In one case in the US District Court for the Western Given the uncertainty inherent in such matters, there can be no District of Texas a jury found that patents exclusively licensed to KCI by assurance on this point.
Wake Forest University Wake Forest were valid but not infringed by the Group.
That ruling was upheld on appeal in February 2009.
In a The Group faces other claims from time to time for alleged defects in its subsequent case in the same court, relating to the Groups foam products and has on occasion recalled products to minimise risk of product, a jury concluded in March 2010 that asserted Wake Forest harm or claims.
The Group maintains product liability insurance subject patents were valid and infringed.
But the court determined the relevant to limits and deductibles that management believes are reasonable.
patent claims were invalid and entered judgement in favour of the Group.
Wake Forest has appealed the courts judgement.
If Wake Forest Business practice investigations were to prevail, the Group could be prevented from selling that foam In March 2005 the US Attorneys Ofce in Newark, New Jersey issued product in the US until patent expiration in 2014.
KCI has also pursued subpoenas to the five largest sellers of hip and knee implants to US patent infringement claims in certain countries relating to pumps, orthopaedic surgeons, including the Groups Orthopaedic business, canisters and other negative pressure wound therapy accessories.
asking for information regarding arrangements with orthopaedic The Group has won jury verdicts against Arthrex Inc. Arthrex for reconstructive surgeons.
In September 2007, the Group and the other infringement of the Groups patents relating to suture anchors in the four companies involved settled the charges that could have resulted USDistrict Court for Oregon and femoral xation devices for ACL from this investigation, without admitting any wrongdoing as part of the reconstruction in the US District Court for the Eastern District of Texas.
At the same time, the Group entered into a Corporate Integrity Arthrex appealed both decisions.
The Texas case was reversed on Agreement with the Ofce of the Inspector General OIG of the US appeal with judgement entered in favour of Arthrex.
The Oregon Department of Health and Human Services which requires certain decision was reversed on appeal and remanded to the District Court for compliance efforts.
This agreement is in effect for five years, until a new trial.
The Group secured a jury verdict in its favour that was September 2012.
If the Group meets its terms, the OIG will not attempt to subsequently reversed by the Oregon court post-trial.
The Group plans exclude it from receiving Medicare payments for its products.
The Group has devoted substantial effort to comply with this agreement and to to proceed with an appeal of the Oregon courts ruling.
enhance its compliance programme across all of its business segments.
Other matters In September 2007, the SEC notied the Group that it was conducting In April 2009, the Group was served with a subpoena by the an informal investigation of companies in the medical devices industry, USDepartment of Justice in Massachusetts requiring the production of including the Group, regarding possible violations of the Foreign Corrupt documents from 1995 to 2009 associated with the marketing and sale Practices Act FCPA in connection with the sale of products in certain of the Groups EXOGEN bone growth stimulator.
Similar subpoenas countries outside of the US.
The US Department of Justice DOJ have been served on a number of competitors in the bone growth subsequently joined the SECs request.
Around the same time a qui tam or whistleblower During quarter four of 2011, the Group established a provision of $23m complaint concerning the industrys sales and marketing of those in relation to this investigation.
products, originally led in 2005 against the primary manufacturers of bone growth stimulation products including Smith & Nephew, was On 6 February 2012, Smith & Nephew announced that it had reached unsealed in federal court in Boston, Massachusetts.
A motion to settlement with the SEC and DOJ in connection with this matter.
dismiss that complaint was denied in December 2010.
Smith&Nephew has committed to pay slightly less than $23m in fines and profit disgorgement, and committed to maintain an enhanced In June 2010, the Group was served with a subpoena by the compliance programme and appoint an independent monitor for at USDepartment of Justice in Massachusetts requiring the production least 18 months to review and report on its compliance programme to ofdocuments relating to the distribution of samples of the Groups both the SEC and DOJ.
The settlement agreements impose detailed SUPARTZ joint uid therapy product.
reporting, compliance and other requirements on Smith & Nephew for The Group is subject to country of origin requirements under the a three-year term.
Failure to comply with these requirements, or any USBuy American and Trade Agreements Acts with regard to sales to other violation of law, could have severe consequences for the Group.
The Group has voluntarily disclosed to the US Veterans Administration and the US Department of Defence Intellectual property disputes that a small percentage of the products sold to the US government in The Group is engaged, as both plaintiff and defendant, in litigation with the past, primarily from the Orthopaedics business, may have various competitors and others over claims of patent infringement and, originated from countries that are not eligible for such sales except with in some cases, breach of licence agreement.
These disputes are being government consent.
Government auditors subsequently conducted heard in courts in the United States and other jurisdictions and also an on-site visit at the Groups Orthopaedics business.
In December before agencies that examine patents.
Outcomes are rarely certain and 2008, three months after Smith & Nephews initial voluntary disclosure, costs and settlements are often significant.
a whistleblower suit was led in the USDistrict Court for the Western District of Tennessee alleging these violations.
Smith & Nephews motion to dismiss the suit was denied in November 2010.
29 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Accounts and other information Corporate Governance Business Review Strategy, KPIs & Risk management Overview
