Business Review The acquisitions effect is the measure of the impact on revenue from Operating profit, the most directly comparable financial measure newly acquired business combinations.
This is calculated by excluding calculated in accordance with IFRS, reconciles to trading profit as the revenue from sales of products acquired as a result of a business follows: combination consummated in the current year, with non-US Dollar 2011 2010 2009 sales translated at the prior year average rate.
Additionally, prior year $ million $ million $ million revenue is adjusted to include a full year of revenue from the sales of products acquired in those business combinations consummated in Operating profit 862 920 723 the previous year, calculated by adding back revenue from sales of Acquisition related costs 26 products in the period prior to the Groups ownership.
These sales are separately tracked in the Groups internal reporting systems and are Restructuring and rationalisation costs 40 15 42 readily identiable.
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 36 34 66 Reported revenue growth, the most directly comparable financial and impairments measure calculated in accordance with IFRS, reconciles to underlying Legal provision see page 29 23 growth in revenue as follows: Trading profit 961 969 857 2011 2010 2009 % % % A reconciliation of operating profit to trading profit, by business segment, can be found on pages 30 to 40.
Reported revenue growth 8 5 1 Adjusted earnings per Ordinary Share Constant currency exchange effect 4 1 3 Growth in adjusted earnings per Ordinary Share EPSA is another Underlying revenue growth 4 4 2 measure which presents the trend in the long-term profitability of the A reconciliation of reported revenue growth to underlying revenue Group.
EPSA is not a recognised measure under IFRS and is therefore a growth, by business segment, can be found on pages 30 to 40. non-GAAP financial measure.
The most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with IFRS is earnings per Ordinary Trading profit Share.
Trading profit is a trend measure which presents the long-term EPSA excludes the same impact of specic transactions or events that profitability of the Group excluding the impact of specic transactions management considers affect the Groups short-term profitability, is that management considers affects the Groups short-term profitability.
used by the Group for similar purposes, and is subject to the same The Group presents this measure to assist investors in their material limitations, as set out and discussed in the above section on understanding of trends.
The Group has identied the following items, trading profit.
where material, as those to be excluded from operating profit when Adjusted attributable profit represents the numerator used in the EPSA arriving at trading profit: acquisition and disposal related items including calculation.
Adjusted attributable profit is reconciled to attributable amortisation of acquisition intangible assets and impairments: profit, the most directly comparable financial measure in accordance significant restructuring events: and gains and losses resulting from with IFRS, as follows: legal disputes and uninsured losses.
Growth in trading profit and trading profit margin trading profit 2011 2010 2009 expressed as a percentage of revenue are measures which present $ million $ million $ million the growth trend in the long-term profitability of the Group excluding the Attributable profit for the year 582 615 472 impact of specic transactions or events that management considers affect the Groups short-term profitability.
The Group presents these Acquisition related costs 26 measures to assist investors in their understanding of the trends.
The Restructuring and rationalisation Groups international financial reporting budgets, monthly reporting, 40 15 42 expenses forecasts, long-term planning and incentive plans focusses primarily on profit and earnings before these items.
Trading profit and trading Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 36 34 66 profit margin are not recognised measures under IFRS and are and impairments therefore non-GAAP financial measures.
Legal provision see page 29 23 The material limitation of these measures is that they exclude significant Taxation on excluded items 17 10 26 income and costs that have a direct impact on current and prior years profit attributable to shareholders.
They do not, therefore, measure the Adjusted attributable profit 664 654 580 overall performance of the Group presented by the GAAP financial measure of operating profit.
The Group considers that no single measure enables it to assess overall performance and therefore it Earnings per Ordinary share compensates for the limitation of the trading profit measure by Basic 65.3 69.3 53.4 considering it in conjunction with its GAAP equivalent.
The gains or losses which are identied separately arise from irregular events or Diluted 65.0 69.2 53.3 transactions.
Such events or transactions are authorised centrally and Adjusted: Basic 74.5 73.6 65.6 require a strategic assessment which includes consideration of financial returns and generation of shareholder value.
Amortisation of Adjusted: Diluted 74.2 73.6 65.5 acquisition intangibles will occur each year, whilst other excluded items arise irregularly depending on the events that give rise to such items.
21 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Accounts and other information Corporate Governance Business Review Strategy, KPIs & Risk management Overview
