Business Review The FAST-FIX 360 Meniscal Repair System offers exceptional xation strength and enhanced control to optimise the chances of a successful meniscus repair.
Endoscopy The business has a commitment to, and track record of, driving Overview efficiencies, through a formal operational excellence programme as Smith& Nephews Endoscopy business develops and commercialises well as a culture of continuous process improvement.
endoscopic minimally invasive surgery techniques, educational programmes and value-added services for surgeons to treat and repair The Endoscopy business aligns its organisation to ensure all employees soft tissue and articulating joints.
The business focuses on the are working on common objectives, and to ensure consistent execution arthroscopy sometimes referred to as sports medicine sector of the against the Groups wider objectives.
Arthroscopy is the minimally invasive surgery of joints, in particular the knee, shoulder and hip.
New products In 2011, Smith& Nephew continued to expand its arthroscopic sports In 2011, the Endoscopy business was headquartered in Andover, medicine portfolio with the launch of new repair, resection and Massachusetts and manufacturing facilities are located in Manseld, visualisation products.
Massachusetts, and Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.
Major service centres are located in the US, UK, Germany, Japan and Australia.
The FAST-FIX 360 Meniscal Repair System is designed to optimise the chances of a successful repair with exceptional xation strength, small Products insertion points, convenient implant deployment and a built-in depth The Endoscopy business offers surgeons endoscopic technologies for limiter.
It is the built on the proven FAST-FIX platform which set the surgery of the joints and ligament repair, including: specialised devices standard for minimally invasive, all-inside meniscal repair.
and xation systems to repair damaged tissue: uid management The DYONICS PLATINUM Series Shaver Blades are single-use blades equipment for surgical access: digital cameras, digital image capture, that provide superior resection, debris evacuation and sharpness.
scopes, light sources and monitors to assist with visualisation: radiofrequency wands, electromechanical and mechanical blades, and BIORAPTOR and OSTEORAPTOR CURVED Guide Systems for Shoulder hand instruments for resecting damaged tissue.
optimise anchor placement helping surgeons to overcome the challenges associated with instability repair.
The systems provide Key products in repair are the FAST-FIX family of meniscal repair increased access to the repair sitein the glenohumeral joint, improve systems, ENDOBUTTON for cruciate xation, and the FOOTPRINT PK the trajectory of drilling and lead to optimised anchor placement in and TWINFIX Suture Anchors for rotator cuff repair.
Key products in glenoid bone which helps surgeons operate with confidence.
resection are the wide range of DYONICS shaver blades, ACUFEX handheld instruments, and a range of radiofrequency RF probes.
Recent regulatory approvals During 2011, the Endoscopy business obtained regulatory clearances Strategy for the following products in most major markets, except Japan where Smith& Nephews strategic intent is to grow the business as the the approval process is more lengthy: ULTRABRAID II Suture, leading provider of endoscopic techniques and technologies for joint ENDOBUTTON DIRECT, OSTEORAPTOR and BIORAPTOR CURVED and ligament repair.
Management believes that the business capitalises Guide Systems and the ACUFEX DIRECTOR Guide System, all designed on the growing acceptance of endoscopy as a preferred surgical choice for use in the reattachment of ligaments, tendons or soft tissues to among surgeons, patients and payors, enhanced by a customer-led bone in knees, shoulders or other articulating joints:and various other approach to growing the arthroscopy market.
arthroscopy instruments, devices and sterilisation trays.
In addition, the To sustain growth and enhance its market position, the ASD business Endoscopy business obtained regulatory clearance in the United States supports its strategy with investment in surgeon education and Europe for the TRUCLEAR Operative Hysteroscopy System for use programmes, global fellowship support initiatives, partnerships with in ofce based procedures.
In Japan, regulatory approvals included professional associations and surgeon advisory boards.
The emerging TWINFIX AB, TWINFIX TI, TWINFIX Ultra PK and FOOTPRINT Ultra PK markets, especially China, are expected to be a major driver of growth Suture Anchors as well as BONECUTTER ELECTROBLADE and various in future, and the business is investing funds to accelerate this growth.
35 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Accounts and other information Corporate Governance Business Review Strategy, KPIs & Risk management Overview
