Business Review Recent regulatory approvals Global advanced wound management competitor share i During 2011, Advanced Wound Management secured approval in US, % Europe and Australia for PICO, single use Negative Pressure Wound A Smith & Nephew 18 A Therapy System.
In the US clearance was also gained for DURAFIBER B Kinectic Concepts 26 F Ag.
Regulatory approvals were received in the EU and US for a range of C Mlnlycke 11 NPWT dressing kits, including RENASYS Soft Port and the hydroD Convatec 9 surgery debridement product, VERSAJET II.
E 3M 6 B E F Others 30 Approval was received in Europe for a number of significant product D C changes including ALLEVYN Silver Non Adhesive for Germany and ACTICOAT Surgical.
Pro Two, a two layer compression bandaging i Competitor shares are based on estimates for selected segments and competitors, and may not be comprehensive.
system was also cleared for sale.
Approval was secured in China for a number of existing marketed products OPSITE Incise, OPSITE Flexigrid, OPSITE POST OP, ALLEVYN Advanced Wound Management financial performance Thin and ALLEVYN Adhesive.
Revenue 2011 Seasonality Revenue increased by $107m, or 12%, to $1,019m from $912m in 2010, Due to the nature of its product range there is little seasonal impact on comprising 5% favourable currency translation and 7% underlying the Advanced Wound Management business.
Exudate management grew in underlying terms by 2% and infection management by 4%, as targeted marketing investments in Market and competition Europe delivered good returns.
The Groups NPWT portfolio has had Management estimates that the sales value of the advanced wound another good year with excellent feedback since the launch of PICO management segment worldwide was $5.5 billion in 2011, an during 2011.
This was launched in the US during January 2012. underlying increase of around 3% from 2010.
During 2011, the segment growth rate slowed slightly due to the weaker economic conditions.
The Underlying growth in Advanced Wound Management revenue advanced wound management market is focused on the treatment of reconciles to reported growth, the most directly comparable financial chronic wounds of the older population and other hard-to-heal wounds measure calculated in accordance with IFRS, as follows: such as burns and certain surgical wounds and is therefore also expected to benefit from demographic trends.
Growth is driven by an 2011 2010 % % ageing population and by a steady advance in technology and products that are more clinically efficient and cost effective than their Reported growth 12 8 conventional counterparts.
The market for advanced wound versus Constant currency exchange effect 5 1 traditional wound treatments is relatively un-penetrated and it is Underlying growth 7 7 estimated that the potential for advanced wound management is signicantly larger than the current market suggests.
Management In the US, revenue increased by $11m to $189m 6%, all of which is believes that the market will continue the trend towards advanced attributable to underlying revenue growth.
wound products with its ability to accelerate healing rates, reduce Outside the US, revenue increased by $96m to $830m 13%.
This is hospital stay times and cut the cost of clinician and nursing time as well represented by an underlying growth of 7% and 6% of favourable as aftercare in thehome.
European revenue increased by $39m to Management estimates that Smith& Nephew had an 18% share of the $493m 9% of which 4% was underlying growth coupled with 5% of advanced wound management segment as at 31December 2011. favourable currency translation.
Worldwide competitors in advanced wound management in 2011 include Convatec, Mlnlycke, Systagenix and Kinetic Concepts, who are active exclusively in the NPWT market.
39 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Accounts and other information Corporate Governance Business Review Strategy, KPIs & Risk management Overview
