Business Review PICO is a small portable pump, providing 7 days effective Negative Business segment reviews continued Pressure Wound Therapy yet is small enough to t discreetly into a pocket.
Advanced Wound Management Overview Strategy Smith& Nephews Advanced Wound Management business offers a Advanced Wound Managements strategy is to be customer-led and range of products from initial wound bed preparation through to full invest for growth by focusing on high growth, high value segments, in wound closure.
These products are targeted at chronic wounds particular exudate and infection management, through improved associated with the older population, such as pressure sores and wound bed preparation, moist and active healing and penetration of venous leg ulcers.
There are also products for the treatment of wounds the NPWT market.
such as burns and from invasive surgery that impact the wider There has been a continued focus on operational efficiency and population.
Since 2007, efficiency improvements have been delivered The Advanced Wound Management business has its global through various projects including support function consolidation, headquarters in Hull, UK and its North American headquarters in St outsourcing of manufacturing to low cost suppliers, distribution Petersburg, Florida.
The products are manufactured at facilities in Hull rationalisation projects and the start of manufacturing in Suzhou, China.
and Gilberdyke, UK, Suzhou in China, and also by third party Advanced Wound Managements strategic focus builds from an manufacturers around the world.
understanding of the increasing tensions between clinical and financial imperatives and looks for the ground that resolves them optimally.
Products Advanced Wound Management is committed to improving wound The main products within the Advanced Wound Management business outcomes for patients, and at the same time conserve resources for are for exudate management, predominantly the ALLEVYN brand and health care systems.
the recently added DURAFIBER products, infection management, An aligned approach across Advanced Wound Management is including the ACTICOAT brand and Negative Pressure Wound Therapy designed to ensure that employees are developed and work on NPWT.
common objectives to deliver consistent execution of the Groups plan.
The ALLEVYN hydrocellular dressings range has been considerably enhanced by new versions, introduced in recent years, which New products management believes provide efficient uid management and an New in 2011 was the introduction of PICO, the first fully disposable optimal moist wound environment that promotes faster healing of the NPWT system.
The innovative design provides the clinical benets of wound, reduced risk of maceration and protection from infection.
The NPWT while simplifying the functionality and presentation of the range includes ALLEVYN Ag, a range of dressings combining the product, allowing for an entirely disposable and cost effective system.
infection management capabilities of silver with ALLEVYN.
The design allows greater access to therapy, reduces service and The ACTICOAT range incorporates the smallest crystallised silver used support costs, and signicantly improved cost effectiveness compared in the treatment of wounds and burns.
The silver reduces the risk of to traditional NPWT therapy.
bacterial colonisation and acts to kill micro-organisms that can cause In addition, the NPWT range was enhanced with the launch of infection and prevent or delay healing.
RENASYS Soft Port to improve application and administration of NPWT delivers vacuum-assisted pressure to help promote healing.
Further line extensions were introduced to support customer Itconsists of a wound dressing, a drainage tube, and a transparent requests for broader application of therapy.
lmthat is connected to a suction device.
Smith& Nephew offers the VERSAJET II hydro-surgery debridement was introduced as a next RENASYS EZ and RENASYS GO pump systems together with a range of generation upgrade, incorporating improved ease of use and foam and gauze dressing kits.
The NPWT range was enhanced with the functionality to the existing system.
VERSAJET II enhances the Groups introduction of PICO, the first of its kind a fully disposable NPWT unique position in the hydro-surgical debridement market segment.
2011 saw the launch of DURAFIBER a gelling bre dressing, which Advanced Wound Management also offers a range of other advanced expands the footprint of the exudate management portfolio.
products including lms, such as OPSITE and IV3000, skin care DURAFIBER has category leading performance and was designed to treatments and gels.
manage moderate to heavily exuding cavity wounds, working in synergy with the ALLEVYN hydrocellular dressing range.
The ALLEVYN range was further expanded with anatomically shaped dressings designed to address multiple wound sites reducing the number of products a customer needs to stock, making dressing choice simpler with the opportunity to reduce costs.
This further reinforces Advanced Wound Managements position as the supplier with the most comprehensive foam dressing solution.
