Business Review The Group outsources manufacturing where necessary to obtain In addition to protecting its market position by ling and enforcing specialised expertise or where it is possible to gain lower cost without patents and trademarks, Smith & Nephew may oppose third party undue risk to intellectual property.
Suppliers of outsourced products patents and trademark lings where appropriate in those areas that and services are selected based on their ability to deliver products and might conict with the Groups business interests.
services to specication, and establish and maintain a quality system.
In the ordinary course of its business, the Group enters into a number Suppliers are trained and are monitored through on-site assessments of licensing arrangements with respect to its products.
None of these and performance audits that include quality, service and delivery.
arrangements individually is considered material to the current Finished goods purchased for resale include screen displays, optical operations and the financial results of the Group.
and electrical devices in the Endoscopy business and skincare products in the Advance Wound Management business.
Exchange and interest rate risk and financial instruments The Group operates a number of central distribution facilities in the key The Board of Directors of the Company has established a set of policies geographical areas in which it operates.
Orthopaedics and Endoscopy to manage funding, currency and interest rate risks.
Derivative financial operate a facility in Baar, Switzerland which acts as the main holding instruments are used only to manage the financial risks associated with and consolidation point for markets in Europe.
Hubs serving the US are underlying business activities and their nancing.
See Note 16 of the located in Memphis for Orthopaedics and Oklahoma City for Notes to the Group accounts for further details of these risks.
Products are shipped to Group companies who hold small The Groups financial instruments are subject to changes in fair values amounts of inventory locally for immediate or urgent customer as a result of changes in market rates of exchange and forward interest requirements.
Advanced Wound Management distribution hubs rates.
Financial instruments entered to hedge sales and purchase include: Neunkirchen, Germany: Nottingham, UK: and Atlanta, US.
transactions in foreign currency and interest rate exposures are accounted for as hedges.
Changes in fair values of effective financial Research and development instruments would not affect the Groups income statement Smith & Nephew manage a portfolio of short and long-term product immediately.
The movements in the fair value of financial instruments development projects designed to meet the future needs of customers that are not accounted for as hedges offset movements in the values of and continue to provide growth opportunities for the business.
The assets and liabilities and are recognised through the income statement.
Groups research and development is directed towards each business segment.
Expenditure on research and development amounted to $167m in 2011 2010 $151m, 2009 $155m, representing approximately 3.9% of Group revenue 2010 3.8%, 2009 4.1%.
The Group continues to invest in future technology opportunities for clinical needs identied from across the Smith & Nephew businesses.
Research and development is primarily carried out at the Groups principal locations, notably in Memphis, US Orthopaedics, Manseld, US Endoscopy and Hull, UK Advanced Wound Management.
There are a number of other smaller research and developments units situated at other locations around the Group.
In-house research is supplemented by work performed by academic institutions and other external research organisations in Europe, America and Asia.
Intellectual property Smith & Nephew has a policy of protecting the results of research and development carried out by the Group.
Patents have been obtained in a wide range of elds, including orthopaedic reconstruction and trauma, endoscopy and advanced wound management.
Patent protection for Group products is sought routinely in the Groups principal markets.
Currently, the Groups patent portfolio stands at approximately 4,000 patents in force and patent applications pending.
Smith & Nephew also has a policy of protecting the Groups products by registering trademarks under local laws of markets in which such products are sold.
The Group vigorously protects its trademarks against infringement.
15 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Accounts and other information Corporate Governance Business Review Strategy, KPIs & Risk management Overview
