Business Review VERILASTs use of OXINIUM, oxidized Zirconium, results in a knee which has been proven to last 30 years, twice the current industry standard of 15 years.
Orthopaedics Overview Trauma implant systems During 2011, the Orthopaedics business was managed worldwide The principal xation products are the TRIGEN Intramedullary Nailing from Memphis, Tennessee, the site of its main development and system, TRIGEN META-NAIL with expanded xation and technique manufacturing facility, with a European headquarters in Baar, options, TRIGEN INTERTAN Intertrochanteric Antegrade nails for hip Switzerland.
Products are also manufactured at smaller facilities in fractures, TRIGEN SURESHOT Distal Targeting System for Intramedullary Switzerland, Germany, China and the UK as well as by third-party Nailing and PERI-LOC Periarticular Locked Plating system which offers a manufacturers.
comprehensive family of fracture specic plate and screw products for the upper and lower extremities.
Products For external xation and limb restoration, Orthopaedics offers the Orthopaedic reconstruction implants include hip, knee and shoulder TAYLOR SPATIAL FRAME Circular Fixation System and JET-X BAR joints as well as ancillary products such as bone cement.
trauma xation products consist of internal and external devices and other products, including various xation and orthobiological materials Clinical Therapies used in the stabilisation of severe fractures and deformity correction The principal clinical therapies products offered include the EXOGEN procedures.
Clinical therapies products are those that are applied in an Ultrasound Bone Healing System which utilises low-intensity pulsed orthopaedic ofce or a clinic setting, in particular bone growth ultrasound to accelerate the healing of fresh fractures and to heal non stimulation and joint uid therapies.
DUROLANE Joint Fluid Therapy and SUPARTZ Joint Fluid Therapy are non-surgical, non-pharmacological pain-relieving Knee implant systems therapies for osteoarthritis of the knee.
The Orthopaedics business offers a range of products for specialised knee procedures.
The LEGION GENESIS II Total Knee System is a Strategy comprehensive system designed to allow surgeons to address a wide Under the new ASD structure, the Group will continue to focus on range of knee procedures from primary to revision.
LEGION TKS features product innovation, sales excellence and physician education.
Whether VERILAST Technology, an advanced bearing surface.
The JOURNEY through extending the life of implants, improving operating room Active Knee Solutions, a family of advanced, customised products efficiency, or promoting faster healing and other clinical outcomes, designed to treat early to mid-stage osteoarthritis patients, provides more Smith& Nephews innovations differentiate it and provide solutions to normal feeling and motion through bone ligament preservation and active patients seeking to regain quality of life while enhancing anatomic replication.
LEGION GENESIS II and JOURNEY also utilise economic value for customers.
For its ASD products, Smith & Nephew VISIONAIRE Patient-Matched Instrumentation, a technology platform of provides peer-to-peer medical education, through KLEOS, tailored to patient-matched cutting blocks for total knee procedures.
individual surgeon needs utilising the worlds top orthopaedic specialists and key opinion leaders.
Hip implant systems The Orthopaedics business offers a broad range of hip replacement The emerging markets continue to be an important growth opportunity.
In particular, the R3 Acetabular System includes a modular China remains a focus, with further progress and growth achieved acetabular cup that provides a variety of advanced bearings within a during 2011.
Outside China, ASD is investing in sales teams in other single system.
The BIRMINGHAM HIP Resurfacing System is a system emerging markets, extending physician training via KLEOS, developing for hip resurfacing, a bone conserving approach, which utilises proven tailored products to meet local needs and improving local infrastructure low wear metal-on-metal bearing surface technology.
systems include the SYNERGY Hip System, ANTHOLOGY Hip System Under the ASD structure, the business aligns its organisation and and the SL-PLUS Hip Family System.
develops its talent for consistent execution on the Groups plans.
Compensation for executives, managers and staff are carefully aligned Bearing surfaces to the execution of their objectives.
The Orthopaedics business utilises a range of bearing surfaces in its On 4 January 2012, the Group announced it had entered into an implant systems, including its proprietary OXINIUM Technology.
agreement with Essex Woodlands for the disposal of the Groups Oxidized Zirconium, branded OXINIUM, combines the enhanced wear Clinical Therapies business.
After disposal, the Group will retain a 49% resistance of a ceramic bearing with the superior durability of a metallic investment in the newly formed company, Bioventus LLC, which will be bearing.
When combined with highly cross-linked polyethylene XLPE reported as an associate.
At 31 December 2011, the assets and it results in the Groups VERILAST Technology.
The LEGION Primary liabilities of the Clinical Therapies business, $125m and $19m Knee, with VERILAST Technology, is the only knee system with a 30 respectively, are disclosed as held for sale.
In 2011, the Clinical year wear performance claim approved by the United States Food and Therapies business contributed $237m to revenue and $48m to trading Drug Administration FDA more than double the performance profit.
The Group expects to recognise a profit before tax in excess of expectation for wear compared to conventional technologies.
$250m on the transaction on completion.
31 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Accounts and other information Corporate Governance Business Review Strategy, KPIs & Risk management Overview
