Business Review Sustainability continued Suzhou manufacturing facility focuses on energy use reduction.
Despite working in a relatively new facility, our advanced wound product team in China is constantly exploring opportunities for continuous improvement.
A wide array of energy efficiency projects including HVAC enhancements and building management protocols were established that resulted in a 27% decrease in energy used in2011.
2011 Progress continued We perform We earn trust Smith & Nephew and its employees set ambitious goals and seek to Trust is the foundation on which Smith & Nephew is built and it is the achieve them.
The Group fosters this through a rigorous performance hall-mark of its interactions with stakeholders both inside and outside management process.
Feedback to employees is not an annual event the Group.
A Code of Conduct defines the standards of behaviour for but instead an on-going discussion between supervisor and employee.
the Groups employees as well as suppliers, contractors and Using a combination of face to face discussion and online tools, distributors authorised to do business on the Groups behalf.
In 2011, objectives are set and aligned at the beginning of each year to support Smith & Nephew continued to strengthen its comprehensive the overall Group strategy, so that every employee can see the link compliance program which includes both annual and on-going training between his or her work and the Groups overall success.
CEO Forums for its employees around the world.
Smith & Nephew also initiated its are held twice a year and are designed to develop key talent by first global ethics and compliance survey to serve as a benchmark for providing exposure to the broader business and also the opportunity to on-going improvement efforts.
interact with senior leadership in a small group setting.
An Annual Smith & Nephew fosters trust through open communication and a General Managers meeting ensures that those closest to Smith & collaborative environment where ideas are encouraged, recognised Nephews markets and customers are fully engaged in the Groups and rewarded.
Formal communication channels include Group-wide strategy and goals from the start of each year.
In 2011, Smith & Nephew and divisional newsletters and intranet platforms as well as variety of initiated annual CEO Awards to reward exceptional contributions to the forums for open dialogue including quarterly reports from the CEO and Groups strategy.
This award is open to all employees throughout the quarterly employee meetings on the state of the Group and important Group below executive level.
We innovate Ensuring a healthy and safe work environment Smith & Nephew encourages and supports new ideas.
The Group Smith & Nephew is committed to a healthy, supportive and safe work always seeks solutions to the challenges of its customers and their environment for its employees.
Smith & Nephew does not use any form patients by offering valuable and effective health care products and of forced, compulsory or child labour.
The Groups global risk services.
This same innovation applies to Smith & Nephews practices management process ensures that potential issues are identied and to recruit, engage and develop its employees.
Smith & Nephew adheres to all local and country regulations is facilitated through online application.
New employees are welcomed and employs a range of applicable health, safety and security through an online global induction program, shortening their learning measures.
Smith & Nephew protects the health of its employees curve and maximising their opportunities for success.
Smith & Nephew through work-based strategies such as safety and ergonomics, believes diversity fuels innovation and is committed to providing equal minimising the risk of work-related injury and ensuring that sufficient opportunity to all employees without discrimination.
This includes resources and systems are in place to address health and safety support of employees who are disabled or have become disabled matters.
The Group involves all employees in continuous improvement during the course of their employment.
In these cases, it is Group policy including applicable training, reporting and review of health and safety to provide continuing employment wherever practical in the same or a matters.
Each year, Smith & Nephew conducts a comprehensive talent review to Measuring our progress identify employees with high potential and ensure they receive the Smith & Nephew monitors its own internal culture through Employee development needed for their success and also develop future leaders Engagement Surveys.
The Group uses the results of these surveys to for critical roles.
As a measure of this success the percentage of identify areas of opportunity and develop and execute action plans to vacancies lled by internal applicants in 2011 averaged 35% 2010 address them.
Regular reporting is maintained on some key metrics 32%.
The Groups target for all employees continues to be 40% ofengagement.
One of the key measures is the average voluntary including management positions.
The Groups US and UK employee population approximately 60% of total employees have the most established androbust data collection processes in place.
During 2011, the voluntary labour turnover rate in these regions was 8.8%, a slight increase from 7.2% in 2010.
Average involuntary labour turnover was 6.3% 2010: 5.1%, which reects organisational changes taken as part of Smith & Nephews new strategy and operating model.
The average voluntary turnover for employees leaving the Group within two years of joining was 3.7% for 2011, compared to 10.9% in 2010.
44 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Business Review Investment Investment in communities in R&D $14m $167m $14m was given in support for The Group invested $167m community charitable causes, 2010 $151m in Research and grants, sponsorships, medical Development to develop improved education and disaster relief.
Employee numbers Economic contribution The average numbers of full-time equivalent employees in 2011 was Sustainability by denition includes positive economic performance.
10,743, of whom 1,670 were located in the UK, 4,404 were located in The Group is committed to providing innovative, cost-effective the US and 4,669 were located in other countries.
The Group does not healthcare solutions benefiting patients, healthcare professionals, employ a significant number of temporary employees.
reimbursement agencies and their patients through improved treatment, ease and speed of product use.
The Groups business The average number of employees for the past three years by business policies are designed to achieve long-term growth and profits which segment was: in turn bring continued economic benets to shareholders, employees, suppliers and local communities.
Highlights for 2011 included: 2011 2010 2009 Group revenue in 2011 amounted to $4.3 billion 2010 $4.0 billion : Orthopaedics 5,280 5,045 4,853 Smith& Nephews employment of nearly 11,000 people globally Endoscopy 2,331 2,134 1,888 isa substantial economic-generator: total wages and salaries Advanced Wound Management 3,132 2,993 3,023 in2011 amounted to $930m 2010 $817m : and 10,743 10,172 9,764 The Group invested $167m 2010 $151m in Research and Development to develop improved products and services.
Where the Group has collective bargaining arrangements in place with labour unions, these reect local market circumstances.
Looking ahead Smith& Nephew operates share option plans that are available to the A more complete analysis of Smith & Nephews 2011 sustainability majority of employees for further information see Note 24 of the Notes performance will be included in the 2011 Sustainability Report to be to the Group accounts.
The Group has no share plans in which shares published later this year.
have rights with regard to control of the Company that are not exercisable directly by employees.
Our communities Smith& Nephew is committed to being a strong corporate citizen across its sphere of influence and in particular, in the communities where we work and live.
This includes monetary support cash and donated products and support of its employees to volunteer for community causes.
In 2011, Smith & Nephews support for community charitable causes, grants, sponsorships, medical education and disaster relief totalled $13,640,000, comprised of $9,101,000 in cash and $4,539,000 in product donations.
As a matter of policy, Smith&Nephew makes no political contributions.
Smith& Nephew is committed to establishing mutually beneficial relationships with its suppliers, customers and business partners.
The Group works only with partners it believes adhere to business principles and health, safety, social and environmental standards consistent with its own.
In 2011, the Group commenced implementation of a formal sustainability performance questionnaire for a sub-set of its supply chain partners.
The Group has also continued to promote diversity objectives through long-term relationships with local or small business enterprises and minority-owned and women-owned business enterprises.
45 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Accounts and other information Corporate Governance Business Review Strategy, KPIs & Risk management Overview
