Business Review Outlook and trend information The discussion below contains certain forward-looking statements that Smith & Nephew expects Orthopaedic Reconstruction to grow at close may or may not prove accurate.
For example, statements regarding to the market rate.
Strong growth in the sales of premium knee implant expected revenue growth and trading margins, market trends and our products will continue to annualise and on-going negative metal-onproduct pipeline are forward looking statements.
Phrases such as aim, metal perceptions will affect hip implant sales.
plan, intend, anticipate, well placed, believe, estimate, target, In Orthopaedic Trauma, the Group expects the continuing 2% consider, and similar expressions are generally intended to identify headwind from the reduction in royalty income in the US to lead to forward looking statements.
Forward-looking statements involve known growth slightly below market growth.
and unknown risks and uncertainties and other important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in Finally, Smith & Nephew expects to complete the transaction to create forward-looking statements.
For Smith & Nephew, these factors Bioventus LLC in the first half of 2012.
This will be modestly earnings include: economic and financial conditions in the markets we serve, dilutive.
especially those affecting health care providers, payors and customers: The Group delivered on its trading profit margin expectation for the last price levels for established and innovative medical devices: quarter of 2011 and consequently the full year Group trading profit developments in medical technology: regulatory approvals: margin was 22.5%.
Smith & Nephew expects to achieve a modest reimbursement decisions or other government actions: products increase in trading profit margin in 2012. defects or recalls: litigation relating to patent or other claims: legal compliance risks and related investigative, remedial or enforcement In August 2011, Smith & Nephew set out the five strategic priorities actions: strategic actions, including acquisitions and depositions and designed to drive the Groups future success.
Smith & Nephew is our success in integrating acquired businesses: and numerous other reshaping its business to deliver against these priorities.
The Group matters which affect us or our markets, including those of a political, istargeting structural efficiency savings of at least $150 million per economic business or competitive nature.
annum as part of this process.
The costs of achieving this are anticipated to be approximately $160million in cash and $40 million in For additional information on factors that could cause the Groups actual non-cash costs.
It is expected that more than half the costs and results to differ from estimates reected in these forward-looking approximately half the benets will be achieved by the end of 2012, statements, can be found under Risk factors within the Business with the full costs and benets being realised within threeyears.
Review section on pages 16 to 18.
From the first quarter of 2012, Smith & Nephew intends to report as two Information regarding the recent and longer term market growth trends divisions, Advanced Surgical Devices global and Advanced Wound is given for each of the Groups global business units in the relevant Management global.
Advanced Surgical Devices global will comprise Market and competition sections under Business segment reviews the current Orthopaedics and Endoscopy business units.
This structure on pages 30 to 40. will provide visibility on progress in the Emerging and International Smith & Nephew delivered a good revenue performance in 2011, set Markets, as well as the performance of its product franchises in the against a challenging market backdrop.
The Group expects that the Established Markets.
macro-economic climate will continue to influence both patient and payor behaviour and, as a result, it seems likely that tough market conditions will persist throughout the year ahead.
During 2012, the Group expects its sports medicine franchises to slightly outperform the market.
It also expects to continue to grow at above the market rate in Advanced Wound Management.
This will be driven by Smith & Nephews substantial negative pressure portfolio and a series of innovative new product releases.
41 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Accounts and other information Corporate Governance Business Review Strategy, KPIs & Risk management Overview
