Strategy, KPIs & Risk management Our strategic priorities and key performance indicators KPIs Smith & Nephew use a range of measures to monitor progress against our five strategic priorities and against our overall financial goal.
While their relative importance changes as market conditions evolve, progress against all five priorities continues to drive our growth.
Financial goal To deliver a higher return to shareholders than our peer group over the longer term.
Strategic priorities In Established Markets US, Europe, Australia, New Zealand, Canada and Japan, Established Markets Smith & Nephew sees opportunities to build upon existing strong positions, to win market share through greater innovation and drive efficiencies to liberate resources.
Through these actions the Group seeks to meet the challenges of subdued markets and maximise both revenue growth and profit margins.
Smith & Nephew believes it can secure market leadership in the Emerging Markets, Emerging Markets building upon its initial success in China and expanding to create sustainable businesses in India, Brazil and Russia.
In particular, the Group sees significant opportunities to build value through augmenting its existing portfolio with new products specifically designed for and manufactured in these markets.
The Groups future success depends upon continuing to offer new technologies to Innovate for value customers around the world.
Smith & Nephew is accelerating its rate of innovation by increasing the research & development budget and identifying and investing in the projects that will deliver maximum value.
Smith & Nephew will work to ensure the business structure and processes support Simplify and improve our innovation agenda and the Group seeks to maximise efficiency in everything it does.
There are opportunities to streamline the Groups operations and our operating model manufacturing processes and to remove duplication.
Smith & Nephew is building strong global functions human capital, regulatory, quality, sustainability and legal affairs to support its management teams in their quest to better serve the Groups markets and customers.
The Group aims to augment its organic growth through acquisitions.
Smith & Supplement organic Nephew will continue with its successful strategy of acquiring complementary technologies, seek to support our Emerging Markets ambitions by acquiring local growth through manufacturing and distribution businesses and remain alert to larger opportunities to support expansion in the advanced woundcare, extremities or minimally invasive acquisitions surgery sectors.
10 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Strategy, KPIs & Risk management What we will measure KPIs Why we will measure Total Shareholder Return Monitor the value created for shareholders over the longer term Growth in statutory and adjusted earnings per share Demonstrate the improvement in underlying earnings per share for our shareholders Trading cash ow Measure the long-term cash generation of the Group excluding the impact of specic transactions or events that management considers affect the Groups short-term performance Growth in the Established Markets versus the market Track the relative strength of our market positions Emerging Markets % of Group revenue Track underlying growth of Emerging Markets to global growth Growth of individual Emerging Markets Monitor progress in key market segments versus the market % of Group revenue from products launched in the Monitor impact from innovation last 36 months R&D expense as % of Group revenue Monitor underlying investment in R&D Trading profit growth Track our underlying trading profit growth Trading profit margin Monitor underlying trading profitability Waste Recycling normalised metric Reduce amount of waste for the Group, our customers, and the environment Energy use normalised metric Total energy consumption volumetrically Return on cash invested Monitor value created for shareholders 11 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Accounts and other information Corporate Governance Business Review Strategy, KPIs & Risk management Overview
