Business Review Hazardous waste 25% Close attention to improved manufacturing processes and better sorting of waste streams 2011 Progress The businesss total waste production in 2011 declined by nearly 4% Environmental, health and safety performance over the previous year.
This was attributable to disciplined waste In 2011, the Group accelerated the sustainability commitment by reduction projects at all sites.
Importantly, within the Groups total waste incorporating Group-wide energy, waste and water reduction best stream, the hazardous waste output was 25% less than 2010, resulting practices throughout its operations.
from close attention to improved manufacturing processes and better While the Group collects absolute performance data, in this document, sorting of waste streams.
Of additional encouragement was the data is normalised for changes related to cost of production using 2010 Groups almost 6% increase in waste directed to recycling.
As of the as base year to facilitate better year-on-year comparisons.
2011 end of 2011, the Group is now directing almost 48% of all waste to performance relative to the previous year for the key sustainability recycling efforts.
parameters is illustrated in the chart below.
Water consumption, while not substantial, showed a modest decline -1% relative to 2010 despite the opening of a significant new 2011 Key Performance Indicators commercial building in Memphis.
Smith & Nephew is achieving continued improvements in its The one area where the Group fell short in the key measures of sustainability KPIs: energy, CO, waste and water reduction, 2 performance was in workplace safety, after demonstrating improved and recycling.
The Lost Time Accident Frequency Rate LTAFR -3.2% Energy increased marginally 1% over 2010, but the numbers of days lost was higher than last year reecting a higher accident severity.
While quite a CO2 -1.3% number of these accidents were related to unusually severe winter -3.8% Total Group Waste weather, the Group also experienced more accidents within its Change in % sent for recycling 5.8% manufacturing facilities.
Considering this, in the fourth quarter of 2011, the Group developed a new workplace safety training protocol that is -1.1% Water being implemented in 2012 to help drive improved, long-term safety LTAFR 1.0% performance.
-5 -4 -3 -2 -1 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 % change compared to 2010 LTAFR Lost time accident frequency rate People Smith & Nephews vision is to be the best at improving peoples lives.
Energy consumption for the Group decreased by over 3% in 2011.
This vision includes its own employees.
In 2011, the Smith & Nephew Thiswas largely attributable to a focus at all sites on energy efficiency employee workforce included nearly 11,000 people in approximately 32 projects and despite opening a substantial new commercial building countries worldwide.
inMemphis and additional production in the new Beijing plant.
The management is rmly committed to the benets of a diverse and The Groups carbon dioxide emissions were reduced by slightly more balanced workforce across the Group.
It appoints on merit and values than 1% over the previous year.
This gure is calculated from both direct diversity in its broadest sense, whilst highlighting that the percentage of emissions from the combustion of fossil fuels on Smith& Nephews women Executive Ofcers in the Group has increased and is now 20%.
sites and secondary emissions from utility company power generation Additionally, as noted elsewhere in this Report, the Board recognises for Smith& Nephews energy needs.
The decrease was linked directly the importance of diversity.
The Board is currently comprised of 20% to reduced energy consumption, but the magnitude of the decrease women and the Group aspire to increase the number of women on the was less than for energy because of the composition of the energy Board to around 25% by 2015. sources some of which are more carbon intensive than others.
During 2011, Smith & Nephew introduced a new strategy and operating model to increase its competitiveness in the face of changing economies and health care environments.
The Group continues to pursue this strategy, which includes simplifying its operating model, whilst at the same time ensuring all employees are engaged in its future and success.
Smith & Nephew is committed to attracting, retaining and developing talented employees who are dedicated to its core values of Performance, Innovation and Trust.
These values represent the foundation of the Groups culture.
43 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Accounts and other information Corporate Governance Business Review Strategy, KPIs & Risk management Overview
