Business Review Business segment reviews continued Orthopaedics continued New products Market and competition In Trauma, Orthopaedics launched STRUCSURE CP, an advanced Smith& Nephew estimates that the global orthopaedic segment, injectable, hard-setting bone graft substitute designed to gradually excluding clinical therapies, served by the Group grew by resorb while being replaced by natural bone.
approximately 2% in 2011 and is currently worth approximately $17.8 billion per annum.
Management believes that the Smith& Nephew Reconstructive Orthopaedics continued the extension of its VISIONAIRE Orthopaedics business holds an 11% share of this segment by value.
Patient-Matched Instrumentation into its knee portfolio, with its roll-out Principal global competitors in orthopaedics are Zimmer, Stryker, of VISIONAIRE for the TC-PLUS knee system.
With VISIONAIRE, the Johnson& Johnson and Biomet.
patients MRI and X-rays are used to create customised cutting blocks that allow the surgeon to achieve optimal mechanical axis alignment as Global orthopaedics competitor share i ii well as saving time and reducing instruments in the operating room.
% Also launched was the SMF Short Modular Femoral Hip System, a A G A Smith & Nephew 11 primary hip stem that is substantially shorter than traditional length B Zimmer 19 F stems, yet maintains optimal xation and stability.
The SMF Hip C Stryker 18 B complements the newly launched Direct Anterior retractor set, an D DePuy Johnson & Johnson iii 17 E instrument set and technique that allows orthopaedic surgeons to enter E Synthes iii 12 F Biomet 9 the hip socket through the front, or anterior, which results in far less soft C D G Others 14 tissue disruption and post-operative pain than traditional techniques.
i The global orthopaedics segment served by the Group consists of orthopaedic reconstruction and Regulatory approvals orthopaedic trauma.
During 2011, the Orthopaedics business obtained regulatory ii Competitor shares are based on estimates for selected segments and competitors, and may not be comprehensive.
clearances approvals for several key products.
iii Synthes is the subject of a takeover from Johnson & Johnson which is expected to complete in 2012.
In the US, 510 k clearance was obtained for the TAYLOR SPATIAL FRAME V4.1 Software, TRIGEN SURESHOT Distal Targeting System V2.1, In 2011, weaker economic conditions worldwide continued to create and the SMF Hip Stem Line Additions.
several challenges for the overall orthopaedic market, including Several products were approved in Japan, which included the 10 12 TAPER continued deferrals of joint replacement procedures and heightened OXINIUM Femoral Heads, LARGE COCR Femoral Heads, REFLECTION XLPE pricing pressures.
These factors contributed to the lower overall growth Acetabular Liners, BHR Resurfacing Hip System, BHR Modular Head of the worldwide orthopaedic market compared to historic System with 10 12 Taper Sleeves, SL-PLUS Hip Stems, SLR-PLUS Hip comparables.
However, over the medium-term, several catalysts are Stems, and SL-PLUS Mia Hip Stems.
expected to continue to drive sustainable growth in orthopaedic device sales, including the growing and ageing population, rising rates of Seasonality co-morbidities such as obesity and diabetes, technology improvements allowing surgeons to treat younger, more active patients, and the Orthopaedic reconstruction and trauma procedures tend to be higher in increasing strength of the demand for healthcare in emerging markets.
the winter months quarter one and quarter four where accidents and Both the orthopaedic trauma and clinical therapies markets are sports related injuries are highest.
Conversely, elective procedures tend expected to continue to grow due to a global population increasingly at to slow down in the summer months due to holidays.
risk from fractures due to age, osteoporosis, obesity and diabetes and also due to continuous advancements in the surgical treatment of fractures, and the need to manage pain in younger, more active patients.
