Business review continued Sales by sector 894m John Crane OEM: 37% 5 1 Original equipment manufacture 37% 4 John Crane is a world-leading provider of engineered products and Aftermarket: 63% services for the major process industries.
These include the oil and 1 2 Oil, gas & petrochemical 39% 3 gas, power generation, chemical, pharmaceutical, pulp and paper, 3 Chemical & pharmaceutical 8% and mining sectors.
4 Distributors 7% 5 General industry 9% Delivering engineered solutions that keep process plants running, John Crane enhances customer productivity by providing advanced 2 technology industrial products and  services backed by an exceptional global network.
Sales performance m 894 790 786 626 532 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Business features Principal operations regions John Crane is a global business with a presence in more than 50 countries.
Customers John Crane serves oil & gas and power generation companies, refineries, pump and compressor manufacturers, chemical and Employees, 6 800 other process industries.
Its main customers include Chevron, Contribution to 2011 Group sales 31% BP, China Petroleum, Suncor Petro Canada, Valero, Petrobras, ExxonMobil, Gazprom, TOTAL, Sabic, PDVSA, Pemex, Saudi Aramco, Contribution to 2011 Group headline operating profit 35% Percentage relates to headline operating profit before corporate costs Shell, Petrom, Sulzer, ITT Goulds, Flowserve, GE Nuovo Pignone, GE Energy and Power, Andritz Hydro, Rolls Royce, Siemens, Go to www.
com Mitsubishi, Solar Turbines, Elliot, York, BASF, Weir Group, Bayer, and Dow.
No customer is larger than 3% of sales.
Competitors For rotating equipment technologies, John Cranes main competitors are, Flowserve and Eagle Burgmann Industries mechanical seals : Kingsbury and Waukesha engineered bearings : Pall and Hydac filtration systems : Rexnord and Emerson couplings.
For equipment in upstream energy John Cranes principal global competitors include Weatherford and Norris.
Suppliers John Crane operates its supply chain globally, using global, regional and local partnerships to meet the required service levels.
Its main suppliers are Morgan Group, Coors Tek, Schunk, ESK, Earle M. Jorgensen, Femax, DuPont, Greene Tweed, Scot Industries, Penn United Carbide, and Ashland Chemical.
24 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Group overview Chairman and Chief Executive Operating and financial review Risks and responsibility Governance Accounts Markets and trends Across the process industries, John Crane provides engineered solutions that drive reliability improvements and sustain the effective operation of customers rotating equipment and other machinery.
The expanded product portfolio includes mechanical seals, seal support systems, engineered bearings, power transmission couplings and specialist filtration systems.
John Crane also helps maintain and enhance oil and gas field site productivity through the servicing and provision of onshore down-hole artificial lift pumping hardware and systems.
All this technology is supported by a global sales and service network that provides  services utilising expertise developed from decades of technology leadership coupled with proven field experience.
Service teams in more than 50 countries maintain and support the operation of critical customer assets throughout their economic lifetime.
Focused on aftermarket customer service, approximately two-thirds of John Cranes sales stem from the aftermarket servicing and support of Aftermarket plus existing installed equipment while the remaining one-third arise from the design and supply of products to original equipment manufacturers.
Performance Plus contracts offer John Cranes customers in the The business serves a wide range of process industries including oil energy and process industries the guarantee that original equipment and gas, chemical, power and general industrial applications.
Demand installations will benefit from the highest level of managed reliability for John Crane products and services continues to grow, being and service.
A recently signed maintenance and service contract with influenced by a number of factors: the global demand for energy and the Milazzo oil refinery in northern Sicily is typical of how John Crane an increased desire for national energy independence: more stringent leverages long-term business relationships to expand the range and environmental and safety regulatory requirements: the need to replace depth of its technical support.
Performance Plus provides lower cost ageing infrastructure and deliver operational efficiencies: global of ownership through greater long-term reliability, availability, safety, demographics and regional economic growth.
The long-term market and inventory optimisation.
The contract with Milazzo, owned by Eni dynamics, such as the increasing global demand for energy, are driving and Kuwait Petroleum Italy, commits John Crane to a range of new growth in original equipment investment in key end markets.
These include systematic root cause expand the processing equipment installed base which underpins analysis of seal failures, assistance with installations and startan average organic sales growth of around 6-8% per year over the ups, reliability assessments, and improvement recommendations.
Almost two-thirds of John Cranes revenue is generated by aftermarket services, underlining the success of the companys As a result of a targeted acquisition strategy adding complementary restructuring into one global business with an expanded network products that leverage John Cranes service footprint and rotating of dedicated service centres.
equipment expertise, we have more than doubled our addressable market over the past four years.
The new lines engineered bearings, specialist filters and upstream energy services now enhance and benefit from the market-leading position of our legacy portfolio of mechanical seals, couplings and seal support systems.
These new product areas typically serve similar customers and offer scope for a strong aftermarket business.
John Crane is a market leader in its traditional product areas mechanical seals, seal support systems and couplings with a share of around 28%.
There is significant opportunity to continue to grow its share in the newly acquired product ranges.
These new products also allow John Crane to leverage its global network of sales, service and manufacturing centres more effectively.
We will continue to seek further acquisition opportunities which support this growth strategy.
John Cranes global network, present in more than 50 countries, is a key asset which allows for swift and effective aftermarket service close to customers operations.
These facilities provide a range of value-added services including repair, root cause analysis, alignment and condition monitoring, all designed to improve the performance of customers rotating equipment and to reduce downtime.
The geographic footprint continues to expand through opening additional manufacturing, sales and service centres in key markets.
25 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Business review continued John Crane Continued Bringing technology to life Advanced monitoring to prevent unplanned shutdowns John Crane is developing advanced gas seal technology that will use computerised sensors to help minimise the risk of liquid contamination, the most common cause of gas seal failure and the subsequent unplanned operational shutdown of centrifugal gas compressor trains.
As the turbo machinery needs of the oil and gas industry continuously evolve, gas seals are used for increasingly more demanding applications.
Gas reinjection, gas gathering and hydrogen recycle are particularly prone to liquid contamination of the seal.
Standard methods of monitoring the health of a seal are often insufficient to detect problems before the ensuing damage forces the operator to halt operations and undertake costly emergency repairs.
In advanced applications, where the gas control panel incorporates a gas conditioning unit, the settings can be adjusted to extend the life of the seal.
Or a decision can be made to plan the necessary maintenance in advance, minimising cost and operational impact.
26 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Group overview Chairman and Chief Executive Operating and financial review Risks and responsibility Governance Accounts GAS COMPRESSOR REMOTE CONTROL ROOM GAS SEAL REFINERY SITE Technology brings remote monitoring John Cranes patented seal technology uses an array of sensors on the seal and compressor to transmit real-time data to a computer at the central control point.
Sophisticated software constantly analyses the information flow and alerts the operator at the earliest sign of any potentially crippling contamination.
27 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Business review continued John Crane Continued Performance First-fit original equipment sales rose 14% on an underlying basis as customers increased their capital expenditure in new projects.
We saw 2011 2010 Reported Underlying m m growth growth strong activity in the oil, gas and petrochemical sectors in the Middle East, Latin America and Asia.
Some of this activity has been the start-up Sales 894 786 14% 13% of previously delayed projects and a number of these have experienced Headline operating profit 189 163 16% 15% some competitive pricing pressure.
In the short term, investment in Headline operating margin 21.1% 20.7% 40 bps these capital projects may constrain margin improvement but will Statutory operating profit 143 124 support aftermarket sales growth, as well as market share gains and Return on capital employed 25.4% 22.2% 320 bps margin strength longer term.
John Crane grew sales by 14%, or 108m, reflecting an underlying We continued to invest in infrastructure enhancement to expand our increase in revenue of 104m 13% against a relatively weak comparator market-leading sales and service network.
During this past year a period, as well as a currency benefit of 4m.
The underlying growth new state of the art manufacturing and service centre was opened reflects higher orders for first-fit original equipment and increased in Dammam, Saudi Arabia and the Middle East HQ located in Dubai aftermarket sales across all end markets, particularly from the oil, gas is being significantly expanded to increase manufacturing, service and petrochemical sectors.
In China, manufacturing of the well-known Safematic product line has been introduced in response to key pulp Reported headline operating profit grew by 16% driven by a 15%, 25m, and paper customer requirements.
Expansion of manufacturing in increase in underlying profit, and a 1m gain from currency translation.
China continued with the introduction of a new metal bellows seal line Margins increased to new highs of 21.1%.
The underlying improvement which is meeting specific needs of the local market.
In the US, a new in profitability stems from increased volumes, benefits from our costIndufil capability was added in the Deer Park facility in Texas, providing saving initiatives and improved pricing on aftermarket sales.
These users of Indufil filtration equipment in the Americas with local technical positive margin effects were partly offset by adverse mix as a result of and commercial support.
faster growth in first-fit original equipment sales and from John Crane Production Solutions JCPS, our upstream energy services business.
Research and development Return on capital employed improved 320 basis points to 25.4% as a Our investment in research and development continues to progress result of the improved profitability.
on several fronts: environmentally focused zero and low emission seals, rotating equipment condition monitoring with responsive The restructuring programme launched in August 2008 to create one control, advanced materials for seals and couplings, expansion of the global John Crane division is delivering improved customer service, performance range limit for compressor dry gas seals to extreme high quicker delivery, and lower costs.
In the period, we spent 3m and pressures and engineered point solutions to target specific application delivered savings of 6m so that annualised savings to date now total services.
Recent new product introductions include the launch of a 23m.
Overall, the project is on track to deliver annualised savings of non-contacting supercritical CO2 pump seal used in enhanced oilfield 25m during the coming financial year.
recovery and a line of high-duty American Petroleum Institute API Overall aftermarket sales grew 13% on an underlying basis which compliant couplings.
benefited from strong demand in the oil and gas sector, particularly In keeping with our commitment to leading-edge product technology from JCPS.
Sales for JCPS advanced 68% as a result of higher activity development, over the past year John Crane has invested more than levels in US onshore gas and oil production and the full year effect 1m in the expansion of test capabilities including the establishment of of a contract to upgrade and maintain Petroms 9000-plus wells in a dedicated bearings test facility in Gttingen Germany, and a state of Romania.
Aftermarket sales of rotating equipment seals, seal support the art high-duty couplings test rig in Manchester, UK.
systems, couplings, bearings and filtration increased 5% with growth across all sectors.
John Crane Production Solutions has also introduced to the market a high-temperature version of its fibreglass sucker rods for lifting oil from wells.
This advanced product design will provide a more cost-effective pumping solution for customers and open new market opportunities for JCPS previously inaccessible due to well temperature.
28 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Group overview Chairman and Chief Executive Operating and financial review Risks and responsibility Governance Accounts Business developments John Crane boosts oil and gas production John Crane has also pursued a strategy to expand its addressable John Cranes goal of becoming the supplier of choice of artificial lift market by making targeted acquisitions that add complementary products, services and solutions for oil and gas companies is best technologies and products while also leveraging its extensive network illustrated in Romania where it is helping upgrade and maintain the of sales and service centres.
In August 2011, we advanced this strategy countrys 9,500 wells.
A long-term contract between JCPS John through the agreement to acquire, subject to regulatory approvals, the Crane Production Solutions and Petrom has generated revenue business of Houston-based Turbo Components and Engineering Inc. of around 26m this year alone.
The managed reliability and service which services, repairs and builds replacement bearings and seals programme is cutting production downtime and boosting output used in critical rotating equipment.
This acquisition is complementary in what is seen as a model partnership between JCPS and an to our existing engineered bearings business which was formed oil company to revamp both site and service locations.
With well through acquisitions in 2007 and 2009.
It will accelerate our plans to reliability and production greatly enhanced, such partnerships develop an aftermarket services business to support our existing deliver considerable savings to customers who see a reduction engineered bearings offering.
This acquisition also provides more in costly equipment failures.
JCPS is also using the experience to technically differentiated solutions which will improve the scale and finesse new product development, introducing high temperature overall profitability of the bearings product line in the immediate future.
fibreglass sucker rods for the first time.
These give oil and gas Further progress was made within the year to advance the penetration operators the tools to produce in wells too hot for traditional sucker of our expanded product line with several new accounts achieved for rods, an innovation that could soon become standard.
Outlook John Cranes order rate has continued at strong levels.
This visibility should support sales growth in the first half of the coming year.
The full year sales growth will be subject to a sustained expansion in market economies and further customer investment in capital projects.
Margins will benefit from the full year impact of the cost saving initiatives in the coming year.
However this will be offset by strategic investments in longer term growth opportunities such as the expansion of our sales and service network, targeted large projects and increasing our presence in growth markets.
John Crane will capitalise on its market leadership in mechanical seals and continue to leverage its global sales and service network to promote the full product line while continuing to build the JCPS business.
First-fit OEM Percentage of sales 37% Aftermarket service Percentage of sales 63% 29 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011
