Business review continued Sales by sector 838m Smiths Medical 1 Medication delivery 28% 2 Vital care 41% Smiths Medical is a leading supplier of specialist medical devices 1 3 Safety devices 31% 3 and equipment for global markets.
In medication delivery, our devices help treat cancer patients and provide relief to those in pain.
Our vital care products reduce hospital-acquired infections, manage patients airways before, during, and after surgery, maintain body temperature and assist 2 reproduction through IVF therapy.
Our safety products keep health workers safe by helping prevent needlestick injuries and reducing cross-infections.
Sales performance m 858 834 838 703 691 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Business features Principal operations regions We have operations in over 30 countries with manufacturing concentrated in Mexico, the US and UK, Italy, Germany and China.
We sell to around 120 markets worldwide, the US being our largest single market with around 50% of sales.
Customers Employees 7,550 We estimate that around three-quarters of our end customers are Contribution to 2011 Group sales 30% hospitals, with the remainder comprising the alternate care market such as homecare, clinics and other surgery centres.
We have a Contribution to 2011 Group headline operating profit 36% Percentage relates to headline operating profit before corporate costs direct sales presence in 22 countries, with distribution arrangements in some 100 others.
com Competitors The competitive landscape for Smiths Medical is complex as we compete with different businesses across a wide range of product areas.
Our competitors include Covidien, Teleflex, B Braun, Becton Dickinson, C R Bard, 3M Arizant, Hospira and CareFusion, among many others.
In many cases, we compete with only a small portion of their medical businesses so comparison between peers is not straightforward.
In emerging markets, we compete with both large multinational companies and smaller domestic players.
Suppliers Our strategy is to engage suppliers in product innovation, value engineering and a commitment to quality.
Our goal is to reduce product and supply chain costs, improve delivery performance and reduce the cost of out-of-specification or poor-quality supplies.
The majority of our direct spending is on injection moulding, packaging materials and electronics.
Among indirect purchases, freight, services, travel, temporary labour and capital equipment represent the majority.
30 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Group overview Chairman and Chief Executive Operating and financial review Risks and responsibility Governance Accounts Markets and trends Budgetary restrictions have continued to constrain customers capital spend and increased price pressure in many markets.
Procedure growth rates have also declined in some countries driven by reduced budgets and unemployment rates.
These factors, coupled with the exceptional H1N1 growth in several of our markets during the previous year have caused a meaningful slowdown in market growth rates during this past fiscal year.
Despite these market challenges, medical device markets will continue to be attractive, driven by ageing populations and associated disease states as well as increasing prosperity particularly in Asia.
The global market for devices and equipment of the type supplied by Smiths Medical is estimated to be worth over 4bn, with opportunities in target adjacent markets that would more than double the size of the addressable market.
Smiths Medical has the global reach in the design, production and distribution of medical device products, with sales and marketing activities in some 120 countries, necessary to capture global Launching Graseby 2000 in China opportunities.
Smiths Medical is launching an easy-to-use, affordable syringe Smiths Medical product ranges serve three main markets medication pump system into a range of emerging markets following the delivery, vital care and safety.
It is particularly well placed in lowerintegration of a Chinese medical instruments company.
The risk, short residency, interventional devices, where there is continued purchase of Hangzhou-based Zheda Medical Instruments ZDMI demand.
Its broad portfolio includes iconic brands in hardware and in 2008 has already led to accelerated sales in a range of pumps, consumable products: in hospitals and alternate care settings: and in including a 2000-unit order from the Chinese military ambulance software and services.
The recent launch of the new Graseby 2000 will build on Regarding specific growth opportunities, recent legislation in the these successes.
Ideally suited to emerging markets, the Graseby European Union directs member states to adopt country-level safety 2000 range provides versatile and reliable syringe pumps requiring legislation.
This represents a breakthrough in that region.
When similar fewer technological features and at a competitive price.
The pump, laws were passed in the US several years ago, Smiths Medical saw which delivers medication at a continuous infusion rate, is designed double-digit growth in sales of safety products.
In addition, the division is with cost-effectiveness uppermost in mind.
This allows Smiths making significant progress in the development of medication delivery Medical to target Southeast Asia, the Indian subcontinent, the Middle systems that link to healthcare providers networks, a global trend.
East, Eastern Europe and Latin America where healthcare budgets Finally, the move in vital care from standalone products to integrated are less robust but steadily developing.
solutions suits Smiths Medicals broad and deep offerings.
Safety Medication delivery Smiths Medical designs and manufactures drug delivery systems Smiths Medical makes effective safety devices that prevent needlestick injuries and reduce cross-infections.
These cover a range of functions that relieve acute and chronic pain, treat the most at risk critical care patients in high care units around the world, and enable patients with including drawing blood samples Jelco, administering injections and vaccinations Jelco, and delivering intravenous drugs Deltec.
The cancer, pulmonary hypertension or Parkinsons disease to receive their treatment at home.
The global market for medication delivery products global market for safety products is estimated to be worth 1.2bn.
Market growth has been limited in the past year by the exceptional H1N1 is estimated to be worth 1.2bn.
We expect continued market growth due to the increase in treatment of chronic conditions, the integration sales in the prior year.
Looking ahead, the safety market is expected to grow as focus on safety and controlling infections continues.
Smiths of medication delivery devices with hospital IT systems, and the move to treating patients outside hospitals.
Our CADD brand is a leader in Medical is one of the worlds leading suppliers of safety needles and catheters: as such, it is well positioned to capitalise on safety trends ambulatory infusion, and we have a strong position in the syringe pump market with our Medfusion and Graseby products.
such as the recently agreed European Union directive calling for the increased use of safety products to protect healthcare workers.
Vital care Smiths Medicals products manage patient airways before, during and after surgery Portex, aid patients with breathing difficulties Portex, Pneupac, help to maintain body temperature Level 1, monitor vital signs such as blood pressure and heart rate BCI, Medex and assist reproduction through IVF therapy Wallace.
The overall vital care market has been affected by a slowdown in procedure rate growth, but we expect future growth due to underlying drivers such as increasing chronic disease incidence rates and ageing populations.
Demand continues to grow at a rapid rate globally for IVF as well.
The vital care market is currently estimated to be around 1.7bn.
31 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Business review continued Smiths Medical Continued Bringing technology to life Mobile life-saver With some 15,000 units in use throughout the world, Smiths Medicals mobile Pneupac ventilators have helped save many lives in a wide range of emergencies.
The new paraPAC model, launched this year, offers an enhanced platform that can be extended as required by customers in the acute, ambulance, military and mass emergency markets.
paraPAC is able to increase the oxygen mix to ease breathing, provide CPAP Continuous Positive Airway Pressure typically for heart attack victims needing urgent attention, or switch to full ventilation mode for the critically ill who require immediate resuscitation and hospital-standard intensive care.
The ruggedised design of Pneupac ventilators allows them to operate in the harshest of weathers and terrains and they are currently used by more than 20 army medical corps worldwide.
32 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Group overview Chairman and Chief Executive Operating and financial review Risks and responsibility Governance Accounts Ideal in the field And for hospital care Powered solely by compressed oxygen, paraPAC needs no Within hospitals, paraPAC enjoys the added advantage of MRI batteries and is ideal for field deployment.
Paramedics use the Magnetic Resonance Imaging compatibility because it contains lightweight devices for on-site treatment of cardio-pulmonary no magnetising metals that could interfere with the advanced breathing problems, from relatively minor to life-critical situations.
33 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Business review continued Smiths Medical Continued Performance In medication delivery, excluding diabetes, underlying revenue grew 1% from increased sales of our CADD ambulatory pumps, which grew at 2011 2010 Reported Underlying m m growth growth 5%.
We have seen share gains due to the superior capabilities of the CADD-Solis smart pump and through the efforts of our dedicated Sales 838 858 2 % 3 % sales and clinical teams.
Sales of CADD-Solis HPCA pumps grew Headline operating profit 196 184 7% 7% in North America and continue to expand into Europe following the Headline operating margin 23.4% 21.5% 190 bps introduction of a multi-language platform.
CADD-Solis VIP, which Statutory operating profit 178 172 is the Companys first smart multi-therapy pump targeted at the Return on capital employed 16.9% 15.1% 180 bps alternate site and homecare segment, was successfully launched into the Canadian market this year.
The launch of Medfusion 4000, our Headline operating profit rose 7% 12m, and headline operating innovative wireless syringe pump, into the Canadian acute care market margin increased 190 basis points to 23.4%, the highest achieved for was received well.
Pending appropriate market regulatory clearances, more than 10 years.
This reflects underlying profit growth of 13m we anticipate launching CADD-Solis VIP and Medfusion 4000 and adverse currency translation of 1m.
Margins benefited from our globally.
The Medfusion 4000 recently received FDA 510 k clearance ongoing initiatives to reduce overheads and manufacturing costs, as in the US and will be launched during our 2012 fiscal year.
The well as our portfolio profitability review.
Underlying sales were down collaboration with Hospira to co-promote infusion pump systems 3%.
Our portfolio management initiatives accounted for the majority of continued to gain some ground in the year.
As part of this agreement, the sales declines, including our diabetes business exit 3m, and declines two companies have started the development of software for managing in other product lines 9m such as patient monitoring, kitting and infusion medication, designed to enhance patient safety and simplify interventional imaging.
The rest of the decline reflects the difficult how clinicians work.
This agreement will allow us to extend the use trading conditions, driven by economic pressures, unemployment of our Medfusion syringe pumps with PharmGuard Medication Safety and a slowdown in procedure growth rates in the US and Europe.
At Software to more hospitals and care areas in the US and Canada.
reported exchange rates, Smiths Medical sales declined 2% 20m, including positive impact from currency translation 2m.
Vital care underlying sales declined by 3%, primarily due to a weaker flu season than the prior year, the H1N1 sales in 2010 and reduced We have seen strong growth in some hardware products, which has sales in areas such as patient monitoring, interventional imaging and driven sales of related disposable products.
The performance of our kitting, which have been a focus of our SKU rationalisation initiative.
other disposable lines continues to reflect the trading pressures Our temperature management business grew slightly in challenging described, especially in developed markets.
markets where we continue to show particular strength in convective We have reorganised to create a global organisation for all functions.
We have seen good growth in The new structure has reduced costs and enhanced communication, bronchial hygiene products and humidification systems driven by while integrated global processes have improved customer focus and our Ventilator Associated Pneumonia VAP reduction campaigns.
The business reorganised field sales and marketing Our tracheostomy business also grew, benefiting from our awardstructures in most regions during the year, investing in building key winning UniPerc tracheostomy kit as well as strong Bivona silicone account management, sales force effectiveness and training tools.
Our assisted reproduction products also grew new sales structure will promote sales effectiveness and our ability to strongly as we benefit from our leading presence in this niche market.
prioritise sales opportunities by product category and market.
Underlying sales of safety devices declined 4%, driven by a tough competitive environment, procedure trends and reduced demand versus H1N1 needs in the prior year.
Although our safety catheter business grew, our overall PIVC and sharps safety businesses were slightly down during for the year.
Vascular access was also down, reflecting difficult market conditions.
Interest in safety products remains high in developed markets, and is growing in developing markets like India and China.
We anticipate improved safety market performance given our strong product line.
34 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Group overview Chairman and Chief Executive Operating and financial review Risks and responsibility Governance Accounts Emerging markets continue to be a source of growth as the quality of, and access to, healthcare improves.
We continue to expand our efforts and presence in emerging markets which now represent approximately 9% of sales and are growing at greater than 10% per annum, depending on the market.
While we have had a presence in India for many years, we recently established an operating entity which includes a direct sales and marketing team to complement our distributor business and will continue to invest in emerging market opportunities.
We have continued to manage our product portfolio aggressively to boost profitability and reduce complexity.
We have eliminated around 4,000 SKUs in the last two years and in many cases have successfully converted customers to alternative higher margin products, which has contributed to our significantly improved profitability.
There are further opportunities for margin improvement through portfolio management.
We have also optimised our footprint to deliver a more efficient supply chain.
During the year, we merged a distribution centre in Milan, Italy into Intensive care protection our central European distribution centre in Nijmegen, Netherlands.
We Seriously ill patients under mechanical ventilation are particularly also in-sourced the Nijmegen distribution centre operations, to reduce prone to infections, a challenge Smiths Medical has met by costs and improve performance.
Additional initiatives to optimise our developing a sophisticated breathing tube that incorporates manufacturing and distribution network are currently in progress, with a suction line to help prevent the accumulation of dangerous a focus on migrating the footprint closer to our markets, as well as secretions in the trachea.
For decades our Portex brand has been cutting costs.
We have aggressively pursued productivity initiatives and synonymous with advanced endotracheal tubes used to access significantly reduced variable costs by some 4-5% in each of the last patients lungs for ventilation in operating rooms and intensive three years.
SACETT Suction Above the Cuff Endotracheal Tube Research and development is designed with a Soft Seal inflatable cuff that provides both Investment in R&D continues to be a priority with an increase of 3%.
maximum seal security and comfort and helps the pooling and Our total R&D spend of 31m 2010: 30m comprised 3.7% of sales easy disposal of bacteria-laden secretions that can readily develop 2010: 3.5%.
At the same time, we significantly reduced the number into pneumonia.
Reducing the incidence of Ventilator Associated of pipeline projects thereby increasing the investment on the highest Pneumonia VAP not only saves lives but also cuts healthcare costs impact products.
This is enabling a higher level of project execution and by aiding a speedier recovery and freeing up vital hospital beds.
Sales from products launched in the last three years represent some 10% of sales and, with the strength of our pipeline, we expect this to improve in 2012 and beyond.
During the year, we launched two significant new medication delivery products into Canada: the CADDSolis VIP ambulatory pump and Medfusion 4000 wireless syringe pump, generating new business and strengthening existing customer relationships.
In addition, we released the CT Marker in our PORT-ACATH and P. A. S. PORT POWER P. A. C. systems, GripperMicro Extension, and Pneupac paraPAC plus, expanding our offerings in vascular access and mobile ventilation.
We also continued to extend the reach of a number of existing products into new regions, broadening our offering particularly in emerging markets.
Outlook Developed markets are likely to remain challenging in the short term as healthcare cost controls and unemployment put pressure on price and volumes.
Against these trading conditions, our R&D pipeline is strong and we will seek to drive sales growth through new product introductions in 2012 and beyond, coupled with an increased emphasis on customer-facing resources and sales effectiveness.
Our Company-funded R&D investments in China, India and other emerging markets will also serve as a source of growth.
Additional opportunities exist to drive operational Percentage of sales improvements to support continued margin expansion success.
We will reinvest some of these savings into sales and marketing and new 3.7% product development efforts to accelerate long-term growth.
Sales from products launched in last three years Percentage of sales 10% 35 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011
