Board of directors Donald Brydon, CBE Philip Bowman # Chairman Chief Executive Aged 66.
Philip Bowman was was appointed to the Board in April 2004, becoming Chairman in appointed Chief Executive in December 2007.
He is Chairman of Royal Mail Holdings plc.
He had the positions of Chief Executive at Scottish Power from early 2006 a 20-year career with Barclays Group, during which time he was until mid 2007 and Chief Executive at Allied Domecq between Chairman and Chief Executive of BZW Investment Management, 1999 and 2005.
He is currently the senior independent director of followed by 10 years with the AXA Group.
He was also formerly Burberry Group plc.
Past board appointments include British Sky Chairman of the London Metal Exchange and of Amersham plc, and Broadcasting Group plc, Scottish & Newcastle Group plc and Coles a director of Allied Domecq plc and Scottish Power plc.
Myer Limited as well as Chairman of Liberty plc and Coral Eurobet plc.
His earlier career includes five years as a director of Bass plc Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
now Mitchells & Butler plc and Intercontinental Hotel Group plc, where he held the roles of Chief Financial Officer and subsequently Chief Executive of Bass Taverns.
Peter Turner David Challen, CBE # Finance Director Non-executive director Aged 41.
BA in Natural Science Chemistry.
BA in Mathematics: BSc in Natural Science was appointed an executive director of the Board in April 2010 and, Physics and MBA Harvard.
David Challen was appointed to the after a brief handover period, become Finance Director in June 2010.
He is Chairman of the EMEA Governance He was Finance Director of Venture Production plc from 2007 until Committee at Citi and former Chairman of J Henry Schroder & Co 2009.
He spent the previous 11 years at the BOC Group plc where Ltd.
He is Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit he held a number of senior finance posts including Director of Committee at Anglo American plc.
He is also a Deputy Chairman of Taxation and Treasury, and Finance Director of the groups largest the Takeover Panel.
He qualified as a Chartered Accountant whilst working for Chairman of the Audit Committee.
62 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Group overview Chairman and Chief Executive Operating and financial review Risks and responsibility Governance Accounts Stuart Chambers Anne Quinn, CBE # # Non-executive director Non-executive director Aged 55.
Qualified chemical engineer, PhD in Business Aged 60.
BCom and MSc in Management Science.
and BSc in Applied Physics.
Stuart Chambers was appointed to the Anne Quinn was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director Board in November 2006.
He was Group Chief Executive of Nippon in August 2009.
She worked for BP in the UK, USA, Belgium and Sheet Glass until September 2009 after having been Chief Executive Colombia and held a number of positions, including Group Vice of Pilkington plc for several years.
Prior to joining Pilkington plc President of Gas and Natural Gas Liquids.
She has also been a in 1996, he spent 10 years at Mars Corporation, latterly as Vice managing director of the energy private equity group, Riverstone President, Sales & Marketing Mars Electronics International.
She was a non-executive director of BOC and is currently a nonchemical engineer by training, he previously spent ten years at Shell executive director of Mondi plc.
She also serves on the Presidents in a variety of European roles.
He is a non-executive director of Tesco Advisory Committee to the Sloan School, MIT.
plc and of Manchester Airports Group plc.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Sir Kevin Tebbit, KCB, CMG Bruno Angelici # # Non-executive director Non-executive director Aged 64.
Sir Kevin Tebbit was appointed to Aged 64.
MBA Kellogg School of Management and the Board in June 2006.
He served widely in policy, management Business and Law degrees from Reims.
Bruno Angelici was and finance posts in the MoD, Foreign & Commonwealth Office and appointed to the Board in July 2010.
He pursued a 20-year career NATO before becoming Director of GCHQ and finally Permanent with AstraZeneca plc before retiring in 2009 as Executive Vice Secretary at the Ministry of Defence from July 1998 to November President, International, after holding responsibility for its operations 2005.
He is Chairman of Finmeccanica UK and Chairman of in France and Japan.
Prior to this he held a number of senior the Industry Advisory Group to the UKTI Defence and Security management roles during a decade at Baxter, a US-based global Organisation.
He is also Visiting Professor at Queen Mary, University supplier of medical devices.
He currently sits on the Supervisory of London and a member of the Advisory Board of the Imperial Board of Wolters Kluwer, a Dutch-based information services and College Institute for Security Science and Technology.
publishing company, and on the Global Advisory Board of Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Ltd, based in Japan.
He is a non-executive director of Novo Nordisk A S, a Danish healthcare company.
He was received into the Legion dhonneur in December 2009.
Committees Audit Committee Remuneration Committee # Nomination Committee 63 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011
