Business review continued Sales by sector 510m Smiths Detection 1 Transportation 43% 6 2 Ports and borders 15% Smiths Detection is a world-leading designer and manufacturer 5 3 Military 15% of sensors that detect and identify explosives, weapons, chemical 4 Emergency responders 5% 1 agents, biohazards, nuclear & radioactive material, narcotics 5 Critical infrastructure 17% 4 and contraband.
6 Non-security 5% Our technology helps customers in the global transportation, 3 ports and borders, critical infrastructure, military and emergency 2 responder markets.
We have the most comprehensive range of detection technologies in the world, including trace detection, millimetre-wave, infra-red, biological detection and diagnostics.
Sales performance m 574 510 509 501 438 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Business features Principal operations regions Our eight manufacturing centres are concentrated in North America, Germany, France, Russia and the UK.
We sell to over 150 countries around the world either direct or through third-party distributors.
Customers A significant majority of sales are influenced by more than 100 Employees 2,500 governments and their agencies, including homeland security Contribution to 2011 Group sales 18% authorities, customs authorities, emergency responders and the military.
These include the US Department of Defense, Contribution to 2011 Group headline operating profit 12% Percentage relates to headline operating profit before corporate costs US Transportation Security Administration TSA, and the UK Ministry of Defence.
com Competitors Smiths Detections broad portfolio in the homeland security and defence sectors brings it into competition with a wide range of companies in individual segments.
Principal competitors include: Morpho air transportation, Rapiscan air transportation, ports and borders, critical infrastructure, L3 Security & Detection Systems air transportation, ports and borders, Nuctech ports and borders, AS&E ports and borders, FLIR air transportation, defence, SAIC air transportation, ports and borders, Chemring military, Bruker military, emergency responders, Thermo Fisher military, emergency responders.
Suppliers We are actively developing synergies across sites and restructuring our purchasing group to ensure that we fully leverage the size of our business.
These developments will be ongoing taking into account the demand for local content with some of our major customers as well as our stringent quality and delivery requirements.
18 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Group overview Chairman and Chief Executive Operating and financial review Risks and responsibility Governance Accounts Markets and trends Smiths Detection produces equipment for customers in the air transportation, ports and borders, critical infrastructure, military and emergency responder sectors to help them secure the safety and security of critical assets and people.
At the beginning of the year, the division reorganised into global management structures in sales and programmes to deliver improved customer services across technologies and end markets.
Ongoing geo-political unrest, and the terrorist and criminal threats it creates, ensures that demand for detection equipment in these markets estimated at more than 4bn is forecast to continue to grow at around 7% per annum in the near-term.
The transportation sector is the largest sector for the division representing 43% of total sales.
Smiths Detection has an estimated 26% market share in the sector.
Rising passenger and air cargo traffic volumes, new security threats and a drive for higher throughputs Combating dirty bombs will continue to support market growth.
In addition more stringent requirements from major regulatory bodies will increase the Smiths Detection has developed a handheld radioisotope identifier sophistication of security equipment.
that helps resolve the perennial problem of distinguishing genuine radiological and nuclear threats from benign, background radiation Sales in the ports and borders market comprised 15% of the divisional sources.
The RadSeeker DL was approved for acquisition by the US total in the period.
Rising concerns about smuggling of explosives, Governments Domestic Nuclear Detection Office in July 2011, the weapons, radiological materials and contraband together with the only instrument of this type to gain such an endorsement.
recovery in worldwide trade will continue to increase demand for detection equipment to address these threats.
The lightweight RadSeeker puts the most powerful and accurate radiation detection capabilities literally in the palm of the hand.
The divisions sales to the military market provides equipment to protect It can be used by civil defence and first responders reacting to troops and assets from a broadening range of chemical, biological, an emergency or by port and border personnel checking cargo radiological, nuclear and explosive threats, whether in theatre, in containers for suspected radioactive materials.
Continuing deployments, local tensions and the need for developing nations to increase their levels of protection from Currently, most rad-nuc detection systems either detect radiation these threats will continue to drive market growth.
Sales in the sector without discriminating between sources or suffer from low were 15% of total revenues.
Many natural and commercial materials, such as ceramics, metals and even some fruits, emit radioactivity Overall demand in the highly fragmented critical infrastructure market that can trigger these detectors, resulting in nuisance alarms.
continues to grow strongly as governments and other organisations The containers then have to be opened and searched by hand.
seek to protect their assets from a wide range of threats and increasing RadSeeker helps solve that problem.
It was specifically designed levels of perceived risk.
The highly diverse nature of customers and to meet the Department of Homeland Security DHS mission the different forms of threat they face requires application-specific requirements for a next-generation system able to detect and solutions to be developed.
Divisional sales to the critical infrastructure identify Improvised Nuclear Devices and Radiological Dispersal market were 17% of the total.
Devices, the latter commonly known as dirty bombs.
Governments are increasingly seeking to ensure that emergency responders who are required to assess and mitigate potential or actual incidents are fully equipped with all necessary detection equipment to verify the nature and extent of any present threats and minimise the danger to themselves or the broader public or infrastructure.
Sales of equipment to emergency responders contributed 5% to total revenues.
19 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Business review continued Smiths Detection Continued Bringing technology to life Advanced screening for threats Smiths Detections aTiX Automatic Threat Identification X-ray system, now deployed at airports worldwide, was the first to provide automatic explosives detection at security checkpoints.
Its multiview X-ray technology and sophisticated software enable it to detect explosive threats and liquid containers inadvertently left in carry-on baggage.
Any potential threat item is immediately flagged up on the monitor by a red box and security staff can then zoom into the image for detailed checks to decide on clearance or manual inspection.
aTiX was also the first system of its kind approved to EU LEDS Standard 2 Type C, capable of analysing multiple bottled liquids in one scan.
These standards are among the toughest in the world, imposed by the European Union as it prepares to allow airports to ease the ban on taking liquids on board flights by 2013.
20 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Group overview Chairman and Chief Executive Operating and financial review Risks and responsibility Governance Accounts Material discrimination X-ray beams scan baggage from different angles in a single pass to provide high-quality colour images with multiple views.
Advanced software algorithms, which process the image data, calculate the atomic numbers and densities of the contents, automatically identifying materials whose chemical profiles fall within those of dangerous substances.
21 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Business review continued Underlying sales in transportation fell 4% as a result of various budget Smiths Detection and regulatory delays.
For example, the uncertainty in the US federal Continued budget caused procurement delays and the regulatory delays in Europe on air cargo and on the relaxation of liquids in passenger hand baggage affected order flow.
Major orders included a US$43.5m contract from the Transportation Security Administration TSA for Advanced Technology X-ray systems to be deployed at airport checkpoints across the United States.
We also received a C$19m order from the Canadian Air Transportation Security Authority CATSA to provide advanced X-ray systems for use at airport baggage checkpoints.
At Frankfurt International Airport we are fulfilling a requirement for around 50 aTiX systems for security checkpoints.
At Berlins new Brandenburg International Airport, we delivered checked baggage screening systems and secured an exclusive supply contract for checkpoint security systems, to be delivered in the next financial year.
The Berlin contracts will together be worth some 19m.
Lufthansa Cargo added to its extensive installation of Smiths Detection systems with multiple Performance X-ray inspection and trace detection units to support air cargo 2011 2010 Reported Underlying screening throughout the Americas.
We also secured contracts during m m growth growth the year from international airports in Doha, Mumbai, Munich, Yemen, Sales 510 574 11 % 13 % Turkey and London Gatwick.
Technology upgrades and investment in Headline operating profit 66 90 27 % 27 % enhanced security screening continue to fuel demand for advanced Headline operating margin 12.8% 15.7% 290 bps X-ray scanners for hold and carry-on baggage.
Governments are also Statutory operating profit 64 89 assessing a multi-layered approach to aviation security that combines Return on capital employed 9.8% 13.3% 350 bps the deployment of detection technologies for screening passengers, baggage and cargo with other measures, such as the training of Reported sales declined 11%, or 64m, reflecting an underlying revenue airport security staff in behavioural analysis techniques and increased fall of 73m and an adverse currency effect of 3m, partly offset by a cooperation between international intelligence agencies to improve the benefit from acquisitions of 12m.
The decrease in underlying sales sharing of information.
was driven primarily by lower sales to the military market, reflecting Underlying sales in the ports and borders market declined 17% the timing of a number of large military programmes, with smaller as a result of order delays.
During the period we delivered an order declines in other sectors, offsetting strong growth in the critical from Japan for five high-energy cargo inspection systems.
Excluding military sales, underlying sales German Federal Ministry of Finance ordered three high-energy X-ray fell 4%, reflecting uncertainty in government budgets and regulatory systems for mobile customs checkpoints and at the start of the new delays in aviation security.
financial year a contract was placed by the Cayman Islands Customs Operating margins fell by 290 basis points to 12.8% as headline Department for similar equipment to improve border security.
The operating profit declined by 24m on an underlying basis.
The fall in market sector will continue to be influenced in the short term by sales volumes and its effect on operational gearing was the principal global economic conditions, with government customers reviewing driver for the lower margins.
Governments are committed to improve their border security and customs revenue protection but are being forced As a result, there was a change in management and a performance to adopt more cost-effective approaches, layered with different levels improvement programme was initiated at the end of the year, targeting of technological support.
annualised savings of at least 40m by the end of the 2014 financial year.
The programme will cost 40m, of which 33m will be treated as Our military business saw underlying sales fall 42% as a result of a an exceptional item over three years and a 7m charge against headline cyclical transition between mature and new programmes, as well as operating profit in 2012 financial year.
It is expected that this programme the return of US government military expenditure to more normal will deliver savings of 15m in the first year.
The programme will funding levels following the easing of recent conflicts.
Nevertheless, comprise a number of different workstreams.
A reduction in the size of opportunities for military programmes in the US, Europe and Asia the workforce has begun and discretionary spending has been severely remain strong, with new contract wins in Canada, Sweden and curtailed and remains a focus as part of tighter budget control.
During the period we delivered a $30m order to the United rationalisation programme has commenced, as the manufacturing States Department of Defense under the long-running Joint Chemical base is realigned to match the business needs.
It will build on the Agent Detector JCAD programme.
This latest order was for enhanced global reorganisation that took place during the past year.
JCAD detectors which are based on Smiths Detections LCD 3.3, an advanced, detect-to-warn device that protects troops by sampling Specific initiatives have also been implemented in materials sourcing the air for chemical warfare agents.
This latest contract takes the and a value engineering project to reduce scrap, rework and warranty total awarded to Smiths Detection under the JCAD programme to liabilities.
We will also leverage our investment in our global ERP system more than $350m, with the continuing programme presenting further by maximising revenue and cash collection through the adoption of contract opportunities.
consistent and timely processes, as well as reduce costs.
Critical infrastructure grew 37% as a result of a number of contracts including supplying equipment for the Commonwealth Games in India, and for US Government Services including the FBI, Federal Protective Services and Federal Bureau of Prisons.
We see considerable opportunities in the critical infrastructure market in the immediate future and will be focusing strongly on this sector.
22 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Group overview Chairman and Chief Executive Operating and financial review Risks and responsibility Governance Accounts Research and development Smiths Detection is continuing to invest heavily in a new product pipeline while sharpening the focus and effectiveness of the product development process.
We seek to meet customers needs through a consistent commitment to product innovation using in-house R&D, government-funded research, partnerships and licences.
Company-funded R&D declined 1% to 35m 2010: 36m, although increased as a percentage of sales to 6.9% 2010: 6.2% of sales.
This includes 17m of capitalised projects.
Smiths Detection actively seeks customer and government support for R&D which totalled 8m in the period 2010: 8m.
In a significant product launch, Smiths Detection moved directly into the market for the detection and identification of radiological and nuclear threats.
The handheld RadSeeker detector was developed in collaboration with the US Domestic Nuclear Detection Office, subsequently approved its production and deployment, leading to Integrating systems with FirstView-LINX the award of an initial delivery contract.
RadSeeker fulfils a number Smiths Detections FirstView-LINX offers air freight carriers a unique of applications, such as assisting civil defence and first responders in security combination of X-ray and trace detection data in a single search operations and helping port and border personnel with cargo, view workstation that also incorporates automatic barcoding to meet container and vehicle screening.
increasingly strict audit requirements for scanned cargo.
The unique The main focus for R&D investment continues to be on X-ray for a barcode allows any package to be quickly traced for a security variety of applications, including checkpoint and baggage scanning at review, immediately generating a consolidated report including airports and cargo screening at ports and borders.
Our next-generation X-ray image, explosive trace results and time and date of screening.
explosives detection system project with Analogic leverages the Conformity of freight between origin and destination is thus assured complementary expertise of each company in multi-energy X-ray without the need for physical checks.
technology and three-dimensional computed tomography CT. Prototype In addition, FirstView-LINX has an embedded Network Video machines have been placed in airports for preliminary data collection.
Recorder NVR that can be activated to provide enhanced Following an evaluation of projects, it was decided to terminate the monitoring of designated screening areas.
Alarms from third-party programme to develop the diagnostics instrument platform for use in physical security tools such as access controls and fence sensors a medical environment as a result of extended development times and can also be linked into this single product, reducing the cost and unfavourable market conditions.
We will sustain assay development, space associated with multiple security consoles.
including continuing to work with Novartis under the existing agreement, while determining how best to develop the relationship to support the long-term goals of both companies.
We have a strong pipeline of new product launches planned during the next year.
These will be spread across the key product groups.
Business developments To support growth opportunities in the Indian market, Smiths Detection acquired the detection sales, distribution and service business of Veecon IPA Gastchnik Limited.
This business has acted as a distributor for Smiths Detection and helped build a market-leading presence in this important market.
Smiths Detection also purchased its Brazilian distributor from EBCO Systems Limited, taking direct control over product sales in one of the worlds fastest-growing economies.
EBCO, based in Sao Paulo, had been the exclusive distributor for Smiths Detection in Brazil since 1994, with a wide customer base that included customs authorities, airports, and prisons.
The new company, Smiths Detection Brazil, employs about 55 people, managing a well-established sales and service network.
Outlook Smiths Detection is focused on delivering a performance improvement programme under its new leadership.
This will reduce fixed costs, improve operational efficiency and customer service: its delivery is a key priority.
However, this is principally a government contracting business, directly affected by terror incidents, security regulations and government budgets.
The sales environment is likely to remain challenging in the near term.
Longer term, we believe the sector is set for sustained growth and Smiths Detection is well placed to benefit from its leadership position and strong technologies.
23 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011
