Business review continued Sales by sector 221m FlexT ek 1 Fluid Management 32% 2 Flexible Solutions 16% 4 Flex-Tek is a global provider of engineered components that heat 3 Heat Solutions 27% 1 and move fluids and gases for the aerospace, medical, industrial, 4 Construction 25% construction and domestic appliance markets.
Our flexible hosing and rigid tubing provide fluid management for fuel and hydraulic applications on commercial and military aircraft, 3 deliver fuel gas and conditioned air in residential and commercial 2 buildings, and provide respiratory care for medical applications.
Flex-Tek heating elements and thermal systems improve the performance of medical and diagnostic equipment as well as Sales performance improving the performance of domestic appliances such as clothes tumble dryers and HVAC equipment.
m 222 221 213 212 206 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Business features Principal operations regions Flex-Tek operations are principally located in the US and Mexico with Asian operations located in India, China, and Malaysia, and European facilities in France and Germany.
Customers We serve mainly aerospace engine and airframe manufacturers, Employees 2,000 domestic appliance manufacturers and the US construction Contribution to 2011 Group sales 8% industry.
Large customers include Boeing, Airbus, Pratt & Whitney, GE Aerospace, Whirlpool, Electrolux, Trane, and Carrier.
Our notable Contribution to 2011 Group headline operating profit 5% Percentage relates to headline operating profit before corporate costs distributors in the US construction market include Ferguson and Watsco.
com Competitors Competitors for our Fluid Management business include specialty segments of Parker-Hannifin, Eaton, and Kongsberg: as well as vertically integrated capacity from key customers.
Heat Solutions noteworthy competitors in the US include: Nibe, Watlow and Chromalox: and in China, Kawai and Dongfang manufacture a wide variety of electric heaters.
Flex-Teks Construction products competes with US manufacturers: Hitachi, Atco, Omega-Flex, Hart & Cooley and Goodman.
Flexible Solutions competes globally with a number of smaller privately owned businesses which manufacture specialty hoses.
Suppliers Flex-Tek sources key raw materials from world-class companies including electrical resistance wire from Sandvik, fibreglass insulation from Owens Corning, specialty plastic resins from DuPont and PolyOne, and stainless steel from Allegheny Ludlum.
Each of these supply chain partners is chosen based on its ability to provide exceptional quality, service and value.
42 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Group overview Chairman and Chief Executive Operating and financial review Risks and responsibility Governance Accounts Markets and trends Flex-Tek designs and manufactures engineered components which heat and move fluids and gases for aerospace, consumer products, construction, medical, and industrial applications.
The diverse nature of these markets reduces Flex-Tek reliance on any specific technology, although Flex-Tek is highly leveraged to the US economy.
Technology Flex-Tek is organised under four market specific segments focusing on superior technology and service: Fluid Management We are a market-leading manufacturer of specialty high-performance, flexible and rigid tubing assemblies for aerospace, industrial, and automotive applications worldwide.
Our specialised high-performance tubing provides reliable and efficient delivery of hydraulic fluids and jet fuel for both civil and military aircraft.
Automotive applications include petrol and brake fluid delivery in traditional automobiles as well as next-generation fuels for natural gas and hydrogen-powered vehicles.
More effective mass production Demand for our products is linked to both the worldwide air transport An astonishing 220 billion paper cups are produced worldwide market and industrial growth.
every year, and even the tiniest improvement in their manufacturing Heat Solutions process can generate significant benefits both for the environment We are the worlds largest manufacturer of open coil heating elements.
A standard cup comprises a special paper Our specialised heating elements and thermal systems serve coated with polyethylene, an ultra-thin layer of plastic that keeps customers that manufacture tumble dryers, HVAC equipment, medical beverages cold or warm and prevents absorption or leakage of applications, and bespoke applications.
Revenue is largely dictated by liquid.
Flex-Teks advanced thermal management and heating household appliance demand in the US.
applications helped the largest US specialty paper manufacturer eliminate the need for the drying process to be fuelled by natural Construction Products gas, allowing production to continue uninterrupted during scheduled Flex-Tek manufactures market-leading flexible gas piping and HVAC product changes.
The drying process now uses less total energy and flexible ducting for the US construction market.
Our customers are operates more efficiently, contributing towards a safer and more large national wholesale distributors in North America supplying both green environment.
Such collaboration is part of our commitment plumbing and HVAC tradesmen.
Demand is a mix of the strength of the to work closely with customers to improve their efficiency.
US construction industry and replacement sales.
Flexible Solutions Flexible Solutions hose assemblies are focused into three distinct markets: medical respiratory care, floorcare appliances, and industrial ventilation.
The business performance generally follows macroeconomic indicators such as healthcare spending, US GDP, and capital goods expenditures.
43 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Business review continued Flex-Tek Continued Bringing technology to life Flex-Tek expands medical range Flex-Tek is capitalising on its expertise in flexible hosing and heat solutions to help improve the standard therapy for sleep apnoea, a debilitating condition that affects millions of people worldwide.
A common but little-known disorder, sleep apnoea stems from closure of the airway which interrupts regular breathing during sleep, often leaving the person gasping for air.
In severe cases it can increase the risk of heart disease, diabetes, and depression.
As part of its expansion into niche medical markets, Flex-Tek has improved the long-established therapy of Continuous Positive Airway Pressure CPAP by developing a light-weight, advanced  breathing circuit.
Already introduced into North America and Europe, this is one of a growing range of Flex-Teks medical-related products, including specialised heating systems for blood diagnostic devices and CT image enhancement.
44 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Group overview Chairman and Chief Executive Operating and financial review Risks and responsibility Governance Accounts Heat control minimises condensation The breathing circuit greatly enhances both CPAP effectiveness and patient comfort by minimising condensation build-up through continuous heat control to align the temperature within the tube with the outside environment.
45 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Business review continued Flex-Tek Continued Performance Reported sales grew 4%, or 9m, reflecting underlying sales growth of 6% that was offset by 3m of adverse currency translation.
Underlying 2011 2010 Reported Underlying m m growth growth sales were boosted primarily by an increase in sales of components to the OEM aerospace market and US residential construction sector, Sales 221 212 4% 6% and were partly offset by declines in sales in Flexible Solutions.
Headline operating profit 28 24 18% 19% Headline operating margin 12.5% 11.1% 140 bps Headline operating profit margins increased by 140 basis points to Statutory operating profit 26 21 12.5% as a result of increased sales, operational gearing from prior Return on capital employed 21.9% 18.4% 350 bps restructuring, and price increases which helped to offset raw material inflation.
The underlying increase in operating profit was 5m.
Return on capital employed improved by 350 basis points driven both by profitability improvement and reductions in working capital.
As reported at the half year results, we now manage the business as four technology groups: Fluid Management: Construction Products: Heat Solutions, and Flexible Solutions.
In Fluid Management, sales of components to aerospace customers rose 16% on an underlying basis, helped by higher volumes on major airframe platforms from Airbus and Boeing.
The order book for our commercial aviation OEM business remains strong and we have gained market share in our overhaul & repair service segment.
In addition our sales to the US automotive market for both fuel and brake applications remains robust.
Sales to the construction market improved 10% on an underlying basis, with growth mainly coming from the first half of the year.
The second half sales underlying growth rate slowed to 6% as uncertainty still clouds the US housing market.
The latest US Bureau of the Census forecast is for housing starts to remain relatively flat with prior year, with no expectation of a measurable upturn in the near term.
We have gained market share by bundling our ducting, flexible gas piping and HVAC heating element product lines to the US distribution market.
Heat Solutions underlying sales were in line with the prior year.
In 2010, the US federal government offered rebates to consumers who traded in their old appliances for new.
This programme benefited first half underlying sales, up 11%, but resulted in reduced demand in the second half, down 8%.
Consumer confidence remains cautious in the US and OEM appliance manufacturers continue to project low single growth rates in the US markets.
46 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Group overview Chairman and Chief Executive Operating and financial review Risks and responsibility Governance Accounts The Flexible Solutions division sales were down 7% for the year.
Towards a cleaner environment Continued weak demand in the US for floorcare products and industrial Flex-Tek has built on its success in helping develop environmentally goods was only slightly offset by higher sales for our respiratory care friendly vehicles by teaming up with a Korean company to provide hoses for sleep apnoea.
Hyundai with a revolutionary fuel hose for its new Hydrogen Fuel Cell The final stages of Flex-Teks restructuring programme were Concept Car.
Asked by Hyundai to solve the problem of transferring completed in the year as we continued to rationalise our manufacturing hydrogen fuel throughout a vehicle without standard rigid tubing, portfolio, refurbish facilities, and deliver productivity improvements.
local supplier Hanil Tube turned to Flex-Tek for help.
The hose The programme, part of the wider Group restructuring, has achieved must offer not only similar permeation characteristics as stainless annualised savings of 9m in line with our plans, as we delivered a steel tubing but also superior flexibility and resistance to vibration further 1m of savings in the year, including the rationalisation of two fatigue.
Working closely with Hanil, our engineers developed the facilities in the north eastern US.
only hydrogen delivery hose in the industry that meets these criteria.
In the US, Flex-Tek has partnered with Clean Energy to supply the Flex-Tek has increased R&D spend and investment in our Asian specialised fuel hose assembly needed for petrol vehicles converted manufacturing facilities in China and India.
We continue to seek new to run on natural gas.
investments to grow our market share, expand our product portfolio, and target potential bolt-on acquisitions to build on the strength of the management team.
Outlook The momentum of the Fluid Management business should continue well into the coming year as our order book reflects a positive environment supported by a new generation of aeroplanes with better fuel efficiency and lower cost per passenger mile.
The US residential construction and household appliance markets are expected to remain uncertain with no significant growth projected.
Any upturn in these markets will generate positive earnings for the business.
Sales m 221 Headline operating profit m 28 47 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011
