Business review continued Sales by sector 379m Smiths Interconnect 1 Military & aerospace 43% 2 Telecom 25% Smiths Interconnect is a recognised leader in technically 3 Medical, rail, automation and test 32% 3 differentiated electronic components and sub-systems providing 1 signal, power and microwave solutions.
We design and manufacture products that connect, protect and control critical systems for the global wireless telecommunications, aerospace, defence, space, medical, rail, test and industrial markets.
2 Our products are application-specific and incorporate innovative technologies to provide our customers with a competitive advantage.
Sales performance m 379 340 318 261 230 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Business features Principal operations regions Smiths Interconnect operates globally and has locations in the US, Mexico, Costa Rica, Ireland, UK, France, Germany, Italy, Tunisia, India, China and Australia.
Customers Smiths Interconnect supplies to multiple levels of the supply chain Employees 4,000 and its blue chip customers include primes and service providers, Contribution to 2011 Group sales 13% OEMs, system suppliers and sub-system manufacturers.
Amongst our largest customers are Raytheon, Finmeccanica, BAE Systems, Contribution to 2011 Group headline operating profit 12% Percentage relates to headline operating profit before corporate costs Boeing, AAI Textron, Northrop Grumman, General Dynamics, Lockheed Martin, Ericsson, Motorola, AT&T, Verizon, Sprint Nextel, Go to www.
com Emerson, ZTE, Huawei, GE Medical, Varian, Qualcomm, NVIDIA and Alstom.
Competitors Smiths Interconnect operates in a fragmented market with many small and medium-sized competitors in various product and technology areas.
Connector competitors include Amphenol, Deutsch, Everett Charles, Radiall and Souriau.
Our microwave components and sub-systems compete with, amongst others, Anaren, Spectrum Control, PowerWave, KMW, Dover, CommScope, EMS, Herley, Cobham, Teledyne and L3.
Huber & Suhner, Dehn and SL Industries offer competitive protection products.
Suppliers Smiths Interconnect maintains a strong supply base with machined parts and electronic components together representing approximately half of the total spend.
No individual supplier accounts for more than 4% of total purchased value.
36 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Group overview Chairman and Chief Executive Operating and financial review Risks and responsibility Governance Accounts Markets and trends The two largest markets for Smiths Interconnect are military, aerospace and space mil aero and wireless telecommunications.
Government budgets, particularly defence spending, remain under considerable pressure and, while no area is likely to be immune, it is expected that areas such as intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance ISR will remain a key priority.
Improved battle space awareness, network-centric communications systems and force protection are also seen as critical success factors in current and future conflicts.
Typical military applications for Smiths Interconnect technology include unmanned aerial systems UAS, next-generation ground vehicles, network-centric communications systems, radars and electronic warfare systems, surveillance systems and self-protection systems.
Our radio frequency and rugged connectors solutions are deployed in the most extreme environments, such as enabling sensor and communications systems and keeping military personnel protected in Next generation millimetre wave applications areas of conflict.
As the electromagnetic spectrum becomes increasingly congested, The historically cyclical commercial aerospace market is currently higher frequency technologies that offer more bandwidth and strong, driven by increasing passenger and freight demand particularly greater resolution are at the forefront of a range of next-generation in Asia and the Middle East.
Smiths Interconnect provides electrical and applications.
Smiths Interconnect, a leading designer and microwave connectivity solutions for various aircraft, space vehicles manufacturer of complex components and sub-systems used in and satellites.
such high frequency systems, is working with renowned research institutes in applying millimetre-wave MMW technology to a series The propensity for higher data rates and true mobility are the main of pioneering developments.
For example, our MMW components drivers for growth in the field of commercial mobile telecommunications.
are used for the diagnostic monitoring of hot ionised gases in Smiths Interconnect supplies niche microwave components used experimental fusion test reactors which are laying the groundwork in base stations and cell sites, as well as solutions to optimise for the future development of full-scale fusion power plants, a clean network performance and integrity, and to safeguard the high value and intrinsically safe form of energy generation.
They are also used infrastructure from the effects of lightning strikes and power surges.
within the most modern US weather satellites and in such scientific Smiths Interconnect provides connector solutions to semiconductor applications as the Herschel HIFI instrument, currently searching test, automated test equipment and circuit-board test applications.
The for signs of water in outer space.
Water is revealed through subcontinued proliferation of electronic devices, high rate of technology MMW fingerprints and is key to helping astronomers understand refresh and increased functionality are key drivers for these markets.
the mechanisms of star formation.
Other applications for Smiths Interconnect products include medical equipment such as MRI scanners, automation equipment for the machine tool markets, and mass transit systems.
The range of end markets will be expanded on completion of the acquisition of Power Holdings Inc. to include data centres and alternative energy.
Technology Smiths Interconnect comprises four technology-focused cohesive business units: Connectors provides application-specific, high-reliability electrical interconnect solutions from highly integrated assemblies to microminiature connectors and spring probe contacts.
Microwave Defence provides microwave and millimetre-wave components, sub-assemblies, antennas and systems solutions, primarily for defence and aerospace applications.
Microwave Telecoms provides solutions that test, filter and process high-frequency signals for wireless telecommunication networks.
Protection provides power and signal integrity components that protect critical and high-value electrical systems from transient effects caused by power surges and lightning strikes.
37 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Business review continued Smiths Interconnect Continued Bringing technology to life Protecting critical systems Growing recognition of the threat posed by electromagnetic pulses EMPs, whether from high-altitude nuclear detonations or solar flares, has prompted Smiths Interconnect to expand its power and signal integrity products to include protection against the potentially devastating impact on electrical, power and communications systems.
A three-year test project with the US military on how to protect against EMPs resulted in Smiths Interconnect winning a $4.6m contract from the US Air Force Global Strike Command to provide its SREMP ESA Source Region Electromagnetic Pulse Electrical Surge Arrestor hardened technology to shield Minuteman Weapon Systems.
This technology is already being applied to protect vital electrical and communications systems in a variety of other defence applications including military ground vehicles, naval vessels, aircraft and ground facilities.
38 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Group overview Chairman and Chief Executive Operating and financial review Risks and responsibility Governance Accounts EMP event Clean signal Shielding and filtering ELECTRONIC SYSTEMS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CRITICAL FACILITIES MILITARY SYSTEMS AND COMMUNICATIONS Danger diverted Shielding civil infrastructures The system works through a combination of shielding the protected This technology can also be used to protect non-military critical electronics and shunting off excess energy through proprietary infrastructure such as government buildings, power installations, filtering and suppression technology, allowing only clean power hospitals, first responder communication systems and data centres.
and communications signals to pass through.
39 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Business review continued The SatCom, UAV unmanned aerial vehicles and ISR intelligence, Smiths Interconnect surveillance and reconnaissance sectors are focus areas for our Continued microwave business and remain more robust than other parts of the military budget.
During the year we were awarded several new contracts including radar components for multiple UAV programmes and a major contract for millimetre-wave instruments to be used on the next-generation US weather satellites.
Most notably, in December 2010, our Millitech business was awarded a $16m contract to supply the Antenna Pedestal for the US Navy Multiband Terminal NMT satellite communication programme which provides a powerful and reliable new capability at up to five times the current bandwidth while using smaller, lighter and more energy-efficient systems.
The commercial aerospace market remained strong, with increased demand for our connector products as production rates increased at both Boeing and Airbus.
We also won positions on the new Chinese commercial aircraft currently in development, the Comac C919.
Our KuStream broadband satellite antenna system has now been selected Performance by three airlines, including Southwest, and is undergoing trials with 2011 2010 Reported Underlying several others.
It will be installed on over 500 aircraft enabling in-flight m m growth growth connectivity and applications such as live-TV, movies and internet.
We Sales 379 340 12% 3% have also been selected to provide a military variant of the system.
Headline operating profit 68 62 9% 2 % Headline operating margin 17.8% 18.2% 40 bps Underlying sales to the wireless communications market increased Statutory operating profit 49 53 3%.
Infrastructure spend was focused on new technology deployments Return on capital employed 15.7% 17.3% 160 bps within specific geographies such as LTE 4G in the US and WCDMA 3G in India, and hotspots of activity such as network improvement projects Reported sales for Smiths Interconnect grew 12%, or 39m.
However, growth remained constrained by network contributed 33m and there was a currency translation headwind of operators controlling capital expenditures and consolidation within the 3m.
Underlying growth was 3% 9m, primarily due to strong growth equipment manufacturers sector.
in the medical, rail, automation and test markets offsetting a decline The need for network operators to drive improved performance from in military and aerospace sales, particularly in the second half as the existing assets resulted in significant growth in portable passive US Department of Defense budgetary cutbacks and the associated intermodulation test equipment and filter products to enhance signal Continuing Resolution impacted demand.
performance, including sales in China and India where network quality Reported headline operating profit increased 9%, or 6m.
Excluding the is poor after large rapid deployments over the last five years.
impact of currency translation and acquisitions, underlying headline Wireless telecommunications demand for our RF and power protection operating profit decreased by 2% 1m with headline operating margin products remained relatively flat.
Reductions in government budgets reducing by 40 basis points to 17.8%.
The decrease was primarily driven also adversely affected sales of our timing products used in public by the difficulty of adjusting the cost base to address the lower military safety and first responder network applications.
However, microwave sales caused by the Continuing Resolution, and slightly weaker gross components and cable assembly sales grew as a result of new margins due to sales mix and pricing pressure.
These were partially contract wins with Chinese equipment manufacturers.
Furthermore, offset by restructuring savings, procurement initiatives and the benefit increased data traffic from smart phones and tablet computers created of moving of manufacturing to lower cost economies.
Fixed costs opportunities for new products for backhaul infrastructure.
continued to be tightly controlled.
Underlying sales to the medical, rail, test and automation markets On an underlying basis, sales into the military, aerospace and space remained strong in the second half and for the full year increased markets fell 5% for the full year.
Despite a 3% increase in the first half, 20%.
In medical, sales of high reliability connectors grew significantly, budget cuts at the US Department of Defense caused the market to particularly during the first half, with strong demand from cardiac weaken in the second half.
The effect of the Continuing Resolution was mapping and MRI systems, and a range of new applications.
Power substantial, particularly at the components and sub-systems level in protection product volumes increased for radiotherapy and radiosurgery the supply chain, as funding uncertainty delayed several programmes systems.
The rail market provided modest growth as rolling stock and incorporating our microwave and connector technologies.
train control system projects started to transition from development Despite these underlying conditions, our Protection technology into production and generated demand for high-speed and reliable experienced significant growth in military markets as the potential connection systems and surge protection devices.
In the test market, threat from an electromagnetic pulse EMP weapon or solar flare our spring probe connector acquisition, IDI, continued to perform gains further recognition and raises demand for our transient voltage strongly, and two important new product ranges were developed protection devices.
Specifically, we completed a $4.6m contract from which are expected to offset softening market conditions experienced the US Air Force Global Strike Command to supply our advanced at the end of the year.
The industrial market has been positive this hardened technology to protect Minuteman Weapon Systems.
year with particular growth in connectors for machine automation and sensor applications.
Demand from the military market slowed considerably for our connectors and microwave technologies.
In Europe, the Eurofighter programme continued to be strong but other programmes such as soldier-based electronics have been slow.
Similarly, upgrade programmes for counter-IED systems incorporating our microwave technology experienced delays.
40 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Group overview Chairman and Chief Executive Operating and financial review Risks and responsibility Governance Accounts Research and development Total R&D spend increased 19% to 25m or 6.6% of sales 2010: 21m or 6.3% of sales.
The customer-funded portion, predominantly within the Microwave Defence group, reduced by 1m to 4m or 1.1% of sales 2010: 5m reflecting US Department of Defense budget cuts and the completion of some programmes.
Investment was targeted across all technology areas and we continued to develop non-US based technical resources.
In Connectors, we have focused on developing smaller, higher speed and higher power products.
Microwave developments included improvements in our industry-leading capabilities in airborne broadband antenna systems and passive intermodulation test equipment, and new filtering products to address broader geographic markets.
Protections technical advancements included high performance RF protectors with improved reflection loss and new power protection configurations for the military and rail markets.
More than a third of sales now come from products or technologies developed during the past three years.
Vital connections that save lives Business developments Our ultra-reliable connectors are used in many vital applications, In September 2011, Smiths Interconnect announced its intention, none more so than the medical sector which has generated subject to regulatory approvals, to acquire Power Holdings Inc. PDI, significant revenue growth for Smiths Interconnect during the year.
a leading designer and manufacturer of specialist power distribution, Examples of new medical projects that are now equipped with our conditioning and monitoring systems.
Based in Richmond, Virginia, sophisticated miniature components include: implantable contacts PDI is the parent company for Power Distribution, Inc. Marelco Power for a totally electrical artificial heart unit which uses our hyperboloid Systems, Inc. and Onyx Power, Inc.
It produces power distribution units, contact technology: a capsule endoscopy imaging system using static transfer switches, remote power panels, power conditioning units, spring contact technology from our recent acquisition, IDI, to help in medium and low voltage transformers and patented power monitors internal examinations: and a tele-robotic surgical system that relies used mainly in data centre and alternative energy applications.
on our microminiature connectors to link the robotic arms and the The acquisition of PDI transforms the existing power protection group control unit.
In all cases, Smiths Interconnects highly engineered with a new range of products and growth opportunities.
It strengthens solutions were ideally suited to meet the specialised environmental, Smiths Interconnects offering of technically differentiated solutions for mechanical, electrical and reliability requirements of complex applications requiring ultra-reliable and precise power performance, medical and surgical applications.
broadening our high reliability power quality capabilities to include conditioning, protection, distribution, filtering and monitoring to ensure the optimum function of advanced electrical systems.
PDI, which also has facilities in Santa Ana, California and Howell, Michigan, employs around 370 people and more than 90% of revenues come from non-government funded markets.
We remain focused on cost control and further improving margin performance.
During the year, we consolidated our Protection activities in China into one facility and also began restructuring our European connector businesses by concentrating manufacturing into a centre of excellence in a lower cost geography.
We also brought together a number of our microwave wireless telecommunications businesses under a single management team which culminated with the launch of a new brand, Kaelus, providing a single face to customers and simplifying our business interactions in this fast moving sector.
Outlook Government-funded sectors, particularly the defence market in the US, are expected to remain challenging.
However, we are relatively well positioned on some long-term programmes and strategically important sectors such as communications and ISR.
Investment by wireless network operators in higher speed next-generation technologies will increase demand for our network optimisation products, test solutions and protection devices.
Market conditions in medical, rail, test and automation are expected to be mixed with the semiconductor and circuit-board test markets tightening as consumers hold back on purchases of electronic devices.
Margins are expected to face some pressure as volumes decline in some sectors, although this will be offset in part by restructuring benefits and operational efficiencies.
41 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011
