Our business model The Groups role Smiths Groups business model operates The Group has a clear model for managing our portfolio.
The Group manages our portfolio to create value for shareholders, while the divisions manage their businesses to meet customers needs and create value for the Group.
The divisional business model The business model followed by our divisions: Develop deep understanding of the markets The starting point for our businesses is to develop detailed knowledge of their markets.
This includes knowing the scale of the market and its growth rate, the competitors and their activities, and our potential sources of competitive advantage.
This helps us anticipate and respond to developments.
As part of this activity, we also consider what is happening in adjacent markets, the lessons we can learn from them and the potential for changes in these markets to affect our markets.
Invest in research and development R&D is the key driver of sales growth and margins.
It enables us to keep at the forefront of technology and develop products that meet our customers evolving needs.
We fund the majority of our R&D and we also seek funding from our customers.
Our spend is focused more on product development than pure research.
8 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Group overview Chairman and Chief Executive Operating and financial review Risks and responsibility Governance Accounts The Groups role The Group has a clear model for managing our portfolio.
It: sets the strategic framework and culture for the Group as a whole ensures the divisional strategies are aligned to Group strategy agrees annual divisional budgets regularly reviews and challenges divisional performance approves and allocates capital for significant investments such as acquisitions, and supports their implementation, for example through monitoring, due diligence and integration ensures the right business systems and processes are in place across the Group, so decisions are made efficiently based on high-quality data reviews the Groups structure and considers opportunities to create value through portfolio management meets the requirements of a listed company and sets the governance and risk management framework for the Group.
The divisional business model The business model followed by our divisions: Consider acquisitions and disposals Get close to customers We buy businesses that add complementary technologies and Our business is centred on strong relationships and a high degree products, that expand our geographical footprint, particularly in of customer intimacy.
Getting close to our customers enables emerging markets, or that allow us to leverage our existing scale us to anticipate their specific needs.
This helps us to keep our and infrastructure.
customers for the long term.
Acquisitions must also support our sales growth and margin targets and deliver strong cash-flow.
Our primary focus is on returns, however, and we typically look for a 12% post-tax return on investment by the third year of ownership.
We also look to dispose of businesses that offer less attractive returns.
Manufacture products efficiently Aftermarket service and consumables The majority of the manufacturing process is in small-batch Many of our businesses provide a high level of after-sales service.
assembly, much of which is made to meet specific customer orders.
We also sell significant quantities of single-use consumables.
This makes us capital-light and flexible.
Where appropriate, we have These activities help us to retain customer loyalty, improve our established production facilities in lower-cost countries, such as understanding of how our products perform over their lifetime Mexico, China, India, the Czech Republic, Costa Rica and Tunisia.
and increase our resilience throughout the economic cycle.
9 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011
