Group overview The investment case Chairman and Chief Executive Operating and financial review Risks and responsibility Governance Accounts Smiths Group offers a clear proposition to investors.
We have a portfolio of fundamentally strong businesses, which gives us six key benefits: 1 4 Strong market positions in sectors with long-term Opportunity to realise value through more active profitable growth portfolio management Our businesses are either market leaders or are well placed We also assess active portfolio management opportunities where in attractive niches.
This allows us to benefit from the long-term we see the potential to create a more focused portfolio through growth drivers in their industries.
Across our portfolio, these growth a targeted programme of acquisitions and disposals.
drivers include the: We invest in business acquisitions to increase our exposure to global demand for energy attractive and adjacent growing sectors as well as to expand our healthcare needs of ageing populations current businesses.
threat of terrorism expansion of wireless communications aerospace demand US residential construction.
We have sales growth targets for each division, which reflect these positive fundamentals.
2 5 Leading-edge technologies and service levels that High returns on capital employed command high margins We stay at the forefront of technology by understanding the needs Our divisions generate attractive margins and tend to specialise of our customers and investing in research and development to in small-batch, low-cost manufacturing.
As a result, they have low meet those needs.
Our technological strengths give us a competitive capital intensity and deliver returns above our weighted average advantage and create customer loyalty, enabling us to earn cost of capital.
We have opportunities to invest for growth in our businesses Our businesses often provide significant levels of aftermarket to generate attractive incremental returns for our shareholders.
This helps us retain customers We maintain a strong discipline to ensure we make informed and provide recurring income as well as insight into customer needs.
3 6 Further scope for operational improvement Strong cash generation to reinvest in top-line growth and margin enhancement and increase dividends Operational efficiencies will drive our margins higher.
Our Closely managing our working capital enables us to convert most restructuring programme has already delivered significant value, of our operating profit into cash-flow.
Improved business data will with more to come in the next two years.
continue to drive cash generation.
We have invested to improve our systems, with enterprise resource Our focus on cash ensures we have the resources needed to planning projects installed in Smiths Detection, Smiths Medical and reinvest in our businesses through targeted acquisitions, and in John Crane.
Better information enables us to leverage the Groups organic growth drivers such as product development, and sales scale and deliver further savings.
Portfolio profitability reviews are and marketing in growth markets.
At the same time, it allows also improving operational efficiency.
us to increase dividend payments to shareholders, while maintaining an efficient balance sheet and meeting the obligations of our legacy We have margin targets for each division and have made good liabilities, such as pensions and product liability litigation.
progress towards them, with scope for further improvement.
5 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011
