Group directors report Principal activities The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries the Group are and, during the year ended 31 July 2011, were the development, manufacture, sale and support of: advanced security equipment, including trace detection, millimetre-wave, infrared, biological detection and diagnostics, that detect and identify explosives, narcotics, weapons, chemical agents, biohazards and contraband: mechanical seals, seal support systems, engineered bearings, power transmission couplings, specialist filtration systems and other hardware for the oil and gas, chemical, pharmaceutical, pulp and paper and mining sectors: medical devices aligned to specific therapies, principally airway, pain and temperature management, infusion, needle protection, critical care monitoring and vascular access: specialised electronic and radio frequency products that connect, protect and control critical systems for the global wireless telecommunications, aerospace, defence, space, medical, rail, test and industrial markets: and engineered components including ducting, hose assemblies and heating elements that move and heat fluids and gases for the aerospace, medical, industrial, construction and domestic markets.
The main manufacturing operations are in the UK, the Americas, Continental Europe and China.
Business review and model future strategy and development research and development The statements and reviews on pages 6 to 63 comprise the Group business review and are incorporated by reference, forming part of this Directors report.
This is a review of the development and performance of the business of the Group, including the financial performance during the financial year ended 31 July 2011: key performance indicators: and the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
It also includes an explanation of the basis on which the Group generates or preserves value over the longer term and the strategy for delivering the objectives of the Group and information on likely future developments and activities in the field of research and development.
The cautionary statement set out on the inside front cover of this Annual Report forms part of this Annual Report and is incorporated by reference into the business review.
Results and dividends The results for the financial year ended 31 July 2011 are set out in the Consolidated income statement.
Sales for the year amounted to 2,842m 2010: 2,770m.
The profit for the year after taxation amounted to 385.1m 2010: 310.6m.
An interim dividend of 11.25p per ordinary share of 37.5p was paid on 21 April 2011.
The directors recommend for payment on 25 November 2011 a final cash dividend of 25.0p on each ordinary share of 37.5p, making a total dividend of 36.25p for the financial year.
The retained profit of 385.1m was transferred to Reserves.
Changes in the Company and its interests during the financial year On 12 August 2010 the Company acquired the business and assets of Veecon IPA Gastchnik Ltd in India for cash and estimated deferred consideration of 10.5m in aggregate.
On 18 March 2011 the Company sold the business and assets of Detections Product Inspection Division business in Alcoa, TN, USA for 7.6m in cash.
On 12 May 2011 the Company acquired the issued share capital of SDBR Comrcio fide Equipamentos fide Segurana Ltda in Brazil for cash and estimated deferred consideration of 15.8m in aggregate.
Post balance sheet events On 18 August 2011 the Company announced an agreement to acquire the business and assets of Turbo Components & Engineering, Inc. of Houston, Texas for US$20m in cash, subject to regulatory clearances.
On 2 September 2011, the Company announced an agreement to acquire the issued share capital of Power Holdings, Inc. of Virginia, USA for US$235m in cash, subject to post-closing adjustments and regulatory clearances.
Charitable and political donations During the financial year the Company made donations of 482,000 for charitable purposes.
This comprised payments totalling 300,000 to the Institute of Child Health, in sponsorship of the Smiths Medical Professor of Anaesthesia and Critical Care and the Portex Anaesthesia, Intensive Care and Respiratory Unit and other donations made by the Company and its businesses worldwide.
The Group supports charities working in the areas of health: education and wellbeing: and the environment.
The Group made contributions to non-EU political organisations totalling 6,500 during the year.
Directors Messrs B. F. J. Angelici, P. Bowman, D. H. Brydon, CBE, D. J. Challen, CBE, S. J.
Chambers and P. A. Turner: Ms A. C. Quinn, CBE: and Sir Kevin Tebbit, KCB, CMG all served as directors of the Company throughout the year.
Reappointment of directors In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all the directors will retire voluntarily from office at the AGM and will seek re-election.
Separate resolutions to re-elect each of them as a director of the Company will be proposed at the AGM.
Full biographical details of all the directors are set out on pages 62 and 63.
64 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Group overview Chairman and Chief Executive Operating and financial review Risks and responsibility Governance Accounts Directors remuneration report The Directors remuneration report is on pages 76 to 84.
An ordinary resolution to approve the report will be put to shareholders at the AGM.
Directors interests in contracts Details of the executive directors service contracts are as disclosed in the service contracts section of the Directors remuneration report on page 81.
Details of the interests of the executive directors in the Companys share option schemes and plans are shown in the Directors remuneration report on pages 83 and 84.
Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 have remained in force for the directors during the financial year ended 31 July 2011 and, at the date of this report, are in force for the benefit of the current directors in relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may incur or may have incurred to third parties in the course of their professional duties.
Apart from the exceptions referred to above, no director had an interest in any contract to which the Company or its subsidiaries was a party during the year.
Interests in voting rights As at 31 July 2011 the Company had been notified, pursuant to the FSAs Disclosure & Transparency Rules and the Companies Act 2006, of the following notifiable voting rights in its issued share capital: Percentage of issued ordinary share No.
of shares capital BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited 22.5m 5.7% Legal & General Group plc 19.7m 5.0% Lloyds Banking Group plc 27.8m 7.1% Massachusetts Financial Services Company see below 5% Newton Investment Management Limited 15.2m 3.9% TIAA-CREF Investment Management LLC Teachers Advisors, Inc. 11.9m 3.0% Percentage of ordinary share capital in issue on 31 July 2011.
On 8 August 2011 Lloyds Banking Group plc notified the Company that it had notifiable voting rights over 31.7 million of the Companys shares approximately 8.1% of the issued share capital.
On 20 September 2011 BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited advised that it had direct and indirect interests over the voting rights of a total of 20.9 million Smiths shares 5.3% of the issued share capital and Massachusetts Financial Services Company MFS advised that it held 17.9 million shares 4.6% of the issued share capital : MFS last notified the Company in March 2008 that its interests in voting rights in Smiths shares had fallen below 5% of issued share capital.
The Company has not been notified of any other changes to the notifiable voting rights in its shares during the period 1 August to 26 September 2011.
The interests of the directors, their families and any connected persons in the issued share capital of the Company are shown in the Directors remuneration report on page 81.
Corporate governance statement The Corporate governance statement is on pages 70 to 74 and is incorporated in this Directors report by reference.
 LLP has reviewed the Companys statements as to compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, to the extent required by the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules.
The results of its review are set out in the Independent auditors report on page 86.
Financial instruments The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group: the policy for hedging each major type of forecasted transaction for which hedge accounting is used: and the exposure of the Group to foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, financial credit risk and liquidity risk is outlined in note 21 of the Group accounts.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business review on pages 17 to 47.
The financial position of the company, its cash-flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial review on pages 48 to 50.
In addition, the notes to the accounts include the Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
At 31 July 2011 the Group had available cash and short-term deposit resources of 261m and undrawn committed borrowing facilities of US$800m which are due to expire in 2015 unless otherwise extended or reviewed.
Whilst these facilities have certain financial covenants they are not expected to prevent full utilisation of the facilities if required.
This, together with the maturity profile of debt, provides confidence that the Group has sufficient financial resources for the foreseeable future.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the Company is well placed to manage its business despite the current uncertain economic environment which increases risk and uncertainties see pages 52 to 56.
The directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual accounts of the Company and the Group.
65 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Group directors report continued Policy on payment of creditors The Companys policy and practice is to pay creditors including suppliers promptly in accordance with agreed terms of business.
The average time taken to pay an invoice was 23 days 2010: 31 for the parent Company and 43 days 2010: 36 for the Group as a whole.
Share capital and control As at 31 July 2011, the Companys issued share capital was 147,131,401.125 and comprised 392,350,403 ordinary shares of 37.5p each nominal value ordinary shares.
The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys reports and accounts: to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company: to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of any class of shares and no requirements for prior approval of any transfers.
None of the shares carries any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
There are no restrictions on the voting rights attaching to the ordinary shares.
There are no arrangements of which the directors are aware under which financial rights are held by a person other than the holder of the shares and no known agreements or restrictions on share transfers or on voting rights.
Shares acquired through Company share schemes and plans rank pari passu with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
The Company operates an employee benefit trust, with an independent trustee, to hold shares pending employees becoming entitled to them under the Companys share schemes and plans.
On 31 July 2011 the trust held 855 ordinary shares in the Company.
The trust waives all but 0.1p per share of each dividend entitlement on its holding and abstains from voting the shares at general meetings.
The table on page 65 sets out the notifications, received by the Company pursuant to the FSAs Disclosure & Transparency Rules and the Companies Act 2006, as at 31 July 2011 and any changes thereto up to 26 September 2011, from persons with significant direct or indirect holdings in the Companys share capital.
The rules about the appointment and replacement of directors are contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
Changes to the Articles of Association must be approved by the shareholders in accordance with the legislation in force from time to time.
The powers of the directors are determined by English law and the Articles of Association of the Company in force from time to time.
The directors have been authorised to issue and allot ordinary shares, pursuant to Article 5.
The directors have authority to make market purchases of ordinary shares.
The powers to issue and allot shares and, subject to specified limits, to allot shares on a non pre-emptive basis, are referred to the shareholders at the AGM each year for renewal.
At the AGM the shareholders are also requested to renew the power to make market purchases of ordinary shares.
Any ordinary shares so purchased may be cancelled or held in treasury.
The Company has in place credit facility agreements under which a change in control would trigger prepayment clauses and has bonds in issue the terms of which would allow bondholders to exercise put options and require the Company to buy back the bonds at their principal amount plus interest if a rating downgrade occurs at the same time as a change of control takes effect.
The Companys share schemes and plans contain clauses which may cause options and awards to vest on a change in control, in some cases subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions at that time.
The Company is not party to any other significant agreements that would take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover.
If there is a change in control of the Company, the terms of Mr Bowmans service contract require that all available discretions will be exercised under the Companys share schemes and in default the Company must indemnify Mr Bowman for the value of any awards that do not vest on the change in control.
No other director or employee is contractually entitled to compensation for loss of office or employment as a result of a change in control except that provisions of the Companys share schemes may cause options and awards granted to employees under such schemes to vest on a change in control, in some cases subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions at that time.
Purchase of shares No shares were purchased by the Company during the financial year ended 31 July 2011.
Corporate responsibility The Company has Group policies on environmental, employee and health & safety matters and operates a Code of Business Ethics.
The Company seeks to minimise, as far as is reasonably practicable, any detrimental effects on the environment of its operations and products.
The Group HR director has responsibility for environmental, health and safety matters, which are subject to preventative, investigatory and consultative systems, overseen by the Group Environment, Health and Safety Committee, and reports regularly to the Board on these matters.
Issues relevant to the Company pension schemes are likewise covered by means of structured committees, including representation from recognised trade unions.
Further information on environmental, employee health and safety matters, including key performance indicators, is contained in the Corporate responsibility summary on pages 57 to 61.
The full Corporate responsibility report is available online at www.
Annual General Meeting The 2011 AGM will be held at The Thomas Lord Suite, Lords Cricket Ground, Grace Gate, St Johns Wood Road, London NW8 8QN on Tuesday 22 November 2011 at 2:30 pm.
66 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Group overview Chairman and Chief Executive Operating and financial review Risks and responsibility Governance Accounts Authority to issue shares At the AGM shareholders will be asked to renew and extend the authority, given to the directors at the last AGM, to allot shares in the Company, or grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, shares in the Company for the purposes of Section 551 of the 2006 Act the Allotment Resolution.
The authority in the first part of the Allotment Resolution will allow the directors to allot new shares in the Company or to grant rights to subscribe for or convert any security into shares in the Company up to a nominal value of 49,062,877, which is equivalent to approximately one third of the total issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 26 September 2011.
The authority in the second part of the Allotment Resolution will allow the directors to allot new shares or to grant rights to subscribe for or convert any security into shares in the Company only in connection with a rights issue up to a further nominal value of 49,062,877, which is equivalent to approximately one third of the total issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 26 September 2011.
This is in line with corporate governance guidelines.
At 26 September 2011, the Company did not hold any shares in treasury.
There are no present plans to undertake a rights issue or to allot new shares other than in connection with the Companys share option schemes and plans.
The directors intend to take note of relevant corporate governance guidelines on the use of such powers in the event that the authority is exercised.
If the resolution is passed the authority will expire on the earlier of 31 January 2013 and the end of the next AGM, due to be held in 2012.
Also at the AGM shareholders will be asked to pass a special resolution to renew the power granted to directors to disapply shareholders pre-emption rights under certain circumstances the Pre-emption Resolution.
If the directors wish to allot new shares and other equity securities, or sell treasury shares, for cash other than in connection with an employee share scheme company law requires that these shares are offered first to shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
The purpose of the first part of the Pre-emption Resolution is to authorise the directors to allot new shares, pursuant to the authority given by the first part of the Allotment Resolution, or to sell treasury shares for cash: a in connection with a pre-emptive offer: and or b otherwise up to a nominal value of 7,359,431, equivalent to 5% of the total issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 26 September 2011, in each case without the shares first being offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
The purpose of the second part of the Pre-emption Resolution is to authorise the directors to allot new shares, pursuant to the authority given by the second part of the Allotment Resolution, or to sell treasury shares for cash in connection with a rights issue without the shares first being offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
The directors intend to adhere to the provisions in the Pre-emption Groups Statement of Principles regarding cumulative usage of authorities within a rolling three-year period where the Principles provide that usage in excess of 7.5% should not take place without prior consultation with the Investment Committees of the Association of British Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds.
During the financial year ended 31 July 2011, the following ordinary shares in the Company were issued: 1,622,360 ordinary shares of 37.5p pursuant to the terms of the Companys shareholder-approved share option schemes and share plans.
Authority to purchase shares At the AGM the Company will seek to renew the authority, granted at the last AGM to the directors, to purchase the Companys ordinary shares in the market.
The effect of the resolution is to renew the authority granted to the Company to purchase its own ordinary shares, up to a maximum of 39,250,301 ordinary shares, until the next AGM due to be held in 2012 or 31 January 2013 whichever is the earlier.
This represents 10% of the ordinary shares in issue as at 26 September 2011 and the Companys exercise of this authority is subject to the stated upper and lower limits on the price payable, which reflect the requirements of the Listing Rules.
Pursuant to the 2006 Act as amended, the Company can hold the shares which have been purchased as treasury shares and either resell them for cash, cancel them, either immediately or at a point in the future, or use them for the purposes of its employee share schemes.
The directors believe that it is desirable for the Company to have this choice as holding the purchased shares as treasury shares would give the Company the ability to re-sell or transfer them in the future, and so provide the Company with additional flexibility in the management of its capital base.
No dividends will be paid on, and no voting rights will be exercised in respect of, treasury shares.
However, it is not the Companys present intention to hold shares in treasury in the event that any shares were to be purchased under this authority.
Shares will only be purchased if the directors consider such purchases to be in the best interests of shareholders generally and that they can be expected to result in an increase in earnings per share.
The authority will only be used after careful consideration, taking into account market conditions prevailing at the time, other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall financial position of the Company.
Shares held as treasury shares will not automatically be cancelled and will not be taken into account in future calculations of earnings per share unless they are subsequently resold or transferred out of treasury.
67 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Group directors report continued If any shares purchased by the Company are held in treasury and used for the purposes of its employee share schemes, the Company will count those shares towards the limits on the number of new shares which may be issued under such schemes.
As at 26 September 2011 there were 6.9m outstanding options and awards granted under all share schemes operated by the Company, which, if vested would represent 1.7% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
If this authority were exercised in full, that percentage would increase to 1.9%.
For the purpose of these calculations, it has been assumed that i all the extant options under the Sharesave and Executive Share Option schemes and all the conditional share awards under the Co-Investment Plan would vest in full: ii the number of ordinary shares that would be expected to be earned under the Value Sharing Plans based on current projections for the satisfaction of the performance conditions would vest and iii none of the extant options or awards under any of the plans would lapse prior to their applicable vesting dates.
The actual number of ordinary shares that will vest in respect of awards under the Co-Investment Plan and Value Sharing Plans will only be determined at their applicable vesting dates, subject to the satisfaction of the performance conditions and other requirements at those times.
Political donations A resolution will be proposed at the AGM to renew the authority, granted by the shareholders at the last AGM to the Company and its UK subsidiaries, to make donations to political organisations and to incur political expenditure.
Part 14 of the 2006 Act requires companies to obtain shareholders authority for donations to registered political parties and other political organisations in the EU totalling more than 5,000 in any twelve-month period, and for any political expenditure in the EU, subject to limited exceptions.
The definition of donation in this context is very wide and extends to bodies such as those concerned with policy review, law reform and the representation of the business community.
It could include special interest groups, such as those involved with the environment, which the Company and its UK subsidiaries might wish to support, even though these activities are not designed to support or influence support for a particular party.
It is the policy of the Company not to make political donations or incur political expenditure in the EU, as those expressions are normally understood.
To avoid inadvertent infringement of the 2006 Act, the directors are seeking shareholders authority for the Company and its UK subsidiaries to make political donations as defined in the 2006 Act and to incur political expenditure as defined in the 2006 Act for the period from the date of the AGM to the conclusion of next years AGM up to a maximum aggregate amount of 50,000.
Auditors Resolutions will be proposed at the AGM to reappoint  LLP as independent auditors, to hold office until the next meeting at which the accounts are laid, and to authorise the directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
Notice period for extraordinary general meetings A special resolution will be proposed at the AGM to renew the authority, granted by the shareholders at the last AGM to the Company, to call a general meeting of the Company other than an AGM with a minimum notice period of 14 clear days.
Changes made to the 2006 Act by the Shareholders Rights Regulations increased the notice period required for general meetings of the Company to 21 days unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which cannot, however, be less than 14 clear days.
AGMs will continue to be held on at least 21 clear days notice.
Before the coming into force of the Shareholders Rights Regulations on 3 August 2009, the Company was able to call general meetings other than an AGM on 14 clear days notice without obtaining such shareholder approval.
In order to preserve this ability, such approval is sought at the AGM.
Any exercise of this power by the Company will be conducted in accordance with any relevant corporate governance guidelines applicable at the time.
In particular, the shorter notice period will only be used where flexibility is merited by the business of the meeting and is thought to be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The Company will comply with the requirement to provide appropriate facilities for all shareholders to vote by electronic means at general meetings held on less than 21 clear days notice.
Proposed long-term incentive arrangements Following a review by the Remuneration Committee in which the views of shareholders and institutional investor groups on uncapped, sharebased, incentive arrangements were considered, the Company considers that a new plan, which is a conventional long-term incentive plan LTIP, would be an appropriate long-term incentive scheme for senior executives going forwards.
As a result, it is proposed that awards would be made under a new LTIP as follows: Annual grants which may vest after three years, subject to demanding performance conditions: Awards will be granted over fixed numbers of the Companys ordinary shares: Vesting conditions for 2011 12 awards will be based 50% on earnings growth, 30% on TSR vs FTSE100 and 20% on cash conversion: and The Remuneration Committee will explicitly reserve the right to reduce the awards to reflect the overall performance of the business.
Shareholders approval for this new LTIP will be sought at the AGM on 22 November 2011.
Further details on the new LTIP can be found in the notes accompanying the Notice of AGM.
If the new LTIP is approved at the AGM, the first awards under the LTIP will be made in November 2011 and no awards will be made in 2011 12 under the 2010 Value Sharing Plan.
68 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Group overview Chairman and Chief Executive Operating and financial review Risks and responsibility Governance Accounts Disclosure of information to the auditors As at the date of this report, as far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Each director has taken all the steps he or she should have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
com The 2006 Act recognises the growing importance of electronic communication e-communication and enables companies to provide documentation and communications to shareholders via their websites, except to those shareholders who elect to receive hard printed paper copies by post.
E-communication allows shareholders faster access to important information about the Company: saves the Company considerable overheads, by reducing its print production costs and postage: and helps the environment by saving the energy and raw materials that would otherwise be used in producing and dispatching printed documents.
At the Extraordinary General Meeting held on 11 June 2007 shareholders approved the adoption of electronic communications.
Electronic copies of the Annual Report 2011 and the Notice of AGM will be posted on the Companys website, www.
The Companys announcements to the Stock Exchange and press releases are available online through the website.
Shareholding details and practical help on share transfers and changes of address can be found at www.
Shareholders wishing to change their election and receive documents in hard copy form can do so at any time by contacting the Companys Registrar or by logging on to www.
Electronic proxy voting The Company continues to provide electronic proxy voting for this years AGM.
Shareholders who are not Crest members can appoint a proxy and vote online for or against or consciously not vote on the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM by visiting the website www.
The onscreen instructions will give details on how to complete the appointment and voting process.
Crest members, Crest personal members and other Crest-sponsored members should consult the Crest Manual or their sponsor or voting service provider for instructions on electronic proxy appointment and voting.
The Company may treat as invalid a Crest proxy voting instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Paper proxy cards will be distributed with the Notice of AGM to all shareholders other than those who have elected for notification by email.
Shareholders who will not be able to attend the AGM on 22 November 2011 in person are encouraged to vote their shares by appointing a proxy and issuing voting instructions either electronically or by completing and returning their proxy cards.
Electronic and paper proxy appointments and voting instructions must be received by the Companys Registrar not later than 48 hours before the AGM in order to be valid.
Registrar The address and contact details of Equiniti Limited, the Companys Registrar, are listed on the inside back cover of this report.
Individual shareholders access to their personal shareholder information is available online, through the www.
The UK shareholder helpline telephone number is 0871 384 2943.
Note: calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a UK BT landline.
Other telephony providers costs may vary.
Important information If you are in any doubt as to what action you should take in relation to the resolutions being proposed at the AGM, you are recommended to consult your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent professional adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you received this document in printed form from the Company and have recently sold or transferred all your shares in Smiths Group plc, please pass this document to the purchaser or transferee or to the agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
Recommendation Your directors believe that all the proposals to be considered at the AGM are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and recommend shareholders to vote in favour of the resolutions.
The directors intend to vote in favour of the resolutions in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
By Order of the Board Sarah Cameron Secretary Smiths Group plc 2nd Floor, Cardinal Place 80 Victoria Street, London SW1E 5JL 27 September 2011 69 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011
