Group overview Legal issues Chairman and Chief Executive Operating and financial review Risks and responsibility Governance Accounts Smiths is committed to operating within the law in all applicable jurisdictions, and seeks to benefit from the rights and protections afforded by relevant laws.
The Company aims to anticipate and meet the changing requirements of the markets it serves, as legal and regulatory reforms impact those markets.
Legal issues John Crane, Inc. litigation Smiths faces different types of legal issues in different jurisdictions.
The John Crane, Inc. JCI, a subsidiary of the Group, is currently one high level of activity in the US, for example, exposes the Company to the of many co-defendants in litigation in the USA relating to products likelihood of various types of litigation commonplace in that country, previously manufactured which contained asbestos.
This litigation such as mass tort and class action litigation, and legal challenges began around 30 years ago and, typically, involves claims for a number to the scope and validity of patents.
These types of proceedings or of diseases including asbestosis, lung cancer and mesothelioma.
The the threat of them are also used to create pressure to encourage JCI products generally referred to in these cases consist of industrial negotiated settlement of disputes.
sealing products, primarily packing and gaskets.
The asbestos was encapsulated within these products in such a manner that, according In addition, contracting with the US Government subjects the Group to tests conducted on behalf of JCI, the products were safe.
John Crane to numerous stringent regulatory obligations, calling for an active ceased manufacturing products containing asbestos in 1985. programme of compliance, reporting and communication.
By contrast, the Groups activities in some countries with less developed legal In recent years, the litigation has focused increasingly on claims for systems pose challenges for the protection of corporate assets such mesothelioma, awards for which, when made, tend to be larger than as real estate and intellectual property rights.
those for the other diseases.
Whilst the number of claims being filed against JCI and other defendants has been declining, the proportion of In order to address the challenges and exploit the opportunities arising mesothelioma claims has increased, and JCIs ability to defend these from these and other legal issues, Smiths employs experienced lawyers cases successfully is likely to have a significant impact on its annual both in its head office and in its divisions, and retains the services of aggregate adverse judgment and defence costs.
major law firms around the world.
JCI continues to actively monitor the conduct and effect of its current and expected asbestos litigation, including the efficacious presentation of its safe product defence, and intends to resist these asbestos cases based on this defence.
Approximately 202,000 claims against JCI have been dismissed before trial over the last 32 years.
JCI is currently a defendant in cases involving approximately 101,000 claims.
Despite these large numbers of claims, JCI has had final judgments against it in only 107 cases, and has had to pay awards amounting to approximately US $103m.
In connection with this litigation, JCI secured the commutation of certain liability insurance policies in financial year 2007, resulting in proceeds of 43m.
While JCI has substantial excess liability insurance, the availability and exact scope of the cover are currently the subject of litigation in the United States.
An adverse judgment at first instance from the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois is currently under appeal.
Pending the outcome of that litigation, JCI has begun to meet defence costs directly.
At 31 July 2011, the aggregate provision for JCI asbestos litigation, including for adverse judgments and defence costs, amounted to 182m expressed at the then current exchange rate.
In deciding upon the amount of the provision, JCI has relied on expert advice from a specialist in asbestos liability estimation.
Moreover, in establishing this provision no account has been taken of any recoveries from insurers as their nature and timing are subject to pending litigation.
Go to note 23 on pages 124-125 for more information 51 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011
