dIReCtORS RemuneRAtIOn RepORt continued The Board is keenly aware of its duty to ensure, on Deloitte LLP Deloitte, who have voluntarily signed The Committee aims to design remuneration behalf of shareholders, that the Committee is wholly up to the Remuneration Consultants Code of packages with significant performance related independent.
All members and advisors are Conduct, were independently retained by the elements linking appropriate, but significantly independent of management and free from any Committee as advisors following a tender process.
In greater, rewards for greater achievements.
The conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships the year they provided advice on executive Committee seeks to ensure performance based or day-to-day involvement in running the Companys remuneration in terms of relevant current market pay is linked to its business strategy.
No member has any personal financial practice and developments in best practice shorter term performance is monitored against interest, other than as a shareholder, in the matters guidance, and in particular on the testing and setting targets based on the Companys strategic plan.
No Director plays a role of performance criteria for incentive plans.
Deloitte In the longer term, performance targets are more in deciding his own remuneration.
also provided audit services to the Group, as set out closely linked to share price performance as an in Note 9 to the financial statements and described indicator of the Companys success in building The Committee is responsible for determining and more fully in the Corporate Governance Report on shareholder value.
Within this broad framework, agreeing with the full Board a Company-wide pages 51 to 58.
The advisors terms of reference the Committee takes particular care to ensure that remuneration policy that is aligned with the restrict the provision of certain services in order to remuneration is designed to promote the long term Companys business strategy and ultimately the maintain auditor independence, and the scope and success of the Company and does not reward creation of shareholder value.
Within the context of value of services to the Group is under continuous excessive risk taking or failure.
that policy, the Committee is responsible for setting review to ensure it is not material to the assessment the total remuneration packages of the Executive of independence.
Advice is developed with use of Executive Directors C The Committee reviews all aspects of Directors and the Company Secretary.
The established methodologies and the advisors are not Committee also monitors the remuneration practices involved in the decision making process.
Advisory remuneration on an annual basis and with respect to individual and corporate performance during the and trends throughout the Groups internationally partners and staff have no involvement in audit, and based workforce, including senior staff who are not involved in the preparation of audited year.
These reviews are normally conducted in December.
The projected value and structure of the contribute most significantly to achieving the information.
The Committee is satisfied that the Companys strategic aims.
Additionally, the remuneration advice it receives from Deloitte Executive Directors remuneration packages are periodically benchmarked against competitive Committee is responsible for setting the is independent.
remuneration of the Non-Executive Chairman.
During this exercise, the Groups size Remuneration Policy Committees recommendations and decisions are and complexity and relative positioning within those b developed in full consideration of the Code, The policies described in this report have been ranges are taken into account in the context of the applied throughout 2011.
The Committee monitors institutional guidelines and evolving market practice, Executive Directors critical value to the Company with particular attention being given to the remuneration policies on a continuing basis including and demonstrated performance over time.
consideration of evolving market practice and challenges represented by the current economic environment.
relevant guidance: shareholder views and results of Benchmarking, which was previously conducted previous voting: policies applied to the wider annually, is generally conducted on a three year In discharging its duties during the year, the employee base: and with due regard to the current cycle or upon an indication of a change in market Committee consulted with the other Non-Executive economic climate.
Any proposed change which is ranges.
Results of benchmarking exercises are Directors, and its proposals were approved by the material is only implemented following a full review monitored for indications of potential unwarranted full Board.
In particular, the Committee has sought and approval process deemed appropriate to such upward ratcheting.
Pay conditions elsewhere in the advice as it considers appropriate from Mr Rui fide change.
Where appropriate, shareholders would Company are taken into account to ensure the Sousa.
As a significant shareholder, he provides the also be consulted about any change in relationship between the pay of the Companys Committee with a valuable insight into likely remuneration policy.
Directors and its employees remains appropriate.
shareholder concerns around executive Similar benchmarking techniques are applied to remuneration.
The Committee also consulted with The Directors believe that a uniquely qualified and non-Board employees and the Committee monitors the Chief Executive on its proposals for the other motivated executive management is vital to the senior staff remuneration packages during the Executive Director and senior management, and effective management of the Companys review of Executive Directors remuneration received administrative assistance from the international portfolio and the successful execution packages.
The Audit Committee is of the Companys stated strategy for building Package Components consulted as deemed appropriate in setting and shareholder value.
It is the Committees objective to d assessing the fulfilment of targets based on attract, motivate and retain high calibre executives Executive remuneration comprises a fixed basic salary and eligibility to receive an annual financial terms.
through market competitive remuneration that is appropriate to those individuals positions, performance based cash bonus.
Individuals may also be eligible to receive awards under long term experience and value to the Company.
SOCO International plc 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
