Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Additional Information AnnuAl RepORt OF tHe dIReCtORS HOW tHe dIReCtORS enSuRe tHe COmpAny OpeRAteS tO tHe HIgHeSt StAndARdS Review of Operations on pages 20 to 26: and the Financial Review on pages 28 to 30.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are set out in the Risk Management report on pages 31 to 34 and, in respect of the principal financial risks and uncertainties, in Notes 3 and 4 to the financial statements.
As set out in the Sustainable Development Report on pages 36 to 41, which also forms part of this report, SOCO is committed to high standards of corporate responsibility.
The financial and non-financial key performance indicators KPIs used by management are set out Above: Cynthia Cagle, on pages 21 and 29, and are summarised along Vice President Finance and Company Secretary with pertinent definitions in the Five Year Summary on page 96.
The KPIs adopted in respect of personnel, health, safety and environmental measures reflect the small staff size and relatively small size and scope of projects directly operated by the Company.
Additional KPIs will be developed for reporting on these areas at an appropriate time in the evolution of SOCOs operations.
Information about the use of financial instruments by the The Directors present their annual report, along Company and the Group is included in Note 2 n with the audited financial statements of the Group and Note 23 to the financial statements.
for the year ended 31 December 2011.
The Corporate Governance Report on pages 51 to 58 Results and Dividends b The audited financial statements for the year forms part of this report.
ended 31 December 2011 are set out on pages 72 Principal Activity and Business Review to 97.
The Directors intend to devote the Groups A The Groups principal activity is oil and gas cash resources to its exploration and development exploration and production.
The Group has its activities and, accordingly, are not recommending headquarters in London and has oil and gas the payment of a dividend 2010 nil.
interests in Vietnam, Republic of Congo Brazzaville, the Democratic Republic of Congo Directors C Kinshasa and Angola.
The subsidiary The Directors who held office during the year, undertakings principally affecting the profits or net and the dates of their current service contracts or letters of appointment, which are available for assets of the Group are listed in Note 17 to the financial statements.
inspection, are listed in the table on page 48.
All Directors held office throughout the year except as Information fulfilling the requirements of section noted in the table.
Relevant details of the Directors, which include their Committee memberships, are 417 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act and paragraph 4.1.
8 of the Disclosure and set out on pages 44 to 45.
Further details of Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Directors, their interests in the shares of the Authority DTRs can be found within the reports Company, their interests in any contracts relating to described below, which are incorporated into this the Companys business and Directors contracts report by reference.
A review of the performance are included in the Directors Remuneration Report and development of the Groups business during on pages 59 to 67.
Directors of the Company are the year, its position at the end of the year and its appointed either by the Board or by shareholders future prospects is contained in the Chairman and under the terms of the Companys Articles of Chief Executives Statement on pages 14 to 16: the Association.
The business of the Company is SOCO International plc 47 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 AnnuAl RepORt OF tHe dIReCtORS continued Directors Holding Office during 2011 managed by the Directors who may exercise all material to the Group.
The Companys Articles of powers of the Company subject to the Articles of Association allow it to provide an indemnity for the Association and law.
benefit of its Directors, which is a qualifying Director Date of Contract indemnity provision for the purpose of section 233 Rui C fide Sousa 12.07.99 In accordance with the Companys Articles of of the 2006 Act.
Chairman Association, Directors are subject to reappointment Peter E Kingston 14.05.97 at the first Annual General Meeting of Shareholders Supplier Payment Policy d Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director AGM following appointment by the Board, and at SOCOs policy is to settle the terms of Retired 23.06.11 least every three years.
In accordance with the payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms of Michael C Johns 23.06.11 provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, each transaction to ensure that suppliers are made Appointed Senior Independent Director 23.06.11 all Directors will retire at the forthcoming AGM and aware of and abide by the terms of payment.
As offer themselves for reappointment, being eligible the Company is a holding company, it has no trade Olivier M G Barbaroux 12.07.99 creditors and accordingly no disclosure can be and having been recommended for reappointment Roger D Cagle 14.05.97 by the Nominations Committee.
made of the year end creditor days.
Robert M Cathery 19.06.01 The reappointment of each Director is Contributions Ettore P M Contini 11.12.01 e Information regarding the Companys global recommended by the Board in consideration Antnio V Monteiro 10.06.09 of the results of their individual evaluation and charitable programmes, which are principally carried out in the countries where the Group has demonstrated continued satisfactory performance, John C Norton 14.05.97 commitment and effectiveness.
The Nominations operations, is contained in the Sustainable Martin J D Roberts 06.09.04 Development Report on pages 36 to 41.
The Committee carefully considered its Retired 23.06.11 recommendations regarding these reappointments Companys policies prohibit political donations.
Edward T Story 14.05.97 with regard to the policies and processes set out in more detail in the Corporate Governance Report on Share Capital Michael J Watts 21.09.09 F Details of changes to share capital in the pages 51 to 58, and in particular in respect of each Denotes those determined by the Board to be independent Directors continued independence and the period and details regarding purchase of the Non-Executive Directors as described in the Corporate Governance Companys own shares into treasury are set out in Report on pages 51 to 58. relevance of tenure.
The Board has given full consideration to the balance of skills, knowledge Notes 26 and 33 to the financial statements, respectively.
The Directors believe that acquisition and unique breadth of experience on the Board and the manner in which each of the Directors of the Companys shares represented good value to shareholders, and will enhance earnings per share.
In particular, the Board has considered the value of continuity of The Company currently has one class of share in leadership, and these factors have been weighed in consideration of succession planning and the need issue, ordinary shares of 0.05 each, all of which to refresh Board and Committee membership.
Each ordinary share in issue carries Chairman, having given consideration to the results equal rights including one vote per share on a poll of the Boards formal evaluation process and other at general meetings of the Company, subject to the relevant factors, is satisfied that the Non-Executive terms of the Companys Articles of Association and Directors continue to demonstrate the commitment law.
Shares held in treasury carry no such rights level appropriate and to be effective in fulfilment of for so long as they are held in treasury.
Votes may the responsibilities of the role.
be exercised by shareholders attending or otherwise duly represented at general meetings.
The Non-Executive Directors fees, and SOCOs Deadlines for the exercise of voting rights by proxy process for setting those fees, are set out in the on a poll at a general meeting are detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 59 to 67. notice of meeting and proxy cards issued in SOCO provides liability insurance for its Directors connection with the relevant meeting.
The annual cost of the cover is not relating to the shares held by the SOCO Employee Benefit Trust are not exercised.
The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a resolution of the shareholders.
SOCO International plc 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Additional Information No shareholder, unless the Board decides the relevant ethical guidance of the accountancy The Company is not aware of any agreements otherwise, is entitled to attend or to vote either between shareholders that may result in profession and does not impair the judgement or personally or by proxy at a general meeting or to independence of the auditors.
Each of the Directors restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting exercise any other right conferred by being a rights.
Resolutions will be proposed at the 2012 at the date of approval of this report confirms that, shareholder if he or she or any person with an so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit AGM, as is customary, to authorise the Directors to interest in shares has been sent a notice under exercise all powers to allot shares and approve a information, being information needed by the section 793 of the 2006 Act which confers upon auditors in connection with preparing their report, limited disapplication of pre-emption rights.
Further public companies the power to require information information regarding these resolutions is set out in of which the auditors are unaware.
Each Director with respect to interests in their voting shares and the circular to shareholders accompanying this has taken all steps that he ought to have taken, he or she or any interested person failed to supply Annual Report and Accounts.
A resolution will also having made such enquiries of his fellow Directors the Company with the information requested within be proposed at the 2012 AGM, as is also and the auditors and taken such other steps as are 14 days after delivery of that notice.
The Board customary, to renew the Directors existing required under his duties as a Director, to make may also decide that no dividend is payable in authority to make market purchases of the himself aware of any relevant audit information and respect of those default shares and that no transfer Companys ordinary share capital, and to limit such to establish that the auditors are aware of that of any default shares shall be registered.
These authority to purchases of up to 34,069,945 information.
This confirmation is given and should restrictions end seven days after receipt by the ordinary shares of 0.05 each, representing up to be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Company of a notice of an approved transfer of the approximately 10% of the Companys issued section 418 of the 2006 Act.
shares or all the information required by the ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares Going Concern relevant section 793 notice, whichever is earlier.
Shares purchased under this I The Directors may refuse to register any transfer of authority may either be cancelled or held as It should be recognised that any consideration of the foreseeable future involves making a any share which is not a fully-paid share, although treasury shares.
such discretion may not be exercised in a way judgement, at a particular point in time, about Substantial Shareholdings future events which are inherently uncertain.
which the Financial Services Authority regards as g preventing dealings in shares of that class from As at 13 March 2012, the Company had been Nevertheless, at the time of preparation of these notified, in accordance with the DTRs, of the interests accounts and after making enquiries, the Directors taking place on an open or proper basis.
The Directors may likewise refuse any transfer of a in the issued share capital of the Company as set out have a reasonable expectation that the Group has in the table below.
share in favour of more than four persons jointly.
adequate resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, and taking into Auditors The Company is not aware of any other restrictions consideration the additional factors in the Financial H on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP Review on pages 28 to 30, they continue to adopt Deloitte as the Companys auditors will be other than certain restrictions that may from time the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
to time be imposed by laws and regulations for proposed by the Directors at the forthcoming AGM.
Deloitte also provide non-audit services to the example, insider trading laws : and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority Group, which are set out in Note 9 to the financial statements.
All non-audit services are approved by whereby certain employees of the Company require approval of the Company to deal in the Companys the Audit Committee.
The Directors are currently shares.
satisfied, and will continue to ensure, that this range of services is delivered in compliance with Substantial Shareholdings Issued Shares Name of Holder Number % Held Pontoil Intertrade Limited 80,862,132 23.93 BlackRock, Inc. 34,022,486 10.07 Chemsa Ltd 24,378,600 7.21 Edward T Story 12,856,794 3.80 Legal & General Group Plc 11,892,856 3.52 SOCO International plc 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 AnnuAl RepORt OF tHe dIReCtORS continued Directors Responsibilities for Directors Responsibility Statement The Directors are responsible for keeping proper J k the Financial Statements accounting records which disclose with reasonable The Directors confirm that, to the best of each The Directors are responsible for preparing the persons knowledge: accuracy at any time the financial position of the annual report and the financial statements in Company and the Group and enable them to accordance with applicable United Kingdom law a the financial statements set out on pages 72 to ensure that the accounts comply with relevant and International Financial Reporting Standards as legislation.
They are also responsible for 95, which have been prepared in accordance with adopted by the European Union both for the Group applicable United Kingdom law and International safeguarding the assets of the Company and the and the Company.
Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the the prevention and detection of fraud and other The Directors are required to prepare financial irregularities.
assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the statements for each financial year that give a true Company and of the Group taken as a whole: and and fair view of the financial position of the The Directors are responsible for the maintenance b this Directors Report, including each of the Company and of the Group and the financial and integrity of the corporate and financial performance and cash flows of the Group for that information included on the Companys website.
management reports forming part of it, includes a period.
In preparing those accounts the Directors Information published on the internet is accessible fair review of the development and performance of are required to select suitable accounting policies in many countries with different legal requirements.
the business and the position of the Company and and then apply them consistently: present Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the the Group taken as a whole, together with a information and accounting policies in a manner preparation and dissemination of financial description of the principal risks and uncertainties that provides relevant, reliable and comparable statements may differ from legislation in other that they face.
information: and state that the Company and the jurisdictions.
Group have complied with applicable accounting By order of the Board standards, subject to any material departures 13 March 2012 disclosed and explained in the accounts.
Cynthia Cagle Company Secretary The Board seeks to strike an appropriate balance between continuity of experience and succession.
SOCO International plc 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
