Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Additional Information CORpORAte gOveRnAnCe HOW We FulFIl OuR COmmItment tO tHe uk CORpORAte gOveRnAnCe COde The Company is committed to the principles Dear Shareholders independence of their fellow Directors.
This contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code I am pleased to present this introduction to included, in particular, the Boards long tenured the Code that was issued in 2010 by the Financial our 2011 Corporate Governance Report the Directors, who are believed to bring a valuable Reporting Council for which the Board is CG Report, which describes how we have quality and effectiveness to the Board as a accountable to shareholders.
implemented and applied the principles of the whole.
The CG Report sets out full details of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
processes we undertake to ensure Director The Company has applied the principles set out in SOCO is committed to the highest standards independence is retained and how the Board the Code, as described below and, in connection of governance, and we welcome the seeks to balance the benefits of experience and with Directors remuneration, in the Directors recommendations of the new Code.
Additionally, the CG Report Remuneration Report.
the annual re-election of all Directors was describes changes to the Boards Committee implemented at the last Annual General Meeting memberships, which are intended to provide full Statement of Compliance with the Code of Shareholders AGM, giving shareholders the participation of its newest Directors and to allow Throughout the year ended 31 December 2011, opportunity to examine the contributions and them to benefit from the experience of former the Company has complied with the provisions set continued effectiveness of each Director.
Our 2011 Board evaluation was externally The 2011 Board evaluation additionally identified Board of Directors A facilitated in this first year following the Code diversity as a matter for increased scrutiny in The Boards role is to provide entrepreneurial recommendation for external facilitation at least consideration of the announced intent to revise leadership and develop strategy, values and once every three years.
The Directors expressed Code provisions addressing this.
The Board standards while maintaining prudent and effective an appreciation for the fresh perspective and recognises the benefits of diversity and has controls to assess and manage risk.
The Board is new insight brought about by the externally established gender diversity in particular as responsible for ensuring that the Company meets facilitated process.
The facilitators report a priority for future recruitment, in addition its obligations to stakeholders and has adequate indicates that the Directors consider the Board to the continued attention to individual merit, resources to meet its strategic objectives.
The to be effective and are satisfied with the manner experience, independence and complementary Board of Directors, whose names and biographical in which the Board carries out its role.
details are set out on pages 44 to 45, comprises attentive to self-criticism, the evaluation process nine Directors in addition to the Chairman.
After was utilised to identify areas where the The following pages provide further detail of how an assessment process set out in more detail effectiveness of the Board might be improved.
we fulfil our commitment to good corporate below, six of these nine, including the Senior The CG Report seeks to describe how we intend governance, and in particular those principles Independent Director, have been identified in the to benefit from this process.
related to the role and effectiveness of Annual Report of the Directors on page 48 as the Board.
independent in character and judgement giving full The independence of Directors was identified as consideration to those circumstances that the a matter against which the external facilitator Code states may appear relevant.
Notwithstanding would apply particular scrutiny.
The facilitator Rui fide Sousa this, the Board is satisfied that each of the reported that each Director expressed, in Chairman Companys Directors strictly abides by their legal confidence, the strong belief in the continued and ethical duties owed to the Company to act objectively and in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
Chairman and Chief Executive The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separated and their responsibilities are clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman and the Chief Executive collectively are responsible for the leadership of the Company.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role SOCO International plc 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 CORpORAte gOveRnAnCe continued and setting its agenda.
The Chief Executive is within the Board and its committees and with does not result in a failure to retain a sufficient responsible for leading the executives and management, in compliance with Board procedures contingent of independent Directors.
ensuring their effectiveness in the running of the and governance guidelines.
The Secretary Companys business and implementing strategy facilitates an induction programme for new The independence of each Non-Executive Director and policy.
Together the Chairman and Chief Directors on appointment, which is tailored to a is assessed at least annually.
Independence was Executive Officer are responsible for promoting new Directors individual qualifications and additionally identified as a matter for increased the highest standards of integrity and probity.
The Secretary provides advice and scrutiny in the externally facilitated Board service as may be required in the ongoing evaluation, as described more fully in the Executive and Non-Executive Directors discharge of the Directors duties, including Nominations Committee report.
To be identified as Executive Directors are responsible for ensuring that the Company provides the necessary independent a Director must be determined implementing the Boards agreed strategy through resources for access to independent advice and independent in character and judgement and free the development of an appropriate business plan any individual professional training and from any relationships or circumstances which are and for executing actions approved by the Board in development needs agreed with each Director.
likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their accordance with relevant authorities.
The division Additionally, briefing sessions are provided in the judgement including in particular those set out in of responsibilities between the Executive Directors course of regular Board meetings and Committee the Code.
Particular scrutiny is applied in is set by the Board.
meetings on relevant issues as deemed appropriate, assessing the continued independence of including in relation to corporate governance and Directors having served over nine years, with The Executive Directors provide the leadership of social responsibility as well as new and evolving attention to ensuring that interactions with the senior managers in the day-to-day running of statutory and other compliance matters.
Executive Directors have not in any way eroded the Groups business and manage the Groups risk their independence and that their allegiance programmes including the environmental, health, Board Balance and Independence remains clearly aligned with shareholders.
Board safety and social performance of the business.
The Board embraces the underlying principles of refreshment and tenure are considered together, They must ensure the Company has adequate the Code provisions regarding tenure and and weighed for relevant benefit in the foreseeable financial and human resources to meet its refreshing of the Board, and seeks to strike an circumstances, given further that the Board should objectives.
They are responsible for reporting the appropriate balance between continuity of not be enlarged to a size that is unwieldy.
performance and strategic direction of the Group experience and succession.
The findings of the to the Board and for providing accurate, timely and externally facilitated Board evaluation confirmed In conducting its current assessment the Board clear information to enable the Board to make the Boards previously stated position concerning referred to guidance setting out criteria deemed sound decisions.
independence, in that an individuals relevant to determining whether a Director independence cannot be determined arbitrarily on continues to exhibit those qualities and behaviours The Non-Executive Directors, who undertake a the basis of a set period of time, or by a set period it considers essential to be considered supervisory role, contribute to the development of of concurrent tenure with an Executive Director.
A specific set of focused criteria strategic proposals through constructive probing Each of the Non-Executive Directors tenure has was applied to the assessment of long based on review and analysis that brings to bear run concurrently with the Companys Executive tenured Directors.
the particular skills, experience and knowledge Directors, both of whom have been in office from each brings to the Board.
The Non-Executive the Companys initial listing.
The Company Consideration was also given to the results of Directors review managements performance and manages a portfolio of long term, complex individual evaluation and continued satisfactory ensure that the systems in place provide adequate projects and benefits from long serving Directors performance as well as each Directors ability and effective financial, operational and compliance with detailed knowledge of the Companys to allocate sufficient time to discharge their controls and risk management.
They must be operations and with the proven commitment, respective Board and Committee responsibilities.
satisfied that they have sufficient information for experience and competence to effectively advise Following assessment, Ambassador Antnio the discharge of their duties, which may be and oversee the Companys management on Monteiro was determined to be independent.
achieved through dialogue with management, behalf of shareholders.
The Company seeks to Mr Michael Johns, the Senior Independent training where appropriate to update their ensure its Directors are focused on a long term Non-Executive Director, was determined to be knowledge or skills and consultation with approach, and does not impose fixed term limits independent notwithstanding a former role as independent professional advisors as required.
as this would result in a loss of experience and partner for a legal advisor that has ceased to have knowledge without assurance of increased a material business relationship with the Company.
Accordingly, the Boards Dr Mike Watts was also determined to be The Company Secretary, who is appointed by the assessment of independence is of prime independent despite a former cross-directorship Board, is responsible for facilitating the importance to ensure that retention of experience with the Chief Executive.
These relationships have communications and processes of the Board, both SOCO International plc 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
