CORpORAte gOveRnAnCe continued is critical to the success of the Company.
The Accountability and Audit a continuous process, which has been in place d Board functions as a unitary body, within which Directors and Auditors Responsibilities throughout the year to the date of this report and Directors assume certain roles to ensure the The responsibilities of the Directors and auditors which is in accordance with revised guidance on Board as a whole fulfils its responsibilities.
These are set out in the Annual Report of the Directors internal control published by the Financial roles, including Committee memberships, are on pages 47 to 50 and in the Independent Reporting Council in October 2005, for identifying, designed to maximise the effective contribution of Auditors Report on page 71. evaluating and managing the significant risks the each of the Non-Executive Directors to the Board, Group faces.
its Committees and to the Executive Directors, Going Concern The Groups financial statements have been while ensuring an appropriate balance is The Board regularly reviews the process, which is maintained.
The composition of the Board and its prepared on a going concern basis as described in constantly evolving to meet the demands of a the Financial Review on page 30 and the Annual Committees is in accordance with Code dynamic environment.
At least annually, the Non-Executive Report of the Directors on page 49.
Directors meet without the Executives present In compliance with Provision C. 2.1 of the Code, and, led by the Senior Independent Director, meet Risk Management and Internal Control the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal without the Chairman present.
Such meetings are The Directors are responsible for establishing, control, including financial, operational and conducted in the spirit of good governance and maintaining and reviewing the effectiveness of a compliance controls and risk management, is process, and are intended to ensure a forum for sound system of internal control which is designed regularly reviewed by the Directors.
The review is open dialogue without disruption of Board unity.
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the based principally on discussions with management reliability of financial information and to safeguard and on reviewing reports provided by management Conflicts of Interest the shareholders investment and the assets of the to consider whether significant risks are identified, C Directors have power to authorise, where Company and Group.
Given the inherent limitations evaluated, managed and controlled, but also may appropriate, a situation where a Director has, or in any system of internal control, even a sound include independent interaction with employees or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, system can only provide reasonable assurance, third parties.
Particular scrutiny is applied to the or possibly may conflict, with the Companys and not absolute assurance, that the Company review of controls applicable to new or evolving interests.
Such authority is in accordance with will not be hindered in achieving its business areas of risks as they are identified.
section 175 of the 2006 Companies Act.
objectives or be protected against material Procedures are in place for ensuring that the misstatement or loss.
The Board has put in place The Board considers whether appropriate actions Boards powers of authorisation are operated formally defined lines of responsibility and are taken promptly to correct any significant effectively.
Directors are required to notify the delegation of authority and has delegated to weaknesses identified, and if more extensive Company of any conflicts of interest or potential executive management the implementation of monitoring may be required.
The Board confirms conflicts of interest that may arise, before they material internal control systems.
Documented that such actions as deemed necessary and arise either in relation to the Director concerned or policies and procedures are in place for key appropriate have been or are being taken to his connected persons.
The decision to authorise systems and processes and the authority of the remedy any significant failings or weaknesses each situation is considered separately on its Directors is required for key matters.
The Board seeks to ensure particular facts.
Only Directors who have no that internal control and risk management interest in the matter are able to take the relevant A comprehensive budgeting process is in place for processes, including dealing with any identified decision, and must act in a way they consider, in all items of expenditure and an annual budget is areas of improvement, are embedded within good faith, will be most likely to promote the approved by the Board.
Actual results are reported the business.
The Directors will impose against budget on a regular basis.
Revised such limits or conditions as they deem appropriate forecasts for the year and longer term financial The Board has performed a specific assessment when giving authorisation or when an actual projections are produced regularly throughout for the purpose of this Annual Report and conflict arises.
These may include provisions the year.
Accounts, which considers all significant aspects relating to confidential information, attendance at of internal control arising during the period, and is Board meetings and availability of Board papers, The Board has the primary responsibility for satisfied with the process employed and the along with other measures as determined identifying the major business risks facing the results thereof.
The Audit Committee spearheads appropriate.
The Board reviews its conflict Company and Group and developing appropriate the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
policies to manage those risks.
The risk Audit Committee membership comprises highly management approach is used to focus attention experienced professionals with complementary on the Groups most significant areas of risk and areas of expertise in the oil and gas sector and to determine key control objectives.
The Board has each Committee member makes an important applied Principle C. 2 of the Code, by establishing contribution to the assurance process.
Each SOCO International plc 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
