bOARd OF dIReCtORS ed Story A pROven tRACk Title, age: President and Chief Executive Officer, 68 ReCORd WItH A Appointment date: April 1997 Committee membership: dIveRSIty OF Nominations Committee Background and relevant expeRIenCe And experience: Ed Story has over 40 years experience in the oil InSIgHt and gas industry, beginning with Exxon Corporation, where he held various positions including seven years resident in the Far East.
He was formerly the Vice President and CFO of Superior Oil Company, a co-founder and Vice Chairman of Conquest Exploration Company and a co-founder and President of Snyder Oil Corporations international subsidiary.
Ed was a non-executive director of Cairn Energy PLC until 2008 and is currently a non-executive director of Cairn India Limited.
Rui fide Sousa Roger Cagle Title, age: Non-Executive Title, age: Executive Vice Chairman, 56 President, Deputy CEO and Chief Appointment date: July 1999 Financial Officer, 64 Committee membership: Appointment date: April 1997 Nominations Committee Committee membership: None Chairman Background and relevant Background and relevant experience: Roger Cagle has experience: Rui fide Sousa has over 35 years of experience in approximately 30 years experience in the energy sector.
He is the oil and gas industry including succeeding positions of currently a director of Quantic Limited and the President of responsibility with Exxon Corporation and senior management roles Quantic Mining.
He was formerly the Chief Financial Officer of Conquest Exploration Company and the Chief Financial Officer of Snyder Oil Corporations international subsidiary.
Roger is also a non-executive director of Vostok Energy Limited.
michael Johns Olivier barbaroux Title, age: Non-Executive and Title, age: Non-Executive Senior Independent Director, 64 Director, 56 Appointment date: June 2011 Appointment date: July 1999 Committee membership: Committee membership: None Remuneration Chairman, Audit Committee advisorship: and Nominations Committees Remuneration and Nominations Background and relevant Committees experience: Michael Johns is a Background and relevant solicitor by profession with over 35 years experience as partner at experience: Olivier Barbaroux has over 20 years experience in the international law firms.
Until his retirement in 2009, he was a energy and utilities sector.
He was the Chairman and CEO of Dalkia partner at Ashurst LLP, where he specialised in a broad range of and a member of the Executive Committee of Veolia Environment practice areas including corporate, corporate finance and energy until 2011.
Formerly, he was the Managing Director of Compagnie law and was Head of Energy, Transport & Infrastructure.
Michael Gnrale des Eaux, President and Chief Operating Officer of Vivendi was previously a partner at Withers for 13 years and more recently Water S. A. the Head of the Energy Sector of Paribas and the Chief has served as a Director of Aer Lingus Group plc.
Executive Officer of the oil and gas production and exploration company Coparex International.
SOCO International plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Robert Cathery John norton Title, age: Non-Executive Title, age: Non-Executive Director, 67 Director, 74 Appointment date: June 2001 Appointment date: April 1997 Committee membership: None Committee membership: Audit Committee advisorship: Committee Chairman Remuneration and Nominations Committee advisorship: Committees Nominations Committee Background and relevant Background and relevant experience: Robert Cathery has over 40 years of City experience.
experience: John Norton is a Chartered Accountant by profession He was formerly the Managing Director and Head of Oil and Gas at and was a partner at Arthur Andersen, heading the oil and gas Canaccord Capital Europe Limited, Head of Corporate Sales at SG practice in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, until his retirement in Securities London Ltd. director of Vickers da Costa and director of 1995.
John was formerly also a member of the Oil Industry Schroders Securities.
Robert is also currently a non-executive Accounting Committee and a director of the Arab-British Chamber director of Vostok Energy Limited, Salamander Energy PLC and of Commerce.
ettore Contini mike Watts Title, age: Non-Executive Title, age: Non-Executive Director, 37 Director, 56 Appointment date: December Appointment date: August 2001 2009 Committee membership: None Committee membership: Audit, Background and relevant Remuneration and Nominations experience: Ettore Contini was Committees formerly a director of Energia E Background and relevant Servize SpA and an asset manager in the private banking division of experience: Dr Mike Watts is currently the Deputy Chief Executive Banca del Gottardo.
Ettore is currently also a director of Eurowattof Cairn Energy PLC and has over 30 years experience in the oil and Commerce.
He was formerly the CEO and Managing Director of the Amsterdam listed Holland Sea Search, which was acquired by Cairn Energy PLC in 1995, and has held senior technical and management Antnio monteiro roles with Premier, Burmah and Shell.
Title, age: Non-Executive Director, 68 Appointment date: June 2009 Committee membership: Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees Background and relevant experience: Ambassador Antnio Monteiro has over 40 years of experience with the Portuguese Ministry of Foreign Affairs, including as Foreign Minister of Portugal, and with international organisations, including as UN High Representative for Elections in Cte dIvoire and as a member of the UN Secretary-Generals Panel on the Referenda in the Sudan.
He was formerly the Ambassador of Portugal to France and the Permanent Representative of Portugal to the United Nations, where posts included being President of the Security Council and of the Security Councils Committee established by Resolution 661 1990.
Antnio is currently also Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Portuguese Bank Millenium BCP Banco Comercial Portugus, a non-executive member of the Board of the Angolan Bank BPA Banco Privado Atlntico, President of the Luso-Brazilian Foundation Curators Council and a member of the Faculty of Human and Social Sciences General Council of the Universidade Nova fide Lisboa.
SOCO International plc 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
