Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Additional Information ceased and are not relevant to the determination Succession and Appointments the assessment of Board competencies and of independence under the Code.
Any current The Companys process for succession seeks first attributes.
Appointments are made through a outside links to other Directors are not considered to ensure that the Board comprises an appropriate formal process led by the Nominations Committee, significant and in particular do not result in balance of knowledge, skills, independence and which is set out in more detail in the Nominations reciprocal influence.
The Company has an ongoing process Committee report and was applied in the for assessing the specific competencies required appointment of Mr Michael Johns in 2011.
After particular scrutiny, Mr John Norton, Mr on the Board, giving consideration to relevant Following an appointment, the Company Secretary Olivier Barbaroux and Mr Robert Cathery, each factors arising from Board and individual Director facilitates a process of induction and assimilation having served on the Board for more than nine evaluations, including effectiveness and time determined appropriate to the appointees years, were determined to be independent.
This assessment also considers particular role and experience.
of these Directors continues to display an aspects of diversity and how this could contribute appropriate independence from Executive to maximum Board effectiveness.
After Board Structure and Process b The Board typically has four scheduled Directors.
They each continue to express their assessment of the competencies required, the individual viewpoints, debate issues and Board is satisfied that the current Non-Executive meetings a year and holds additional meetings as necessary.
During 2011, the Board held four objectively scrutinise and challenge management.
Directors comprise an appropriate balance of Each seeks clarification and amplification as knowledge, skills, independence and experience.
scheduled meetings as deemed required for the effective discharge of its duties during the period.
deemed required, including through direct access The Board benefits from gender diversity around to the Groups employees and external advisors.
the Board table with participation by the Company Attendance of Directors at scheduled Board meetings and attendance of members at the Audit, After careful consideration of the relevant factors, Secretary at formal and informal meetings of the the Board has determined that the tenure of these Board and its Committees.
The Board additionally Remuneration and Nominations Committees is set Directors has not affected their independence or identified gender diversity as a matter for out in the table on page 58.
Although a scheduling their ability to bring judgement to bear in the increased scrutiny in its externally facilitated Board conflict prevented Dr Mike Watts from attending discharge of their duties as Board and Committee evaluation, and has established this as a priority the Board and Remuneration Committee meetings members.
The Board considers that the varied and for future recruitment.
held in March 2011, he however was fully relevant experience of its independent Directors prepared and available for consultation and combined provide an exceptional balance of skills Succession which allows for refreshment while participation by telephone.
Mr Bob Cathery and Mr and experience required for the business.
maximising continuity of experience is considered Ettore Contini each missed a single meeting due to to be in the best interest of shareholders.
SOCO unforeseen and unavoidable personal Reappointment considers a Non-Executive Directors most circumstances.
All members were otherwise in In accordance with the Code, all Directors are appropriate term of office as generally longer than attendance at all Board and Committee meetings.
subject to annual election by shareholders, which that envisioned in Code guidelines.
The Company was voluntarily adopted by the Company at the undertakes projects requiring long term life cycles The Board determines the Companys business 2011 AGM.
Reappointment of each Director is from licence negotiation through production strategy and provides the entrepreneurial recommended in consideration of the results of operations.
Longstanding Directors who have leadership required to ensure its strategic aims individual evaluation and demonstrated continued acquired, over a number of years, a sound and can be achieved.
The Board operates within a satisfactory performance, commitment and detailed knowledge of the Companys business are formal framework of decision making designed to effectiveness.
Consideration is given to the broad highly valued as uniquely qualified to contribute to reserve matters of establishing the strategy, capabilities represented on the Board and the the Companys leadership.
Excluding the business plan and nature or scope of the ability of these to meet the unique challenges Chairman, the Board seats four long tenured Companys business to the Board.
Under this facing the Company.
Consideration is additionally Non-Executive Directors, who serve on the Board framework, authority for implementing the strategy given to the balance of the Boards composition along with three newly appointed over the last and decisions taken by the Board is largely and the need for diversity and refreshment.
The Company considers it has delegated to the Executive Directors and achieved an appropriate balance between the management within a system of internal controls A Non-Executive Director term exceeding six years benefits of continuity and refreshment.
The designed to enable the risks of the Group to be is subject to particularly rigorous review.
The Company has additionally sought to maximise the managed effectively.
Additionally, the Board has process for considering reappointments is benefits of independence, refreshment and established clear expectations for the Companys described more fully in the Nominations continuity in constituting each of its Committees.
economic, social and environmental conduct to Committee section below.
Following this process promote the highest level of integrity and honesty the Board recommends the reappointment of the Board appointments are made in consideration of in meeting its obligations to its stakeholders.
retiring Directors, who have each offered the process for succession, and against objective SOCOs Board membership comprises a broad themselves for reappointment.
criteria which are developed in consideration of range of skills, knowledge and experience, which SOCO International plc 53 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
