Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Additional Information member undertakes specific review processes in assistance in the dissemination of information to roles created which the Board believes provides their areas of financial and audit, technical and shareholders and the general public and to actively for full participation of its newest Directors and operating, diplomatic and commercial and legal solicit feedback as to the effectiveness of such additionally allows them to benefit from the expertise and reports the results of their work to efforts.
Additionally, the Company maintains an experience of former committee members.
the full Committee and to the Board.
ongoing, active dialogue with institutional Attendance at scheduled committee meetings by shareholders, specifically and proactively seeking all members serving during the period is set out in Internal Audit Function opportunities for face-to-face meetings at least the table on page 58.
Whilst only Committee Although the Company does not currently have an twice a year, coincident with half year and full year members are entitled to attend meetings and vote, internal audit function, the Directors review at results, between fund managers and Company Directors in advisory roles are generally invited to least annually the need to establish such a executive management.
In 2011, the Company has attend and other Directors may be invited to function.
The Companys current staff size limits also actively sought an increased dialogue with attend from time to time to ensure the the ability to form an effective internal audit shareholders and other stakeholders regarding its Committees responsibilities are undertaken with function and, accordingly, the Company sustainable development policies and procedures.
access to the Boards full breadth of knowledge outsources any internal audit requirements.
The Company Secretary ensures Brokers reports are discussed at scheduled Board that the Company additionally provides such Relations with Shareholders meetings and public relations and analysts resources as the Committees require in the The Executive Directors are responsible for reports are distributed to the full Board.
ensuring effective communication is maintained Non-Executive Director maintains regular with key stakeholders and partners, including communications with SOCOs major institutional Audit Committee establishing an appropriate level of contact with shareholders, reports feedback directly to the The Audit Committees primary responsibilities major shareholders and ensuring that their views Board and advises the Board when additional include reviewing the effectiveness of the are communicated to the Board.
The Noncommunication from the Chairman, Senior Companys and the Groups systems of internal Executive Directors are responsible for taking Independent or other Non-Executive Directors has control, overseeing the selection of and sufficient steps to understand these views, been requested.
The Chairman regularly interfaces relationship with external auditors and the review including any issues or concerns.
The Board and monitoring of the integrity of financial considers whether additional communication may statements.
The Committee is responsible for SOCO maintains an open and active dialogue with be appropriate or desirable.
In particular, the review of the Groups major financial, operational shareholders.
The Company maintains a website delegated role of the Senior Independent Director and corporate responsibility risk management wherein important information can be posted and includes being available to shareholders if they processes.
The effectiveness of these processes disseminated promptly to a wide audience and have concerns which cannot be fully or is monitored on a continuous basis and a formal through which shareholders can electronically appropriately addressed by the Chairman or the assessment is conducted at least annually.
The interface with executive management.
Committee has been delegated the responsibility minimum, the Company provides three personal for advising the full Board on compliance with the communication forums annually the AGM, the Committees Code, including its risk management and internal e The Board has established three presentation of Annual Results and the control requirements, as well as compliance with presentation of Half Year Results whereby Committees, as described below, each having evolving guidance on corporate governance formal terms of reference TOR approved by shareholders can directly interface with Company issues generally.
Notice of the AGM is the Board which set out its delegated role and authority.
The TORs, which are available for circulated to all shareholders at least 20 working Composition of the Audit Committee days prior to the meeting, and resolutions are inspection, are set in consideration of the The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr John Norton provisions of the Code and are reviewed from proposed for each substantially separate issue.
and additionally comprises Mr Michael Johns, the The result of proxy voting is announced after votes time to time in the context of evolving guidance.
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director are taken on a show of hands.
Directors including Each Directors specific Committee memberships, appointed 23 June 2011, and Ambassador the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and including as Chairmen, are set out on pages 44 Antnio Monteiro and Dr Mike Watts who are Nominations Committees are available to answer and 45. independent Non-Executive Directors.
The shareholder questions and to respond to any qualifications of each of the members are set out specific queries.
A review of each Committees membership was on pages 44 and 45.
The Board is satisfied that completed in December 2011 in order to ensure the collective experience of the members includes The Company has assigned a senior executive the optimum utilisation of competencies on the Board relevant and recent financial experience and responsibility for investor relations and has while maintaining a balance between the benefits provides the complement of skills required for the employed an outside agency, both to provide of refreshment and continuity.
Certain committee memberships have been realigned and advisory SOCO International plc 55 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 CORpORAte gOveRnAnCe continued Committee to discharge its functions effectively.
In changed in accordance with the external auditors half year reports.
The Committee considered the particular, Mr Norton is a Chartered Accountant policy for rotation and relevant ethical guidance.
significant financial reporting issues, accounting and former member of the Oil Industry Accounting The Committee also considered the likelihood of a policies and judgements impacting the financial Committee.
Although Mr Norton is a longstanding withdrawal of the auditor from the market and statements, and the clarity of disclosures.
The Director, his professional experience fully prepared noted that there are no contractual obligations to Committee conducted a review of its TOR for him for maintaining independence and objectivity restrict the choice of external auditors.
in this circumstance, and the Board is completely concurred with the Committees recommendation satisfied that these attributes are diligently applied for the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as the External Auditors Non-Audit Services in the discharge of his duties.
Companys auditors for 2012, which will be The external auditors are appointed primarily to proposed to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
carry out the statutory audit and their continued Meetings independence and objectivity is fundamental to The Audit Committee meets at least three times a The Committee undertook a detailed risk that role.
In view of their knowledge of the year.
The Chief Financial Officer and a assessment whereby it reviewed existing risks and business, there may be occasions when the representative of the external auditors are identified new risks as appropriate.
The likelihood external auditors are best placed to undertake normally invited to attend meetings.
Other and significance of each risk was considered other services on behalf of the Group.
The Audit Directors are invited to attend as determined along with associated mitigating factors and was Committee has a policy which sets out those appropriate or beneficial.
At least once a year the reported to the Board.
Any new, or changes to non-audit services which the external auditors Committee meets with the external auditors existing, risks were monitored throughout the year may provide and those which are prohibited.
without executive Board members present.
and considered at each Audit Committee meeting.
Within that policy, any non-audit service must be As part of this process, the Committee has pre-approved by the Committee.
Before approving The Committee held three meetings in 2011 and established a detailed bribery risk assessment and a non-audit service, consideration is given to has conducted one meeting to date in 2012, all of mitigation procedure designed to ensure that the whether the materiality of the fees, the nature of which were attended by executive management Company has appropriate procedures in place to the service, or the level of reliance to be placed on and external auditors.
A private session, without eliminate bribery and that all employees, agents it by SOCO would create, or appear to create, a executives present, was held during two of these and other associated persons are made fully threat to independence.
If it is determined that meetings.
Additionally, a number of other informal aware of the Groups policies and procedures.
such a threat might arise, approval will not be meetings and communications took place between The Committee has reviewed, and is satisfied granted unless the Audit Committee is satisfied the Chairman, various Committee members, with, the Companys arrangements for that appropriate safeguards are applied to ensure external auditors and the Companys executives whistleblowing, whereby staff may raise independence and objectivity are not impaired.
concerns regarding improprieties in confidence, The auditor is prohibited from providing any which would be addressed with appropriate services which result in certain circumstances that Overview of Activities follow-up action.
have been deemed to present such a threat, The Committee reviewed and approved the terms including auditing their own work, taking and scope of the audit engagement, the audit plan On behalf of the Board, the Committee has management decisions for the Group or creating and the results of the audit with the external reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys either a mutuality or conflict of interest.
The auditors, including the scope of services internal controls and risk management systems, Company has taken steps to develop resources associated with audit-related regulatory reporting including consideration of an internal audit and relationships in order to establish availability services.
An assessment of the effectiveness of function, which is more fully described in the Risk of alternate advisors for financial and other the audit process was made, giving consideration Management and Internal Control section of this matters.
Additionally, the Committee closely to reports from the auditors on their internal report.
The Committee has reviewed and approved monitors the terms on which the Remuneration quality procedures.
Additionally, auditor the related compliance statements set out therein.
Committee, with approval of the Audit Committee, independence and objectivity were assessed, The Committee has additionally reviewed and has independently appointed the Companys giving consideration to the auditors confirmation approved the statements regarding compliance auditors as advisors.
The advisors terms of that their independence is not impaired, the overall with the Code.
The Committee reviewed and reference restrict the provision of certain services extent of non-audit services provided by the discussed with management and the auditors the in order to maintain auditor independence and the external auditors as described further below and Companys relevant financial information prior to scope and value of services to the Group is under the past service of the auditors who were first recommendation for Board approval.
During the period, the Senior in particular the financial statements and other Audit Partner assigned to the Company was material information presented in the annual and SOCO International plc 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Committee approved the non-audit services During the year the Committee reviewed Board The Committee successfully conducted a search provided by the external auditors in 2011, having structure, size and composition, including a profile utilising this process in 2011 to identify concluded such services were compatible with of the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity independent candidates who could refresh and auditor independence and were consistent with represented on the Board, which was utilised add value to the Board through complementary relevant ethical guidance.
Details of non-audit to facilitate the Boards review of Director skills and attributes following the retirement of Mr services are set out in Note 9 to the financial independence, including tenure in particular.
Peter Kingston and Mr Martin Roberts at the 2011 statements.
The Committee made recommendations to the AGM, which resulted in the appointment of Mr Board concerning plans for succession reflecting Michael Johns in June 2011.
Mr Johns not only Nominations Committee the need for refreshment while taking into account brings a wide range of valuable skills to the Board, The Nominations Committee is chaired by Mr Rui the skills, experience and diversity needed on the he additionally provides specific complementary fide Sousa, the Non-Executive Chairman of the Board to best meet the specific challenges and expertise in particular through his background as a Company.
Mr Ed Story, the Chief Executive Officer, opportunities facing the Company.
The results of senior lawyer specialising in the oil and gas sector.
Committee membership these reviews were in turn utilised in developing Mr Johns has been appointed Senior Independent additionally comprises independent Non-Executive the Committees recommendations regarding Director, Chairman of the Remuneration Directors Dr Mike Watts, who served throughout potential Board appointments as well as for Committee and a member of the Audit and 2011, and Ambassador Antnio Monteiro and Mr continuation in office and reappointment of Nominations Committees.
Following a period of Michael Johns, who were appointed following the retiring Directors.
induction and assimilation the Board will continue review conducted in December 2011.
Messrs John planning for succession, again seeking to benefit Norton, Olivier Barbaroux and Robert Cathery After giving consideration to Board structure and from refreshment while maximising continuity stood down as members and were appointed as composition, evaluations, time commitments, of experience.
Advisors in December 2011. length of service, individual contributions, refreshment and the requirements of the Board, Performance Evaluation The Committee meets at least once a year.
Its the Committee recommended that each of the During 2011, the Committee led the Board in primary responsibilities include making retiring Directors offering to stand for evaluating its own performance and that of its recommendations to the Board regarding the reappointment be proposed by the Board at the Committees and individual Directors.
The appointment and reappointment of Directors and forthcoming AGM.
evaluation was externally facilitated in confidence Committee memberships.
It is responsible for by a firm that has provided secretariat and review and recommendations regarding overall Process for Board Appointments governance advice to the Company.
The evaluation Board structure and composition, succession The Committee has a process in place for entailed both detailed questionnaires and planning and establishing an ongoing process for identifying and nominating candidates to fill interviews.
The external facilitator sought evaluating the Board and its members.
Further vacancies which may arise from time to time, evaluation of the Board and its effectiveness as a details of the discharge of these responsibilities including ensuring Board membership is whole, but with an emphasis on the critical issues are set out below in addition to sections above sufficiently refreshed and retains an appropriate the Board will face in the next three to five years regarding in particular board balance, balance of skills and experience.
The Committee and with increased scrutiny in areas including independence, succession and appointments.
develops an appropriate description of the role, Director independence, the approach to gender estimated time commitment and the capabilities diversity, and Directors training.
The Directors The Committee held three meetings in 2011 and and attributes which would complement the expressed an appreciation for the fresh has conducted one meeting to date in 2012.
Other composition of the Board and its Committees.
The perspective and new insight brought about by the Non-Executive Directors were in attendance at a Committee would expect to utilise an independent externally facilitated process.
portion of these meetings by invitation.
Certain external advisor to facilitate any search.
A diverse Committee functions were delegated to a list of candidates is compiled and a rigorous The process was undertaken for the purpose of sub-committee, which acted on behalf of the review process undertaken, involving other Board adding value to the quality of the Board and its Committee after an appropriate dialogue among members as deemed appropriate.
Committee procedures through identifying and addressing Committee members to ensure a consensus of recommendations, which are to be made on merit, strengths and weaknesses, and the Chairman led views.
Additionally, a number of other informal against objective criteria and with due regard for discussions with the Committee and the full Board meetings and communications took place between the benefits of diversity, are submitted for full regarding the results.
The Senior Independent the Chairman, various Committee members and Board approval.
The Company Secretary facilitates Director facilitated relevant discussions regarding the Companys executives and employees.
The results included a commitment by the Board to continue its primary focus on corporate strategy.
The Board confirmed its commitment to a rigorous process for the SOCO International plc 57 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 CORpORAte gOveRnAnCe continued assessment of independence, and is satisfied it Remuneration Committee Executive Directors and the Company Secretary.
has led to an appropriate designation of The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Mr During 2011, the Committee conducted a review independent Directors.
The Board established a Michael Johns appointed 23 June 2011, the of its TOR for continued effectiveness.
Details of focus on gender diversity as a matter of priority in Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
the Committees policies and objectives are set future recruitment, and management committed to Remaining Committee membership comprises out in the Directors Remuneration Report on provide more detailed and regular reporting to the independent Non-Executive Director Ambassador pages 59 to 67.
Board on the Companys extensive social Antnio Monteiro, who served throughout 2011, programmes.
Actions for improvement are being and Dr Mike Watts, who was appointed following undertaken as deemed appropriate, with effect the review conducted in December 2011. from the March 2012 Board meeting.
Additionally, Messrs Olivier Barbaroux and Robert Cathery the evaluation results were utilised to assess stood down as members and were appointed as Director effectiveness, time commitments of Advisors in December 2011.
The names and Non-Executive Directors and training and qualifications of each of the members are set out development needs of each Director, which were on pages 44 and 45.
The Committee is reviewed by the Chairman.
The Committee responsible for recommending for approval by the performed a review of its TOR as part of this full Board the remuneration of the Chairman, the process.
Meeting Attendance by Directors Audit Committee Remuneration Nominations Annual General Board Meeting Meeting Committee Meeting Committee Meeting Meeting R fide Sousa M Johns P Kingston O Barbaroux R Cagle R Cathery E Contini A Monteiro J Norton M Roberts E Story M Watts Denotes 2011 scheduled meeting attended Denotes 2012 scheduled meeting attended Denotes 2011 scheduled meeting not attended Denotes 2012 no meeting scheduled or not a member Denotes 2011 no meeting scheduled or not a member SOCO International plc 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
