dIReCtORS RemuneRAtIOn RepORt continued on early termination will be assessed on the basis of the financial statements.
The Group has entered into the particular circumstances, but in any event will a consulting agreement, which is terminable by not be in respect of any period beyond the one year either party on 30 days written notice, wherein specified by contract.
Quantic is entitled to a consulting fee in the amount of $50,000 per month in respect of such services as The Non-Executive Directors appointments are are required to review, assess and progress the terminable at the will of the parties but are realisation of oil and gas exploration and production envisaged to establish an initial term of three years opportunities in certain areas.
after which they will be reviewed annually.
The dates of the Directors service contracts or letters of Pursuant to warrants to subscribe for the same appointment, which may not coincide with their number of ordinary shares in the Company, which initial date of appointment, are set out in the Annual had been acquired under the terms of the 1999 Report of the Directors on page 48. transaction described above Warrants, during 2010 a connected party to Mr Rui fide Sousa exercised Warrants over 6,036,804 ordinary shares at a Directors Transactions weighted average market price of 3.99, resulting in H Pursuant to a lease dated 20 April 1997, a gain of 23.2 million on exercise.
During 2011, no Comfort Storyville a company wholly owned by Mr Warrants were held and no exercises were made.
Ed Story has leased to the Group, office and storage space in Comfort, Texas.
The lease, which was negotiated on an arms length basis, has a fixed monthly rent of $1,000.
In March 2008, the Company, through its Group subsidiary, entered into a production sharing contract over Block V, located in eastern DRC.
Total Shareholder Return Mr Roger Cagle served as Non-Executive Chairman of Dominion Petroleum Limited, one of the % SOCO Cumulative change co-venturers, until February 2012.
FTSE Oil & Gas Index Cumulative change Under the terms of an acquisition approved by 60 shareholders in 1999, the Company and its strategic shareholder group Investor Group, including 40 Quantic Limited Quantic in which Mr Rui fide Sousa 20 has a non-notifiable share interest, jointly participate in certain regions in which the Investor Group utilises 0 its long established industry and government relationships to negotiate and secure commercial -20 rights in oil and gas projects.
In the 2004 Annual Report and Accounts the form of participation to be 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 utilised was set out to be through equity shareholdings in which the Investor Group holds a Year End minority interest in special purpose entities created Source: Datastream to hold such projects.
The shareholding terms have Note: This graph illustrates five year TSR performance been modelled after the SOCO Vietnam Ltd against the FTSE Oil & Gas Index and therefore does not arrangement which was negotiated with third represent either the comparator group or time period parties.
Quantics minority holdings in the subsidiary against which performance is assessed under the LTIP.
undertakings, which principally affected the profits or net assets of the Group, are shown in Note 17 of SOCO International plc 64 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
