dIReCtORS RemuneRAtIOn RepORt continued The Board is keenly aware of its duty to ensure, on Deloitte LLP Deloitte, who have voluntarily signed The Committee aims to design remuneration behalf of shareholders, that the Committee is wholly up to the Remuneration Consultants Code of packages with significant performance related independent.
All members and advisors are Conduct, were independently retained by the elements linking appropriate, but significantly independent of management and free from any Committee as advisors following a tender process.
In greater, rewards for greater achievements.
The conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships the year they provided advice on executive Committee seeks to ensure performance based or day-to-day involvement in running the Companys remuneration in terms of relevant current market pay is linked to its business strategy.
No member has any personal financial practice and developments in best practice shorter term performance is monitored against interest, other than as a shareholder, in the matters guidance, and in particular on the testing and setting targets based on the Companys strategic plan.
No Director plays a role of performance criteria for incentive plans.
Deloitte In the longer term, performance targets are more in deciding his own remuneration.
also provided audit services to the Group, as set out closely linked to share price performance as an in Note 9 to the financial statements and described indicator of the Companys success in building The Committee is responsible for determining and more fully in the Corporate Governance Report on shareholder value.
Within this broad framework, agreeing with the full Board a Company-wide pages 51 to 58.
The advisors terms of reference the Committee takes particular care to ensure that remuneration policy that is aligned with the restrict the provision of certain services in order to remuneration is designed to promote the long term Companys business strategy and ultimately the maintain auditor independence, and the scope and success of the Company and does not reward creation of shareholder value.
Within the context of value of services to the Group is under continuous excessive risk taking or failure.
that policy, the Committee is responsible for setting review to ensure it is not material to the assessment the total remuneration packages of the Executive of independence.
Advice is developed with use of Executive Directors C The Committee reviews all aspects of Directors and the Company Secretary.
The established methodologies and the advisors are not Committee also monitors the remuneration practices involved in the decision making process.
Advisory remuneration on an annual basis and with respect to individual and corporate performance during the and trends throughout the Groups internationally partners and staff have no involvement in audit, and based workforce, including senior staff who are not involved in the preparation of audited year.
These reviews are normally conducted in December.
The projected value and structure of the contribute most significantly to achieving the information.
The Committee is satisfied that the Companys strategic aims.
Additionally, the remuneration advice it receives from Deloitte Executive Directors remuneration packages are periodically benchmarked against competitive Committee is responsible for setting the is independent.
remuneration of the Non-Executive Chairman.
During this exercise, the Groups size Remuneration Policy Committees recommendations and decisions are and complexity and relative positioning within those b developed in full consideration of the Code, The policies described in this report have been ranges are taken into account in the context of the applied throughout 2011.
The Committee monitors institutional guidelines and evolving market practice, Executive Directors critical value to the Company with particular attention being given to the remuneration policies on a continuing basis including and demonstrated performance over time.
consideration of evolving market practice and challenges represented by the current economic environment.
relevant guidance: shareholder views and results of Benchmarking, which was previously conducted previous voting: policies applied to the wider annually, is generally conducted on a three year In discharging its duties during the year, the employee base: and with due regard to the current cycle or upon an indication of a change in market Committee consulted with the other Non-Executive economic climate.
Any proposed change which is ranges.
Results of benchmarking exercises are Directors, and its proposals were approved by the material is only implemented following a full review monitored for indications of potential unwarranted full Board.
In particular, the Committee has sought and approval process deemed appropriate to such upward ratcheting.
Pay conditions elsewhere in the advice as it considers appropriate from Mr Rui fide change.
Where appropriate, shareholders would Company are taken into account to ensure the Sousa.
As a significant shareholder, he provides the also be consulted about any change in relationship between the pay of the Companys Committee with a valuable insight into likely remuneration policy.
Directors and its employees remains appropriate.
shareholder concerns around executive Similar benchmarking techniques are applied to remuneration.
The Committee also consulted with The Directors believe that a uniquely qualified and non-Board employees and the Committee monitors the Chief Executive on its proposals for the other motivated executive management is vital to the senior staff remuneration packages during the Executive Director and senior management, and effective management of the Companys review of Executive Directors remuneration received administrative assistance from the international portfolio and the successful execution packages.
The Audit Committee is of the Companys stated strategy for building Package Components consulted as deemed appropriate in setting and shareholder value.
It is the Committees objective to d assessing the fulfilment of targets based on attract, motivate and retain high calibre executives Executive remuneration comprises a fixed basic salary and eligibility to receive an annual financial terms.
through market competitive remuneration that is appropriate to those individuals positions, performance based cash bonus.
Individuals may also be eligible to receive awards under long term experience and value to the Company.
SOCO International plc 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Additional Information incentive plans designed to provide reward linked to Following the annual review conducted in December targets.
Portfolio objectives are set regarding the longer term performance of the Company.
At 2011, and after considering pay increases for the progress towards potential non-core asset target performance the Executive Directors general employee population, inflation, the divestitures and new ventures.
Corporate strategic packages are structured to deliver 60% of the total outstanding contribution made by the individuals and goals, safety and environmental measures and package in variable remuneration.
At exceptional the exceptional performance of the Company, with financial measures against budgeted levels are performance levels this increases to 80% of the total effect from 1 January 2012 each Executive additionally established as deemed appropriate.
Directors base salary has been increased by 5% 2011 nil%.
The performance measures for 2012, including both Executive Directors are eligible for additional financial and non-financial measures which are benefits, including pension benefits, a permanent Bonus compatible with risk policies, are intended to focus health insurance scheme, medical insurance, life Bonus awards are considered in two levels, wherein behaviour and activity towards deploying the assurance cover, critical illness cover, travel and expected performance will result in awards in a Companys strategy of progressing projects, expatriate benefits and car benefits.
target range of up to 50% of salary, with a stretch capturing their potential and realising value for level providing a maximum annual cash bonus shareholders at an appropriate stage.
This The table below provides a summary of the key opportunity of up to 100% of salary.
The emphasises achievements required to grow the remuneration elements for Executive Directors.
Remuneration Committee, however, reserves the business over the longer term and avoids promoting right to exercise its discretion and award a bonus excess risk taking to achieve a short term bonus Basic Salary above this maximum amount in the event of truly opportunity.
The actual achievement of each goal is Basic salaries for the Executive Directors who are exceptional performance in the year, subject to prior ranked against a scale of expectations.
The both US citizens are denominated in US dollars, consultation with shareholders appropriate to the Committee retains discretion over the amount of consistent with the Groups reporting currency and circumstances.
In the event of exercising such a bonus paid out to ensure that appropriate the primary currency of Group operations.
Basic discretion, which to date has not occurred, careful consideration is given to the relative importance of salary is fixed at appointment or in relation to consideration will be given to how this will be the achievements in the year and the actual changes in responsibility, and is reviewed annually in delivered to participants to ensure alignment with contribution of these towards furthering the consideration of demonstrated performance.
The annual cash bonus is awarded Companys strategic plan.
The specific targets set Particular care is given in fixing the appropriate based on individual and corporate achievements against these measures are considered to be salary level considering that cash bonus and during the year towards goals based on the commercially sensitive and are therefore not set out incentive plan awards are generally set as a fraction Companys strategic plan.
Goals are set annually for herein.
However, we can broadly indicate that or multiple of basic salary.
Basic salary is the only each portion of the Companys portfolio aimed at performance measures in 2012 will include goals element of a Directors pay which is pensionable.
achieving the specific challenges the Company faces associated with continued phases of Vietnam Annual reviews additionally take into consideration in meeting its strategic objectives.
The monitored development and exploitation, progressing the advice from remuneration consultants regarding measures for particular projects may include portfolio and a focus on future implementation of relevant current market practice for salary levels and specified timetables for seismic, drilling and the corporate strategy.
Goals targeting appropriate salary increases, and consideration of how these construction programmes, drilling success ratios, stewardship of the Companys resources in the have been applied to the wider employee base.
discovery targets, reserve levels and production current economic environment will continue to be emphasised.
Additionally, objectives over safety and environmental measures will naturally remain Key Elements of Executive Remuneration a priority.
Element Commentary In the 2010 Annual Report, the Committee set out Salary For 2012, Executive Director salary increases are 5% 2011: nil, in line with three areas of emphasis in stating its broad inflation and increases for the general employee population.
indication of 2011 performance measures including: Bonus Maximum annual opportunity of 100% of salary, target of 50% of salary, based on the Te Giac Trang TGT development project, being of major significance to the Company: stewardship individual and corporate targets related to the achievement of strategic objectives.
of resources in the current economic environment: Long term LTIP renewed at our 2011 AGM.
and safety and environmental performance over the incentive plan Annual awards of up to 200% of salary 2011: 190% of salary.
First oil was achieved at TGT LTIP Performance based on relative TSR: 25% 2011: 30% of award vests for median on 22 August, within days of SOCOs own target and th performance and 100% vests for performance in the 84 percentile.
ahead of the plan approved by partners.
Various Shareholding Shareholding requirement of one x salary for all Executive Directors.
setbacks were naturally encountered throughout the requirements long term project, but were managed within the Service contracts Notice periods do not exceed 12 months and a policy of mitigation applies in respect of any termination payments.
SOCO International plc 61 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 dIReCtORS RemuneRAtIOn RepORt continued aggressive timetable.
Project costs were stewarded fruition, manifesting the creation of shareholder At the date of grant of an award, the Committee sets in line with partner budgets.
The project was value from the largest project in the Companys appropriate performance criteria and measures administered under strict health and environmental history, and thus ensuring financial stability during a these accordingly on the third anniversary of the safety procedures, and no lost time injuries LTIs time of utmost importance.
date of grant to determine the portion of the award were reported throughout the full life of the vesting.
LTIP awards are considered in the course of multi-year project.
A record of zero LTIs or Long Term Incentive Plans the annual review in December, which is intended to environmental incidents was additionally achieved on SOCOs long term incentive plan LTIP was put in place an opportunity for regular annual vesting all producing, drilling and development operations approved by shareholders at the 2011 AGM, based on performance targets achieved over undertaken on our projects worldwide during 2011. replacing a previous plan which terminated in May successive three year periods.
When setting award Plateau production targets will only be tested 2011 without prejudice to the subsisting levels, the stretch of performance targets is taken through implementation of an agreed field participants.
Participation in the Companys LTIP is into account to ensure that projected total production and reservoir management plan, but discretionary and determined in consideration of compensation opportunity at assumed levels of will only be a consideration in future bonus awards if corporate and individual performance.
Awards are share price growth is market competitive.
subject to limits on individual participation whereby Committee determines performance criteria have the market value, as measured at the date of grant, been met, there may additionally be a requirement Corporate goals focused on protecting a strong of shares subject to awards made in any financial that awards be held for a specified retention period financial standing and ensuring appropriate funding year will generally not exceed 200% of the prior to exercise or receipt.
for the Groups programmes, in particular in the lead executives base salary.
The Committee has up to first oil at TGT.
The measure of performance is discretion, which has not been exercised, to exceed The Remuneration Committees selection of evidenced by the year end cash position of over this limit if deemed justified in exceptional performance criteria is kept under review to ensure $160 million, reflecting cash flows from operations, circumstances up to 400% of base salary.
The LTIP these measures remain appropriate to SOCOs net of capital expenditures and repurchases of the is intended to provide a continued mechanism for circumstances and strategy, and most effectively Companys own bonds and shares.
Bonds with a par motivating and retaining Executive support the delivery of value creation over time.
value of $35.4 million were repurchased at a gain Directors and senior staff members in a way that is While the Committee has taken into account the and cancelled, reducing debt and related future aligned with shareholders interests.
In 2011, a potential impact of market volatility and other interest obligations.
The repurchase of 1.5 million number of best practice features were introduced: potential shortcomings of a relative total shareholder treasury shares was deemed to be at favourable the threshold vesting level was reduced to ensure return TSR measure, it continues to provide the market rates and will increase earnings per share.
In that potential rewards are not excessive and targets primary basis for determining the value generated addition, an extension was obtained for the Te Giac remain sufficiently stretching: and the plan now for shareholders over the longer term.
Furthermore, Den licence in Vietnam, and evaluation of that contains a malus provision under which the it is the primary indicator of the Companys overall licence as well as the Groups Africa licences has Committee may reduce the number of shares corporate performance.
The Committee also progressed through two seismic programmes and a subject to a participants subsisting awards.
believes that underpinning TSR results by reference two well drilling programme.
Although the drilling did to the Groups oil and gas reserves, a key business not result in a commercial discovery, the Committee An employee benefit trust currently holds sufficient metric, provides an appropriate complement for considered this to be far outweighed by the SOCO shares to satisfy all shares conditionally considering that relative TSR is a genuine reflection significance of achieving first oil at TGT, which the awarded under the current and previous LTIP, as of underlying performance.
Accordingly, no change Committee considers the most significant event in more fully described in Note 26 to the financial to the performance measure is proposed, as the the history of the Company.
Decisions governing acquisitions of Companys long term goals remain unchanged and shares into the trust are considered and approved by the Committee considers it will continue to align In two of the last three years the Committee has the full Board.
In line with corporate governance most closely the executives interests to those of reported that, despite its measured performance guidelines, the aggregate number of new issue shareholders.
Performance targets for awards to against goals, actual bonus awards were scaled shares which may be subject to awards under all date have been set with reference to the Companys back.
While this practice was not applied to the relevant executive share schemes shall not exceed relative TSR performance over a three year period wider employee base, it was considered appropriate 5% of the ordinary share capital of the Company in against a range of comparator companies in the oil to emphasise a commitment to the alignment of any rolling 10 year period.
Accordingly, at 31 exploration and production sector.
Prior to the Executive Directors with shareholders.
The December 2011, 17.0 million new issue shares vesting of an award, the achievement of actual Committee believes a 2011 bonus award at the 2010 17.0 million may be subject to awards, of underlying financial and operational performance of maximum policy opportunity of 100% is consistent which there is available capacity remaining of 11.6 the Company will also be considered by the with this commitment, in consideration of the million shares 2010 11.4 million.
For awards to date, this shall primarily performance reported above and in particular the be assessed, on the basis of appropriate external long term objective of first oil at TGT coming to advice, in terms of the additions to and the SOCO International plc 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
