Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Non-Executive Directors management and quality of the Groups oil and gas Share Option Plan F reserves in view of goals set by the Board.
The The SOCO 2009 Discretionary Share Option Plan The remuneration of the Non-Executive Chairman is set by the Committee and approved by Committee will continue to monitor whether TSR is the Plan is intended to provide flexibility in the measure which best aligns long term awards to motivating and retaining senior staff members.
The remuneration for other NonExecutive Directors is recommended by the Chief shareholder value.
awards have been granted under the Plan.
There is no current intention for Executive Directors to Executive and the Chairman and determined by the Board as a whole.
Remuneration levels are set In consideration of corporate and individual participate.
performance, along with the intent to retain and based on outside advice and the review of current motivate with an appropriate level of reward clearly Pension Contributions practices in other companies, giving consideration to focused on long term stability, discretionary awards in The Company contributes 15% of salary each year in the time commitment and responsibilities of the role.
2011 were granted over shares with a market value of respect of the Executive Directors pension benefits, In consideration of increasing demands and fee 190% of base salary.
The TSR comparator group for which has been delivered as contributions to a levels in recent years generally, SOCO has given awards made in respect of the periods between 2009 money purchase plan up to scheme limits and a particular attention to benchmarking data to ensure and 2011 is set out in the table below.
No changes in contribution levels its fees remain appropriate.
After review of these are currently contemplated.
factors, the annual fees payable to the Senior Measurement of the Companys performance Independent Director and the Non-Executive Other Policies criteria is carried out with reference to external data Directors were set at 50,000 from appointment e sources provided by the Committees remuneration With prior approval of the Board, Executive and 45,000 with effect from 1 January 2012, Directors are allowed to accept non-executive advisors to ensure its independence.
Annual fees for services payable to the vest if the TSR ranking is the median.
The vesting appointments on other boards and to retain the Chairman remain unchanged from those rates associated directors fees.
Under this policy Mr Ed schedule is set out in the table below.
reflected in the table on page 65.
The fees have Story serves on the board of Cairn India Limited for been set within the aggregate limits set out in the which he retained associated fees for 2011 in the Following measurement of the Companys Companys Articles of Association and approved by performance against the comparator group for amount of $2,300.
Mr Roger Cagle serves on the shareholders.
Non-Executive Directors are not awards granted in January 2009, 53% of the board of Vostok Energy Limited and previously eligible for participation in the Companys incentive awards have been declared vested.
After careful served on the board of Dominion Petroleum Limited schemes or pension schemes.
consideration, the Committee is satisfied that the and retained associated fees for 2011 in the amount performance criteria measurement has resulted in a of 40,000.
Directors Contracts g Executive Directors contracts are for an vesting level appropriate to the underlying performance of the Company over the performance Shareholding requirement indefinite period and are terminable by either party on giving one years notice, which may be satisfied period.
Those awards not declared vested During 2011, the Board formalised a policy have lapsed.
requiring Executive Directors to build up a minimum with a payment in lieu of notice.
The contracts do not contain specific termination provisions.
The shareholding equivalent to their annual salary.
Further details of incentive share awards are set out This is intended to emphasise a commitment to the Committee has a duty to prevent the requirement to make payments that are not strictly merited, and in the table on page 66 and in Note 28 to the alignment of Executive Directors with shareholders financial statements.
Charges which have been and a focus on long term stewardship.
The current endorses the principle of mitigation of damages on reflected in the Groups income statement in respect Executive Directors have held, and continue to build, early termination of a service contract.
Any payment of incentive schemes are set out in Note 28 to the a meaningful shareholding since founding the financial statements.
LTIP Comparator Group LTIP Vesting Schedule Comparator Companies TSR Performance Vesting Afren Gulfsands Petroleum Newfield Exploration ROC Oil Below median No vesting th Bowleven Hardy Oil and Gas Nexen Salamander Energy Median 50 percentile 25% of the a ward vests Cairn Energy Heritage Oil Niko Resources Santos Pro-rating applies between these points and between ranking positions, to more closely reflect SOCOs TSR performance relative Coastal Energy JKX Oil and Gas Oil Search SOCO to the next highest and lowest comparators.
Dana Petroleum Lundin Petroleum Premier Oil Sterling Energy th th Upper 16 84 percentile 100% of the award vests DNO International Maurel & Prom Regal Petroleum Talisman Energy Enquest Tullow Oil through 2010 from 2011 SOCO International plc 63 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
