02 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group Overview Our customers are typically multinational, blue chip companies across a diverse range of end user markets.
We have sales and service offices located around the world, providing local delivery and service for our customers.
North America 2 1 26% 2,321 Group sales Employees Regional revenue up 27% 7 Key strategic events in 2011 North America Europe 1 Acquisition of Omega 3 Acquisition of IRM Engineering Stamford, Group Lige, Belgium CT provides new extends capabilities in strategic growth platform metals processing market for Industrial Controls for In-line Instrumentation segment.
2 Acquisition of Sixnet 4 State-of-the-art brings additional manufacturing facility networking capability opened for X-ray tube to Industrial Controls production Eindhoven, segment Albany, NY.
21119.04 07 03 12 Proof 8 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 03 Europe 34% 3,534 Group sales Employees Regional revenue up 17% 4 3 Asia 5 33% 1,540 Group sales Employees 6 Regional revenue up 26% Rest of the world 7% 81 Group sales Employees Regional revenue up 21% Asia Rest of the world 5 Additional regional 7 Relocation of sales office opened for Spectris Brazil office Malvern Zibo, central to a new facility Shandong province, So Paulo, Brazil.
6 New systems engineering centre opened for Servomex Mumbai, India.
Read more online at % increase in reported sales www.
com compared with prior year 21119.04 07 03 12 Proof 8 Financial Statements Governance Business Review 04 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group Overview continued The group comprises four business segments which reflect the applications and end user industries we serve.
lABoRAtoRy oFF-liNE Our products help customers to improve accuracy and speed of materials analysis in the laboratory and in process manufacturing applications.
We also provide test and measuring equipment for research and development applications.
MAtERiAlS ANAlySiS tESt AND MEASuREMENt Group contribution Group contribution 31% 30% 31% 27% Sales Profit Sales Profit Provides a range of analytical instrumentation and systems for particle Supplies test, measurement and analysis equipment and software for and material characterisation.
product design optimisation, manufacturing control and environmental monitoring.
Applications Material characterisation Applications Contamination detection Measurement Quality control Data acquisition and processing Simulation Industries Pharma fine chemicals Industries Metals mining Automotive Semiconductor electronics Aerospace Research institutes Consumer electronics Environmental Operating companies Malvern Instruments Operating companies PANalytical Brel & Kjr Sound & Vibration Particle Measuring Systems HBM Malverns new Mastersizer 3000 is a much more compact benchtop HBMs new espressoDAQ series of compact, USB-based data instrument than its predecessor yet delivers greater sizing capability.
acquisition modules are designed to reliably measure parameters Designed following extensive customer consultation, routine particle such as force, pressure, temperature or voltage.
Designed for plug sizing has been made simpler and more automated so that all users, and measure operation, the modules are powered via the USB whether experienced or not, can quickly and easily make reliable interface of a laptop and deliver instant measurement results.
Accessories include the novel Aero dry powder espressoDAQ family is ideally suited for mobile use, for example by dispersion unit, which enables measurement of materials from test engineers in the service sector.
Figures shown are % of reported sales and adjusted operating profit 21119.04 07 03 12 Proof 8 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 05 PRocESS MANuFActuRiNG Our products and applications provide precision measurement and control in challenging operating environments, ensuring process quality, asset uptime, safety and improved yield.
We also provide automation and control products for the discrete manufacturing industries.
iN-liNE iNStRuMENtAtioN iNDuStRiAl coNtRolS Group contribution Group contribution 28% 32% 10% 11% Sales Profit Sales Profit Provides process analytical measurement, asset monitoring and on-line Industrial Controls supplies process measurement, monitoring and control controls for both primary processing and the converting industries.
instrumentation and networking products for manufacturing industries.
Applications Applications Quality control Product tracking Process technology Machine interface Safety Process control Industrial networking Industries Process industries Industries Pulp and paper Manufacturing controls networking Energy Machine building Converting Distributors Operating companies Operating companies Beta LaserMike Microscan Brel & Kjr Vibro Omega Engineering BTG Group Red Lion Controls Fusion UV Systems NDC Infrared Engineering The Omega business, acquired at the end of September, provides a Servomex broad range of process measurement and control instrumentation.
During 2011, the company introduced a new wireless sensor The newSERVOTOUGH FluegasExact 2700 from Servomex is the system, the wSeries transmitters.
Designed for demanding industrial worlds first combustion gas analyser with an integrated in-line flow applications and harsh outdoor environments, these small devices sensor and features the companys advanced zirconia technology communicate via a standard Wi-Fi network, measuring voltage and to provide accurate combustion gas measurements.
Designed for current, temperature, humidity, and barometric pressure.
Charts and operation in extreme environments, the FluegasExact measures graphs can be viewed over an ethernet network or via the internet oxygen and combustibles in flue gases to improve combustion from any computer, tablet, or smart phone with a web browser.
Using efficiency and reduce emissions.
It is ideal for controlling a range of Omegas own server software, the wireless sensor system can be easily combustion processes used in the hydrocarbon processing and power integrated with Omegas data acquisition and automation systems, generation industries, including use in process heaters, utility boilers, as well as with third-party systems, creating a complete measurement incinerators and furnaces.
21119.04 07 03 12 Proof 8 Financial Statements Governance Business Review
