40 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors Report The directors present their report and accounts for the year ended 31 the company had 125,005,123 ordinary shares in issue, of which December 2011.
During the year 439,696 shares were transferred out of Treasury to meet the companys obligations under Principal activities its share plans and no shares were cancelled out of Treasury.
An Spectris designs, develops and markets  authority to make further market purchases of the companys ordinary instrumentation and controls.
The businesses are grouped into four shares, if believed appropriate, will be sought at the forthcoming segments for management and segmental reporting purposes: Annual General Meeting although the Board has no present intention Materials Analysis, Test and Measurement, In-line Instrumentation and of so doing.
Further details of the trading companies within each segment can be found in the Operating Review pages 20 to 27.
Also included in the special business of the 2012 Annual General Developments in the groups business activities are discussed in the Meeting are proposals to renew the directors authority to allot shares Chairmans Statement page 16, the Chief Executives Review page up to prescribed limits.
18 and the Business Review pages 1 to 37.
At 16 February 2012, interests notified to the company in accordance Acquisitions with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules comprised: During the year the following four acquisitions were made: i Omega Black Rock Inc. Engineering, which provides a broad range of process measurement 11,626,054 shares 9.99% material interest and control instrumentation to customers in industrial and academic markets, selling directly to end users in these sectors via catalogue, Standard Life Investments Limited telephone and internet.
The business will be integrated into the 9,449,013 shares 8.12% material interest Industrial Controls segment.
ii Sixnet, which designs, builds and markets rugged remote terminal units, I O modules, Ethernet network F & C Asset Management plc switches and wireless products for the broad industrial and process 5,700,126 shares 4.91% material interest market.
Sixnet will be integrated into Red Lion Controls in the Massachusetts Financial Services Company Industrial Controls segment.
iii IRM, a leading manufacturer of 5,611,725 shares 4.84% material interest gauging instrumentation for the metals market.
IRM will be integrated into NDC Infrared Engineering in the In-line Instrumentation segment.
Legal & General Group Plc iv Key intellectual property and other assets relating to a line of 4,603,565 shares 3.99% material interest benchtop X-ray analysers for the Materials Analysis segment.
Kames Capital The total cost of acquisitions during the year was 377.0 million, 4,492,354 shares 3.86% material interest including 18.6 million for cash acquired.
Of this, 4.4 million is attributable to the fair value of deferred and contingent consideration Takeovers directive expected to be paid in future years offset by an estimated purchase Pursuant to Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006, which price adjustment receivable of 7.1 million, resulting in a deferred implements the EU Takeovers Directive, the company is required to receivable of 2.7 million.
The disclosures not covered elsewhere in this Annual Report are as follows: Disposals On 1 January 2011, the group divested a sales operation in The The companys Articles of Association Articles give power to the Netherlands for a profit of 0.1 million.
The total consideration was Board to appoint directors, but require directors to submit themselves 0.1 million net of transaction costs.
for election at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment and for re-election where they have been a director at Share capital each of the preceding two Annual General Meetings and were not The share capital of the company comprises ordinary shares of 5p appointed or re-appointed by the company at, or since, either such each: each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of meeting.
The Articles may be amended by special resolution of the the company.
The authorised and issued share capital of the company, shareholders and are available to view on the companys website.
As it together with movements in the companys issued share capital during is now the companys practice for all directors to submit themselves the year, is shown in Note 24 on page 99.
The Articles of Association for annual re-election, this is reflected in an amendment to the Articles of the company, available on the companys website, contain that will be proposed at the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
provisions governing the ownership and transfer of shares.
The Board of directors is responsible for the management of the At the 2011 Annual General Meeting, shareholders authorised the business of the company and may exercise all the powers of the directors to make market purchases of the companys ordinary shares company subject to the provisions of the relevant statutes and the up to a maximum number of 11,593,000 shares, representing companys Articles.
The Articles contain specific provisions and approximately 10% of the issued share capital of the company, and restrictions regarding the companys power to borrow money.
Powers to either cancel the shares or hold them as Treasury shares which may relating to the issuing and buying back of shares are also included in then be cancelled, sold for cash or transferred for the purposes of the Articles and such authorities are renewed by shareholders each the companys share plans, depending on the best interests of the year at the Annual General Meeting.
companys shareholders at the time.
No such purchases were made during the year.
At the close of business on 16 February 2012, 21119.04 07 03 12 Proof 8 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 41 There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate Auditors upon a change of control of the group following a takeover, such as Separate resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors and to bank loan agreements and company share plans.
None of these are authorise the directors to agree their remuneration will be proposed at deemed to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the the Annual General Meeting.
business of the group as a whole.
In addition, there is a service Annual General Meeting contract between the company and one of its directors which provides The Notice of Annual General Meeting to be held at the companys for compensation for loss of office or employment following a change offices on Friday 20 April 2012 at 12.30 p. m. is contained in a of control of the group please refer to the Directors Remuneration separate letter from the Chairman accompanying this report.
Report on page 50 for further explanation.
It is also possible that funding arrangements for the groups defined benefit pension Corporate Governance arrangements would need to be enhanced following a change of UK Corporate Governance Code statement of compliance control if that resulted in a weakening of the employer covenant.
Spectris plc is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code that is appended to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Dividend Authority.
The Code sets out principles and provisions relating to Results for the group are set out in the consolidated statement of the good governance of companies.
income on page 56 and in the supporting notes.
A final dividend of 25.4p per ordinary share is proposed for the year to 31 December Corporate governance has been and remains the responsibility of the 2011 2010: 20.9p.
With the interim dividend, this makes a total for whole Board.
This statement describes how the company applied the the year of 33.6p 2010: 28.0p.
The final dividend will be paid on principles and complied with the provisions of the Code during 2011.
26 June 2012 to shareholders on the register on 1 June 2012.
The Board considers that it was throughout the year and continues to be in full compliance with the provisions set out in the Code.
Research and development Expenditure committed to research and development is focused on Board composition and procedures new product development, applications engineering and process The Board meets formally at regular intervals throughout the year to integration.
Costs are expensed as incurred, except where the consider developments in relation to the companys strategy and expenditure meets certain strict criteria for capitalisation.
In the long-term objectives and to review trading results and operational and year to 31 December 2011, amounts expensed totalled 75.8 million business issues.
In particular, it deals with those matters reserved to it 2010: 64.6 million, and no expenditure met the criteria for for decision, including annual financial planning, the acquisition and capitalisation 2010: nil.
disposal of businesses, major capital expenditure, the appointment and, where necessary, removal of directors and Board and senior Fixed assets management succession.
Additional meetings are convened as Whilst the market values of some properties differ from book values, required to consider specific topics requiring immediate decision.
the directors believe that the differences are not material.
Usually, at least two meetings each year are held at operating Payment of suppliers locations and encompass a detailed review of the relevant business.
The groups policy on payment of suppliers is to ensure that terms of Through these meetings, the induction process on appointment and payment accord with contractual and legal obligations.
The company the access given to the companys operations and its staff, all directors had nil trade creditors at the year end 2010: nil.
gain the knowledge of the company required for them to discharge their duties.
Operational decisions are delegated by the Board to Directors senior management at trading company level, over which the The directors of the company are named on pages 38 and 39. executive directors exercise supervision.
All directors receive detailed progress reports one week prior to each Board meeting.
In accordance with the requirement of the UK Corporate Governance Code, which the company adopted early with regard to annual The Board currently comprises the Chairman, three executive directors election of directors by shareholders, each director resigned at the and three non-executive directors.
The Board considers its non- 2011 Annual General Meeting, put himself up for re-election and was executive directors Peter Chambr, Russell King and John Warren to re-elected.
A change to the Articles, reflecting the resignation of each be independent, in that none of them are or have ever been holders director at every Annual General Meeting and their submission for of an executive office with the company.
The positions of Chairman, re-election at each such meeting, will be proposed at the 2012 Annual Chief Executive and senior independent director, are held by separate General Meeting.
individuals and, in accordance with the Code, the Board has adopted written profiles for the first two of these.
The non-executive directors The directors total remuneration for the year and their interests in the have all had senior experience in other organisations and offer shares of the company and its subsidiaries at 31 December 2011 are independent judgement on Board matters.
The Chairmans other disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 52 to 54. significant UK listed company interests are as non-executive chairman of Sepura plc and Telecity Group plc and non-executive director of In accordance with Section 236 of the Companies Act 2006 the Vitec Group plc and CSG International, Inc: the latter company being directors disclose a qualifying third-party indemnity provision entered quoted on NASDAQ.
Mr Hughes is also chairman of privately-held into between the company and its directors and officers which was business Just Eat and Aircom International.
The Board believes that the in force at the date of approval of this report.
This indemnity gives Chairmans obligations to the company are unaffected by these contractual force to the Indemnity of Officers provision contained directorships.
Financial Statements Governance Business Review 42 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors Report continued There are procedures for individual Board members to receive relations with shareholders: induction and training as appropriate and to solicit independent performance evaluation: and professional advice at the groups expense where specific expertise is procedure for taking independent professional advice.
required in the course of exercising their duties.
The Chairman reviews The Board has adopted the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and and agrees with each director their training and development needs Administrators Guidance Note of September 2009 on Board Meeting annually.
All directors have access to the company secretary, who is Etiquette.
responsible for ensuring compliance with appropriate statutes and regulations.
Under the Companies Act 2006, a director must avoid a situation The Board delegates specific responsibilities to Board committees, where he has, or may have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, notably the finance, nomination, remuneration, and audit and risk or may conflict, with the companys interests.
During the year, in committees.
The terms of reference of these committees are published accordance with the powers and duties of directors laid down in on the companys website and the following additional documents are the companys Articles, directors were asked to declare any such available to shareholders on application to the company secretary: conflict or potential conflict of interest to the Board for the Boards authorisation of a matter which otherwise may have given rise to a schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board: conflict of interest.
No such conflicts have been declared.
responsibilities of the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the non-executive directors: Board and committee meeting attendance 2011 Remuneration Audit and Nomination Board committee risk committee committee Total meetings during year 15 5 3 3 J L M Hughes Chairman 15 5 N A 3 J A Warren senior independent director 15 5 3 3 P A Chambr 15 5 3 3 R J King 15 5 3 3 J E OHiggins Chief Executive 15 N A N A 3 C G Watson 15 N A N A N A J C Webster 14 N A N A N A Board appointments and performance evaluation Recommendations are also made to the Board concerning succession The nomination committee consists of the Chairman, Chief Executive plans for both executive and non-executive directors and, in particular, and all non-executive directors.
It is chaired by the Chairman, save in for the key roles of Chairman and Chief Executive.
The committee also the event of discussions relating to his succession when the senior recommends to the Board suitable candidates for the position of independent director takes the chair.
Following a decision of the Board that the appointment of a new The nomination committee meets as the need arises.
Its terms of director is appropriate, the duty of the committee is to present for reference can be found on the companys website.
Board consideration suitably qualified candidate s. In making such The operation of the Board and its committees is reviewed by the recommendations, the committee evaluates the balance of skills, Board as a whole annually.
The executive directors and company knowledge and experience on the Board and develops a description of secretarys performances are appraised annually against objectives the role and required capabilities.
Due regard is given to the benefits established for the prior year.
The contributions of the Chairman of diversity on the Board and consideration is given to the time and non-executive directors are reviewed annually by the senior commitment expected for the Chairman and non-executive director independent director and the Chairman, respectively, prior to their positions.
The Board uses external search firms to identify potential being proposed to shareholders for re-election.
Additionally, the non-executive directors and they conduct the process systematically, Chairman holds periodic meetings with the non-executive directors utilising the evaluation of the committee and against a set of skills and only and, led by the senior independent director, the non-executives competences developed from the strategic needs of the business have the opportunity to meet at least annually without the Chairman today and in coming years, whilst also taking into account the present present.
In considering the Chairmans performance, his other public strengths and any perceived gaps in the knowledge of the Board.
company interests were specifically addressed and found to be of Candidates are then identified for interview.
The committee also benefit to the Board, in that he brings experiences and insights gained makes recommendations to the Board regarding the re-election and or from these interests which assist the Board in its deliberations.
Similar selection processes apply for the appointment of a chairman.
21119.04 07 03 12 Proof 8 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 43 An  evaluation of the operation and performance Shareholders representing in excess of 2.5% of the companys issued of the Board and its committees was conducted in 2010.
An internal share capital receive a standing invitation to meet the Chairman, the process followed during 2011.
This included submissions from all senior independent director or new non-executive directors.
Such Board members in response to a structured questionnaire focused meetings would supplement if necessary, but not replace, the regular upon the more significant areas identified during the prior years meetings with the Chief Executive and group finance director.
external process, notably strategy, Board structure and organisation, Audit and risk committee succession planning and risk management.
A summary of the The audit and risk committee comprises the non-executive directors submissions received, including comparative data from the 2010 and is chaired by JohnWarren, who has recent and relevant financial process, was considered at the November Board meeting, with a experience as the former group finance director of both United number of areas for further debate and action recorded.
Biscuits plc and WH Smith PLC.
Mr Warren is also the current Diversity chairman of the audit committees of Bovis Homes Group PLC and The The Board has considered the Davies Report Women on Boards and Rank Group Plc.
The committee meets at least three times each year the associated consultation by the Financial Reporting Council on to consider the effectiveness of the groups internal controls, policies whether to make further changes to the UK Corporate Governance and procedures, the process of internal audit and the conduct and Code, requiring boards to establish a gender diversity policy.
Whilst outcome of the external audit.
Its meetings are normally attended the Board is opposed to numerical targets or quotas to address the by the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the group finance director, representation of specific groups, it recognises the strategic and the company secretary and the external and internal auditors.
All business benefits of having a balanced board.
Due regard is therefore executive directors attend the year end audit committee meeting and given to the benefits of diversity as part of the Boards normal processes requiring the disclosure of relevant information by individual refreshment process, with appointments made from candidates with directors to the auditor have been adopted.
The committee confers the appropriate mix of skills, knowledge and experience, regardless of annually with both the head of internal audit and the external auditors gender or otherwise.
The recruitment of an additional non-executive without the attendance of executive directors.
Additionally, both the director is currently in process and the executive search firm engaged external audit partner and the head of internal audit have the right has signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search of direct access to the audit and risk committee chairman.
It is therefore expected that a suitably diverse range of committees terms of reference can be found on the companys candidates will be presented to the Nomination Committee.
As part of our culture of respect, we believe that people with varied The committee is responsible for making recommendations to the backgrounds and perspectives add creativity to our company and thus Board in relation to the appointment of the external auditor and we encourage diversity in the workplace.
The Board recognises the then for approving the external auditors remuneration, terms of benefits of all facets of diversity, including experience and perspective, engagement and scope of work.
both at Board level and throughout our business.
Spectris operates The committee has also adopted procedures governing and restricting globally in more than 30 countries and is focused on growing its the appointment of the external auditor for non-audit services.
The presence in industrialising economies such as China, India and Latin following services are precluded: America and across a broad base of end user markets.
We will continue to strengthen our existing group-wide inclusion policies to book-keeping or other services related to the accounting records or attract and retain the most talented and appropriate people reflecting financial statements of Spectris plc: the different markets and geographies in which we operate.
financial information systems design and implementation: Shareholder relations appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions or contribution in Spectris conducts regular dialogue with institutional shareholders kind reports: and divulges such information as is permitted within the guidelines actuarial services: of the Listing Rules.
The content of presentations made after results internal audit outsourcing services: announcements may be accessed by individual investors on the management functions or human resources: groups website, www.
broker or dealer, investment adviser or investment banking services: and All shareholders are invited to participate in the Annual General legal services and expert services unrelated to the audit.
Meeting, where the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the chairmen of the audit and risk and remuneration committees are available A cumulative annual cap of 200,000 is established for all other to answer questions.
The results of proxy votes are declared at the non-audit services save for acquisition due diligence and taxation Annual General Meeting after each resolution has been dealt with on services above which all engagements are subject to prior approval by a show of hands.
These are then published on the groups website.
the audit and risk committee.
The Board is kept informed of the views of major shareholders through periodic reports from the Chief Executive and the companys joint brokers J P Morgan Cazenove and RBS Hoare Govett.
The Chairman and non-executive directors have the opportunity to attend the bi-annual analyst presentations.
Financial Statements Governance Business Review 44 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors Report continued The head of internal audit is employed by the group to perform the effectiveness of risk management and mitigating actions is internal control reviews across the group according to a work reviewed regularly by the executive directors and twice yearly by programme agreed by the committee.
The head of internal audit is the audit and risk committee: assisted in this by five further internal auditors.
The nature and scope additionally, the executive directors consider those risks to the of the groups internal control review resources is reviewed by the groups strategic objectives which are not addressed within the audit and risk committee annually.
The audit and risk committee business units and develop appropriate approaches to managing receives reports twice a year on the results of internal control reviews.
and mitigating these risks: annual financial plans for each business unit, significant capital The committee has considered the risk of the withdrawal of their investments or contractual commitments and major acquisitions or auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, from the market in their risk evaluation and divestments are all subject to review and approval by the Board: planning and has concluded that the risk is small.
In the event that the a Group Accounting and Policies Manual sets out the minimum companys auditor did exit the market, a replacement appointment standards and procedures to be applied in relation to those risk would be made from audit firms of equivalent standing.
KPMG Audit areas which are regarded as significant in a group context: Plc were appointed as the companys auditors on 12 May 1998, but a process of self-assessment of compliance with the Manual and the nominated audit partner has changed twice subsequently and will reporting thereon has been established, providing for a change again prior to the 2012 audit.
The position of auditor to the documented trail of accountability from business unit presidents company is kept under regular review, but KPMG Audit Plcs in-depth and finance directors to the audit and risk committee.
The understanding of the companys operations is considered by the necessary actions are taken by the audit and risk committee to committee to be of benefit to both the company and its shareholders.
remedy any failings or weaknesses identified by its review of the There are no contractual obligations that act to restrict the internal control system: and committees choice of auditor.
the executive directors report to the Board on changes in the business and external environment which present significant risks.
Internal controls The group finance director provides the Board with monthly The Board is ultimately responsible for the groups system of internal financial information which includes key performance indicators controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a system and information on the groups operating segments.
Regular is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to meet reports on significant legal, ethics and compliance issues and business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute insurance matters are received from the company secretary.
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Going concern Consistent with the guidance provided for directors on internal control Having reviewed the groups plans and available financial facilities, by the Financial Reporting Council Internal Control: Revised Guidance the Board has a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate for Directors on the Combined Code, the Board confirms that there is resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing assessed future.
For this reason it continues to adopt the going concern basis significant risks faced by the group, that this has been in place for the in preparing the groups accounts.
year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts, that this process has been reviewed by the Board during Business Review the year and that the group accords with the guidance.
The Board The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business Review, affirms the importance it attaches to the continuous review and as required by Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006, and which application of the guidance, the regular and systematic assessment should be treated as forming part of this report by reference, is of the risks facing the group and the value of embedding risk included in the following sections of the annual report: management and internal control systems within its business processes.
Chairmans statement on pages 16 and 17.
The group has an internal audit function which reviews the design and effectiveness of internal controls across the groups operations, including Chief Executives review on pages 18 and 19. financial, operational and compliance controls.
Group overview on pages 2 to 5.
Operating review on pages 20 to 27, which includes a review of The processes which the Board and the audit and risk committee have the external environment.
applied in reviewing the effectiveness of the groups system of internal Principal risks and uncertainties are described on pages 14 to 15. controls are summarised below: Details of the principal operating subsidiaries are set out on pages an established process is in place whereby each business unit 20 to 27. regularly assesses, evaluates and reports risks of group significance.
Financial review on pages 28 to 31.
Each business unit is required to document the management and Corporate responsibility on pages 32 to 37, which includes the mitigating actions in place and proposed: companys policy on treatment of its employees.
regular review of the status of risks and corresponding mitigating actions to ensure that risk management is embedded in day-to-day management processes and decision-making as well as in the annual strategic planning cycle: 21119.04 07 03 12 Proof 8 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 45 Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the annual The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors report and the financial statements Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the audit information of which the companys auditors are unaware: and group and parent company financial statements, in accordance with each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a applicable law and regulations.
director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that Responsibility statement of the directors in respect of the law they are required to prepare the group financial statements in annual report accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Accounting Practice.
company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken Under company law the directors must not approve the financial as a whole: and statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view the information that is cross-referred from the Business Review of the state of affairs of the group and parent company and of their section of the Directors Report includes a fair review of the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the group and development and performance of the business and the position of parent company financial statements, the directors are required to: the issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and select suitable accounting policies and then apply them uncertainties that they face.
consistently: By order of the Board make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: Roger Stephens for the parent company financial statements, state whether Secretary applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject 17 February 2012 to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and parent company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Financial Statements Governance Business Review
