S t t i r F i k l i a n r g u t l D u e C a l s 10 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Acquisition Strategy Acquisitions are a central part of Spectris strategy, with all but one of the companies currently owned by Spectris having been acquired since the company was first floated on the London Stock Exchange in 1988.
Over this period, our portfolio has undergone a significant evolution into todays group of 14 specialised, market-leading instrumentation, controls and process technology companies operating globally in diverse industrial markets.
Objective nature, platform acquisition opportunities Stage 1 The objective of our acquisition strategy is to which have the necessary business reSearChIng opportunItIeS create shareholder value by growing and characteristics and are substantial enough to be enhancing existing businesses through the a worthwhile new growth platform for Spectris purchase of complementary companies, arise infrequently, although we completed one referred to as bolt-on acquisitions, and by such acquisition, of Omega Engineering, during building our presence in new growth areas via the year.
Spectris identifies potential acquisition the acquisition of substantial new businesses opportunities from many sources and we which are compatible with our strategic profile.
regularly acquire businesses from private The latter category are referred to as platform owners, other corporations and financial acquisitions.
Whether we are looking at a owners such as private equity and venture bolt-on or a platform opportunity, an capital institutions.
acquisition candidate must exhibit the same Bolt-on acquisitions characteristics and fundamental business Bolt-on acquisitions typically provide growth strengths that exist in our current businesses opportunities, bring additional technology, and which underpin our group: applications, routes to market or geographic Stage 2  instrumentation presence to one of our companies and can take proCeSSIng and controls for industrial and academic the form of an acquisition of an entire business, customers based on specialised technology the purchase of a product line, the purchase of and superior application knowledge.
intellectual property, or anything in between.
As a result, our bolt-on acquisitions vary greatly in Focus on critical applications with direct size from the very small up to the purchase of impact on the customers process substantial businesses valued up to 50 million performance, energy consumption, asset or more.
Whatever the size of the acquisition, utilisation, quality, product performance or Spectris approach is always to build upon a other value-enhancing parameters.
proven, successful business or a technology High margins reflecting significant value with demonstrated potential.
Emphasis on products and services whose Our approach to creating value from bolt-on cost is small within the overall cost of the acquisitions is similarly focused on recognising customers application.
and creating opportunities arising from the Proven ability to grow the market and acquired business having a complementary capitalise on growth markets.
or adjacent nature to one of our existing Substantial aftermarket revenues and or businesses.
Manufacturing consolidation and Stage 3 ImplementatIon anD IntegratIon service component.
cost-cutting initiatives, while not overlooked, Strong, entrepreneurial management able are generally of secondary importance to the to capitalise on Spectris operating culture growth aspects in any bolt-on acquisition.
which stresses empowerment, responsibility Instead, we look to integrate the acquired and autonomy for our businesses.
business with an existing company whilst retaining the strengths of both.
In recent years, bolt-on acquisitions have been ImplementatIon IntegratIon the most frequent type of acquisition, with four As an illustration of how we add value, it is to five such deals typically completed each year, quite common for innovative, technology-led and we expect this pattern to continue.
By their 21119.04 07 03 12 Proof 8 D h u c e r a D e i l s i e g r e n c e Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 11 industrial instrumentation companies to achieve success on a national or perhaps regional scale Case study but run out of momentum when faced with Omega Engineering the multiple challenges and investment requirements of becoming a global business.
On 30 September 2011, we completed We are able to address these challenges, in the acquisition of the Omega Engineering many cases by exploiting existing infrastructure business for a total consideration of and sales channels within Spectris, and rapidly US$485 million approximately 311 take such businesses to a new level, thus million.
Formerly privately owned, the creating growth and value for our shareholders company is headquartered in Stamford, while preserving the qualities of the business Connecticut, USA, has five manufacturing facilities and two distribution sales that made it successful in the first place.
There facilities and employs around 700 people.
are many other ways in which we can benefit Omega is now a stand-alone business in from bolt-on acquisitions but, in general, the Industrial Controls segment.
we create value from bolt-ons by applying our resources, routes to market, customer Omega is a leading provider of sensors and controls for industrial testing and measurement applications, for controlling temperature, humidity, pressure, strain, relationships, application knowledge, force, flow, level, pH and conductivity.
The company has a highly successful, management expertise and global presence defensible business model tailored to the needs of well-defined portions of the to the acquired business to achieve superior process control and industrial automation sectors.
With strong, well-known brands results.
Omega and Newport, a loyal blue chip customer base, a broad intellectual property portfolio and high levels of repeat business, Omega has resilient revenue and earnings Platform acquisitions characteristics.
The company is an excellent strategic and cultural fit for Spectris and a In addition to making regular bolt-on significant expansion of the product offering in the Industrial Controls segment and is acquisitions, Spectris will occasionally identify expected to bring growth and margin opportunities under Spectris ownership.
an opportunity to acquire a much larger business which provides  Since the acquisition was completed, an experienced president has been appointed, financial reporting processes have been upgraded, efforts are underway to benefit from products and services to industrial customers sales opportunities with other Spectris companies Omega already sells some Spectris and which fits the strategic profile outlined group products and opportunities in the supply chain are being pursued.
However, to qualify as a viable platform of Omegas sales are to the US domestic market currently and actions have already been acquisition, there also must be a significant initiated to grow sales in international markets, particularly China and Europe.
opportunity for Spectris to add value to such a business so we will look for potential to develop the business organically and to add value through subsequent bolt-on acquisitions.
Any Case study acquisition of this type is likely to be standLDS Test and Measurement alone in nature with the business becoming a new company within our portfolio rather than LDS Test and Measurement was acquired being integrated into an existing company.
from SPX Corporation in December 2008 Adding value to a platform acquisition can be for a consideration of $86 million on a achieved in a variety of ways, some of which, debt and cash-free basis.
The company is such as accelerated internationalisation and a leading provider of electro-dynamic developing existing customer and industry vibration test systems for the automotive, aerospace, defence, and electronics relationships, are akin to the opportunities we markets, and of data acquisition products.
see on bolt-ons but on a larger scale, while The data acquisition and instrumentation products became part of HBM, extending other value-creating opportunities commonly their range of testing applications and generating new sales opportunities for HBM.
The derive from our focus on operational excellence vibration and controller products became part of Brel & Kjr Sound & Vibration and and strengthening market positions through the Royston, England, based company has now been integrated and renamed the innovation in keeping with our overall strategy.
Vibration Testing Systems business unit.
The companys products are used in the most demanding applications, from laboratory testing and structural analysis through to testing of complete systems.
As a result of the acquisition, Brel & Kjr are now able to offer complete vibration, acoustic and data acquisition and analysis solutions to their customers.
Since the acquisition, a number of contracts have been secured with major aerospace manufacturers for complete system solutions, for example for satellite testing, and with automotive manufacturers where the systems are used, for example, to test hybrid vehicle batteries.
21119.04 07 03 12 Proof 8 Financial Statements Governance Business Review
