12 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Strategy and Objectives Our objective is to deliver shareholder value sustainably over the long term by supplying  solutions for our customers.
Our strategy Achievements Strengthening market We invest around 7% of sales each year in research Expenditure on research and development grew by and development in order to maintain our market- 17% to 75.8 million, or 7% of sales.
We work closely with customers to innovation Significant number of new products, applications develop solutions which are tailored to their specific and technologies introduced throughout the group.
Much of our technology is proprietary Amongst these is the award-winning Mastersizer and protected by patents or process know-how.
New 3000 particle size analyser, featuring highly products and applications may be developed in house, sophisticated optics to simplify and automate by acquiring bolt-on product lines or by collaboration particle sizing, and whose compact benchtop and licensing agreements for proprietary technology design is the product of extensive customer in partnership with universities and other institutions.
Also the recipient of an award is the new BT55 series of optical brightness transmitters.
These feature an innovative light-emitting system for monitoring and controlling the pulp process and enable papermakers to rapidly improve their process and significantly reduce costs.
Increasing regional We seek to grow our businesses around the world, On a like-for-like basis, sales to China grew by 27% with particular emphasis on industrialising markets and sales to Latin America grew by 28%.
expansion with a focus on such as China, India and Latin America.
We continue New systems engineering centre opened in emerging markets to establish sales and group support facilities in these Mumbai, India.
regions so that we are able to support our global See Group overview page 2 Additional regional office opened in Zibo, central customers wherever they are based.
Growing existing We seek to enhance the growth potential of our Invested 66.4 million including cash acquired of businesses by pursuing an active but disciplined 5.1 million in three bolt-on acquisitions: businesses through approach to acquisitions, focusing on businesses acquisition A small product line addition to the Materials which are strong players in specific application areas Analysis segment.
where there are significant barriers to entry.
IRM Group, a leading manufacturer of high technology measuring systems for the metals processing industry.
Sixnet, a leading manufacturer of flexible industrial Ethernet switch, automation and wireless solutions for the industrial market.
Building our presence We aim to grow our existing businesses organically Product development programmes focused on by developing new products as well as pursuing building positions in our key market segments.
in key strategic growth opportunities for growth in new markets, such as Acquisition of Omega Engineering, a leading areas, both organically nanotechnology and life sciences.
Acquisitions are provider of sensors and controls for industrial and through acquisition targeted at both existing and new markets.
testing and measurement applications, adds a significant strategic growth platform to our See case study page 11 Industrial Controls segment.
Aftersales, service and consumables are an important part of our business, representing 26% of sales.
Focusing on We continue to focus on improving all aspects of our Components sourced or manufactured in lowerbusiness through a range of actions including: process cost countries increased to approx.
14% of the operational excellence efficiencies, value pricing, optimising the business mix, total cost of materials for goods sold.
cost competitiveness, designing products for low-cost Implementation of ERP system at our BTG production, reducing inventory and improving supply operation.
Opening of state-of-the-art manufacturing facility in Eindhoven, The Netherlands, for X-ray tube manufacture.
