08 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Marketplace We operate in niche markets across a diverse range of industries.
Our products typically involve relatively low expenditure for customers but provide a significant and rapid payback.
We aim to build long-term relationships with our customers and work with them to understand their business and the productivity challenges they face.
Customer benefits: REDuciNG DowNtiME AND wAStAGE iMPRoViNG PRoDuctiVity AND EFFiciENcy ENSuRiNG coMPliANcE with SAFEty, REDuciNG tiME to MARkEt quAlity AND ENViRoNMENtAl lEGiSlAtioN iMPRoViNG PRoDuct quAlity AND hElPiNG to BRiNG NEw PRoDuctS to PERFoRMANcE MARkEt Examples of customer benefits achieved: Automotive manufacturer reduced noise testing times by 75% with sound analysis equipment Mineral processing company increased throughput by 60% with in-line particle size analyser Tissue manufacturer increased profitability by around 4 million and improved product quality by changing from steel blades to high-performance creping blades Product assembly process cut from overnight to just one minute using UV curing system Coin producer increased output by 20% using force measurement technology Animal feed producer generated additional production worth around 600,000 per year by continuous oil and moisture measurement See Business Model Liquefied natural gas plant avoided catastr 6 ophic turbine failure using remote vibration monitoring to diagnose machine fault Research institute used X-ray analysis to develop new lithium ion rechargeable batteries with longer lifetimes and faster recharging capability Read more online at www.
com 21119.04 07 03 12 Proof 8 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 09 Spectris operates in a wide range of end user markets around the world.
This balanced 2011 Sales by end user market portfolio of industries and geographies, where no end user market accounts for more % total group reported sales than 12% of sales, and no single customer accounts for more than 2% of sales, provides a degree of resilience against material adverse economic trading conditions 1 11 in the countries in which we operate.
2 10 The majority of our sales come from upgrades to customers existing production 9 facilities, rather than the addition of new capacity.
In addition to participating in the 3 8 growing markets of many of our customers, we also seek to identify opportunities in new markets, for example nanotechnology and life sciences.
4 7 5 6 We aim to grow our businesses around the world, with particular emphasis on industrialising markets, and establish sales and support facilities in these regions 1.
Automotive and aerospace 12% so that we are able to support our global customers wherever they are based.
distribution 14% Case study Brel & Kjr helps Renault to reduce testing times Under pressure to reduce costs yet develop ever more sophisticated vehicles, reducing development times, and thus time to market, is a key challenge for the automotive industry.
The Renault Group in France are using Brel & Kjrs data acquisition system to analyse powertrain noise from the engine, transmission, drive shaft, suspension and wheels in order to meet vehicle regulations and legislation and also customer expectations.
Brel & Kjrs solution has provided greater test efficiency and reduced the time spent on characterising a complete powertrain from five days to just one to two days.
21119.04 07 03 12 Proof 8 Financial Statements Governance Business Review
