n o i t a v o n n I g n i r S u y t r s t u s e e N u m l a s V d a n 06 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business Model Spectris is a leading supplier of  instrumentation and controls.
Our products, applications and services help customers across a wide range of industries to improve their products and processes.
We aim to achieve superior value for shareholders sustainably over the long term through delivering against our strategic objectives: strengthening our market positions through innovation, expanding our regional operations, building our presence in key strategic growth areas, growing our businesses both organically and through acquisition, and focusing on operational excellence.
cultuRE AND VAluES Our group philosophy is one of autonomy, Central to our culture are our core values of with our operating companies entrusted Honesty, Empowerment, Ownership, Delivery and empowered to run and manage their and Speed, which underpin the way we Read more about our values in the businesses.
We believe that establishing and work.
These are part of our Code of Business Spectris Code of Business Ethics at maintaining an ethical culture is critical to Ethics, which provides a framework for how www.
com corporate%20 supporting our business model and ensuring we do business and includes a clear policy on responsibility.
aspx our continued business success and growth.
anti-bribery and corruption as well as dealings with customers, suppliers, colleagues, conflicts of interest and human rights.
Find out more Did you know?
Our barcode readers are used to decode and check the print Use your phones bar code app and go directly quality and integrity of QR codes in industrial applications.
to the strategy page on our website.
21119.04 07 03 12 Proof 8 n a e d r u t C l u o C n t r o h l t s w o r G g n i v i r D Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 07 DRiViNG GRowth Powerful revenue growth drivers and end user industries helps to limit the risks to acquisitions, both through the purchase Our products typically involve relatively from any adverse changes in the political or of complementary companies bolt-on low capital expenditure for customers, but economic environment and also enables us acquisitions, and by building our presence provide a significant and rapid payback.
to manage foreign exchange rate fluctuations in new growth areas via the acquisition Customer benefits include improving and purchasing trends better.
We seek to of substantial new businesses which are production efficiency, reducing downtime, grow our businesses around the world, with compatible with our strategic profile platform eliminating wastage, reducing time to particular emphasis on industrialising markets acquisitions.
market, and ensuring compliance with safety, such as China, India and Latin America.
Leading industry positions environmental and quality regulations.
In Strong financial position All of our businesses are leading players addition, after-sales service and support is an We maintain a strong balance sheet, which in niche markets, with strong brands and important part of our business and over 25% gives us the flexibility to pursue our strategic long-term customer relationships.
Our of our revenue is derived from consumables objectives.
We focus on cash generation and experienced engineers work with customers and services.
our target is to deliver high cash conversion of to understand the business and productivity Broad portfolio of customers and markets operating profit in each financial year.
Much of our technology We have a broad spread of markets, products and applications know-how is proprietary Acquisitions and customers, as shown on the following and patent-protected, providing significant We seek to enhance our growth potential by pages.
This balance of geographical spread barriers to entry.
pursuing an active but disciplined approach NuRtuRiNG iNNoVAtioN Strong customer focus incorporate the very latest in technology Product manufacturing We work closely with our customers to and, as a consequence, we own patents, We focus on our core competencies of understand the challenges they face and trademarks and intellectual property licenses.
research and development, product design, develop solutions which are tailored to their As part of the process of bringing new and assembly and test, whilst outsourcing specific requirements.
We involve professional products to market, we involve our customers the majority of component and sub-assembly users in the design of new products, extensively during the development phase production to qualified suppliers.
As a result, ensuring that we understand their needs and, through beta evaluations, prior to our businesses are capital efficient.
Low cost and convert this knowledge into innovation product launch.
sourcing initiatives by the groups strategic in products and processes.
We offer a full purchasing teams help to drive down the Employees range of services for our products, including costs of procurement whilst optimising quality We employ a highly skilled technical installation, training, technical support, and supply chain performance.
workforce in our offices around the world.
Our entrepreneurial culture offers a creative Best practice transfer Research and development working environment with scope for Despite the specific industry and technology Research and development underpins our individual responsibility and achievement focus of each of the businesses, considerable business strategy and we invest around and we are committed to providing equal emphasis is placed on knowledge sharing 7% of sales each year in research and employment opportunities, competitive across the group and the transfer of best development in order to maintain our remuneration, and training and development practice.
This can be especially valuable market-leading positions.
when entering new end user markets or constant innovation means that our products geographical regions.
SyStEMS AND coNtRolS Operating structure Central to our approach is a lean group Business Ethics provides additional guidance We are organised in a way that combines structure which, together with the Board, to employees on how we conduct business the benefits of a multinational group whilst sets the strategy and drives and monitors and is designed to ensure that all employees maintaining the entrepreneurial culture of its implementation.
In addition, the centre make decisions that are consistent with our operating companies.
Our decentralised provides knowledge, advice and selective our values and that help us meet our many operating structure is a key differentiator and support services such as legal, tax and commitments.
the focus on accountability and ownership at treasury, mergers and acquisitions, emerging Each operating company implements internal local level ensures that management teams market infrastructure and best practice controls built off this central framework and can focus on their priorities and react quickly sharing among businesses.
consistent with the size and complexity of to changing customer and market needs.
The effectiveness of the internal Each business unit has responsibility for all The group has developed a robust internal control framework is routinely monitored aspects of its business and for developing, control framework in keeping with our through a combination of certification, and meeting, its business growth plans.
operating model, values and culture.
This self-assessment and a rolling programme Within each business segment, each comprises common policies, procedures, of reviews by internal and external audit operating company has developed its own principles and processes and provides the functions, complemented bya sound risk brands and sales and service channels, minimum requirement for the controls the management process, as outlined on page 44. tailored to its target industrial markets.
businesses should have in place.
The Code of 21119.04 07 03 12 Proof 8 Financial Statements Governance Business Review
