Current environment Emerging markets contributed 38% In the early part of 2011, the global economy looked to be returning to a more normal growth pattern as the pace of global of Group revenues and 47% industrial production growth moderated following the steep of operating profit in 2011. rebound from recession.
However, increased uncertainty from the sovereign debt issues in Europe, which escalated through the autumn of 2011, has weighed on the global economy, resulting in slowing industrial production growth, especially in Europe, where a number of economies are now back in recession.
In the second half of the year, our markets generally reflected these trends and overall demand growth slowed but with continued relative Trading strength in most of our emerging markets contrasting with difficult Group sales increased by over 10% to 650.0 million market conditions broadly across Europe.
Organic sales growth was nearly 10%, well spread across all segments with a very small contribution During the year, maintenance spending increased in our from favourable currency movements and acquisitions.
developed markets but remains at comparatively low levels, with maintenance spending in many markets not yet recovered from Sales increased by 9% in the Spirax Sarco steam specialties the sharp falls accompanying the 2008-09 recession.
Largebusiness to 531.6 million and by 8% at constant exchange scale project orders, although a relatively small percentage of rates.
The full-year benefit from our Mexican business previously our total revenues, were up significantly from 2010 levels and a 49% owned Associate until May 2010 was largely offset by a particularly benefited our Watson-Marlow USA business in the reduction in sales resulting from two small business disposals.
In the steam specialties business, sales were ahead in all three geographic segments and across nearly all product lines as Our customers are spread across a wide range of industries customers increased overall spending on maintenance and and institutions, and market conditions for our businesses tend small capital improvement projects.
We achieved significantly to reflect the general level of economic activity and, in particular, higher sales of flow metering products as a result of a large movements in industrial production.
However, we have a resilient non-repeating project related to the US Federal Governments business model and we continue to work to create our own energy management programme, and higher sales of energy opportunities based on increasing customer preferences for services.
Watson-Marlow Pumps sales grew strongly, rising by our wide range of engineering solutions and to further invest 15% to 118.4 million 15% at constant currency with all regions in market penetration, particularly in emerging markets that are contributing well and growth in all product ranges.
expected to exhibit relatively stronger economic growth, and in new product development.
Group operating profit was a record 134.0 million 2010:119.1million, an increase of 12%, as we benefited from good operational gearing on the higher sales.
We increased our investment in the development of emerging markets with additional sales resource and also stepped up our investments in R&D, with a focus on increased innovation and on strategically important growth areas in flow metering, controls, heat transfer, wireless communications and advanced pumping technologies.
Material costs for the year rose by more than inflation but were Group operating profit was a record largely offset by our own price increases and continued material cost mitigation actions.
The reorganisation of our manufacturing 134.0 million 2010: 119.1 million, operations in the UK and France took longer than expected to an increase of 12%, as we benefited complete and disruption costs of 2.7 million were incurred, mostly in the second half.
The results for the year include a net from good operational gearing on the benefit of 1.5 million largely reflecting a gain on disposal of higher sales.
The effects of currency movements on operating profit were overall immaterial.
The operating profit margin improved from 20.2% to 20.6%.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 17 Financial statements Governance Corporate social responsibility Financial review Business review Overview
