Europe, Middle East and Africa EMEA Constant 2011 2010 Change currency Revenue 250.1m 230.0m 9% 7% Operating profit 42.5m 36.8m 15% 13% Operating margin 17.0% 16.0% 100 bps 80 bps Sales Operating profit Sales increased by 9% to 250.1 million 2010: 230.0 million Operating profit rose by 15% to 42.5 million and by 7% at constant currency.
The good sales growth in most emerging 8% adjusting for a reduction in sales following the disposal of markets in EMEA was reflected in profit improvements in these the Mitech control valve business in South Africa and the M&M operations as we benefited from operational gearing on the solenoid valve distribution business in Spain.
continued at a similar pace throughout the year, although The profit increase in our core European companies was underlying demand slowed in the second half and second half more muted with a focus on efficiency and cost control, and sales benefited from the shipment of backlog carried forward also reflective of the slower sales growth.
The segment results from the first half.
include a one-off benefit of 1.5 million, comprising a gain of 1.7 million on the disposal of property in Cheltenham net Our core European businesses in France, Italy, Spain and the UK saw overall slower growth, with low levels of project activity of relocation costs and a charge of 0.2million in respect of an inventory write-down on disposal of the Mitech products and maintenance spending by customers.
Our markets in these countries remain difficult, although we saw higher levels of OEM business in South Africa.
The 2010 results included a tangible asset write-down of 1.2 million in respect of the reorganisation sales during the year.
After an exceptional year in 2010, sales growth in Germany moderated in 2011 and profits were a little of the Mitech business.
Shipments increased from our manufacturing operations but profits were lower.
The physical lower but we achieved strong growth in Scandinavia, Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
Our emerging markets reorganisation of our manufacturing plants in Cheltenham, UK and Chtellerault, France was largely completed by mid-year in EMEA over 20% of segment sales performed very well, delivering more than 60% of the profit growth for the segment 2011.
However, the new manufacturing layouts and process flow in 2011. changes took longer than expected to bed down and disruption costs of 2.7 million for sub-contracting and implementation We have continued to increase sales resources to support future costs were incurred, mostly in the second half.
growth, particularly in the Middle East and also in Russia, which had an outstanding year in 2011 and is now one of our largest The operating profit margin in EMEA increased from 16.0% businesses within EMEA.
to 17.0%, reflecting an underlying improvement in our sales operations driven by the sales growth and cost control.
We saw a decline in demand in our small, emerging markets in Africa in the second half of the year and a slower rate of growth in our Middle East markets but we see good long-term growth prospects in that part of the world.
Northumbrian Water UK Biofuels Spirax Sarco helps cut Northumbrian Waters energy bill by 10% Steam systems from Spirax The plant uses thermal hydrolysis Sarco are playing an essential injections of live steam to kill the role in a new green energy pathogens in the sludge.
Raw project that is set to cut sludge is loaded into stainless Northumbrian Waters annual steel vessels and the steam energy bill by 10%.
A reliable injected to hold the contents at supply of high quality steam 165C and 6 Bar.
The sludge was a top priority on this project, is then cooled and fed into says Frank Errington, Works concrete tanks, where methaneCo-Ordination Manager for generating microbes digest it Northumbrian Water.
The methane Without steam we couldnt collected is used to fuel gas do what we do.
engines, providing a renewable source of electrical energy.
In addition to hardware, Spirax Sarco also provided both on-site Following commissioning, and off-site training, and is still the sludge treatment process visiting the site regularly as part is entirely self-sufficient and of an ongoing water treatment additional power provides and chemical dosing contract.
electricity to meet half of the The 33 million advanced wider Bran Sands sites entire anaerobic digestion AAD energy requirements.
scheme at Bran Sands, Teesport, converts sewage sludge into energy and is currently the biggest plant of its kind in the UK.
18 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
