Board of directors Chairmans introduction to governance The Board is responsible for longterm delivery of sustainable growth for the shareholders.
To achieve this good governance is key and we are very fortunate to have Non-Executive Directors with both wide industry and international experience who are able to contribute effectively to the management of the Group.
32 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Bill Whiteley BSc, FCMA 63 Chairman Committees Finance Committee Chairman, Nomination Committee Chairman Experience Joined the Group as an independent NonExecutive Director in 2002 and was appointed Chairman in July 2009.
Until his retirement in 2008 Mr Whiteley was Chief Executive of Rotork plc, where he had been a Director since 1984.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Brammer plc and is Senior Independent Director of Renishaw plc.
Mr Whiteley also serves as Chairman of Hill & Smith Holdings plc.
He has been awarded an honorary Doctorate of Engineering at the University of Bath.
Mark E Vernon BSc Hons 59 Gareth Bullock MA 58 Neil Daws CEng, FIMechE 49 Chief Executive Officer Independent Non-Executive Director Executive Director Asia Pacific and Supply Senior Independent Director Committees Committees Committees Finance Committee, Nomination Committee, Audit Committee, Nomination Committee, Risk Management Committee Risk Management Committee Chairman Remuneration Committee Chairman Experience Experience Experience Joined the Group in 2003 as President of the Joined the Group as an independent NonJoined the Group in the UK in 1978.
Mr Daws Groups steam business in the USA.
Mr Vernon Executive Director in 2005.
Mr Bullock has had has wide manufacturing experience within the was appointed to the Board in 2006, with a varied career in banking, having retired from Group, having held positions in production and director responsibilities for operations in North the Board of Standard Chartered plc in 2010 design engineering prior to being named as UK and South America.
He became Chief Operating where, following roles in Technology and Supply Director.
Mr Daws was appointed to the Officer in 2007 and was subsequently appointed Operations, Strategy and Northeast Asia, he Board in 2003 and is now responsible for Asia as Group Chief Executive in April 2008.
In May was most recently responsible for Africa, Middle Pacific and Supply, including the Companys 2011 Mr Vernon joined the Senior plc Board as East, Europe and the Americas as well as for the Supply operations in the UK and France, Non-Executive Director.
Mr Vernon has had a Risk function.
Mr Bullock also currently serves together with the Groups health, safety and long career in the industrial engineering industry, as a Non-Executive Director of Tesco plc.
serving previously as Group Vice-president of Flowserves Flow Control Business Unit, Group Vice-president of Durco International and President of Valtek International, a global controls business.
David Meredith FCMA 52 Krishnamurthy Rajagopal FREng, CEng, Clive Watson B Comm Acc, ACA, CTA 54 Finance Director FIET, FIMechE, FIE, FCMI, PhD 58 Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Committees Committees Committees Finance Committee, Risk Management Audit Committee, Nomination Committee, Audit Committee Chairman, Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Committee, Remuneration Committee Experience Experience Experience Joined the Group in 1988 as Group Accountant.
Joined the Group as an independent NonJoined the Group as an independent NonMr Meredith was appointed to the Board as Executive Director in 2009.
Dr Rajagopal is Executive Director in 2009.
Mr Watson is an Finance Director in 1992.
He trained as an a Non-Executive Director of W S Atkins plc, Executive Director and Group Finance Director Accountant with Redman Heenan International, Bodycote plc and e2v technologies plc.
He held several tax and finance 3 a specialist engineering group, and was also serves as Chairman of UMI Ltd. On roles before joining Black & Decker in 1988 as appointed Accountant at their Heenan Drives completing his Doctorate in 1980, he became Director of Tax and Treasury Europe, and was Limited subsidiary.
Mr Meredith later joined Manufacturing Systems Manager for Edwards later appointed Vice-president of Business English & American Reinsurance Company High Vacuum part of the BOC Group plc Planning and Analysis in the USA.
He then where he held finance positions prior to joining before being appointed Operations Director.
joined Thorn Lighting as Group Finance the Group.
Dr Rajagopal was later appointed Managing Director before working for Borealis as Chief Director of the Vacuum Technology Division, Financial Officer and Executive Vice-president prior to being named Chief Executive of BOC of Business Support.
Mr Watson joined Spectris Edwards in 1998 and Executive Director of the plc in 2006 as Chief Financial Officer.
He retired from BOC Group plc in 2006.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 33 Financial statements Governance Corporate social responsibility Financial review Business review Overview
