Business overview Spirax Sarcos world leading steam specialties and niche pump businesses provide our customers with a wide range of engineered solutions for the effective design, maintenance and operation of efficient industrial steam systems and manufacturing processes.
Our business benefits our customers by increasing their process efficiency, generating meaningful energy and water savings, improving end-use product quality and enhancing their ability to comply with increasingly stringent regulatory requirements.
It is not our products alone that provide value to our customers: it is the application of our extensive knowledge in systems design, operations and maintenance.
Mark Vernon Chief Executive 4 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business model Business strategies Consistent organic growth Direct sales approach with strong technical expertise It is not our products alone that provide value to our customers: The Group seeks to deliver consistent annual organic sales growth and has a long history of steady, profitable growth with it is the application of our extensive knowledge in systems design, operations and maintenance.
Our direct sales approach excellent prospects for future growth organic sales revenues over the past 30 years have increased by more than 9% per accounts for about 70% of total revenues and is fundamental to our growth strategies.
Working directly with customers in strong, annum and total sales growth has averaged about 10% per annum over the period.
We have successfully developed a long-term relationships, our sales engineers around the world apply our deep applications and systems knowledge, breadth resilient and robust business model and remain focused on the long-term development of our niche businesses through of products and experience in offering the most extensive range of engineered solutions.
Our customers value the opportunity to geographic market penetration, new products, acquisitions and widening our range of products and service solutions.
source their system needs from a competent single source, and rely increasingly on Spirax Sarco.
Today we employ about 1,300 High trading margins local sales and service engineers that are singularly focused on The Group seeks to generate high trading margins.
Over the past assisting steam and pump users to meet their challenges.
20 years, trading margins have ranged between 14% and 18% The heart of our business is our ability to improve the operating through many business cycles and in the last two years have and energy efficiency of existing steam systems, to increase climbed above 20%.
Operational leverage, productivity, material the throughput of our customers processes, improve their and labour costs, pricing, product mix and foreign exchange rates product quality and assist them in meeting increasingly tough are key components of our trading margins.
This demands that our sales and expectations are that margins should be sustainably higher than service people are intimate with the operating issues of individual 20% given normal currency exchange rates.
customers manufacturing plants and facilities.
Customer intimacy We train our sales engineers in our 38 training centres located Our business model is anchored on the philosophy of around the world, most of which are equipped with live steam understanding the detail of our customers processes and and pumping installations that facilitate hands-on training.
These the ability to apply properly engineered solutions.
We form centres are also used to train our customers technical and strong, long-term relationships with our customers who rely maintenance staff.
We have developed internet-based tools to increasingly on our expertise to assist them in achieving energy improve the technical training of our sales engineers around the and water savings, process improvement and health, safety world and to speed the process of their development.
Additionally, and environmental regulatory compliance.
We do this through we have implemented information collection and sharing software applying our extensive knowledge in proper steam system to improve our ability to diffuse application knowledge and provide design and maintenance, temperature control, heat transfer, a common platform to share application knowledge amongst steam boiler efficiency and niche pumping of hygienic, corrosive work groups across our global sales network.
Broad product portfolio High value-added solutions provider The Group considers its commitment to new product Over the years, many customers have significantly reduced their development as critical to its long-term success.
Our  and operations staff and have lost much of their expert direct sales force allows us to leverage our brands into steam systems expertise in plant operations and maintenance.
This increases the amount of As customers increase operational outsourcing and look for plant spend that we can capture in small-scale capital projects simple, single-source transactions with competent full-service and maintenance activities from our extensive customer base.
suppliers to solve their local maintenance, operations, product quality and capacity expansion issues, our total solutions approach to problem solving is simply unmatched by any of our competitors.
Our business model is anchored on Diverse revenue streams the philosophy of understanding the We serve a comprehensive range of industrial and commercial detail of our customers processes markets and therefore are not subject to the spending cycles of a single industry.
Our engineered solutions are used in and the ability to apply properly foods, brewing & distilling, dairies, oil refining & petrochemicals, engineered solutions.
chemicals, pharmaceuticals, textiles, fine chemicals, mining, printing, water & wastewater treatment and many other general process industries.
We also supply solutions to hospitals and commercial buildings for sterilisation, space heating, hot water In the last four years, the Group has nearly doubled its R&D generation and laundering.
No single industry represents more investments to accelerate the flow of new products that extends than about 10% of sales and no single customer accounts for our current range of products and applications and opens new more than 1% of sales.
We operate R&D development and test centres at High percentage of recurring revenues many of our manufacturing plants around the world, although A key element of the business model is a high percentage of the bulk of the activity is centred in the UK.
We recently built replacement products and spares.
At elevated temperatures a new world class steam technology centre at our Cheltenham and pressures, steam can be quite erosive and no matter how location that has significantly increased our testing capability well designed products are, they simply wear out over time.
and capacity to much higher steam temperatures, pressures As a result of this and given our large installed base of equipment and flow rates.
around the world, about 50% of our revenues are recurring New products have contributed meaningfully to the organic as a result of normal maintenance that is performed to sales growth.
For the steam business, new products in areas maintain production output and end-use product quality.
such as automatic control valves, pre-fabricated heat transfer Complementary acquisitions and heat recovery packages, flow meters and steam system We make complementary bolt-on acquisitions to build our site services have resulted in these product families growing product portfolio, gain access to new customers and markets, collectively at more than double the rate of overall sales growth introduce new technologies and speed geographic market over the past five years and contributing about 20% to the overall development.
Our acquisitions tend to be smaller in size and steam business sales growth in the period.
For Watson-Marlow, easier to integrate.
Acquisitions have added about 1% per the story is similar, as our pumps product range has been annum to sales growth over the past two decades.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 5 Financial statements Governance Corporate social responsibility Financial review Business review Overview Corporate objective Provide enhanced Operational value to shareholders excellence through consistent growth in EPS and DPS as measured Infrastructure Direct sales against the FT exploitation with strong to develop All-Share Index Complementary Consistent technical and Watson-Marlow acquisitions organic growth sales knowledge Business objective Global leadership High High trading in niche industrial recurring margins revenues Customer markets value Regional First to market manufacturing with high sales capability for contribution local product Diverse from emerging Customer revenue availability markets intimacy streams High value-added solutions provider Performance culture Broad product and talent portfolio management KPIs KPI KPI Operating profit margin % Sales growth 07 16.5% 07 07 9% 08 17.1% 08 08 20% 09 17.3% 09 09 3% 10 10 14% 10 20.2% 11 11 10% 11 20.6% KPI KPI Return on capital employed % Organisational efficiency sales per employee 07 33.6% 07 07 7% 08 35.5% 08 08 14% 09 33.3% 09 09 4% 10 42.1% 10 10 12% 11 41.1% 11 11 4% KPI Dividends per share growth p 07 29.9p 08 33.3p 09 36.1p 10 43.0p 25.0p 11 49.0p Special dividend of 25.0p 6 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 progressively widened and developed, making use of improved principles, our employees enjoy a higher standard of working electronics and tubing materials to broaden the addressable environment and are more involved in the success of the markets.
In the past five years, new products at Watson-Marlow Company.
We take care to provide a culture of openness and also contributed about 20% to the overall organic growth of this honesty.
The Group is committed to equality of opportunity business segment.
for all its employees regardless of gender, race, age, disability, religion or sexual orientation.
We value our employees for their Strong market presence and higher sales contribution diverse talents and viewpoints and recognise that developing the from emerging markets skills and abilities of our people is essential to ensure we are able A large majority of our revenues are derived from annual to provide our customers a unique, high standard of expertise, maintenance and operating expenditure budgets, which requires solutions and service.
that we make steady long-term investments in developing Regional manufacturing capability our sales people to increase our market penetration and develop emerging markets.
Our core expertise lies in our ability Our major manufacturing plants are strategically located in all key to improve the operating and energy efficiency of existing market regions including the United Kingdom, France, Italy, the steam systems, to increase the throughput of our customers United States, Brazil, Argentina and China.
We also manufacture processes and to improve their product quality.
Much of in Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands, Sweden, Mexico, India our organic growth is derived from addressing design and and Korea.
The Group operates on very short order books and maintenance issues of the enormous installed base of industrial we believe that top-line revenue growth is enhanced through steam systems and solving challenging pumping problems.
off-the-shelf availability of our wide range of steam system and pump products.
Over many years the Group has steadily expanded its international presence and benefits today from being first to We generally employ demand flow processes in our market in many territories around the world we serve our manufacturing plants.
This type of lean manufacturing system customers through 51 operating companies around the world is built upon the concept of manufacturing today what was sold and we maintain a direct sales presence in over 50 countries.
yesterday and is centred on providing maximum flexibility and In the past few years we have accelerated the development scalability of daily manufacture.
We have recently invested over of emerging markets by adding direct sales and service people, 50 million to expand our manufacturing footprint closer to the for example, in Romania, Ukraine, Turkey, Egypt, Saudi Arabia point of sale in emerging markets.
and Jordan as well as in our established businesses in China, Operational excellence India, Brazil, Argentina, Mexico and Russia.
The Group focuses on organisational efficiency, productivity Performance culture and talent management improvements and better management of its balance sheet to People lie at the core of our business and we have high generate higher profits and increase cash flows.
We operate our expectations of performance from our people.
We have taken manufacturing plants on principles of lean manufacturing and steps to upgrade the quality of professional human resource continuous improvement and our people are actively engaged leadership in guiding our progression to a more performancein these activities.
Major investments have been made in the based work culture throughout the organisation.
We invest in past three years to consolidate the European manufacturing our facilities to create a positive work environment that stimulates footprint of the steam business in order to improve product team building and builds organisational pride.
availability, reduce delivery times, lower manufacturing costs and stocks and simplify supply chain logistics.
We take advantage The culture of the Group is underpinned by our key values of of the rapid improvements in machine tool efficiencies through respect, accountability, passion, integrity and delivery.
These a regular replacement programme of these sophisticated and values encompass the underlying principles upon which the complex machine tools that are deemed critical in controlling business operates.
By understanding and engaging these product quality and delivery.
As nearly one-third of our employees are engaged in customerfacing sales and service activities, effective time utilisation is Our strong and resilient business of paramount importance.
We continuously work to develop model has been developed and effective training programmes to accelerate technical knowledge transfer, to share knowledge globally, to automate equipment strengthened over many years.
sizing and selection, to simplify paperwork all of this in an Our business benefits from the effort to allow our sales and service people to spend more great diversity of our end user time directly with our customers.
Infrastructure utilisation industries and customers, our The Group is very international for its size, with trading companies geographic spread and significant established in 35 countries around the world.
The Group acquired presence in emerging markets, high its Watson-Marlow peristaltic pump business in 1990 and at that time, the Watson-Marlow business represented about 4% of replacement product content and Group revenues and was based largely in western Europe.
The a large base of industrial steam sales growth of Watson-Marlow has been accelerated through the effective use of the steam business infrastructure to economically systems installed around the world and quickly develop other important markets.
Today, Watsonthat require continual upkeep and Marlow represents 18% of Group revenues and good growth improvement.
As a result, the Group prospects remain as less than 20% of its revenues are derived from emerging markets.
is able to generate steady revenue growth and consistently high trading margins and good cash flow.
Mark Vernon Chief Executive Officer Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 7 Financial statements Governance Corporate social responsibility Financial review Business review Overview
