Americas Constant 2011 2010 Change currency Revenue 134.4m 125.2m 7% 10% Operating profit 27.4m 24.3m 13% 17% Operating margin 20.4% 19.4% 100 bps 130 bps Sales In Latin America, industrial production growth slowed sharply Sales increased by 7% to 134.4 million 2010: 125.2 million.
in the second half, turning negative in Brazil and overall Overall currency movements were unfavourable, particularly market conditions have become tougher, consistent with the weaker dollar and Argentinean peso, and sales increased the global slowdown.
Against a tough comparative year in 10% at constant currency.
This includes the benefit from the 2010, underlying sales growth in Latin America was more inclusion of our Mexican business, which continues to perform muted: our Brazilian company did very well to sustain its strong well and which became a full subsidiary from May 2010, and the sales and profit performance achieved in 2010 with tight cost organic sales growth was 7%.
controls and higher operating efficiencies.
In Argentina, our In North America, growth continued from significantly higher company increased sales but profit was reduced, reflecting sales of flow metering products and installation services for a increased costs as inflation remains very high amidst a fragile large non-repeating project as part of the energy management economic environment.
programme of the US Federal Government, the return of project Operating profit activity in the oil sands developments of Western Canada and higher energy services sales from a modest recovery in steam Operating profit in the Americas increased by 13% to 27.4million 2010: 24.3 million, driven by the US, although all system maintenance spending at US refineries.
The combined steam specialties and Watson-Marlow businesses in the United operations contributed to the profit increase except Argentina.
Currency movements were overall unfavourable and increased States now represent 17% of total Group sales.
We see generally stable market conditions in North America with the US economy the landed cost of products imported for sale in the region: at constant currency, operating profit was ahead 17%, including improving and we remain encouraged by our near-term prospects in Canada due to the resurgence of investment the full-year contribution from Mexico, which accounted for a in the oil sands developments in Western Canada.
The operating profit margin improved from 19.4% to 20.4%.
Gilead Canada Pharmaceuticals Modular heat exchanger solutions cut Gileads implementation costs When Gilead Alberta ULC, Quick Heat technology.
We needed an ethylene glycol cut purchasing costs while heating system to service a delivering a more efficient new air-handling unit, we were and easier toinstall solution able to locally support Gilead than market alternatives for in a complete appraisal of the its HVAC applications.
The problem and offer a turnkey packaged approach allowed approach.
Using an extensive Gilead to fully inspect and engineering and application test off-site, thus reducing knowledge, we demonstrated valuable on-site installation our value and provided a and commissioning phases.
compact and efficient solution A Gilead engineering manager to deliver energy savings.
Having said Spirax Sarcos modular a local team to work with Gilead heat exchanger systems cut our was critical to ensuring the unit implementation costs and gave would fit in the restricted space us the compact, high efficiency and ultimately define the success solution we needed.
endorsement of the success We provided biopharmaceutical of the first installation, Gilead company Gilead with a complete has since placed an order for modular heat exchange system a third heat exchanger package.
centred on the Spirax Sarco 20 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
