Watson-Marlow Pumps Constant 2011 2010 Change currency Revenue 118.4m 103.0m 15% 15% Operating profit 34.4m 30.8m 12% 15% Operating margin 29.1% 29.9% -80 bps -10 bps Sales Market conditions remain relatively robust in the precious Sales growth of 15% was achieved, including a very small metals processing industries and we see continued strength impact on translation from overall negative currency movements, in our biopharmaceuticals markets.
However, the US water in particular the US dollar.
Growth continued at a strong pace & wastewater markets are much more challenging due to throughout the year 14% in the second half at constant tightened state and municipal budgets and US construction currency versus 17% in the first half and was widespread with markets have not yet recovered.
We see good prospects good sales increases in all operations and across all product for growth in our small but rapidly growing Asian and Latin lines, including good progress being made in the development American markets but see more challenging market conditions of acquisitions made in recent years.
Investment in sales in Europe similar to the steam specialties business.
resources was significantly increased to fuel future growth and drive our important industry sector-focused sales approach, with Operating profit direct sales people added in all regions and strongly focused on Operating profit grew by 12% to 34.4million 2010: 30.8 emerging markets.
million and by 15% at constant currency.
Investment in R&D In EMEA, there was good growth in tubing, Bredel products and was again significantly increased as we further expand the application capability of peristaltic pumps and develop across most industry segments, and we continued to convert recently acquired product lines from distribution to direct sales, advanced pumping technologies that we expect to launch in 2012.
As a result, we continue to progressively widen our positioning ourselves for future growth.
addressable markets and see good long-term growth prospects In Asia Pacific, our business in China continued to grow strongly for our business.
and the prior year acquisitions of the distributorships in Australia and New Zealand performed well.
In addition, we established The very strong operating profit margin of 29.1% in 2011 declined a new direct sales company in India.
slightly from 29.9% in 2010, almost all due to unfavourable currency movements.
In the Americas, the USA saw exceptional project activity in the fourth quarter, Brazil did well in the year and there was good growth from our fledgling operations in Mexico and Argentina.
Wine Innovators UK Food and Beverage Flexicon equipment provides effective solution of Wine Innovations London-based Wine Innovations Working with Watson-Marlow, Ltd, the inventors, founders and the company decided to acquire pioneers of The Tulip pre-filled Flexicon industrial peristaltic fillers wine goblet, are now using in combination with separate peristaltic filling machines from OEM control units.
The fillers Flexicon Liquid Filling, part of the transport the wine within the tube Watson-Marlow Pumps Group, ensuring no contamination and on its latest filling lines.
Having facilitate easy and rapid product originally used volumetric filling change-over less than 60 equipment, the company is seconds.
There is no potential enjoying an array of benefits from for cross-contamination between its switch to Flexicon technology.
batches, hence providing the perfect solution to the problems The initial system could not cope faced by Wine Innovations.
easily with switching between products: a flush-through and steam clean would heat many of the volumetric fillers intricate parts so they became extremely hot.
In some instances, residue wine can bake on to components and prove difficult to remove.
Furthermore, the parts can take three to four hours to cool down before filling can recommence, which is unacceptable from a productivity perspective.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 21 Financial statements Governance Corporate social responsibility Financial review Business review Overview
