overview business review governance financial statements The attendance of individual directors at Audit Committee meetings auditor, the Committee considered Ernst & Youngs performance, held during 2011 was as follows: resource, quality control procedures, policy on rotating its audit partners Number of Number of audit partners rotate every five years, independence and objectivity, meetings meetings noting that as a result of this policy there is a new Audit Partner in 2011. held attended The Committee also considered the risk of Ernst & Young withdrawing Ian Brindle Committee Chairman 4 4 from the audit market.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict Duncan Lewis 4 4 the Companys current choice of external auditor.
Tom Maxwell 4 4 Remuneration Committee The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal controls, During 2011, the Remuneration Committee comprised Tom Maxwell including risk management, and has delegated certain of these Chairman, Ian Brindle and Duncan Lewis.
Sue Swenson was appointed responsibilities to the Audit Committee.
to the Committee on 1 February 2012.
All members of the Committee are independent non-executive directors, making it compliant with the Code The Companys external auditor, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief in terms of independent non-executive directors.
Financial Officer, the Group Vice President Finance, the Head of Financial Reporting and the Company Secretary, who is Secretary to Further details about the Remuneration Committee are included the Committee, were in attendance at each meeting.
The Chairman in the Report on directors remuneration on pages 47 to 54. also attends by invitation from the Committee Chairman.
In addition, the Committee meets with the Companys external auditor without Nomination Committee management being present.
The minutes of Committee meetings are During 2011, the Nomination Committee comprised Alex Walker available to all directors.
Chairman, Ian Brindle, Duncan Lewis and Tom Maxwell.
Sue Swenson was appointed to the Committee on 1 February 2012.
During the year the Committee has monitored and reviewed risk The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee.
management and internal control, reviewed the Companys whistleblowing policy, reviewed the interim and full year financial The attendance of individual directors at Nomination Committee statements, key accounting policies, the auditors report on the meetings held during 2011 was as follows: Number of Number of interim review and year end audit and managements responses to meetings meetings the issues raised.
The internal audit programme and the external held attended audit strategy and scope for 2011 were also agreed and approved.
Alex Walker Committee Chairman 2 2 Further details of internal control and process are set out on page 46.
Ian Brindle 2 2 Regular reports on tax, treasury and health and safety are presented.
Duncan Lewis 2 2 Further details of the Groups Ethics Policy and health and safety Tom Maxwell 2 2 performance are contained in the Corporate social responsibility statement on pages 32 to 35.
The Chairman of the Committee reports any significant findings or identified weaknesses to the Board.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for reviewing the composition and structure of the Board and for identifying and The Audit Committee has adopted a policy in relation to the provision recommending candidates for executive and non-executive positions.
of non-audit services by the external auditor to ensure that the provision Recommendations are based on the required role and capabilities of such services does not impair the external auditors independence which have been specified for the appointment and having regard or objectivity.
Under this policy, a number of non-audit services are to the Boards balance, diversity and structure and considering precluded including services relating to the accounting records or issues of succession.
Executive search consultants are used by the financial statements, internal audit, IT consulting, legal and investment Nomination Committee to assist this process as appropriate.
In 2011, services and other services deemed by regulators to be precluded.
The the Committee dealt with the search for and appointment of Sue policy is reviewed and financial limits for non-audit services are set on Swenson as non-executive director, having defined the competencies an annual basis.
The Committee considers that notwithstanding the required for the role and utilising the services of external executive non-audit services provided during the year totalling $0.1 million search consultants.
2010 $0.1 million, Ernst & Youngs objectivity as external auditor was not impaired.
Prior to recommending their reappointment as external 45
