In addition, pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Post balance sheet events Services Authority, Directors and persons discharging There have been no significant post balance sheet events.
managerial responsibility PDMRs of the Company require prior approval from the Company to deal in the Companys Going concern securities, and are prohibited from dealing during the The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity Companys Close Period.
position and borrowing facilities are described in the financial review on pages 22 and 23 of this report.
Note 22 General meetings to the consolidated financial statements includes the Groups At a general meeting of the shareholders, the Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: Articles of Association may be amended by special its financial risk management objectives: details of its resolution, and on a show of hands every member who financial instruments and hedging activities: and its is present in person and proxy entitled to vote shall have exposures to credit and liquidity risk.
On a poll every member who is present in person and proxy shall have one vote for every share of which he After reviewing budgets and other longer term plans and is the holder.
A shareholder may appoint more than one making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation proxy in relation to their holdings provided that each proxy that the Company and the Group has adequate resources does not vote in relation to the same shares.
The Notice to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable of Meeting sent to shareholders with this report gives future.
Accordingly, they adopt the going concern basis full details of deadlines for exercising voting rights and of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be considered at the meeting.
Directors statement as to disclosure of information to auditors The Board uses the AGM to communicate with institutional The Directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there and private shareholders and welcomes participation from is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are all.
The Chairman aims to ensure that the Chairmen of the unaware and that each Director has taken all reasonable Audit & Risk, Remuneration and Nomination & Governance steps to make himself aware of any relevant audit information Committees and the Senior Independent Non-executive and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
Director attend the AGM to answer any relevant questions.
All members of the Board are available to meet with major Auditors shareholders if requested.
A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit plc as the Companys auditors will be put to the forthcoming AGM.
Communications with shareholders are given high priority to ensure that a balanced and understandable assessment of By order of the Board the Groups position and prospects is given.
The Company aims to provide as much information as is commercially John Grime sensible to both existing and potential investors, recognising Company Secretary that transparency is the best way to develop understanding 31 October 2011 of the Groups strategy, performance and growth potential.
The Company encourages two-way communication with both its institutional and private shareholders and aims to provide a timely response to all enquiries.
There is a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders as well as presentations after the Companys preliminary announcement of the year end and interim results.
The Chairman also writes to the top ten major shareholders on an annual basis inviting them to correspond with the Non-executive Directors if they so wish.
Annual Report 2011 Spirit Pub Company plc 33 Governance
