Business review Our business Spirit Pub Company Managed pub business Leased pub business Spirit Pub Company has a high quality Our Managed pubs represent some Our Leased pub estate is one of the estate of over 800 Managed pubs of the highest quality pubs nationwide, highest quality in the UK.
After a and over 500 Leased pubs, a strong and we are proud of our continuing number of challenging years, we have portfolio of brands, an experienced commitment to delivering consistently seen performance improve, mainly and motivated executive management great guest experiences.
Our focus through the success of our Pathway team, well positioned to exploit the is on delivering an attractive choice to Partnership programme combined growing UK eating out market.
Our of food and drink and a fantastic guest with targeted investments.
vision is simple: we want to become experience, all at unbeatable value.
the UKs best Managed pub company.
Objective We believe that by creating the best Our objective is to maximise long term The Group owns and operates some of teams in our pubs we will deliver the value for all of our stakeholders through the UKs leading Managed pub brands best results for all our stakeholders: a continued focus on operational including Chef & Brewer, Flaming Grill excellence and a careful investment and Fayre & Square and also operates Best for Team recruiting, developing strategy to further develop our high a high quality Leased estate.
and retaining the highest calibre team quality Managed pub business.
Best for Guest the team in turn delivers consistently great guest This strategy is not new: over the last experiences two years we have made substantial Best for Investor which delivers the progress in repositioning the Managed maximum return for our investors, business through the improvement giving us the capital to reinvest in of operating discipline, the upgrading of our pubs talent, the revitalisation and development of brands and investment in the estate.
Our Circle of Success We intend to continue to invest in new brands and refurbishments.
In addition, over the next few years we will convert up to 100 pubs from the Leased estate into Managed pubs and dispose, over time, of those Leased pubs that are not suitable for conversion, with a view to Spirit becoming a solely Managed business.
Our Managed pubs are some of the UKs most profitable pubs, having been actively repositioned to exploit the growth in the UK eating out market.
In the last two years, this has been accelerated, with a detailed focus on improving our operating discipline, recruiting and retaining the best people, revitalising and developing our brands to meet changing consumer needs and investing in our pubs.
com 02 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2011
