Business review Corporate social responsibility continued Environment Recycling 4,000 tonnes of waste Our commitment to the environment In addition to energy efficiency, we have has become integral to our business made significant progress in reducing is recycled to create strategy, both at our Support Centre our landfill waste with the launch of green power.
and across the business, as a result a new recycling scheme.
we have reduced our carbon footprint by 13% and working towards reducing Most of the waste we produce is it by 15%.
We have already saved associated with the preparation of food 6m in energy consumption in the last and drink in our pubs and therefore few years.
consists of food and packaging waste.
Packaging is essential to our business, In addition, 98% of our pubs have although it has an impact on the smart meters installed and 86% have environment and contributes to the energy efficient lightbulbs.
We aim to 100 million tonnes of waste from have the entire estate operating on LED households, commerce and industry bulbs by 2012 which will reduce lamp combined produced every year.
wattage from 40 watts to 3 watts, generating more than 3,000 in annual We have developed a unique solution savings for each site.
for our waste streams that not only minimises our impact on the environment Our low carbon Support Centre building by reducing landfill but also removes won a number of awards for its green substantial vehicle miles from the credentials, including first place in the road.
Working with our food and drink Staffordshire heats of the Sustainable distributors we are now using reverse Development and Accessible Building logistics solutions in nearly all of our Awards, run by Local Authority Building estate.
The scheme has delivered Control LABC, and a Burton upon Trent a substantial reduction to our carbon Civic Society New Buildings Award.
Spirit Pub Company cleans up We are committed to reducing our landfill.
We developed a solution for our waste streams that not only minimises our impact on the environment by minimising landfill but also removes substantial vehicle miles from the road.
We are now using reverse logistics solutions in nearly all of our pubs, which have delivered a substantial reduction in our carbon footprint.
com 20 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2011
