Financial statements Notes to the financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 20 August 2011 continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Significant accounting estimates and judgements continued Impairment of property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment if circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Recoverable amounts are determined based on value in use calculations and estimated sale proceeds.
These calculations require assumptions to be made regarding future cash flows and the choice of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
These assumptions are disclosed in note 13.
Actual outcomes may vary from these estimates.
Post-employment benefits The present value of defined benefit pension scheme liabilities are determined on an actuarial basis and depend on a number of actuarial assumptions, which are disclosed in note 26.
Any change in these assumptions could impact the carrying amounts of pension liabilities.
Onerous lease provisions The Group provides for its onerous obligations under operating leases where the property is closed or vacant and for properties where rental expense is in excess of income.
The estimated timings and amounts of cash flows are determined using the experience of internal and external property experts: however, any changes to the estimated method of exiting from the property could lead to changes to the level of the provision recorded.
Authorisation of financial statements The Groups and Companys financial statements for Spirit Pub Company plc for the period ended 20 August 2011 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 31 October 2011 and the balance sheets were signed on the Boards behalf by Mike Tye and Russell Margerrison.
Corporate information Spirit Pub Company plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England.
The Companys shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Segmental analysis The Group has two reportable segments, a Managed estate and a Leased estate, which are the Groups strategic business units.
Each strategic business unit consists of a number of cash generating units CGUs, which are individual pubs.
These CGUs generate their own revenues, which are consolidated to give the Group revenue and as a result, Group revenue is not reliant on one significant customer.
The Groups risks and returns are affected predominantly by the differences in the products and services provided by the strategic business units.
Between 21 August 2010 and 20 August 2011, three pubs with a fair value of 1.3m transferred from the Leased to the Managed estate.
Between 22 August 2009 and 21 August 2010, one pub with a fair value of 1.2m transferred from the Managed to the Leased estate.
The Chief Operating Decision Maker is represented by the Executive Directors and the executive management team of the Group.
Performance is measured based on segmental EBITDA adjusted for disposals, as included in the internal management reports that are reviewed by the Executive Directors and the executive management team.
The Spirit Pub Company plc Board consider adjusted segmental EBITDA when assessing the performance of the business and making decisions about the allocation of resources.
62 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2011
