overview business review governance financial statements The rapid growth in the popularity of mobile location based services seen in previous years was once again evident in 2011, driving evolution in the technologies that enable LBS support in smartphones and many other devices, such as tablets.
Profitability Wireless test solutions delivered in 2011 addressed our customers 3G Profits grew 18 per cent to $115.1 million on revenue growth.
This was and 4G LTE testing needs.
Spirent grew its family of 8100 test solutions after investing an additional $8.5 million in product development.
that validate the performance of LTE devices and their ability to move Return on sales increased to 27.6 per cent from 26.8 per cent in the between LTE and legacy wireless networks.
New functionality included prior year.
LTE UMTS mobility, simultaneous voice and LTE and innovative data performance test methodologies.
We rolled out our CS8 family of Product development solutions, targeted at LTE, UMTS and CDMA device R&D applications, We reached a major milestone during 2011, completing the from RF design to prototype testing.
A new VR5 wireless channel convergence of all networks and applications performance test emulation solution was brought to market, optimized for testing the solutions onto the Spirent TestCenter platform, with the innovation advanced air interface techniques used in LTE and LTE-advanced base TM of new Spirent TestCenter HyperMetrics neXt modules.
Twelve stations and mobile devices.
We released new capabilities to test the performance of devices when utilising location based services, new module variants were released in 2011, more than double the number released in prior years.
Spirent TestCenter HyperMetrics elastic maintaining Spirents leadership in this rapidly expanding area.
In TM 2011 these included support for observed time difference of arrival computing design with Cloud Core processing allows for broad techniques and for testing the location performance of LTE devices market reach and first to market innovation in areas that include LAN over-the-air.
switching and data center, gateway, customer edge, core routing and mobile backhaul, 40 100Gb Ethernet and application performance.
Our positioning solutions expanded into emerging test areas by launching products capable of capturing and replaying live-sky Performance of the Spirent Avalanche solution was greatly enhanced, GNSS signals and of simulating new satellite constellations such with up to 80Gb per second line rate stateful traffic to test the evolution as GLONASS, Galileo and Compass BeiDou.
to terabit IPSec and firewall platforms.
The performance and functional breadth of the Spirent Landslide solution continued to lead the market with innovation in testing 2G 3G 4G mobility, deep packet inspection, and Wi-Fi offload.
The acquisition of Fanfare and its iTest family of products has enabled Spirent to address the shift in customer budgets towards optimizing testing in existing labs and to capture new budgets to build out new, highly automated test labs.
