215 Refurbishments completed in the year.
Our Managed pubs All of these brands are now established as leading consumer brands with Our Managed business is a high quality, well located estate of over 800 pubs clear promises, providing a distinctive offering in a very competitive market, with attractive exposure to London and the South East and areas with backed by innovative marketing and online presence.
We will continue to other high population densities.
The business operates a portfolio of market focus on the development of these brands and plan to refurbish around leading brands such as Chef & Brewer, Fayre & Square, Flaming Grill and 200 more pubs in 2011 12.
The combination of strong sales performance and rigorous cost control The turnaround of this business 1 gathered further momentum in 2011. resulted in EBITDA being up 11% with a 125 basis point increase in margin.
Like for like sales were up 5.2%, 1 driven by a combination of our Operating profit increased 14% to 65m with a 100 basis point improvement continued focus on operational excellence and investment in the estate, in margin to 10.0%.
This was achieved despite a 6m increase in central brands and people.
The increase of 3.3% in the number of covers is support costs.
This increase is largely due to increased bonus and share particularly encouraging and reflects the increasing appeal of our brands scheme costs following the strong performance of the business and reflects and the loyalty of our guests.
Our key measure of guest advocacy has the huge effort and commitment of our teams during a period of significant increased through the year and is now consistently around 70%, at the change.
top end of industry benchmarks.
We recognise that, in the key metrics of average weekly take AWT and Our investment programme continues to reposition the business and to deliver EBITDAR margin, we remain behind the best performers in the industry and strong returns.
During the year, we completed 215 refurbishments which have set clear objectives to narrow the gap.
We have made significant inroads are achieving an average return on investment in excess of 25%.
At the this year, with trading estate AWT up 7% and EBITDAR margin up 130 basis year end, 61% of our estate had been refurbished.
The focus of this points, an industry leading performance.
We closely monitor our performance programme has been on the rollout of Chef & Brewer, Fayre & Square, against the competition using the Peach Factory Tracker benchmarking system Flaming Grill and Taylor Walker.
and have consistently outperformed over the last year.
Managed like for like sales were up 5.2%.
Annual Report 2011 Spirit Pub Company plc 13 Business review
