spirent communications plc annual report 2011 Our business model Spirent Communications provides solutions to enable the world to communicate faster, better, and more reliably.
We develop innovative test solutions for the Our global presence engineers working within the communications Spirent has global reach which results from its sales industry that allow them to evaluate the and service organisations industry leading capabilities.
Our communications businesses serve 1,400 customers performance of the latest technologies, worldwide.
infrastructure and applications to be deployed worldwide.
We also provide tools for service technicians and field test engineers to improve network quality and make troubleshooting of live networks efficient and effective.
Network equipment manufacturers and service providers face numerous challenges associated with bringing products and services from the lab to the commercial marketplace.
Spirents solutions allow network equipment and mobile device manufacturers, service providers, enterprises and government entities to holistically test and benchmark the performance of their networks, network elements, mobile devices and services.
Revenue How Spirent creates value Americas Asia Pacific Spirent enables its customers to increase their revenues by reducing their time to bring new products and services to market, with higher $280.2M $160.0M quality and reliability.
Our test solutions deliver efficiency and effectiveness to development engineers to make better use of their 2010 $265.2M 2010 $136.4M scarce resources.
Europe, Middle East and Africa Much of our revenue comes from follow on business with our clients, who have worked with us for many years.
This is a result of a combination of our ability to innovate to meet their needs and on our $88.0M emphasis on providing professional service and support.
All of the above, with the optimal utilisation of our own resources, supports the 2010 $80.6M sustainability of the margins Spirent achieves.
10 overview business review governance financial statements Our business model Spirents capability, across the entire product lifecycle, from concept to commercial availability, helps to shorten our customers product development cycle, improve the quality of new services, while reducing associated cost and risk.
Technology cycle Innovation in data technologies is required to satisfy the ever-increasing demand for data capacity, reliability and security by all members of society and by the development of new economic processes to create wealth worldwide.
Innovation Spirent innovates and creates new products and services through the endeavours of its highly skilled and creative workforce.
They build on decades of experience and product management expertise.
External inputs are important through our technology partners as is being located in the worlds leading centres for technological development.
Innovation Value-creating culture We have embedded a culture which is aimed at creating value for stakeholders Intellectual property and shareholders, minimising activities that do not contribute to this.
Spirent has created a large body of Management encourages rational intellectual property, patented and Value-creating risk taking, weighing the long term Intellectual proprietary, which has raised the barriers culture opportunity with the utilisation of scarce property to entry to competition.
Much of the new resources.
We attract and retain the development is evolutionary in nature best people to work for the Company, building on our existing expertise.
offering career development, a nondiscriminatory workplace and fair and competitive remuneration, within a non-bureaucratic culture.
Customer relationships Customer relationships Customer relationships are key.
Our clients are the leading providers of new technologies for data communication in the world.
Our close and continuing relationships with them drive our people to aspire to achieve at higher levels each and every year.
Shareholder returns Our focus on value-creation through investment in the business, whether that be organically by product development, by acquisition of technology, or access to new served markets, is aimed at delivering capital growth and cash generation to service distributions through dividends and share repurchase.
