spirent communications plc annual report 2011 Our strategy Our vision is to be the global Strategy leader in growing and emerging test and measurement markets.
Communications and IT continues to grow Focus on growing as a result of demand for anytime, anywhere and emerging connectivity, enabled by such key trends as the mobile internet and cloud computing.
At Spirent technology markets we make use of our deep understanding of communications trends and technologies, together with our close customer relationships, Invest in our people to identify growing and emerging market opportunities.
We look to attract and retain the best and brightest people in the industry in order to enable us to develop the most innovative and complete test and service Innovation assurance solutions to address these opportunities.
A high rate of investment in our solutions portfolio enables us to bring solutions to market at the right time in technology and market cycles when our customers most need them.
Our solutions are used to Evolve and expand develop and deploy the best devices, networks and applications, helping enrich peoples lives, whether they are consumers, employed our solutions by a business enterprise or work for a government entity.
As a trusted partner to 1,400 global customers, Spirents global reach allows us to portfolio assist these organisations, wherever they are located, to transition from legacy to emerging and next-generation technologies.
Spirent remains dedicated to retaining its position at the forefront of the Right Solution ever-evolving communications industry, understanding that market leadership plays an important part in sustaining profitable growth.
at the Right Time The areas of strategic focus for Spirents three operating segments are summarised and discussed further in each of the business sections on pages 20 to 27.
Global reach 12 overview business review governance financial statements Description 2011 Update Spirent closely monitors the ever-changing trends across the We maintained our focus on growth markets, including 3G 4G LTE communications and IT landscape, strategically reallocating resources mobile networks and devices, cloud computing and data center, high to address growing and emerging technology markets.
speed Ethernet and global positioning.
During 2011 we expanded our addressable markets to include a new product offering for mobile device developers.
Finding, keeping and engaging highly Profitable growth enables us to recognise and reward our employees for qualified and skilled employees is central to our ability to deliver on their hard work, innovation and contribution to Spirents success.
We our strategy and to the success of our business.
To drive profitable actively foster a challenging, stimulating work environment that enables growth and innovation, we develop our employees through career the creative, competitive, customer focused and collaborative spirit to path programmes and continuous learning opportunities.
thrive that is critical to Spirents success.
Further information on what we have achieved can be found in the CSR statement on pages 32 and 33.
TM TM Remaining at the leading edge of technology is critical to our continued We released new HyperMetrics neXt modules for Spirent TestCenter, success.
We apply our creativity to the development of tools and applying the innovation of our Cloud Core architecture to provide methodologies that meet our customers complex needs for testing and exceptional performance and realism for testing the most complex assuring communications and IT equipment, networks and applications.
converged IP systems, such as cloud data centers and 3G 4G LTE mobile networks.
We invest in development across our product and service portfolio During 2011, we released more than 50 new products and additions of at a level that enables us to bring the most advanced test solutions new functionality in key technology areas including LTE networks and to market.
devices, cloud computing and data center, high speed Ethernet and satellite positioning.
We enable our customers to bring new products and technologies Staying close to our customers has enabled us to bring to market, to market in the shortest amount of time by making available the for example, LTE device and network test solutions that are meeting solutions they need, when they need them.
the demands of leading technology developers and are playing a significant role in the success of early commercial deployments.
Our geographic diversity is a key strength.
We have built a world-class We continued to strengthen our customer relationships, expanding organisation that enables Spirent to develop and maintain strong our sales and service capabilities in key growth markets, especially in customer relationships around the globe.
Asia Pacific where revenue grew 16 per cent in 2011.
We also continue to grow our product development capacity in Asia.
