overview business review governance financial statements Description of our business The expanding need to simplify and add intelligence to mobile Spirent puts innovation to the test.
With a concentration on Ethernet, networks is forcing service providers and network equipment data center including cloud computing and virtualization, mobility manufacturers to increase the convergence of services and the and satellite positioning, as well as the applications that enrich these scale of platforms.
Amongst Spirents many engagements in this networks, Spirents Performance Analysis division facilitates device area during 2011 was the demonstration of 180Gb per second and network testing, from the research and development stage to the sustained throughput on Alcatel-Lucents 7750 SR Mobile Gateway.
launch of communications networks and services.
We push the limits During 2011, Spirent moved to address more testing needs of of these networks, their elements, mobile and satellite positioning next-generation network architectures required for LTE, greatly devices and applications by allowing equipment makers, service simplifying and accelerating high scale mobility, core network, providers, enterprises and government to subject their offerings to mobile backhaul, routing, access and application testing with TM lab-based functional, conformance and performance testing that major enhancements to the Spirent TestCenter platforms simulates real-world conditions, before a commercial launch.
Market conditions The increased time to market pressures on our customers combined The Performance Analysis division generated 14 per cent growth with the globalisation of R&D teams is driving the need for holistic and in 2011, with revenue of $416.4 million 2010 $365.8 million.
The acquisition of Fanfare and Customers increased their investment in next-generation its iTest solution in February 2011 enables Spirent to benefit from this mobile networks, devices and services, in data centers which enable emerging infrastructure test optimization ITO trend.
cloud computing and virtualization, and in global navigation satellite systems GNSS.
The markets for wireless test solutions once again experienced strong growth.
As a leader in testing wireless devices and infrastructures, Testing across networks and applications experienced growth in several Spirent applies its innovations to meet the ever-evolving needs of key areas, despite the unfavourable macro-economic conditions in wireless customers.
Ethernet technologies are rapidly migrating to higher speeds, requiring large scale data center switches and Smartphones have taken further market share, largely displacing equipment to be developed and deployed to efficiently address mobile feature phones in North America and other developed markets, and broadband traffic growth, while legacy applications such as voice and embedded modules are coming to market to support machine-toDSL decline.
Although the majority of Ethernet deployment and test and machine M2M communications.
North America saw further 4G LTE measurement spending is focused on 1Gb and 10Gb, in 2011 we saw a deployments by leading operators, as well as widespread data speed significant ramp in spending on higher speed Ethernet, including 40Gb upgrades to 3G UMTS networks.
These trends also gained momentum and 100Gb.
Spirent is well positioned to respond to this trend and as a in Asia and Europe.
result was named the Global Market Share Leader in 1 10 40 100Gb Ethernet test equipment by industry analyst Frost & Sullivan.
The rapid growth in the popularity of mobile location based services LBS seen in previous years was once again evident in 2011, driving Enterprises are taking advantage of the attractive economics and evolution in the technologies that enable LBS support in smartphones rapid application delivery capabilities of cloud computing.
Spirent and many other devices, such as tablets.
LBS also proved to be a is a leader in virtualized solutions for testing the performance, must have capability in even the earliest LTE devices.
Spirent is a availability, security and scalability PASS of cloud computing global leader in testing the technologies that enable LBS, including the networks: Frost & Sullivan also named Spirent as the Global Market evolution to hybrid positioning techniques that can supply accurate Share Leader in cloud infrastructure testing.
Demand for high subscriber location information anytime, anywhere.
density, next-generation data centers expanded into the carrier space with significant investments in cloud IT services.
In addition, the There was high demand for our LTE and UMTS device test solutions.
requirement for security is now pervasive throughout the network, As the world moves toward a single global standard for fourth driving demand for high performance encrypted traffic, which must generation mobile communications, competition in the LTE testing be thoroughly tested to ensure that business transactions and space is understandably intense.
However, Spirent is applying its communication are not impacted.
innovation and expertise to differentiated device test capabilities in growth areas such as multi-mode 2G 3G 4G mobility, LBS and operator acceptance testing.
Spirent is also benefiting from the migration to over-the-air OTA testing techniques, which take into account antenna performance.
OTA methodologies are used to test the performance of complex air interface techniques such as multiple-input multiple-output used in 4G LTE devices.
The performance of GPS technology in smartphones is also tested OTA.
