John Barras Your local where theres always something going on.
We have a no nonsense approach at There is always something going You will always find a warm John Barras: a friendly atmosphere, on to make you want to visit again welcome at a John Barras pub great value food and drink, within and again.
and we will never forget who you walking distance of your home are and what you want: its a home it really is that simple.
All John Barras pubs are branded from home where guests can externally with a John Barras plaque socialise whilst relaxing or having John Barras offers a range of and inside showcase black and fun together.
experiences including drink, food, white pictures of local buildings sport and entertainment which are and points of interest.
tailored to meet the needs of the local community.
Spirit Pub Company plc Best for a great local experience Spirit Pub Company plc At Spirit Pub Company our aim is simple to become the UKs best Managed pub company, thats About us Spirit Pub Company has a high quality estate of over 800 Managed pubs and over 500 Leased pubs, a strong portfolio of brands, an experienced and motivated executive management team and is well positioned to exploit the growing UK eating out market.
Our aim is simple: we want to become the UKs best Managed pub company.
The Group owns and operates some of the UKs leading Managed pub brands including Chef & Brewer, Flaming Grill and Fayre & Square and also operates a high quality Leased estate.
We are proud of our continuing commitment to delivering consistently great guest experiences.
Our focus is on delivering an attractive choice of food and drink and a fantastic guest experience, all at unbeatable value.
Best for Team Best for Guest Best for Investor We will have the most We will have the most We will deliver the highest talented and motivated delighted guests at Spirit shareholder returns in the people who are passionate our people work to place pub sector through strong about hospitality and proud the guest at the heart of operating and capital to deliver for our Teams, our business all day, every investment disciplines, Guests and Investors.
day to create consistently allied to market leading great experiences.
This report is printed using papers which are FSC Mixed Credit certified.
If you have finished reading this report and no longer wish to retain it, please pass it on to interested readers, return it to Spirit Pub Company plc or dispose of it in your recycled paper waste.
Designed and produced by The College www.
