Business review Best for team 17, 000 We employ over 17,000 people.
We are committed to recruiting, We have also introduced an employee One of our biggest developing and retaining the highest opinion survey which we use to shape calibre team and believe that high levels our engagement strategy and action achievements of employee engagement are key to plan for the future.
and building a great place to work is has been building a key goal since we know it underpins This year, we were rated number 21 superior performance.
a highly engaged by our employees in The Sunday Times Best Big Companies To Work For We actively manage our culture and team across the based on criteria including employee strive to create an environment in which commitment, benefits, salary and talented people can deliver their best.
This endorses our We recruit skilled and motivated commitment to build a high performing individuals and believe that the key team and be an employer of choice to retaining high calibre employees within the industry and beyond.
is providing learning and development opportunities in line with their career In an industry first, we unveiled a new aspirations.
range of flexible benefits for salaried pub teams and Support Centre employees.
We believe in growing our own talent: Called the Benefits Bar and themed last year, we invested heavily in raising around a pub bar, the innovative scheme the calibre of our employees.
And, offers a range of flexible benefits to in the last 12 months more than employees from gym membership 400 members of our pub teams were to childcare vouchers and private promoted to team leader positions medical cover.
and 44 deputy general managers were top 25 promoted to general managers with We are a Sunday Times Top 25 Effective communication is key: we several of our field team members also Best Big Company.
give our employees the opportunity to moved into roles at our Support Centre.
feedback through several mechanisms including regular Listening Groups.
We believe that we are leading the The Groups are hosted by members industry with the development of other of our executive management team key qualifications.
Last year, we launched to enable them to hear direct feedback our Apprenticeship programme and and we invite employees from every 171 pub team members under the age part of the business: support team of 25 have become qualified Apprentices.
members, business development We enhanced the Apprenticeship managers, general managers and programme this year with a team leader team players.
qualification to ensure progression to the next level, and we also have Advanced Apprenticeships on offer for progression to the next level of deputy general manager.
Our aim is to have an Apprentice in every pub by August 2012.
We have recently launched a Graduate Recruitment programme designed to attract the brightest talent.
com Achieved whilst part of the Punch Taverns group.
16 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2011 We offer award winning training programmes including 439 Apprenticeships, Pub team members promoted to team leaders in the last year.
Degree and Masters Degree qualifications.
We are also particularly proud to have Apprenticeships say cheers to success launched a Level 7 Masters Degree qualification in conjunction with Leeds Metropolitan University.
This is an aspirational qualification aimed at our high performers and future leaders and is fully funded by Spirit.
Our key goal is to promote the hospitality industry as a place where people can build careers.
As part of our Employee Assistance Programme EAP a confidential helpline is available to all employees We now have more than 200 employees participating in our to provide advice and support on all Apprenticeship programme, which provides a clear pathway for aspects of their lives from financial those working in the hospitality sector and offers an alternative concerns through to quitting smoking.
to university for those keen to progress through a vocational route.
More than 60 team players were invited to an award ceremony Our employee caf regularly holds to receive their certificates.
healthy eating promotions and constantly review their offer based on feedback and recommendations.
We are building on this with a full Graduates get into the spirit strategy around employee wellbeing for all of our employees in 2012.
To promote the fun element of our culture, we operate a social committee which coordinates employee events.
All proceeds of our annual employee party, barbeque and Christmas raffle have gone to local charities that promote and support young people within the Burton upon Trent area, where our Support Centre is located.
A key part of our strategy is to attract and recruit the best people.
To support this, we have introduced a Graduate programme, designed to attract the brightest talents looking to develop a career in pub retailing, with the potential to be fast tracked to a general manager position within 12 to 18 months compared to the standard three to five years.
The first graduate to be appointed to general manager is Clare Smith, 31, who is now firmly behind the bar at the Chelsea Potter, Taylor Walker, London.
171 Pub team members under the age of 25 have become qualified Apprentices.
Annual Report 2011 Spirit Pub Company plc 17 Business review
