Business review Our Leased pubs The Spirit Leased business forms We have over 500 high quality a key part of our strategy: it provides growth potential together with Leased pubs nationwide.
These significant cash generation to finance continued investment in the Managed pubs are run by individual business.
licensees and entrepreneurs with These are high quality Leased pubs, geographically spread from Aberdeen the backing and support of a major to Dover to Plymouth with an average net income per pub of 97,000. national pub company dedicated Spirit Leased pubs are run by individual to developing their business.
licensees and entrepreneurs our partners with the backing and support of a major national pub company dedicated to developing their business.
We have a high calibre operational team in place to help to develop our partners businesses and the pubs also benefit from a raft of additional activity including promotions and marketing support.
Our priority is to maximise the value of these pubs by enhancing performance through increased operational focus and developing a business plan to create a platform for growth.
com 04 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2011 42m 1 Total EBITDA contribution from Spirit Leased pubs in 2010 2011.
We also plan to convert a number of Case study our Spirit Leased pubs into our market First Leased to Managed conversion leading Managed brands.
We have a strong conversion programme in place to ensure that pubs are transferred to Managed operations in the most effective way.
These pubs will usually be larger, multi room sites that have the potential to realise the return on investment that our Managed pub brands typically deliver.
To date, we have converted three Spirit Leased pubs to Managed with initial trading being positive.
A famous landmark pub, the Alsager Arms, has reopened its doors thanks to a 370,000 makeover.
The pub on Sandbach Road, Alsager is the first within Spirit Pub Company to transfer from a Leased operation to a branded Managed pub.
The Alsager Arms is now trading as a John Barras local: a home from home where communities can gather to have fun through a range of experiences including quality food, drink, sport and entertainment.
Experienced general managers, Mark and Sharon Bennett are now running the pub and they are thrilled to be part of the John Barras family.
Mark said: We have had a great response from the local community who are delighted to see the fortunes of the Alsager Arms revived.
The money that has been spent on the pub has really transformed it into a superb venue.
We have a portfolio As well as serving food, the Alsager Arms also shows live sports of high quality Leased on HD television and has a large 3D screen.
In addition, theres pubs, with an average entertainment throughout the week such as live music and quiz net income per pub and poker nights.
Annual Report 2011 Spirit Pub Company plc 05 Business review
