Governance Board of Directors and executive management team Walker Boyd Ian Dyson Mike Tye Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Deputy Chief Executive Officer Russell Margerrison Tony Rice Mark Pain Interim Finance Director Senior Independent Independent Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Christopher Bell Karen Caddick Peter Brook Independent Director of Human Resources Managing Director Leased Non-executive Director executive management team executive management team Find out more: www.
com 28 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2011 Russell was previously Managing Director Walker Boyd Christopher Bell Trading and Finance Director for Tour Non-executive Chairman Independent Non-executive Director Operations at Thomas Cook, Finance Walker Boyd, 59, was appointed NonChristopher Bell, 53, was appointed Director at Rank Holidays and spent executive Chairman in July 2011.
Walker Independent Non-executive Director 15 years in various management positions was formerly Non-executive Director in August 2011. with Bass.
of Punch Taverns from April 2011 prior to the demerger of Spirit.
Christopher has been Chairman of GAME Tony Rice Group plc since June 2011, having joined Senior Independent He is Non-executive Chairman of the board in 2001 as a Non-executive Non-executive Director WHSmith, a position he has held since Director.
He was Chief Executive Officer Tony Rice, 59, was appointed Senior 1 September 2010 after joining the Board of Ladbrokes plc between 2006 and Independent Non-executive Director as Non-executive Director in February 2010.
Prior to that, he spent six years in July 2011.
He has substantial retail expertise as Managing Director at Ladbroke Group.
He was Christopher is also currently Senior Formerly Senior Independent NonGroup Finance Director at Signet Independent Director of Quintain Estates executive Director of Punch Taverns Jewellers Limited, previously Signet and Development.
He has also been a from March 2010 and Independent Group plc, until June 2010, having held board member of the Responsible Gaming Non-executive from December 2007. this position since 1995.
Tony brings with him many years of experience at board level with some Ian Dyson Executive management team of the UKs leading companies.
Karen Caddick Chief Executive Officer Director of Human Resources Ian Dyson, 49, was appointed Chief Tony was also a Non-executive Director Karen Caddick, 42, was appointed HR Executive Officer in June 2011 following and Chairman of the Audit Committee Director in July 2011. the demerger of Spirit from Punch Taverns, at Cable & Wireless from 2003 to 2006 and was formerly Chief Executive Officer and at Telewest from 2000 to 2003.
Karen started her career with Royal & of Punch Taverns from September 2010.
Tony is Chief Executive Officer of Sun Alliance in 1993 and performed Cable & Wireless Communications.
several HR roles including Head of HR Ian was previously with Marks & Spencer for MORE TH N. Karen then moved to plc where he was Group Finance and He spent 16 years with BAE Systems Barclays as Head of Employee Relations Operations Director and prior to that formerly British Aerospace where he & HR Policy.
She also led the HR Group Finance Director.
He was formerly had various roles from 1986 to 2002, functions at Channel Five Broadcasting, Finance Director of The Rank Group plc culminating in the role of Group Managing The Financial Times and Punch Taverns.
and Financial Controller of Hilton Group plc.
He then Karen is a Graduate of the Chartered Ian was appointed a Non-executive spent three years at Tunstall plc as Insurance Institute and a Fellow of Director of Betfair Limited in February 2010.
Chief Executive Officer from 2002 until The Institute of Personnel & Development.
its sale to Bridgepoint in 2005.
Mike Tye Peter Brook Deputy Chief Executive Officer Mark Pain Managing Director Leased Mike Tye, 57, was appointed Deputy Independent Non-executive Director Peter Brook, 57, was appointed Managing Chief Executive Officer in June 2011.
Mark Pain, 50, was appointed Director Leased in July 2011 with Prior to this, Mike was Managing Director Independent Non-executive Director responsibility for the Spirit Leased business.
of Punch Pub Company, the Managed in July 2011. division of Punch Taverns, from July 2008.
Peter has worked in the managed and Mark brings with him a wealth of tenanted pub sector for several years.
Mike has spent over 20 years working experience as a FTSE 100 main board in many different areas of the leisure He was Chief Executive Officer of director, covering a range of sectors, business, mainly with Whitbread, Forte Innspired, a venture capital backed including property, media, housebuilding, and Aramark.
In recent years, he has business with Alchemy, until September retail and wholesale banking, consumer been Managing Director of Costa Coffee, 2004, at which time Innspired was sold finance, life assurance and general Managing Director of Premier Travel Inn to Punch Taverns.
where he led the acquisition and integration of Premier Lodge to Travel Inn Peter spent a number of months with Mark served as Chief Financial Officer and David Lloyd Leisure, where he led the Punch before moving onto another of Barratt Developments Plc from 2006 business turnaround and subsequent venture with Alchemy and was latterly to 2009. sale.
His early career was spent managing MD of Admiral Taverns Turnaround FMCG brands and running his own wine business.
He was previously at Abbey National and spirit retail and wholesale business.
where he held a number of senior Peter rejoined Punch in January 2011 executive and group board positions, Russell Margerrison to work on the strategic review and including Group Finance Director, from Interim Finance Director a number of property related projects.
1998 to 2001 and Customer Sales Russell Margerrison, 51, was appointed Director from 2002 to 2005.
He was also Interim Finance Director in July 2011. an Independent Non-executive Director Prior to this, Russell was Group Business at Punch Taverns from 2007 to 2011.
Planning Director at Punch Taverns from Mark is a Fellow of the Institute of January 2011 and was responsible for Chartered Accountants.
leading the operational demerger of the Spirit business.
Annual Report 2011 Spirit Pub Company plc 29 Governance
