overview business review governance financial statements During the year to 31 December 2011, options and rights exercised Significant agreements A Group company has a significant agreement with a contract pursuant to the Companys share incentive plans resulted in the allotment of 2.3 million new Ordinary Shares.
manufacturer which the Company considers is essential to its business and which it intends to keep in place until at least April 2013.
No new Ordinary Shares have been allotted under the share The Company is not aware of any significant agreements to which it is incentive plans between the end of the financial year and the date of this Report.
party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover.
At each annual general meeting, the directors seek authority to allot Return of capital shares for cash and to dis-apply pre-emption rights within prescribed limits.
At the 2012 AGM, authority will be sought to allot new Ordinary The Company was first authorised to repurchase up to 14.99 per cent of its own issued Ordinary Shares, within certain limits and as Shares up to a nominal value of 7,356,088, which is equal to 33.3 per cent of the Companys issued share capital as at permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, at the 2006 AGM.
This authority has been renewed at each subsequent AGM, 9 March 2012. reducing to 9.99 per cent at the 2010 AGM and at the 2011 AGM.
This authority from the 2011 AGM remains valid until the earlier The Company has established two employee benefit trusts in connection with the operation of the Companys share incentive of the 2012 AGM or 30 June 2012.
Since the Company began returning capital to shareholders in May 2006, a total of 206.7 plans: the Spirent Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT and the Spirent Sharesave Trust SST.
The trustees of both trusts have million has been returned, through the repurchase of 345.1 million Ordinary Shares.
waived their right to receive dividends on any Ordinary Shares held by them except for a nominal amount of 0.01 pence other than for those During 2011 13.2 million Ordinary Shares, each with a nominal value Ordinary Shares held in the ESOT which are the beneficial property 1 of an employee shareholder.
For further details on the employee of 3 3 pence were repurchased for an aggregate consideration of 15.8 million and cancelled immediately following repurchase.
This benefit trusts see Investment in own Ordinary Shares in note 27 to the consolidated financial statements and note 15 to the parent represents 2.0 per cent of the Companys issued Ordinary Share capital at the beginning of 2011.
The Company repurchased a further Company financial statements.
Trustees of both trusts do not vote their Ordinary Shares, except for those Ordinary Shares held in the 2.0 million Ordinary Shares between 1 January 2012 and the date of this Report.
ESOT which are the beneficial property of an employee shareholder which the trustees will vote in accordance with the instructions The Company will seek authority to repurchase up to 9.99 per cent received from the beneficial owner.
of its own Ordinary Shares at the 2012 AGM to facilitate any further return of capital if the Board concludes that it is in the best interests The Company does not have agreements with any director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or of shareholders to do so.
employment resulting from a takeover except that provisions of the Companys share incentive plans may cause outstanding unvested Substantial shareholdings In accordance with the Listing Rule 9.8.
6 2, the Company had been options and awards granted to employees under such plans to vest on a takeover as follows: notified of the following significant interests in its Ordinary Shares under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Change Services Authority: of control provisions in Effect on Performance Share incentive plan the rules vesting condition 2005 Employee Incentive Plan Yes Pro-rated Still applies Spirent Stock Incentive Plan No None n a 39
