spirent communications plc annual report 2011 Board of directors Alex Walker 65 Bill Burns 44 Eric Hutchinson 56 Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Alex was appointed to the Board in December 2006 Bill was appointed to the Board in November 2008.
Eric was appointed to the Board in January 2000. and was appointed Chairman of the Company in March 2010.
He chairs the Nomination Committee He is responsible for formulating the Groups He is responsible for overseeing the financial and attends other Committee meetings by invitation.
objectives and strategy for approval by the Board.
operations of the Group and setting its financial Working with the CFO he sets the annual budget and strategy in conjunction with the Audit Committee Alex is responsible for leading the Board and medium term plan and is responsible for reporting and the Board.
He also oversees the overall ensuring that it operates in an effective manner.
performance against plan to the Board.
Bill also plays framework for financial forecasting, planning, As Chairman, he is responsible for setting Board a key role in identifying and executing acquisitions analysis and reporting.
agendas and ensuring sufficient time is available and disposals.
for discussing all agenda items, particularly key Before his appointment to the Board, Eric had strategic issues.
He is also responsible for Before his appointment to the Board, Bill was Chief previously been responsible for all financial Executive Officer of the Communications Group.
In reporting and control within the Group.
He joined promoting a culture of openness and debate within this position he was responsible for the overall the Company in 1983, was appointed Chief the Board and ensuring constructive relations leadership, strategy, investments, coordination of Accountant in 1987 and became Head of Corporate between the executive and non-executive directors resources and leveraging of the Companys breadth Accounting in 1997. and effective communication with shareholders.
and depth of technology across all of the Eric holds a degree in History from the University of Alex was chief executive of Yule Catto & Co. plc Communications Groups business units.
Leicester and undertook postgraduate research in until August 2006 and, until April 2010 was a non-executive director, chairman of the Prior to this position, Bill served as Executive Vice Contemporary History at Trinity College, Oxford.
He remuneration committee and member of the President of the Communications Group and as is a Fellow of the Association of Chartered Certified audit and nomination committees of Rotork plc.
President, Service Assurance Broadband and was Accountants and a member of the Financial responsible for global sales and corporate marketing Reporting Review Panel.
Alex is a non-executive director of Zotefoams plc.
In this role, he drove critical business changes to improve profitability and grow market share.
Before joining the Company in November 2004, Bill held several executive leadership positions at Tellabs, Inc. including senior vice president Global Marketing, senior vice president Europe, Middle East and Africa and vice president Competitive Service Provider Sales.
Bill holds a degree in Telecommunications Engineering from Pennsylvania State University, a Business Administration degree from College Misericordia and a Master of Business Administration degree from Temple University.
36 overview business review governance financial statements Ian Brindle 68 Duncan Lewis 60 Tom Maxwell 64 Sue Swenson 63 Senior Independent Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Director Director Director Ian was appointed to the Board in Duncan was appointed to the Tom was appointed to the Board in Sue was appointed to the Board on December 2006.
He is Chairman of Board in July 2007.
He is Chairman of the 1 February 2012.
She is a member the Audit Committee and serves on of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committee and a of the Audit, Nomination and the Nomination and Remuneration Remuneration Committees.
member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Duncan has wide-ranging experience Sue has a wealth of international As Senior Independent Director, he in the telecommunications industry Tom has considerable fund experience and expertise in the is responsible for meeting with the and provides advice and counsel to management and investment trust telecommunications and technology other non-executives to review the the Board on major strategic issues.
experience and, as Chair of the sector which she brings to the Chairmans performance and is Remuneration Committee, is development of the strategic vision available to shareholders to discuss He was chief executive officer of responsible for developing the of the Company.
Vislink plc until March 2011 and Companys policy on remuneration until October 2008 was senior adviser of executive directors and other From March 2008 until her retirement Ian was senior partner of Price to The Carlyle Group, assisting senior managers.
in March 2011, Sue served as Waterhouse from 1991 to 1998 and them in developing strategy and president and CEO of Sage Software, the chairman of Pricewaterhouse identifying investments in the Until September 2007, he was Inc. the North American division of Coopers until 2001.
He was also a telecommunications and media investment director and head of the The Sage Group plc.
Before joining member of the Accounting Standards sectors worldwide.
UK Growth & Income Product Group Sage Software, she held positions as Board between 1992 and 2001 and at Martin Currie Investment the COO of Atrinsic, Inc. formerly the deputy chairman of the Financial Prior to joining The Carlyle Group, Management in Edinburgh.
He is a known as New Motion, Inc., Ampd Reporting Review Panel between Duncan served as chief executive Member of the Chartered Institute of Mobile, Inc. and T-Mobile, was 2001 and 2008. officer and president of GTS Ebone, Bankers in Scotland and a Member of president and COO of Leap Wireless managing director of Equant NV and the Society of Investment International, Inc. and president and Ian serves as non-executive chairman chief executive officer at Granada Professionals & CFA Institute.
of Sherborne Investors Guernsey Media Group and Mercury A Limited and as a non-executive Communications.
Tom is a non-executive director of Sue is a non-executive director of director on the boards of F&C Asset Foresight 3 VCT plc and is chairman Wells Fargo and sits on their audit Management plc, 4imprint Group plc Duncan studied at Cambridge of their audit committee.
and examination committee and and Elementis plc.
University after serving in Senegal governance and nominating for Voluntary Service Overseas committee.
and was also a visiting Professor of Business Management at Strathclyde University.
Duncan is a non-executive director of euNetworks Group Limited.
