Chairman and Chief Executive Officer The Directors believe that the initial composition of the The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Board and its committees is appropriate for Spirit as a newly Officer are distinct and separate, with a clear division independent company and that the balance of skills and of responsibilities.
The Chairman leads the Board and experience is appropriate to the size of the business.
The ensures the effective engagement and contribution composition offers continuity to shareholders and removes of all Non-executive Directors and Executive Directors.
the risk of introducing a number of new directors to the The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for all the Groups Group within a short period of time.
businesses and acts in accordance with the authority delegated by the Board.
Responsibility for the development Upon appointment as Chairman, Walker Boyd was of policy and strategy, and operational management is considered to be independent in accordance with the delegated to the Chief Executive Officer, other Executive criteria set out in B.
1.1 of the Code, despite the fact that he Directors and the executive management team.
was a Non-executive Director of Punch Taverns plc.
Upon their appointment as Non-executive Directors, Tony Rice, Senior Independent Non-executive Director SID Mark Pain and Christopher Bell were also considered to be, and continue to be, independent.
This equates to half Tony Rice was appointed SID on 4 July 2011.
As the Companys SID, Tony Rice is responsible for: of the Board of Directors excluding the Chairman being independent in character and judgement and free from supporting the Chairman: leading the other Non-executive Directors in the annual relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement and means that review of the Chairmans performance: and monitoring the division of responsibilities between the the Board is balanced, in accordance with B.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the Companys Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
Non-executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours He is also available to shareholders to express any concerns which have not been satisfactorily resolved by either the and from 15 minutes prior to and during the Companys AGM.
Chairman or the Executive Directors.
Access to advice The Chairman, together with the Company Secretary, Non-executive Directors ensures that the Board receives accurate, timely and clear The Company actively encourages its Non-executive information.
In preparation for every Board meeting, each Directors to: Director receives documentation including a detailed report challenge constructively the strategy proposed by the on current trading and full papers on matters where the Chief Executive Officer and Executive Directors: Board will be required to make a decision or give its scrutinise and challenge the Companys performance: approval.
These matters are discussed during the Board satisfy themselves of the integrity of financial information meeting, with the Chief Executive Officer, Deputy Chief and that financial controls are robust and defensible: and Executive Officer and Finance Director giving an overview ensure that appropriate remuneration and succession of how the Group is performing against expectations.
planning arrangements are in place in relation to the In addition, the Board receives presentations from other Executive Directors and the executive management team.
members of the executive management team and external advisers to aid their understanding when applicable.
Where Non-executive Directors have concerns regarding the running of the Company, they are encouraged to All Directors have access to independent professional advice, escalate the matter with the relevant individual Executive at the Companys expense, should they require it to discharge Director, at a meeting of the Board or with the Company their duties.
They also have access to the advice and Secretary.
If not satisfied with the corrective treatment services of the Company Secretary who is responsible for: of their concern, the Non-executive Directors concern advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all is recorded in the minutes until further action is taken governance matters: to remedy it.
providing assistance and information on corporate administration and legal matters: To supplement their knowledge and experience, ensuring that good information flows within the Board, Non-executive Directors are authorised to serve on its committees and between the Non-executive Directors other company boards as long as they set aside enough and the executive management team: and time to make a satisfactory commitment to their role at ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that all Spirit.
To ensure they remain focused however, Executive applicable legislation and regulations are complied with.
Directors are not permitted to take more than one Non-executive directorship in, or the chairmanship of, By order of the Board a FTSE 100 company.
John Grime Balance and independence Company Secretary The Board includes a strong presence of both Executive and 31 October 2011 Non-executive Directors so that no individual or small group can dominate proceedings or the Boards decision making.
Annual Report 2011 Spirit Pub Company plc 35 Governance
