spirent communications plc annual report 2011 What we test Spirent provides hardware and software solutions and test Example: methodologies that enable performance benchmarking of network equipment, devices and applications through the Device entire lifecycle.
We apply the expertise gained to our service assurance solutions, which allow service providers to diagnose, troubleshoot and determine how to resolve issues within live networks.
Spirents recognised leadership in Ethernet testing allows us to benefit significantly from the sustained growth in Ethernet use across all communication and IT markets.
We test network equipment which utilises Ethernet at ever-increasing scale, including switches, routers, evolved packet core network elements, firewalls, load balancers and intrusion detection intrusion prevention.
Spirent tests all layers of service provider networks see diagram, including those that require high data capacity and those that deliver application scale or security.
Service providers face the challenge of deploying services that can generate new revenue while cost effectively TM migrating to a converged network.
To address this, Spirent TestCenter is a single, converged performance platform designed to test end user Quality of Experience as well as the Quality of Service of all the elements that make up the network.
Key technology areas addressed include cloud computing, data center convergence, migration to Ethernet in the mobile core and high speed Ethernet in the mobile backhaul.
We also test the service quality, security and application performance of content delivery networks, cloud applications and the internet.
For the enterprise, Spirent is well positioned to benefit from the move of applications into public private clouds and from growth in next-generation cloud infrastructure and cloud service device markets.
Spirent developed its innovative PASS methodology to test the performance, availability, security and scalability of cloud computing networks.
Virtualized variants of Spirent solutions provide unsurpassed visibility into the entire data center infrastructure.
Spirents infrastructure test optimization ITO solutions help address the challenges of bringing quality products to market faster in the face of rapid change and increasing complexity.
Testing needs for wireless devices are driven by smartphone growth and the associated exponential growth in mobile data, as service providers look to new technologies such as LTE and to the cost and efficiency advantages of all-IP networks.
Spirent is a major provider of functional, conformance and performance test solutions for 3G and 4G LTE devices, including smartphones, tablets and data cards.
Spirent is also the recognised leader in testing location technologies that enable location based services on smartphones and other devices.
In addition, Spirent provides Application Experience innovative solutions to test the performance of advanced 4G LTE air interface techniques, such as multiple-input multiple-output MIMO, in base stations and devices.
Spirent is the worldwide leader in testing GNSS receiving devices.
While GPS remains the most widely used system, others such as GLONASS, Galileo and Compass are gaining ground, with complementary positioning techniques such as use of Wi-Fi access points also growing in popularity.
Spirent is able to test the performance of all of these technologies, as they become embedded in an ever-broader range of applications, from smartphones and vehicles to aerospace and government.
14 overview business review governance financial statements Service provider networks Satellite Content Delivery Wireless Positioning Mobile 2G Packet Core 3G 4G Cloud Applications Residential Unied Core Copper Fibre Cable Internet Enterprise IP MPLS Ethernet www Fixed Mobile Convergence Copper Fibre Cable High speed Ethernet Performance, Availability, Backhaul Edge Security and Scalability 15
