overview business review governance financial statements Corporate social responsibility its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described The Groups Corporate social responsibility statement appears on in the Financial review on pages 28 to 31.
In addition, note 25 to the pages 32 to 35.
This statement gives details of the Groups policies on consolidated financial statements includes the Groups objectives, ethics, the environment, health and safety, charitable donations and policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk involvement in the community.
management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Charitable donations of $111,000 were made in the year 2010 The Group has considerable financial resources together with long term $81,000.
This amount excludes operating units support for and contracts with a number of customers and suppliers across different participation in local community activities.
In accordance with the geographic areas and industries.
As a consequence, the directors Groups Ethics Policy, no political donations were made in the year believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks 2010 nil.
The Group employs approximately 1,540 people 2010 successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
1,470 around the world and is proud of its history of being regarded as a responsible and respected employer.
The Corporate social After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation responsibility statement provides details of the Groups policies on that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to employment, training and development.
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in Employees preparing the Annual Report.
Information in relation to employees is provided in the Groups Corporate social responsibility statement on pages 32 to 35.
Disclosure of information to auditor Each of the directors of the Company at the date of this Report Research and development confirms that: Product development and innovation are considered key strategies to maintain and improve the Groups competitive position and therefore so far as the director is aware, there is no information needed continue to receive high priority.
This commitment is highlighted by by the Companys auditor in connection with preparing their report the $88.1 million research and development spend during the year, of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and equivalent to 16.7 per cent of revenue 2010 $80.2 million and 16.6 he she has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken per cent.
The Group will continue to commit resources as appropriate as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any to research and development.
information needed by the Companys auditor in connection with preparing their report and to establish that the Companys auditor Policy on payment of suppliers is aware of that information.
Group operating companies are responsible for agreeing the terms and conditions under which business transactions with their Auditor suppliers are conducted and it is Group policy to comply with those Resolutions to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditor and to terms and to make suppliers aware of them.
authorise the directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the 2012 AGM.
At 31 December 2011, the Company had an average of 43 days purchases outstanding in trade creditors 2010 46 days.
Annual General Meeting The 2012 AGM will be held at 10.30am on Wednesday 2 May 2012 Corporate governance at Holborn Gate, 26 Southampton Buildings, London WC2A 1PB, The Directors statement on corporate governance, which should be United Kingdom.
read in conjunction with the Chairmans statement on pages 6 and 7, is set out on pages 43 to 46.
The Statement of directors responsibilities By Order of the Board in respect of the financial statements appears on page 42.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect Rachel Whiting its future development, performance and position are set out in the Company Secretary Business review on pages 8 to 35.
The financial position of the Group, 1 March 2012 41
