overview business review governance financial statements Wherever possible our products are designed and manufactured to In September 2011 Spirents employees take account of the recycling and disposal of the product at the end of joined thousands of its lifecycle.
Our products are also designed to reduce the amount of other volunteers to power consumed.
In our 10Gb products we have reduced the power clean up Californias consumption by port as follows: shorelines.
2011 2010 Percentage reduction % 20 70 Our business units comply with both the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Regulations, the Batteries Directive and the California Electronic Waste Recycling Program.
New products are designed to meet Our engineering managers are routinely invited to speak at the Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive RoHS, also known universities about Spirent and career opportunities in the engineering as Directive 2011 65 EU, even though Spirent Communications field.
Spirent plans to expand both the new graduate and intern hardware products are classified as Category Nine, Monitor and Control programmes during 2012, further building on our relationships with Equipment and are therefore currently out of scope with the RoHS local universities and colleges.
All Spirent Communications hardware products will be in compliance with the RoHS Directive at such time they are brought in to Local community support of non-profit agencies scope.
Under the UKs mandatory carbon emission trading scheme CRC We recognise the significance of our communities through our Energy Efficiency Scheme, Spirent is only required to make an relationship with local non-profit agencies.
Our employees help their information disclosure.
communities by volunteering their time to various programmes and donating materials and equipment to local causes.
Community Spirent aims to build stronger and healthier global communities The Group has formed lasting partnerships with several local through education, charitable donations and support of non-profit non-profit organisations to provide essential resources and services agencies in the communities in which we operate.
Working with to those in need.
established non-profit organisations maximises the impact of our community building initiatives.
Charitable donation policy Our businesses are encouraged to support the particular needs Education of their local community by contributing to local charities and The Group has established links with certain public and private participating in community initiatives.
Support takes the form non-profit educational organisations to help students develop the of employee time and skills, gifts in kind and cash donations.
skills needed to succeed in the global economy.
Throughout 2011, we continued to support education by offering internships and work After the tragic earthquake and tsunami in Japan in the spring experience programmes.
of 2011, Spirent donated $10,000 to the American Red Cross designated for Japan relief.
In the US, a global food drive was In our Beijing office, we increased the number of onsite internship organised at all of our locations in March as part of our Collaborative opportunities to more than 18 students from top universities in Value launch.
Some individual sites organised similar food drives China, including the University of Science and Technology Beijing, the throughout the year.
Spirent in New Jersey, US holds blood drives Graduate School of Beijing Institute of Technology and Beihang twice a year in partnership with the Central Jersey Blood Center.
In the US, we hired 14 college interns, both BS and MS In addition employees participated in the Angel Tree programme engineering degree candidates, from a variety of universities.
These by working with the Salvation Army to purchase Christmas gifts internships help students develop professional knowledge as well as for underprivileged children.
enhance their competitiveness in society.
In the UK, Spirent sponsored employees who participated in In the UK we have set up several partnering programmes with Trailwalker, a charity event in aid of Oxfam and the Gurkha Welfare various colleges and universities.
The partnering programmes Trust: the challenge was to walk 100km across the South Downs in include student placements, to not only give valuable work 30 hours.
experience to students, but also to build up a pipeline for recruiting.
In addition, we undertake research and knowledge transfer, campus In total Spirent made charitable cash donations of $111,000 in 2011 recruitment activities, skills training, sponsorship and endorsement, 2010 $81,000.
access to engineering expertise and career mentor schemes.
