Consumer trends Regulation The consumer landscape continues The UK pub sector is highly regulated Spirit is in a strong to change at pace and we have been with extensive regulation relating to position to capitalise quick to respond to changing consumer employment, licensing, alcoholic drinks and our compelling behaviour.
Competition within the control, taxation, health and safety portfolio of brands eating out and leisure sector remains and gaming machines.
intense and we have adapted our means that we are well strategy to ensure that we cater for We invest heavily to ensure that we positioned to exploit the shift in consumer needs.
comply with all relevant legislation: the growth in the eating we have comprehensive policies and out sector.
The long term decline in drinking out in training procedures in place to ensure pubs is expected to continue, driven by that our pubs are compliant, and we changing consumer behaviour, relative use external auditors to ensure that our price positioning compared to the off health and safety standards are high.
trade and the impact of regulation.
Conversely, the long term growth in We would welcome positive initiatives eating out in pubs will also continue, to reduce the legislative and red tape driven by economic growth, changing burden on our pubs and continue to consumer behaviour and improvements work with industry bodies to lobby in the quality, service and value for for positive change.
money offering of the pub industry, with the managed sector prominent.
The Governments duty escalator will automatically increase alcohol duty Consumers are undoubtedly more each year for the next five years by discerning, demanding and sophisticated.
two per cent above the Retail Price They expect value for money, good Index.
This regulation impacts the quality service tailored to the needs of whole pub industry and we continue the particular occasion.
All of this points to actively lobby the Government to the importance of brands and the to change its stance on taxation.
distinction between the managed and leased segments of the market.
Outlook Looking ahead, we expect the UK Spirit is in a strong position to capitalise consumer environment to be more and our compelling portfolio of brands challenging and we are continuing to means that we are well positioned see pressure on costs.
However, the to exploit the growth in the eating out actions we have taken to reposition sector.
Over the last 12 months our the business, and the plans we have sales growth was largely volume led in place, leave us well positioned to with an increase of 3.3% in covers move forward.
being particularly encouraging and reflecting the increasing appeal of our brands and the loyalty of our guests.
Our key measure of guest advocacy has built through the year and is now consistently around 70%, which is at the top end of industry benchmarks.
Annual Report 2011 Spirit Pub Company plc 07 Business review
