Governance Directors report continued Employees Financial instruments The total number of employees at the end of the period was The Groups policy on the use of financial instruments 17,316.
The Group recognises the value of its employees is set out in note 22 to the financial statements.
and seeks to create an energetic, dynamic and responsive environment in which to work.
It places considerable Significant agreements importance on communications with employees which The Company is party to certain non-material agreements take place at many levels through the organisation on both including trust deeds relating to the Companys employee a formal and informal level.
The business runs an annual share incentive plans that contain change of control employee engagement survey and in the last Sunday Times provisions in the event of the takeover of the Company but Top 100 survey we were voted the 21st Best Big Company these are not considered to be significant on an individual to work for: this is testament to the high levels of basis.
The secured loan notes, referred to in note 21 to commitment and engagement that we have within the the financial statements, are not subject to any change business.
We also run regular listening groups which of control provision.
are attended by employees from all work groups and are hosted by members of the executive management team.
Additional information for shareholders Hearing the views and opinions of our employees on our At 20 August 2011, the Companys issued share capital business is vitally important in helping us make the right comprised 659,655,957 ordinary shares of 1 pence each.
Upon incorporation, the Company issued 50,000 redeemable preference shares of 1.00 each which were redeemed The Group is committed to promoting diversity across the by the Company on 1 July 2011 and are no longer in issue.
To this end, the Group is committed to providing As at the date of this report, the Company does not hold equal opportunities in recruitment, promotion, career any shares in Treasury.
development, training and reward to all employees without discrimination.
The Group gives full consideration to At a General Meeting of the Company held on 1 July 2011, applications for employment from disabled persons where the Company obtained shareholder authority to buy back the requirements of the job can be adequately fulfilled by up to 66,500,000 shares representing approximately 10% such persons.
The Group continues to be supportive of the of the Companys issued equity share capital at the time.
employment and training of disabled persons in accordance At the Companys forthcoming AGM, authority will be with their abilities and aptitudes, provided that they can sought to buy back up to 65,965,596 shares representing be employed in a safe working environment.
Where existing approximately 10% of the Companys issued equity share employees become disabled, it is the Groups policy capital at the time.
This authority will only be exercised by wherever practicable to provide continuing employment the Directors if it is considered that it will result in an increase and training under normal terms and conditions.
in earnings per share and will benefit shareholders generally as a whole.
The environment The Group regards compliance with relevant environmental Authority will also be sought at the forthcoming AGM for laws and the adoption of responsible standards as integral Directors to allot up to 219,885,319 shares in the Company to its business operation.
It is also committed to introducing representing approximately one-third of the Companys measures to limit any adverse effects its business may issued equity share capital excluding treasury shares have on the environment and will promote continuous and up to 439,770,638 equity securities representing improvement in accordance with best available techniques.
approximately two-third of the Companys issued equity share capital excluding treasury shares.
The Board will Creditor payment policy and practice also seek authority to disapply pre-emption rights over The Group is responsible for agreeing the detail of terms 32,982,798 shares representing approximately 5% of the and conditions relating to transactions with its suppliers.
Companys issued equity share capital at the time.
It is Group policy to ensure that suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and to abide by the agreed terms Further details of the above resolutions are contained within of payment with suppliers where the goods and services the Notice of Meeting sent to shareholders with this report.
have been supplied in accordance with the relevant terms and conditions of contract.
The Group does not adopt There are no restrictions on transfer of shares in the different policies for different types of supplier.
At 20 August Company other than those which may from time to time be 2011 the Company had no days purchases outstanding in applicable under existing laws and regulations for example trade creditors.
under the Market Abuse Directive and the Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
In addition, there are no people holding securities that carry special rights with regard to control of the Company.
32 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2011
