spirent communications plc annual report 2011 The CDMA wireless test market held steady in 2011, due to the Performance Analysis continued expansion in the number of multi-mode CDMA LTE devices for the North American market and 3G CDMA subscriber growth in Asia.
Our positioning test solutions benefited from increased investment in GNSS test across all technology areas, particularly multi-GNSS test such as GPS GLONASS.
As in previous years, the growth of commercial markets was driven by increased demand for low cost, high availability consumer products and applications.
Growth drivers include the new Chinese Compass BeiDou regional GNSS system, the planned Indian regional system IRNSS and further development of GPS modernisation, GLONASS and Galileo, as well as emerging hybrid positioning technologies.
Revenue Revenue for Performance Analysis grew 14 per cent, mostly as a result of our success in areas such as mobile, cloud, data center technologies and positioning.
Spirent TestCenter revenue growth resulted from our leadership position in Ethernet, data center testing, and mobile internet testing.
Legacy business continues to decline, as expected, and is now a much less significant percentage of overall portfolio revenue, representing 6 per cent of Performance Analysis revenue.
Fanfare was integrated into the operational and sales structure of Spirent during the year.
Our market leading wireless test solutions for location technology in LTE, UMTS and CDMA devices experienced unprecedented revenue growth, as a result of the market trends identified earlier.
There was also very high demand for our LTE test solutions within the North American operator ecosystem of top-tier device suppliers.
We established our newest test solutions that target device vendor R&D labs, with several wins in top-tier accounts, particularly in the areas of location technology and LTE.
Our physical layer radio frequency RF solutions had a record year, driven by the need for realistic testing of the complex multi-antenna transmission schemes used in LTE Performance Analysis-data center infrastructure and devices, including the use of OTA techniques.
Demand for next-generation data centers continued to drive Spirents growth in 2011.
Our high-end, multi-constellation satellite simulators experienced good sales growth, especially in the Asia Pacific region.
Sales of mid-range GNSS simulators to the commercial market were up compared to 2010, with demand primarily being driven by the need to test combined GPS and GLONASS in consumer devices.
Our services revenue continued its healthy growth during the year, especially for annual support contracts within the wireless line of business.
Several multi-year deals were won which will contribute to revenues into 2012 and beyond and consolidate our already strong customer relationships.
