overview business review governance financial statements Description of our business Spirents service assurance solutions allow service providers to diagnose, troubleshoot and determine how to resolve issues with networks and systems within the live network.
Building on the expertise gained through testing technologies and systems in the lab, Spirent enables service providers to deploy and maintain efficient, cost effective and high performing networks, helping to reduce subscriber churn by providing better quality of experience.
Spirents solutions also allow service providers to reduce operational costs through better identification of potential network problems, from the core of the network to inside the subscribers home, and use of the most appropriate resources to address those issues.
Market conditions 2011 saw challenging overall market conditions throughout the year, with service providers becoming increasingly cautious about their Service assurance-control room OpEx and CapEx spending.
This reduction in spend was most Growth for our Ethernet-based service assurance solutions resulted from the pronounced for wireline networks, for both business and residential build-out of 3G and 4G LTE networks.
While competition among service providers helped drive the need for enterprise Ethernet-based service assurance solutions, Revenue buying decisions were delayed and the size of the deals were reduced Service Assurance revenues decreased by 5 per cent in 2011 to as rollouts were scaled back.
$54.1 million compared with $57.0 million in 2010 as service providers reduced capital spend, primarily on wireline networks.
In contrast, spend on mobile networks remained strong throughout The year was highlighted by the demand for Ethernet test solutions the year, driven by competition and growing bandwidth needs as a for mobile backhaul and enterprise business services although this result of the rapid growth in mobile data across 3G and 4G networks.
was more offset by the decline in revenue from legacy products and Despite an increasingly challenging marketplace, we were able to related maintenance contracts.
There were important contracts wins drive additional wins in mobile backhaul solution with our Spirent for our Spirent TestCenter Live Ethernet test solution at major wireless TestCenter Live Ethernet test solution at three major North American service providers, as well as at a large North American cable MSO for mobile service providers.
There was also a nationwide Spirent Ethernet business services.
TestCenter Live deployment win for Ethernet business services at a Tier 1 cable multiple systems operator MSO.
Spirent TestCenter Profitability Live 7500 Series Ethernet Services Probes were recognised with a In Service Assurance profit decreased by 46 per cent year-on-year to high rating by Broadband Technology Reports Diamond Technology $7.0 million from $13.0 million in 2010.
This was in part due to lower Reviews in 2011 for providing the cable industry with a solution that revenue, but primarily a result of an excess inventory provision charge is unique, innovative and contributes to profitability.
The field test of $2.9 million in 2011 and a one-time software contract for $2.8 marketplace remained challenging, although we saw some increased million in 2010.
During this same period, return on sales decreased activity for in-home testing by MSOs.
In 2012, service provider investments are expected to remain focused Product development on 4G LTE mobile network growth, higher bandwidth enterprise The focus remains on Ethernet Service Assurance and field test business services, as well as application monitoring and testing.
For Spirent TestCenter Live These investments will be aimed at improving efficiencies through Ethernet Service Assurance, we are expanding our flexible platform test automation and service level network monitoring by the capabilities, which include our combined 1Gb and 10Gb Ethernet operations, administration and maintenance organisations within probes as well as development of 40Gb and 100Gb Ethernet solutions.
In the field test market, the growth of bandwidth In the Ethernet space, greater emphasis has been placed on mobile test needed for in-home networks, as a result of new and innovative and diagnostic and performance monitoring solutions.
With the delivery services, will drive new field test tool investment decisions by of DOCSIS 3.0 and 1GHz RF test functionality, we continue to improve service providers.
our field test product portfolio for the MSO service provider space.
