Scottish and Southern Energy 10 Annual Report 2011 Why invest in SSE?
Dividend SSEs principal financial objective SSE has delivered above-inflation dividend increases every year since it was formed in is to deliver annual above-inflation 1998 one of only six FTSE 100 companies to have done so.
To do Diversity SSE is the only company listed on the this, it operates and invests in a London Stock Exchange with a balanced mix of  and marketrange of energy-related businesses, based energy businesses.
setting great store by diversity.
Discipline SSEs commitment to above-inflation dividend growth is supported by the application of a series of financial principles, including In doing this, it exercises discipline a strong balance sheet.
through adherence to a series Delivery SSE is focused on delivery of annual of well-established financial dividend growth, sector-leading service to customers and value-adding investments principles and prioritises delivery in new energy assets.
in everything from cost control to constructing new assets.
SSE has a balanced business, preparing for a decade of change in energy Set out below are some of the developments SSE has interests in electricity generation, that will affect the energy sector over the transmission, distribution and supply and next decade and beyond and when they are in gas production, storage, distribution set to take effect.
SSE is actively preparing and supply, and so this period of change for the changes that these developments will affect every part of its business.
With its balanced business model and The EU Energy Commissioner, commitment to core values such as efficiency, Gnther Oettinger, has said that Europes sustainability and excellence, SSE believes energy sector is on the threshold of an it is well-placed to make the most of the unprecedented period of change.
opportunities that change will bring.
2011 2012 2013 Key development rEnEWaBlE HEat GrEEn DEal pHasE 3 of Eu Emissions nEW ElEctricity nEW Gas DistriBution incEntiVE traDinG scHEmE transmission pricE pricE control riio-G1 control riio-t1 2010 First part of a phased Forecast implementation in Phase 3 of EU ETS, all RiiO-T1 will set for an RiiO-G1 will set for an main impact rollout designed to increase of new energy efficiency carbon dioxide emissions eight-year period the eight-year period the rapidly renewable sources framework for Gb, with allowances for electricity allowed revenues electricity allowed revenues gas of heat in Gb.
the Green deal finance generators will be auctioned.
transmission companies distribution companies mechanism and new Energy Carbon price support in Gb can collect.
11 Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 1.
Strategy designed for dividend growth SSEs core purpose is to provide the energy dividend in 1999.
SSE is one of just six FTSE Financial discipline underpinning people need in a reliable and sustainable 100 companies to have delivered better-thandividend growth way.
In fulfilling this purpose, SSE requires inflation dividend growth every year during this the support of the shareholders who have period, and ranks fourth amongst that group The requirement on SSE to maintain invested in its shares, and it believes their in terms of compound annual growth rate over a disciplined, consistent and long-term investment should be remunerated through that time.
Of the 50 companies which have approach to management is underpinned the payment of dividends, for four key reasons: been FTSE 100 constituents since 1998 SSE by a series of financial principles: is ranked eighth for Total Shareholder Return.
kk receiving and reinvesting dividends is the kk maintenance of a strong balance sheet, biggest source of an investors return Targeting further evidenced by commitment to the criteria over the long term: dividend increases for a single A credit rating: kk dividends provide income for those kk rigorous analysis to ensure investments investors who do not wish to reinvest According to Capita Registrars Dividend are well-founded and achieve returns them: Monitor, published in February 2011, greater than the cost of capital: kk dividend targets provide a transparent dividend payments by UK companies fell kk deployment of a selective and disciplined means with which to hold management by 3.3% in 2010.
This followed a 15% fall approach to acquisitions, which should to account: and in 2009.
As Capita said: Dividends are too enhance earnings per share over the kk a long-term commitment to dividend often overlooked as a component of company medium and long term: and growth demands a disciplined, consistent return A companys value depends, most kk use of the economics of purchasing the and long-term approach to operations, fundamentally of all, on the ability of the firm Companys own shares in the market as investments and acquisitions.
to make money and return it to shareholders.
the benchmark against which financial Ultimately, dividends are the principal way decisions are taken.
As a result of this, SSEs strategy is to in which corporate profits are distributed.
deliver sustained real growth in the dividend Dividends are certainly not overlooked at SSE, The application of these principles supports payable to shareholders through the efficient as is evidenced by the fact its key financial the fulfilment of SSEs first financial operation of, and investment in, a balanced objective is the delivery of sustained annual responsibility to shareholders: the delivery range of  and  increases in the dividend paid of sustained real dividend growth.
based businesses in energy production, to shareholders.
SSEs targets are to deliver: storage, distribution, supply and related Delivering dividend growth services, mainly in the UK and Ireland.
kk a full-year dividend increase of at least a twelfth successive increase 2% more than Retail Price Index RPI The delivery of annual above-inflation inflation for 2011 12: For 2010 11, the Board is recommending increases in the dividend paid to shareholders kk a full-year dividend increase of at least 2% a final dividend of 52.6p per share, making is a clear, measurable and practical goal more than RPI inflation for 2012 13: and a full-year dividend of 75p, an increase of which sets the long-term financial context for kk annual RPI-plus dividend increases 7.1% on the previous year.
The full-year SSEs operational and investment decisions.
dividend is covered 1.5 times by SSEs adjusted profit after tax and is more than In this context, inflation is defined as the double the dividend per share paid eight average annual rate across each of the 12 years ago, in 2002 03.
The recommended months to March.
SSE believes that these full-year dividend increase of 7.1% represents targets can be achieved while maintaining a the twelfth successive above-inflation dividend dividend cover around its established range.
increase since SSE paid its first full-year 2014 2015 2020 2023 nEW ElEctricity marKEt nEW ElEctricity larGE comBustion DEaDlinE for Eu DEaDlinE for Eu inDustrial Emissions arranGEmEnts DistriBution pricE plant DirEctiVE lcpD rEnEWaBlE EnErGy Emissions rEDuction DirEctiVE DEaDlinE control DEaDlinE tarGEts tarGEts 2020 Following Uk government The new price control will set large combustion plants The Uk and ireland are The Uk and ireland large combustion plants consultations on Electricity for an eight-year period the such as power stations required to meet 15% and are required to achieve such as power stations market Reform, new allowed revenues electricity must close if they have not 16% respectively of their reductions of 34% and 40% must close if they have not arrangements are forecast distribution companies in opted in to and complied energy requirements from respectively in emissions of complied with limits on to be implemented.
greenhouse gases, compared emissions of nitrogen oxides.
Scottish and Southern Energy 12 Annual Report 2011 Why invest in SSE?
Diversity maintained for dividend growth SSE is unique among companies listed on energy networks: and to maintain sustained real dividend growth.
the London Stock Exchange in owning and kk more variable levels of profit, but also This breadth is illustrated by the fact that: operating a balanced group of economicallygreater potential for growth, from its regulated energy businesses, such as market-based businesses such as kk while energy is at their core, SSE electricity networks, and market-based Generation and Supply.
has a diverse range of businesses: energy businesses, such as electricity kk within those businesses, SSE has generation and energy supply.
It is thus As a result of this balance, SSE has greater a diverse range of assets: and able to pursue operational, investment and resilience to risks associated with shorterkk to add to those assets, SSE has a acquisition opportunities throughout the term trends or individual issues within its diverse range of investment options.
electricity and gas sector to help achieve sector or the wider economy than do other the levels of profitability required to support companies which have less diversity within These businesses, assets and investment sustained real dividend growth.
options are almost entirely in Great Britain and Ireland.
This means SSE is able to focus closely This is because SSE is able to derive: Moreover, SSEs strategy of maintaining a on issues, giving greater experience, analysis balanced range of  and focus to the identification, consideration kk stable and relatively predictable levels and market-based energy businesses and management of issues and opportunities.
of profit from its  provides a broad platform from which It has, therefore, diversity with depth.
Delivering dividend growth in the future to diversify existing resources and replace kk implementation of potentially significant The context for delivering future dividend equipment and to cater for challenging and reforms to the Great Britain wholesale growth is set by the EU Climate Change changing energy requirements.
electricity and retail energy markets: and Renewable Energy Package which kk continued downward pressure on energy aims to achieve by 2020: consumption, with the possible EU Sector developments to be adoption of legally-binding energy kk a reduction of at least 20% in the levels faced over the next decade efficiency targets: of greenhouse gas emissions across the kk the digitisation of energy supply EU, compared with 1990 levels: and Against this background, a large number following the roll-out of smart meters kk an increase to at least 20% of all energy of issues in the energy sector will have to to all customers in Great Britain: consumption to be generated from be faced over the next decade.
They include: kk the implementation of the RIIO Revenue renewable sources.
Incentives Innovation Output kk a likely surge in the global demand model for economic regulation of In addition, the EU has a non-binding target for energy as emerging economies energy networks: to achieve a 20% reduction in energy industrialise: kk an upgrading of transmission and consumption by 2020. kk a potential plateau in oil production as distribution networks to accommodate a result of which supply will be unable new, and more decentralised, sources Against this background, the new UK to keep pace with demand: of electricity: government published its Annual Energy kk a greater understanding of the output, Statement in July 2010.
Its goal is to support kk increasing interconnection between potential cost and environmental impact the transition to a secure, low-carbon, electricity systems: and of shale gas: affordable energy system in the UK and kk significant regulatory and political kk the closure of a number of coaland oilmobilise commitment to ambitious action scrutiny of all aspects of the energy fired power stations by 2016, under the on climate change internationally.
sectors in Great Britain and Ireland EUs Industrial Emissions Directive: and at EU level.
kk the end of the design life of many In its Programme for a National nuclear power stations, with a number Government, the new government of the of advanced gas-cooled reactor AGR SSE believes that the scale and significance Republic of Ireland said in March 2011 stations scheduled to close: of these issues are, in themselves, very good that we will publish a Climate Change Bill kk the impact of the increasing age and reasons for it to maintain a balanced and which will provide certainty surrounding relative inefficiency of a number of diverse range of energy businesses, so it government policy and provide a clear gas-fired power stations: can exploit opportunities and manage risks.
pathway for emissions reductions, in line kk the increasing requirement for renewable More broadly, it believes that energy, as with negotiated EU 2020 targets.
sources of energy in response to legallysomething which people need rather than binding targets set for Member States want, will become increasingly valued, The European Commission adopted, in under the EU Renewable Energy Directive: in the broad sense of the word.
This means November 2010, a strategy for competitive, kk the requirement for flexible electricity that SSEs strategy the efficient delivery sustainable and secure energy.
It said that generation capacity to respond to of operations and investments should Europes energy sector is on the threshold variations in output from renewable enable it to deliver above-inflation dividend of an unprecedented period of change energy: increases in the decade ahead.
13 Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information The SSE approach DiVErsity DisciplinE DEliVEry range of networks focus on core markets networks quality of service involved in five  businesses, assets and investment Top-ranking electricity distribution networks in electricity transmission options almost entirely in markets network for five-year performance and distribution and, through SGn, in Great britain and ireland.
in customer interruptions and gas distribution.
asset optimisation range of market businesses disposals of non-core assets Growing raV involved in Generation with a diverse or assets in non-core markets Effective investment in  of generating plant and Supply undertaken in order to retain regulated businesses taking plus other energy and utility services.
Regulated Asset value past 5bn for first time.
profit from networks single a credit rating 38.9% of operating profit derived Commitment to a strong balance more onshore wind from  energy sheet and the criteria for a single An additional 90mw of new onshore networks businesses in 2010 11.
wind capacity commissioned in 2010 11. profit from market businesses Defined scale of investment 53.4% of operating profit derived investment of between 1.5bn and large capital projects on course from Generation and Supply and 7.7% 1.7bn per annum planned in each Clyde, Griffin, Gordonbush, walney, from other energy and utility services of the years to march 2015.
Greater Gabbard and Aldbrough in 2010 11. all scheduled for completion by strong debt structure end of 2012. investment in networks investment well-financed with 328.5m invested in electricity average debt maturity of 10.6 years more customers distribution and transmission networks and 4.9bn of debt in medium- 310,000 net additional customer in 2010 11: plus 50% of SGns capital to long-term borrowings.
accounts achieved across markets replacement expenditure was 199.7m.
in Great britain and ireland.
capital programme governance investment in market businesses implementation of new large capital service leadership 784.4m invested in renewable energy, project governance framework, leadership in customer service 126.5m invested in other generation supported by retention of external in energy supply confirmed in a plant and 52.6m invested in gas Project management Partner.
continued Delivery priorities for SSE kk Energy and utility services: providing investment-related activities.
In 2010 11 key services for private and public sector its Total Recordable Injury Rate per 100,000 SSE believes that these challenging and organisations as they seek to install or hours fell from 0.14 to 0.12.
SSEs ultimate changing energy requirements mean the upgrade existing energy and utility goal is injury-free working and its Safety following priorities should feature in its infrastructure.
Management System is designed to achieve business activities: this by focusing on the five Ps of: As the energy company with the broadest kk Networks: delivering upgraded range of operations in the UK and the kk Policy: electricity transmission networks and fastest rate of growth in Ireland, SSE is kk People: operational efficiency and innovation in well-placed to capitalise on the variety of kk Processes: electricity and gas distribution networks operational and investment opportunities kk Plant: and as they respond to the decarbonisation that are presenting themselves in the energy kk Performance.
and decentralisation of energy: sector, without being over-exposed to risks kk Generation: investing in the new associated with any of them.
In addition, and in keeping with its capacity for renewable energy that will commitment to sustainability, SSEs be needed in the transition to a lowerDelivery depends on safe target for every year is zero environmental carbon economy while maintaining and sustainable working incidents which result in it being served with diversity in the type of assets owned a formal statutory notice by a governmentand the type of fuels used, to generate While SSEs first financial responsibility to sponsored environment protection agency.
electricity to support security of supply: shareholders is to deliver above-inflation There were no such incidents during kk Supply: evolving from the simple increases in the dividend, it will only be 2010 11.
More broadly, SSEs sustainability retailing of electricity and gas to the able to achieve this if it exercises a wider priorities are to: provision of a broader range of smarter corporate responsibility.
It seeks to do this products and services consistent with by maintaining a strong emphasis on its six kk reduce emissions of greenhouse the long-term decarbonisation of energy core values, the SSE SET of Safety, Service, gases, especially carbon dioxide: production and consumption: Efficiency, Sustainability, Excellence and kk facilitate customers carbon dioxide kk Gas Production: securing mediumand Teamwork see page 58. reductions: long-term gas supplies to meet future kk use resources efficiently and with energy needs: Safety comes first in every sense.
SSE the minimum possible waste: and kk Gas Storage: reinforcing the security believes that the effective management kk avoid pollution and improve of energy supplies by providing storage of safety issues is a barometer of effective environmental practice.
capacity, as UK imports of gas rise: and management of all operational and 4.
Outlook for 2011 12 and beyond The economic outlook for the UK and Ireland kk optimise the management of its portfolio kk commissioning new assets in renewable in 2011 12 continues to be uncertain, and of energy assets and contracts: energy, electricity networks and gas the global nature of energy markets means kk ensure power stations maintain a high storage which contribute to the diversity that SSE, like every other company in the level of availability to generate electricity of its portfolio: sector, has to be prepared to manage the in response to customers needs and kk meeting other development and energy consequences of exceptional and market conditions: construction milestones in its unpredictable events such as the political kk maintain and build on sector-leading investment programme: upheaval in the Middle East and the March performance in the quality of service kk taking forward the wide range of 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan.
with high standards delivered to energy additional options that it has identified supply customers: for investment from the middle of this Against this uncertain background, and with kk improve the standards of service decade onwards, especially in electricity its strategic focus on efficiency in operations delivered to energy supply customers generation: and and investment, SSEs core operational and build on its sector-leading kk preparing for the transformation of priorities during 2011 12 are to: performance: energy supply, characterised by the kk develop and sustain long-term forthcoming roll-out of smart meters kk carry out all work in a safe and relationships and contracts with key in Great Britain.
responsible manner, with a lower customers of its other energy and utility Total Recordable Injury Rate: services: and The delivery of a strong operational kk maintain strong cost control throughout kk work with the UK government performance and the achievement of its all business activities: and Ofgem to secure a stable and investment priorities should enable SSE kk distribute electricity and through Scotia competitive framework for electricity to discharge its first financial responsibility Gas Networks gas with the minimum generation and energy supply.
to shareholders: to deliver its targets for possible interruptions to supplies: annual dividend growth.
kk demonstrate innovation in the SSEs investment priorities are to management of electricity and support sustainable earnings and gas networks: dividend growth by: 15 Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information How did we perform against the priorities set for 2010 11?
safEty customErs assEts What we said What we said What we said Carry out all work in a safe and responsible increase the total number of energy supply and deliver additional assets in electricity manner, with a lower Total Recordable injury home services customer accounts across Great generation, electricity networks and Rate TRiR.
britain and ireland while supporting progress gas storage.
How we did in 2010 11 How we did in 2010 11 TRiR reduced from 0.14 per 100,000 hours How we did in 2010 11 90mw of new wind farm capacity commissioned, worked to 0.12. dangerous potentially Total customer accounts increased by 310,000 to 400m net added to networks Regulated dangerous road traffic accidents reduced over 10 million.
SSE-funded insulation installations Asset value and 40mcm of gas storage all from 0.34 per 100 Company vehicles to 0.31. excluding diy took place in 193,000 homes delivered.
See page 64. throughout Great britain.
See pages 39 to 42. proJEcts EfficiEncy GEnEration What we said What we said What we said meet other key milestones in the investment deliver maximum efficiency throughout Ensure power stations maintain a high level of programme in generation, electricity networks all business activities.
availability to generate electricity in response and gas storage.
to customers needs and market conditions.
How we did in 2010 11 How we did in 2010 11 Additional cost savings were achieved How we did in 2010 11 Almost all key projects remain on, or close during 2010 11 and there were specific Availability to generate electricity declined to to, the schedule set out in the Annual Report operational improvements in areas such 88% at SSEs gas-fired power stations and 84% 2010, and a new large Capital Project as credit management.
wind farm availability Governance Framework has been introduced.
See pages 20 and 57. sErVicE otHEr EnErGy options What we said maintain and build on sector-leading What we said BusinEssEs performance in all aspects of customer service, Take forward additional options for investment What we said from energy supply to energy networks.
from the middle of this decade onwards.
Focus on cost control and customer relationship How we did in 2010 11 How we did in 2010 11 management to sustain energy services businesses leadership maintained in key independent A broad range of options for future investment through the period of economic uncertainty.
studies of service performance in energy has been developed and retained across How we did in 2010 11 supply see page 41 and most successful electricity generation and networks, energy Total operating profit from Contracting, Utility company in electricity networks in keeping supply and gas storage.
Solutions and metering rose by 10.3% year-onthe lights on see pages 23 and 24. year, with important steps for the long-term future taken in areas such as Utility Solutions.
