43 Overview Market-based businesses continued Strategy Group performance Other energy and utility services Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information and gas supply activities.
During 2010 11 it: Other energy and utility services kk signed, in November 2010, an agreement with Faroe Petroleum plc, the independent Performance indicators oil and gas company, to work together to identify, assess and, where good value can be obtained, acquire producing oil 2009 2010 2011 Change and gas assets in the North Sea.
It also Gas storage customer nominations met % 100 100 100 0.0% subscribed in a placing for just over 5% Gas storage net capacity mcm 325 400 440 10.0% of the enlarged share capital of Faroe Petroleum plc at a cost of around 18m.
SSE contracting order book m 101 115 98 -14.8% The partnerships combined expertise and Out-of-area networks in operation 47 53 74 39.6% relationships across the market provide New gas connections 7,300 6,700 11,120 66.0% an opportunity to acquire high quality oil Meters read millions 9.0 10.7 13.8 29.0% and gas production and benefits from respective strengths: and kk completed, in February 2011, the acquisition from Hess Limited of North As well as being substantial in their own Sea natural gas and infrastructure substantial market-based businesses fields, these businesses give SSE an assets.
Gas delivery from the assets that complementing ssEs core activities important presence in areas of significance are currently in production is expected As well as being involved in Energy to the UKs infrastructure requirements: to be around 200 million therms in 2011 Networks and Generation and Supply, SSE and, subject to the success and phasing provides other energy and utility services: kk the UK governments Annual Energy of development fields, could increase Statement in July 2010 confirmed the up to 300 million therms, which would kk Gas Production: need for more gas storage capacity: provide around 6% of SSEs gas needs.
kk Gas Storage: kk it also confirmed the need to modernise Production is then forecast to decline kk Contracting, Utility Solutions the UKs energy infrastructure, with over the next 10 years.
The main and Metering: and much greater decentralisation: and production asset operators are BP and kk Telecoms.
kk telecoms networks are clearly Perenco.
The total cash consideration recognised as being central to the for the acquisition was 197.2m.
The operating profit of this group of competitiveness of any economy and the businesses has grown from just over 91m success of any substantial organisation.
In the two months since SSE acquired to 134.7m in the five years to March 2011. its assets, Gas Production delivered an This represents less than 10% of SSEs The UK governments Annual Energy operating profit of 4.6m.
operating profit, and in SSEs financial Statement also stated that indigenous statements they are presented as a single supplies of oil and gas remain important The acquisition and agreement represent operating segment, in line with how they and that the UK must maximise economic SSEs first steps into the upstream gas are reviewed by the Board.
During 2010 11, production while applying effective sector, and it hopes to build its presence SSE acquired its first gas production environmental and safety regulations.
in the sector over time but in a careful, assets.
Its other energy and utility services measured way, consistent with its financial businesses are substantial in their own Gas Production principles and, therefore, only where fair fields.
For example: value can be secured.
securing upstream supplies of gas kk SSEs onshore gas storage facility SSE needs on average around 13.5 million at Hornsea is the largest in the UK: therms of gas per day to supply its kk SSEs contracting business is the second customers and to fuel its power stations.
largest mechanical and electrical Its goal is to build up a presence in the contracting business in the UK: and upstream gas sector in a measured way to kk SSEs telecoms business is the fourth provide an additional source of primary fuel largest telecoms network company and a hedge for its gas-fired generation in the UK.
Gas Production priorities in 2011 12 and beyond As well as being substantial in their SSEs priorities in Gas Production in 2011 12 are to: own fields, other energy and utility kkcomplete the integration of recentlyacquired gas production assets into its portfolio: and services give SSE an important presence kkpursue further opportunities to secure upstream gas assets, while adhering in areas of significance to the UKs to its key financial principles.
Scottish and Southern Energy 44 Annual Report 2011 Market-based businesses continued Other energy and utility services Gas Storage Gas storage capacity million cubic metres providing capacity to store gas 2011 440 As production of North Sea gas declines in 2010 400 the coming years, UK imports will continue 2009 325 to increase to meet demand from domestic customers, gas-fired power stations and 2008 325 other industrial and commercial users.
2007 325 Imports could be put at risk by periods of unusually low temperatures, operational failures in pipelines delivering gas to the UK, political disputes in gas-producing regions or high demand in other parts of the world.
It will have the capacity to deliver This is why gas storage capacity is Contracting, Utility Solutions gas to the National Transmission System important, and will remain so even though and Metering at a rate of up to 40mcm per day, equivalent liquefied natural gas LNG has recently to the average daily consumption of eight helped to diversify sources of gas in the overall performance in contracting, million homes, and the ability to have up UK and thereby had a negative financial utility solutions and metering to 30mcm of gas per day injected.
Operating profit in Contracting, Utility Solutions and Metering was 88.5m during SSE and Statoil UK Ltd have consent Gas storage delivered an operating profit 2010 11, compared with 80.2m in the to increase the storage capacity at the of 23.7m during 2010 11, compared with previous year, reflecting in particular the Aldbrough site beyond that currently under 41.8m in the previous year.
Profitability contribution from SSEs in-sourced Metering development but concluded during 2010 that has been affected by a decline in the price business see below.
an investment decision on the development achieved for Standard Bundled Units of should be deferred while the UK government capacity.
This, in turn, reflects a reduction a leading mechanical and electrical develops its policy on gas security.
in the differentials between forward summer contracting business and winter gas prices, reflecting the SSE Contracting has three main areas making sure storage capacity is available increased availability of LNG.
of activity: At Hornsea, gas can be injected at a rate of 2mcm per day and delivered to the SSE has an ownership interest in two major kk industrial, commercial and domestic National Transmission System at a rate of gas storage facilities in East Yorkshire: mechanical and electrical contracting: 18mcm per day, which is equivalent to the kk electrical and instrumentation requirements of around four million homes.
kk the UKs largest onshore gas storage engineering: and During 2010 11, Hornsea maintained its facility, at Hornsea, in which around kk public and highway lighting services.
good record of dependability and was 100% 325 million cubic metres mcm of gas available to customers, except in instances can be stored in a total of nine caverns.
It is one of the largest mechanical and of planned maintenance.
This enabled Hornsea accounts for around 7% of the electrical contracting businesses in the UK.
storage customers to manage their gas total gas storage capacity in the UK and It operates from regional offices throughout market risks and respond to gas trading 15% of deliverability: and Great Britain.
kk the UKs newest onshore gas storage facility, at Aldbrough, which SSE is sustaining ssE contracting through The capacity which became available at developing with Statoil UK Ltd. An economic uncertainty Aldbrough also performed well during initial 170mcm of capacity in six caverns While SSE Contracting has continued 2010 11, its first full year of commercial is already available for commercial to make solid progress during 2010 11, operation.
The capacity at the Aldbrough its order book ended the year at 98.3m, development is divided between SSE compared with 115m in 2010 and and Statoil UK Ltd on a two thirds 101m in 2009.
This reflects economic one third basis.
Nevertheless, the order book features a number of To form caverns such as those at Aldbrough important new contracts with customers and Hornsea, salt deposits around 2km as diverse as Frimley Park Hospital and under ground are leached out by seawater Dartford Tunnel.
which, in turn, is replaced dewatered by gas under pressure.
Leaching of all nine A major proportion of SSE Contractings Gas Storage priorities caverns at Aldbrough has now been business has historically come from in 2011 12 and beyond completed, which should allow the final public sector bodies and end-user client three caverns to be ready for operation by organisations with a high degree of repeat the summer of 2012 and SSEs forecast total business or long-term contracts.
In line SSEs operational and investment priorities investment for the development remains with this, PriDE, the joint venture company in Gas Storage during 2011 12 are to: around 290m.
between SSE Contracting and Interserve Defence Ltd, has signed a 108m, two-year kkensure safe and effective operation of When fully commissioned, Aldbrough will extension to its South East Regional Prime capacity at hornsea and Aldbrough: and ultimately have the capacity to inject gas kkcomplete construction work at Aldbrough.
Contract with the Defence Infrastructure and store around 330mcm in nine under Organisation.
The contract will now run ground caverns of which SSE will own two to March 2014.
45 Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information With public sector budgets being curtailed Out-of-area networks in operation following the UK Spending Review in October 2010, SSE Contracting is 2011 74 encouraged by the increasing number of 2010 53 enquiries from the private sector.
It is also 2009 47 focusing on post-sales control, particularly in terms of costs, and maintaining strong 2008 33 customer relationships, with careful 2007 24 analysis of the markets and areas of work it should prioritise.
The structure of the business is also being kept under review, with, for example, some rationalisation of depots being undertaken.
existing and new commercial and residential its establishment will enable SSE to developments in England, Wales and provide, over the long term, a more maintaining leadership in lighting Scotland.
It is, therefore, able to provide comprehensive multi-utility solution to services provision a one-stop solution for multi-utility customers in the property development SSE Contracting remains the UKs and infrastructure requirements to customers and house-building sectors, through Irelands leading street-lighting contractor.
in the development and construction sectors.
being able to install, own, operate and It has: supply water and sewerage services kk Electricity Networks: in the summer of alongside its existing electricity and gas kk contracts with 24 local authorities in 2010, SSE signed a contract which will services.
An inset appointment is the England, Wales and Scotland to maintain result in the development of its 100th route by which one company replaces over 600,000 lighting units: embedded electricity network outside another as the appointed water and or kk contracts with 28 local authorities in the areas served by its economicallysewerage company for a specified area.
the Republic of Ireland to maintain over regulated subsidiaries Scottish Hydro SSEW now has nine such appointments 275,000 lighting units, through Airtricity Electric Power Distribution and Southern and provides, or has secured contracts Utility Solutions: and Electric Power Distribution.
SSE now to provide, water and sewerage services kk contracts with 12 local authorities, owns and operates 74 energised to over 15,000 properties in England and under the Private Finance Initiative, and electricity networks of this kind.
A Wales: and through the wholly-owned subsidiary further 14 are under construction and kk Heat: SSE uses a range of sustainable Tay Valley Lighting Ltd, to replace and contracts have been signed for the technical solutions, including Combined maintain over 600,000 lighting units.
development of an additional 29, taking Heat and Power CHP generation, the total to 117.
In total, SSE has 740MW biomass boilers and groundand airThe PFI contracts include the 25-year of network capacity, including almost source heat pumps and combines these contract awarded by Knowsley Metropolitan 300MW of existing demand and 440MW with community heating schemes where Council in April 2011 for the maintenance of of connections to be completed: appropriate.
For example, in August over 24,000 lighting columns, traffic bollards kk Gas Pipelines: SSE is also a licensed 2010, it secured a contract to adopt, and traffic signs and for the replacement of gas transporter, installing, owning and own and operate the new heat network more than 70% of these during the initial operating gas mains and services on new for two adjacent sites totalling 750 plots four-year investment period.
housing and commercial developments in the London Borough of Hackney.
The total number Under the contract, the innovative of new premises connected to its gas maintaining a national metering business Mayflower Central Management networks has continued to grow, and SSEs Metering business provides services System technology will be installed on all during 2010 11, it connected a further to most electricity suppliers with customers illuminated apparatus.
Mayflower is owned 11,120 premises, taking the total number in central southern England and the north by SSE and the technology enables variable of connections to over 78,000: of Scotland.
Previously, SSE relied on a light control, fault detection and energy kk Water: SSE Water SSEW is the first combination of its own employees in central consumption measurement to be new company to offer both water and southern England and the north of Scotland undertaken from a central location, allowing sewerage services since privatisation and up to nine external agencies elsewhere the local authority to manage lighting levels in England and Wales in 1989, and in the country to read electricity and gas and therefore energy consumption, throughout the contract.
Including PFI and maintenance contracts in Great Britain and the Republic of Ireland, SSE now maintains almost 1.5 million SSE supplies, installs and maintains lighting units.
A public tender process for street light maintenance in Northern Ireland will begin in 2012. domestic meters and carries out providing comprehensive utility solutions metering work in the commercial, SSE provides a comprehensive range of utility solutions.
It designs, builds, owns, industrial and generation sectors.
operates and maintains cable and pipe networks for delivering electricity, gas, water, heat and telecommunications to It also offers data collection services.
Scottish and Southern Energy 46 Annual Report 2011 Market-based businesses continued Other energy and utility services meters and install and repair electricity SSEs telecoms business is the fourth meters.
Following the successful completion of a programme of in-sourcing in March 2010, it undertakes meter reading largest telecoms network company in the operations and meter operator work in all other parts of Great Britain.
As a subsidiary of SSE, it is also able installs and maintains domestic meters and carries out metering work in the to position itself as one of the UKs most commercial, industrial and generation sectors.
It also offers data collection services to the domestic and SME sectors.
financially secure telecoms network In total, SSE owns 3.8 million meters.
operators, which gives it an important During 2010 11, the first full year after the completing of in-sourcing, it collected: competitive advantage, especially kk 8.4 million electricity readings, up from 6.8 million in the previous year: and during an economic downturn.
kk 5.4 million gas readings, up from 3.9 million.
This increase reflects the completion, during 2009 10, of the in-sourcing of Telecoms telecoms financial performance its meter reading and electricity meter SSEs combined Telecoms business operation services throughout Great operating one of the uKs achieved an operating profit of 17.9m Britain.
Longer-term, SSEs Great Britainlargest telecoms networks during 2010 11, compared with 16.4m.
wide metering team will be able to support The origins of SSEs Telecoms business The year was characterised by a challenging the transition to smart meters which will lie in the installation, a decade ago, of fibre environment for sales in respect of the take place in the coming decade and will optic cable on SSEs electricity network.
network, which made tight control on help SSE deploy other energy-related The business combines SSE Telecoms operating costs especially important.
services and products during that time and Neos Networks and a number of see Preparing for the roll-out of smart acquisitions and now operates a 11,200km The Telecoms business undertook capital meters on page 42.
expenditure of 34.7m in 2010 11, focused on improving network reliability and reach This network provides capacity and and on the Fareham data centre.
bandwidth services for companies, public sector organisations, internet service providers, application service providers and other licence operators and now comprises: kk fibre optic cabling which SSE owns Contracting, Utility 5,000km : kk leased lit fibre 2,600km : and Solutions and Metering kk microwave radio 3,600km.
Telecoms priorities priorities in 2011 12 in 2011 12 and beyond and beyond As a result, this is the fourth largest telecoms network company in the UK.
As a subsidiary of SSE, it is also able to position SSEs priorities in Contracting, Utility Solutions SSEs priorities in Telecoms in 2011 12 are to: itself as one of the UKs most financially and metering are to: secure telecoms network operators, which kkretain and gain customers for key services gives it an important competitive advantage, kkdeliver a high standard of service to all such as capacity and bandwidth: and especially during an economic downturn.
customers: kkadd to the number of customers for its kkfocus on strong cost control and maintaining data centre business.
To complement its core telecoms network and developing customer contacts: kkincrease the number of contracts secured business, SSEs Fareham-based data centre The achievement of these priorities should across all activities: and enable SSE Telecoms to continue to make provides capacity for more than 1,200 racks kkhelp prepare for the roll-out of smart progress towards becoming the Uks leading for the co-location of IT services within the meters.
80,000 square feet secure site and 10MW of power in a resilient and energy efficient environment.
During the summer of 2010, what is believed to be the UKs largest commercial solar PV installation was placed on the roof of the data centre.
Customers for the data centre include Thomson Reuters and Kingfisher.
