75 Overview Other statutory information Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information principal activities are set out in the Remuneration Report authority to purchase shares Scottish and Southern Energy plc is the on pages 73 to 74.
The Company was authorised at the 2010 holding company of the Group.
Its subsidiaries AGM to purchase its own shares within are organised into the main businesses of: Directors insurance and indemnities certain limits.
During 2010 11, SSE did The Directors have the benefit of the not purchase any shares under this kk the generation, transmission, indemnity provision contained in the authority.
The Directors will, however, distribution and supply of electricity: Companys Articles of Association.
The seek renewal of their authority to purchase kk the production, storage, distribution Directors of the Company have been granted in the market the Companys own shares and supply of gas: and a qualifying third party indemnity provision at the AGM on 21 July 2011, and this kk the provision of other energy-related which was in force throughout the financial remains a benchmark against which services.
year and remains in force.
The Company financial decisions are taken.
also purchased and maintained throughout Business review the financial year directors and officers annual General meeting 2011 The Company is required to set out a fair review liability insurance in respect of itself and The 22nd AGM of the Company will be of the business of the Group and a description for its Directors and Officers.
held on 21 July 2011 at 12 noon in the Perth of the principal risks and uncertainties facing Concert Hall, Mill Street, Perth PH1 5HZ.
the Group known as a Business Review.
results and dividends The Notice of Annual General Meeting 2011, The Business Review is required to set out a The Group profit attributable to which contains full explanations of the balanced and comprehensive analysis of the shareholders for the financial year business to be conducted at the AGM, is development and performance of the Groups amounted to 1,504.5m.
The Directors set out in a separate shareholder circular.
business during the financial year ended recommend a final dividend of 52.6p per 31 March 2011 and of the position of the Ordinary Share which, subject to approval substantial shareholdings Group at the end of that financial year.
The at the AGM, will be payable on 23 September At 19 May 2011, the interests in the issued information that fulfils these requirements, 2011 to shareholders on the Register of Ordinary Share capital of the Company Members at close of business on 29 July and is deemed to be the Directors Report, have been disclosed in accordance with the 2011.
With the interim dividend of 22.4p is contained within pages 1 to 76 of this requirements of the UK Listing Authoritys per Ordinary Share paid on 25 March 2011, Annual Report.
The management report Disclosure and Transparency Rules, as this makes a total dividend of 75p per for the year, as required by the Disclosure shown in the table below.
and Transparency Rules, is incorporated by reference within the Directors Report.
creditor payment policy Going concern It is the Companys policy that payment After making enquiries, the Directors Directors terms are agreed at the outset of a have a reasonable expectation that the The Directors during the year and at the date transaction and are adhered to: that bills Company and the Group have adequate of this report are: are paid in accordance with the contract: resources to continue in operational and that there are no alterations to payment existence for the foreseeable future.
The Executive terms without prior agreement.
The number Financial Statements are therefore prepared Ian Marchant Chief Executive of suppliers days represented by trade on a going concern basis.
Further details Gregor Alexander creditors was 39 days at 31 March 2011. of the Groups liquidity position and going Colin Hood concern review are provided in note 31 Alistair Phillips-Davies accounting policies, financial to the Financial Statements.
Non-Executive instruments and risk Lord Smith of Kelvin Chairman Details of the Groups accounting share capital Thomas Thune Andersen policies, together with details of financial The Companies Act 2006 abolishes the Nick Baldwin resigned on 1 April 2011 instruments and risk, are provided in notes requirement for a company to have an Richard Gillingwater 1 and 31 to the Financial Statements.
authorised share capital and the Articles Ren Mdori of Association as approved and adopted Lady Rice Senior Independent Director additional information by the Companys shareholders at the 2010 Where not provided elsewhere in the AGM reflect this.
Details of the Companys Jeremy Beeton and Katie Bickerstaffe join Directors Report, the following provides issued share capital at 31 March 2011, the Board on 1 July 2011. the information required to be disclosed which includes options granted under the by Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006.
Groups employee share option schemes, At the 2011 AGM all of the current are set out in notes 26 and 30 to the Directors will retire and offer themselves Each Ordinary Share of the Company carries Financial Statements.
As announced on one vote at general meetings of the Company.
9 December 2010, Colin Hood will stand down as an Executive Director later in the year.
Biographical details of all Directors are substantial shareholdings set out on page 49.
Details of the service Number of Nature of contracts for the Executive Directors and the Entity shares Percentage holding letters of appointment for the non-Executive Capital Research and Management Company 46,267,405 5.02% Indirect Directors are set out in the Remuneration Legal & General Group Plc 37,426,851 3.99% Direct Report on page 71.
At date of disclosure by relevant entity.
Since the date of disclosure to the Company, the interests of the shareholders listed above may have The interests of the Directors in the Ordinary increased or decreased.
Shares of the Company at 31 March 2011 Scottish and Southern Energy 76 Annual Report 2011 Other statutory information continued There are no restrictions on the transfer statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of Ordinary Shares in the capital of the of the annual report and the financial statements Company other than certain restrictions which may from time-to-time be imposed The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent by law for example, insider trading law.
company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
In accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, certain Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial employees are required to seek the approval statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group of the Company to deal in its shares.
financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements on the same basis.
Employees who participate in the Share Incentive Plan whose shares remain Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they in the schemes trusts give directions are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent to the trustees to vote on their behalf company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and by way of a Form of Direction.
parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: The Company is not aware of any kk select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: agreements between shareholders that kk make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: may result in restrictions on the transfer kk state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: and of securities and or voting rights.
kk prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
The rules governing the appointment of Directors are set out in the Corporate The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to Governance Report on page 52.
The show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy Companys Articles of Association may at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its only be amended by a special resolution financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility at a general meeting of shareholders.
for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Company is not aware of any significant agreements to which it is party that take Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a effect, alter or terminate upon a change Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement of control of the Company following a that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Company is not aware of any contractual or other agreements which The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and are essential to its business which ought financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing to be disclosed in this Directors Report.
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Details of any post balance sheet events are provided in note 34 to the Financial We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: Statements.
kk the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting auditors standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit Upon the recommendation of the Audit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a Committee and approval of the Board, whole: and resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc kk the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and performance as Auditors, and to authorise the Directors of the business and the position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the to fix their remuneration, will be proposed consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks at the forthcoming AGM.
and uncertainties that they face.
Each of the Directors who held office at the For and on behalf of the Board date of approval of this Directors Report confirms that, so far as each Director is Ian Marchant Gregor Alexander aware, there is no relevant audit information Chief Executive Finance Director of which the Companys Auditors is unaware 19 May 2011 and each Director has taken all the steps that ought to have been taken in his or her duty as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors is aware of that information.
By Order of the Board Vincent Donnelly Company Secretary 19 May 2011
