05 Overview The energy sector in Ireland Strategy Group performance Gas and electricity Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information and Regulatory Authorities are currently Since 2008, SSE has had significant developing an all-island gas market.
Gas prices in Ireland tend to be set by the UK wholesale price.
operations in Ireland, including electricity Electricity and gas retailing generation and energy supply.
Large At 31 March 2011 there were four main parts of the sector remain state-owned.
electricity and gas suppliers operating in ROI and NI.
Despite competitive business markets in The energy market in Ireland is split over In ROI, state-owned Bord Gis owns the ROI and NI for a number of years, domestic two political and regulatory jurisdictions gas transmission and distribution networks switching in electricity and gas has been a the Republic of Ireland ROI and Northern and maintains and develops the network recent phenomenon.
SSEs retail brand in Ireland NI.
At the same time it has a Gaslink, a ring-fenced business within Bord Ireland, Airtricity, has been a significant common electricity wholesale market.
Gis, and operates the transmission system.
contributor to the development of domestic Regulated by the CER the current price competition across the Island.
ROI now has As in GB, Ireland has limited interconnection control runs until 2012. the highest switching rate across Europe consisting of: at 21% in 2010 Q4 with over 450,000 In NI the gas market is in the early stage of customers joining Airtricity in 18 months.
kk the 500MW Moyle interconnector: development.
Two companies Firmus Energy, kk the Scotland-Northern Ireland gas a subsidiary of Bord Gis, and Phoenix This has allowed the regulator to deregulate pipeline: and Natural Gas own and operate separate the incumbent electricity supplier from April kk the Scotland-Republic of Ireland distribution networks, regulated by NIAUR.
2011, with gas likely to follow thereafter.
In line with these changes the Regulatory There is likely to be considerable change Authorities will transition from tariff An additional 500MW interconnector is in ROI with the new government indicating regulation to market monitoring.
under construction between Dublin and its intent to restructure the transmission Wales, which is scheduled to come on network assets under a single, state owned, stream in 2012. holding company.
Ireland is hugely dependent on fossil fuel, Electricity and gas markets Over over 90% of which is imported.
Ireland has very limited gas storage.
However, a new Across ROI and NI there is a common gas production field is being developed off wholesale electricity market: the Single 85% of the West Coast.
This market operates with dual currencies euro and Both governments have set a target of 40% sterling and dual support mechanisms electricity renewable electricity to be delivered by 2020. for renewable energy ROCS and REFIT.
Currently there is around 14% renewables In 2009 the SEM controlled over 6,000MW generated in Ireland comes installed, mainly hydro and wind.
With of fully dispatchable generation and from fossil fuels, of which largely untapped offshore resources supplied over 30TWh, costing just under over 90% is imported.
The retail market continues to to be an exporter of renewable energy.
operate as two separate markets with 2.1 million customers in the Republic of There is likely to be considerable change in Economic regulation of networks Ireland and 0.8 million in Northern Ireland.
the electricity and gas generation and retail sector as the new ROI government policy is The Commission for Energy Regulation CER The island consumes approximately 73TWh likely to indicate the disposal of semi-state and the Northern Ireland Utility Regulator of gas annually of which around two thirds assets including those in the energy sector.
NIAUR regulate the electricity and natural is used in power generation.
The majority of gas markets in Ireland and NI respectively.
The governments Other energy and utility services The state owned ROI Electricity Supply Both governments are placing increasing Board ESB owns and operates the emphasis on energy efficiency and fuel distribution network and the transmission Ireland and Northern Ireland poverty.
These will be key issues for the network in ROI and NI.
Similar to GB, these fuel mix combined 2009 % sector over the coming year.
assets are regulated through Price Controls set by CER and NIAUR for five-year periods.
Solid fuels 21 The current price controls in ROI will run Oil 3 until 2015 for electricity and 2012 for gas.
Gas 62 Renewables other 14 The electricity Transmission System Operators TSO in ROI and NI are EirGrid plc and SONI Ltd, respectively.
SONI is a wholly-owned subsidiary of EirGrid plc.
