29 Overview Market-based businesses Strategy Group performance Generation and Supply Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Performance indicators As at 31 March 2011, SSE supplied energy to: Generation kk 9.16 million customer accounts in Great Britain: and 2009 2010 2011 Change kk 490,000 customer accounts in Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.
assets Gasand oil-fired generation capacity MW 4,510 4,590 4,470 -2.6% Its generation capacity, including its share of Coal-fired generation capacity inc biomass joint ventures and associates, was around: co-firing MW 4,010 4,370 4,370 0.0% kk 10,800MW in Great Britain: Renewable generation capacity inc pumped kk 80MW in Northern Ireland: and storage MW 2,220 2,370 2,450 3.4% kk 410MW in the Republic of Ireland.
Total electricity generation capacity MW 10,740 11,330 11,290 -0.4% operations Overall, SSE seeks to maintain a wellbalanced portfolio of customers, assets Gas power station availability % 76 94 88 -6.4% also including stakes in gas production Coal power station availability % 89 92 84 -8.7% assets and contracts, including longerHydro storage % 73 52 61 17.3% term contracts for purchasing gas and power purchase agreements.
In line with Wind farm availability % 96 97 97 0.0% this, it purchases most of the gas and output some of the electricity it needs to supply Gasand oil-fired inc CHP TWh 26.3 31.3 29.3 -6.4% customers via bilateral contracts of Coal-fired inc biomass co-firing TWh 7.8 10.7 13.6 27.1% varying lengths and also through trading in wholesale markets.
SSE also buys gas, coal, Total output from thermal power stations TWh 23.1 42.0 42.9 2.1% oil and biomass to use in the production of Conventional hydro GWh 3,316 3,016 2,558 -15.2% electricity from its power stations, as well Wind energy GWh 1,861 1,444 1,653 14.5% as carbon dioxide emissions allowances.
Dedicated biomass GWh 148 218 200 -8.3% Its Energy Portfolio Management team Total output of renewable energy GWh 5,182 4,678 4,411 -5.7% is responsible for contract management Total output from pumped storage GWh 273 380 370 -2.6% and for SSEs participation in wholesale markets for electricity and gas, as well as Supply the markets for coal, oil and carbon dioxide emissions allowances.
Through analysis of 2009 2010 2011 Change generation plant availability in SSEs own portfolio and elsewhere in the market, Electricity customer accounts GB domestic customer demand and its contractual millions 5.10 5.17 5.16 -0.2% position SSE can assess, and therefore Gas customer accounts GB domestic millions 3.50 3.54 3.57 0.8% manage, its exposure to market prices.
Energy customers GB business sites millions 0.45 0.45 0.43 -4.4% The wholesale price of energy can fluctuate Total GB energy customer accounts millions 9.05 9.16 9.16 0.0% greatly, according to variables such as All-island energy market customers Ireland physical supply, customers demand, millions 0.05 0.19 0.49 157.9% the weather, the availability of delivery Home services customer accounts GB millions 0.33 0.41 0.42 2.4% infrastructure and geopolitical issues.
Total customer accounts GB and Ireland millions 9.43 9.76 10.07 3.2% SSEs approach is designed to hedge its requirements in a way that minimises its Electricity supplied household average GB kWh 4,748 4,465 4,408 -1.3% costs while ensuring its exposure to market Gas supplied household average GB therms 598 558 563 0.9% prices is not excessive.
Given there are Complaints to third party organisations GB N A 1,231 1,161 -5.7% uncertainties around the volume of energy that will be required at any particular point, Wholly-owned and share of joint ventures.
Electricity from power stations in which SSE has an ownership interest output based on SSEs contractual share.
SSE is unlikely to be fully hedged until close to the delivery of the energy itself.
This balanced, integrated business features a  business power stations, power purchase agreements a diverse range of assets and contracts to SSE operates the business of electricity with other generators and fuel supply support the supply of energy to customers.
generation and the supply of electricity and contracts, and it is the meeting of the It therefore provides: the supply of gas in Great Britain and Ireland energy supply requirements of its customers as a single,  Generation which is the key determinant of SSEs kk lower risk from wholesale energy price and Supply business.
operational and investment decisions in volatility through reduced exposure to Generation.
Under this model, customers any single commodity: This means that SSE seeks to meet the benefit from lower exposure to wholesale kk greater ability to manage wholesale energy requirements of its customers price volatility and from price stability energy price volatility and to protect through the ownership and operation of through smoothing.
customers from it: and Scottish and Southern Energy 30 Annual Report 2011 Market-based businesses continued Generation and Supply for electricity in the UK will double over kk more scope to deliver investment kk generated 42.9TWh, based on contracted the next 40 years as a result of the need needed in generation because the risks output of electricity from all thermal to electrify large parts of the heat and associated with large-scale and longpower stations in which it has an transport sectors.
It also said that for this to term investments are mitigated by the ownership interest 42.0TWh : have the required impact on emissions, the income earned from supplying electricity kk generated 3.7TWh, based on contracted electricity being consumed will need to be and gas to customers.
output from renewable sources of energy almost exclusively from low carbon sources.
in which it has an ownership interest, In March 2011, Ofgem published its findings including pumped storage 4.0TWh : and The required impact refers to the fact that: and initial proposals from the Retail Market kk purchased 7.4TWh of electricity through Review it launched in November 2010. long-term contracts with other kk under the EU Renewable Energy Directive, It confirmed that it expects efficient firms to generators 7.7TWh.
the UK has a legally-binding target to make a profit.
At the same time, it said that meet 15% of its energy requirements further action is needed to make energy retail During the same period, also in Great from renewable sources by 2020 for markets in Great Britain work more effectively Britain, it: Ireland, it is 16% : and in the interests of consumers.
The proposals kk under the Climate Change Act 2008, the include actions to improve further the kk supplied 27.7TWh of electricity to its UK is required to achieve a reduction of transparency in  utilities.
industrial and commercial customers: and 34% in emissions of greenhouse gases, Ofgem described its proposals as high-level kk supplied 29.0TWh to its small business such as carbon dioxide, by 2020 and preliminary and confirmed that they will and household customers.
be subject to further rounds of consultation.
This means that, during the year, SSE: It is in this context that SSE is managing SSE believes that Ofgems proposals would the operation of, and investment in, its represent significant changes to the energy kk generated or purchased under long term Generation and Supply business.
As well as market in Great Britain.
It believes the contracts the equivalent of over 90% of being subject to a process of decarbonisation, market is fundamentally sound, but is the electricity needed to supply all of its the UK energy sector will also become participating constructively in Ofgems customers: and more decentralised.
The introduction of a process of consultation and will strongly kk generated over 150% of the electricity needed to supply its household and Renewable Heat Incentive in the UK, from support steps which assist customers small business customers.
July 2011, which will in due course encourage and the competitive market in general.
and support installations down to the Any net balances were traded in the domestic level, is an example of this.
On 10 May 2011, in a case at Guildford Crown wholesale electricity market, thereby Court, SSE was found guilty on two counts contributing to its liquidity.
consolidated segmental statement out of seven relating to the use of direct Ofgem introduced a requirement on sales aids in February 2009.
The case was profound developments electricity generators and suppliers brought by Surrey County Council Trading in Generation and supply to publish a Consolidated Segmental Standards.
The sales aids in question are not In its February 2011 report into future energy Statement CSS showing revenue, costs now in use, and SSE is confident that its sales scenarios, Signals & Signposts, Royal and profits from electricity generation processes continue to be fair and responsible.
Dutch Shell said that, over the next four and electricity and gas supply activities.
decades, the worlds energy system will see SSE published its statement for 2009 10 on SSE remains very disappointed with the profound developments.
It also said that: 28 September 2010.
The CSS required SSE verdict and is considering legal options, to report financial information in a different which include the possibility of an appeal.
kk there is a step change in energy use, way from which the Generation and Supply It has 28 days from the jurys verdict to as developing nations enter their most business is operated.
SSEs next CSS will launch an appeal.
energy-intensive phase of economic be published by 30 September 2011. growth, which could see underlying financial performance in global demand for energy triple from Reporting requirements may evolve in the Generation and supply its 2000 level by 2050: coming years as part of Ofgems proposals Operating profit in Generation and Supply kk natural innovation and competition could to improve further the transparency in fell by 1.5%, from 896.0m to 882.8m.
spur improvements in energy efficiency  utilities.
It contributed 53.4% of SSEs total operating to moderate underlying demand: profit in 2010 11.
The reasons behind this kk supply will struggle to keep pace with performance are set out under Increasing demand by the end of the coming adjusted profit before tax in 2010 11 on decade, growth in the production of page 17. easily accessible oil and gas will not match the projected rate of demand Total revenue for Generation and Supply growth: and was 27.2bn, which accounted for 93% of kk even if it were possible for fossil fuels SSEs total revenue in 2010 11, of which to maintain their current share of the 8bn was in relation to sales of electricity energy mix and respond to increased and gas to industrial, commercial and demand, carbon dioxide emissions domestic customers.
would then be on a pathway that could severely threaten human well-being.
Generating and supplying electricity in Great Britain The UK governments Annual Energy During 2010 11, in Great Britain, SSE Statement 2010 predicted that demand previous years numbers in brackets : 31 Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Generation Total generation capacity MW principles for management 2011 11,290 of ssEs Generation portfolio 2010 11,330 The operation of, and investment in, 2009 10,740 SSEs Generation portfolio is founded on a series of principles: 2008 10,530 2007 10,017 kk compliance: with all safety standards and environmental requirements: kk capacity: to meet the electricity needs of Generation capacity 2010 11 composition % domestic and small business customers: kk diversity: to avoid over-dependency on Gas oil 40 particular fuels or technologies: Coal biomass 39 kk availability: to respond to customer Renewable 21 demand and market conditions: kk flexibility: to ensure that changes in demand for electricity can be addressed: and kk sustainability: to deliver a 50% cut in the carbon dioxide content of electricity produced.
kk avoids dependency on a single availability in the previous year.
The main a diverse Generation portfolio technology or commodity: reason for the decline in availability was SSEs 31 March 2011 portfolio of 11,290MW kk has significant optionality in the a generator fault at Keadby, which was of capacity for generating electricity management of its power stations: and returned to service in early May 2011 after compares with 11,330MW the year before.
kk can manage effectively the risks inevitably successful repair work was carried out.
During 2010 11 it: associated with primary fuel procurement.
From time-to-time, the stations at kk commissioned 90MW of new onshore Management of primary fuel procurement Peterhead, Keadby and Medway have been wind farm capacity as a result of its risks is also assisted by the fact that SSE required to operate on a flexible two shift investment programme: is the largest generator of electricity from basis.
The requirement to do this is likely to kk sold onshore wind farm capacity at renewable sources across the UK and Ireland.
increase over the medium-term, and further Ardrossan: and work is being designed by SSEs Engineering kk suspended operations at 120MW of meeting longer-term energy requirements Centre to apply modifications to support gas-fired generation capacity at Fife.
SSEs long-term power purchase agreements more frequent two shifting in the future.
with Barking Power Ltd in which it has a In addition, updated long-term gas turbine Subsequently, in April 2011, capacity 30.4% stake, Derwent Cogeneration Ltd maintenance contracts are being entered totalling 96.8MW at three onshore wind in which it has a 49.5% stake and British into to support more flexible operations at farms in Scotland and Northern Ireland Energy all expired during 2010 11.
Keadby and Medway in the future.
was sold after the end of the financial year, in April 2011, for a cash payment In order to provide continuing long-term Marchwood, the 840MW CCGT owned of 178.4m.
stability to the energy portfolio, further by Marchwood Power Ltd, a 50:50 joint contractual arrangements have been agreed venture between SSE and ESB International, In line with the Generation principle in recent years.
These include the 15-year completed its first full financial year of of diversity, SSE currently maintains tolling agreement with Marchwood Power commercial operation in 2010 11 and a balance between: Ltd which commenced in 2009 and the achieved 93% of its maximum availability re-negotiated contract for electricity output to operate during the year.
All of the kk gasand coal-fired generation from Seabank Power Ltd entered into in 2008. stations output is contracted to SSE.
capacity: and kk fossil fuel and renewable sources How ssEs gas-fired power The amount of electricity generated by of energy.
stations performed SSE at gas-fired power stations in which SSE owns 4,470MW of gasand oil-fired it has an ownership or contractual interest, The practical application of this balance electricity generation capacity, including including CHP, was 29.3TWh in 2010 11 means that SSEs Generation portfolio its share of joint ventures but excluding Fife including 13.3TWh from wholly-owned comprised at 31 March 2011: Power Station see below.
Good performance stations, compared with 31.3TWh in the in Generation and Supply is dependent on previous year including 15.4TWh from kk 4,470MW of gasand oil-fired capacity: plant at power stations being available to wholly-owned stations.
kk 4,370MW of coal-fired capacity with generate electricity as and when required biomass co-firing capability : and by customer demand and market conditions.
All of SSEs power stations have to be able kk 2,450MW of renewable hydro, wind During 2010 11, SSEs principal wholly-owned to operate economically over the medium and dedicated biomass capacity.
gas-fired power stations Keadby, Medway and term.
The market for smaller gas-fired Peterhead achieved 88% of their maximum generation has become increasingly As a result of this, SSE has the greatest availability to generate electricity, excluding difficult.
Fife Power Station was loss-making diversity in fuels for generating electricity planned outages, compared with 94% in 2010 11 and was forecast to remain so, among UK generators.
This means it: Scottish and Southern Energy 32 Annual Report 2011 Market-based businesses continued Generation and Supply secure supplies of electricity.
Moreover, particularly when the impact of the very high SSE has potential options for additional the sites they occupy benefit from key transmission access charges that apply in CCGT capacity at two other power stations: infrastructure such as: Scotland are taken into account.
As a result, SSE suspended commercial operations at kk it has effective consent to develop kk electricity network connections: the plant in February 2011.
710MW of capacity at Keadby: and kk access to water necessary for power kk Barking Power Ltd, in which it has a generation operations: and investment options for 30.4% stake has consent to develop kk established transport links.
gas-fired power stations new 470MW of capacity.
The UK governments Electricity Market During 2010 11, SSE decided against Reform consultation document, published in How ssEs coal-fired power proceeding with the installation of December 2010, said that gas-fired generation stations performed Selective Catalytic Reduction SCR will continue to play an important role in the SSE owns 4,370MW of coal-fired generation technology at Fiddlers Ferry after it was electricity sector providing vital flexibility to capacity at three power stations: Fiddlers confirmed that the EU Industrial Emissions support an increasing amount of low-carbon Ferry, Ferrybridge and Uskmouth.
The Directive IED means it can operate the generation and to maintain security of supply.
stations also co-fire fuels from renewable station for 17,500 hours between 2016 sources in order to displace fossil fuels.
and 2023, even if SCR is not fitted to meet In February 2011, SSE secured consent, All of the capacity at Fiddlers Ferry and new IED limits on emissions of nitrogen under Section 36 of the Electricity Act Uskmouth and half of the capacity at oxides.
SSE does, however, retain the 1989, for the construction and operation Ferrybridge over 3,300MW in total complies option of installing Selective non-Catalytic of a two-unit CCGT power station of up to with the EU Industrial Emissions Directive Reduction technology at Fiddlers Ferry 870MW at the Abernedd brownfield site in and so can remain operational beyond 2015 if it is economically and environmentally South Wales.
Subsequently, SSE released and up to 2023. viable for it to do so.
Transmission Entry Capacity TEC rights to reduce them to 450MW, and intends to During 2010 11, SSE generated 13.6TWh of It is SSEs belief that no new coal-fired pursue the development of a single CCGT electricity at its coal-fired power stations at power generation plant should be built in unit only the most economic option in the Fiddlers Ferry, Ferrybridge and Uskmouth, the UK without carbon dioxide abatement context of the development requirements compared with 10.7TWh in the previous year and that no coal-fired plant without such for a two-unit site and of the medium-term excluding Uskmouth, which was acquired abatement should remain operational outlook for gas-fired generation.
This is consistent with of their maximum availability to generate the UK Committee on Climate Changes An investment decision on the scaled-back electricity, excluding planned outages, recommendation that the UK should commit Abernedd project will not be taken until compared with 92% in the previous year.
to a 60% cut in carbon dioxide emissions by next year at the earliest and will depend, Availability at Ferrybridge was affected by a 2030, with radical decarbonisation of the amongst other things, on the emerging number of technical issues which emerged electricity sector.
shape of the electricity market following the during planned outages and which were subsequently resolved.
This means Future operations at SSEs coal-fired power that the power station, if built, will not be Nevertheless, all of SSEs coal-fired power stations, and the associated investment operational until late 2015.
When SSE stations demonstrated their ability to decisions, will therefore be determined acquired Abernedd in May 2009, it was operate flexibly in response to customer by three main factors: envisaged that a two-unit, 870MW CCGT demand and electricity market conditions would be developed, with the first unit during 2010 11.
The value of electricity kk the need to maintain and improve the becoming operational around 2013. from coal-fired power stations was day-to-day performance of the stations demonstrated following the Japanese while they are operational: SSE agrees that CCGT is a cleaner fossil earthquake in March 2011 and the political kk the prospects for the development fuel technology, which has the necessary upheaval in the Middle East.
of alternative sources of energy: and flexibility to support security of supplies kk the continuing UK government as the presence of wind energy on the looking to the future of commitment to the development electricity system increases, but believes coal-fired power stations of CCS technology.
the right market signals need to be there Existing coal-fired power stations still have if the necessary investment decisions are a significant part to play in maintaining Against this background, SSEs investment to be taken.
strategy for Fiddlers Ferry, Ferrybridge and Uskmouth is as follows: kk it is continuing to invest in the operation and maintenance of the three stations, All of SSEs coal-fired power stations with a total of 69.9m invested in the stations in 2010 11: kk it is seeking planning consent so it has demonstrated their ability to operate the option to develop a multi-fuel facility at Ferrybridge, using predominantly flexibly in response to customer refuse-derived fuels from which to generate around 65MW of electricity: demand and electricity market kk it is developing a project at Uskmouth to repower a coal-fired generating unit into a 100MW biomass unit: and conditions during 2010 11.
33 Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information kk it is building Europes largest postgovernment announced that the SSEs target is to reduce the amount combustion carbon dioxide capture trial project is one of seven CCS applications of carbon dioxide per kilowatt-hour of at Ferrybridge, in collaboration with to the European Investment Bank for electricity generated at plant in which it Doosan Babcock and Vattenfall, where consideration in the next round of the has an ownership or contractual interest construction work is now well under way EUs New Entrant Reserve scheme to by 50%, between 2006, the first full year in advance of the trial beginning later support CCS and renewable energy after it acquired coal-fired power stations, this year see Making progress on projects across the EU.
Up to three when it was just over 600g kWh, and 2020.
Carbon Capture and Storage below.
such projects may be supported per On this basis, its carbon intensity in member state.
2010 11 was 504g kWh, compared with making progress on carbon 494g kWh in the previous year, reflecting capture and storage ccs securing value from ash the increase in carbon dioxide emissions Coal remains a critically important at coal-fired power stations described above.
fuel for the UK, because of its flexibility, The overall sustainability of coal-fired its availability and because it reduces power stations has improved in recent SSE expects to achieve its 2020 target by: reliance on imported gas.
In October 2010, having previously existing coal-fired power stations still have held a 49.9% shareholding, SSE assumed kk reducing output of electricity from a crucial role to play in maintaining secure 100% ownership of RockTron Widnes Ltd, coal-fired power stations: supplies of electricity but, longer term, now named SSE Mineral Solutions Ltd.
It kk optimising the efficiency with which the use of coal to generate electricity owns and operates an ash separation plant primary fuel is converted into electricity will depend on the extent to which CCS at Fiddlers Ferry, where fresh and stored at gas-fired power stations: and technology can be applied to abate ash produced by the power station is kk increasing significantly the output of carbon dioxide emissions.
processed into marketable minerals and electricity from renewable sources.
materials such as cement substitutes.
Moreover, if long-term targets for reducing Long-term options for the plant are More broadly, SSE has joined other energy carbon dioxide emissions are to be met, currently being assessed.
companies in Europe in calling for the EU CCS technology will need to be applied as to adopt a greenhouse gas emissions widely as possible.
The November 2010 participating in the Eu reduction target of 25% up from 20% at decision by the UK government to include Emissions trading scheme present as part of a long-term move away from fossil fuel-based electricity generation gas-fired generation plant in its CCS Phase II of the EU Emissions Trading and full decarbonisation by 2050. demonstration programme was a clear Scheme EU ETS began on 1 January recognition of this.
Across its electricity generation ssEs position in the carbon portfolio taking account of contractual Disclosure project cDp Against this background, SSE has two shares, SSE now has an allocation of In September 2010, SSE was commended CCS projects under way: 18.9 million tonnes of carbon dioxide by the CDP, which represents over 500 emissions allowances per calendar year, institutional investors with US$64 trillion in kk Coal at Ferrybridge: This project is including the allowances for Marchwood assets under management, for its approach Europes largest post-combustion and Uskmouth.
SSEs emissions allowances to climate change disclosure and for the carbon dioxide capture trial.
The scale requirement for 2010 11, beyond those action it is taking to reduce global emissions of the project, equivalent to 5MW of allocated under EU ETS, was 5.6 million and mitigate the risks of climate change.
coal-fired power generating capacity tonnes.
This compares with 4.9 million producing 100 tonnes of carbon dioxide tonnes in the previous year.
During 2010 11, SSE is featured in: per day, bridges the gap between the the price of allowances ranged from around various laboratory-scale trials that are 13 tonne to around 17 tonne.
kk the Carbon Disclosure Leadership under way and the larger-scale projects Index which highlights the constituent envisaged by the UK government.
The From 2013, all of the carbon dioxide companies within the FTSE Global significance of the project therefore lies emissions allowances for electricity 500 which have displayed the most in its scale and its ability to demonstrate producers will be auctioned.
Moreover, in professional approach to corporate the operational characteristics of Budget 2011, the UK government announced governance in respect of climate capture plant on an actual power proposals for the introduction of a floor for change disclosure practices: and station and the performance of the the price of allowances in the electricity kk the Carbon Performance Leadership amine solvent on real flue gas.
It is due sector, so that they are around 16 tonne Index which highlights those to become operational later this year: and in 2013, rising to around 30 tonne in 2020 companies which have demonstrated kk Gas at Peterhead: The proposed project based on 2009 prices.
commitment to strategy, governance, will design and develop a full chain, stakeholder communications and, post-combustion CCS facility which will tackling emissions of carbon dioxide most of all, emissions reduction be capable of capturing the CO from one In 2010 11, emissions of carbon dioxide 2 in their CDP responses.
385MW combined cycle gas turbine unit.
from power stations in which SSE has an Current plans are that the CO will then ownership or contractual interest totalled 2 renewable energy overview be transported via an existing under 24.5 million tonnes, compared with The EU Renewable Energy Directive means ground pipeline to St Fergus for further 23.1 million tonnes in the previous year, that the UK has a legally-binding target compression and then transported via reflecting increased output from coal-fired to meet 15% of its energy requirements an undersea pipeline to an existing gas power stations and the first full year of from renewable sources by 2020: for Ireland, reservoir in the North Sea operated by operation of Marchwood Power Station.
In practice, this means Shell U. K. Limited that will have ceased SSEs carbon emissions data is externally that over 30% of the countries electricity production and is being redeveloped by verified by a UK Accreditation Service requirements will have to be met from CO Deep Store.
In May 2011, the UK UKASaccredited organisation.
2 Scottish and Southern Energy 34 Annual Report 2011 Market-based businesses continued Generation and Supply onshore wind farm capacity.
It has also Power station CO emissions grams per kWh 2 disposed of capacity as follows: 2011 504 kk in May 2010, it sold its equity interest 2010 494 which was 51% on 31 March 2010, 2009 491 increasing to 100% in April 2010 in the 2008 496 30MW Ardrossan wind farm to Infinis, a Terra Firma company, in a transaction 2007 555 with a total value of 53.8m: and kk in April 2011 it sold its 100% interest in three onshore wind farms in Scotland Renewable generation capacity MW and Northern Ireland with a total capacity of 96.8MW, also to Infinis 2011 2,450 for a cash payment of 178.4m.
2010 2,370 2009 2,220 All of the electricity generated from the 2008 2,030 capacity disposed of in Scotland is sold 2007 1,518 to a third party.
The net result is that SSE remains on course to own around 3,500MW of capacity Renewable energy capacity 2010 11 composition % for renewable energy that is in operation or under construction in the UK and Ireland by wind 38 the end of 2012 13.
This will mean SSE is: hydro 59 biomass 3 kk making a significant contribution to the achievement of the legally-binding 2020 targets for renewable energy in the UK and Ireland: kk harnessing water and wind, which are free and indigenous sources of primary energy: and kk reducing its exposure to volatile prices renewable sources, up from around 6.5% more attractive choice for investors.
As a for fossil fuels, which are becoming and 14.5% respectively at present.
result, SSE does not detect or foresee any more difficult to source while also being weakening of public policy commitment to in much more demand around the world.
The drive for additional renewable sources renewable energy in either the UK or Ireland.
of energy is supported by public policies Nevertheless, it remains a key priority for SSE producing electricity from to encourage the necessary investment to avoid dependency on a single generation renewable sources by enhancing the value of the output.
technology or related financial support.
Total output from all of SSEs conventional The key policies are: hydro electric schemes, wind farms and increasing capacity for renewable energy its dedicated biomass plant was 4,411GWh kk the Renewables Obligation in the At 31 March 2011, SSE had almost 2,450MW during 2010 11, compared with 4,678GWh UK, under which generators receive of commissioned renewable energy capacity in 2009 10.
It was around 20% lower than Renewable Obligation Certificates in the UK and Ireland, including its share forecast because of dry and still weather ROCs for electricity generated of joint ventures, comprising: conditions experienced during the year.
from eligible renewable sources and electricity suppliers are required kk 1,150MW conventional hydro: producing electricity from to source an increasing proportion of kk 910MW onshore wind: hydro electric schemes their electricity from eligible renewable kk 5MW offshore wind: SSE owns and operates just over 1,450MW of sources: and kk 80MW dedicated biomass: and capacity in hydro electric schemes, including kk the Renewable Energy Feed In Tariff kk 300MW pumped storage.
the 300MW pumped storage facility at Foyers, REFIT in the Republic of Ireland, which on Loch Ness.
In the last 30 years, electricity supports renewable energy by providing Of this, output from over 850MW qualifies output from conventional hydro electric a guaranteed price for output and a 15% for ROCs, the key financial support scheme schemes has ranged from a high of 3,896GWh rebate subject to a cap on suppliers for renewable energy in the UK, with: to a low of 2,429GWh.
During 2010 11 purchase of REFIT energy.
previous years comparison in brackets : kk 1.0 ROCs MWh for qualifying hydro and The existence of these schemes is a onshore wind: kk total output from all of SSEs conventional practical demonstration of the fact that the kk 1.5 ROCs MWh for qualifying dedicated hydro electric schemes was 2,558GWh viability of wind energy remains dependent biomass: and 3,016GWh : and, within this, on government-sponsored financial support.
kk 2.0 ROCs MWh for qualifying offshore kk total output from SSEs hydro electric The UK governments work on Electricity wind.
capacity qualifying for ROCs just over Market Reform is explicitly designed to make 500MW was 1,193GWh 1,456GWh.
sure that low carbon technologies such as In the year to 31 March 2011, SSE has energy from renewable sources become a commissioned almost 90MW of new As at 31 March 2011, the total amount of water 35 Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information kk 910MW in operation: held in SSEs reservoirs which could be used to at Loch Lochy with an installed capacity kk 710MW in construction or generate electricity was 61% of the maximum, of between 300MW and 600MW and a pre-construction: and compared with 52% in the previous year.
capability to produce in excess of kk over 300MW with consent for 1,000GWh of electricity in a typical year.
restoring generation at the A planning application for the scheme is Glendoe hydro electric scheme expected to be submitted during 2012: and In addition, SSE has also submitted for In August 2009, SSE identified a blockage kk Balmacaan: SSE is also proposing to approval by the relevant planning authorities caused by a fall of rock in the tunnel carrying develop a 300MW-600MW pumped in the UK and Ireland proposals for onshore water from the reservoir to the power station storage scheme at Loch Ness, with a wind farms with a total capacity of over at the 100MW Glendoe hydro electric scheme, similar expected electricity output to 800MW.
This includes its share of the thus stopping operations at the power station.
While this project is entirely capacity contained in the proposal by Viking The first of the two new tunnels required to independent of Coire glas, it is at a Energy, the joint venture between Viking by-pass the blockage in the existing tunnel similar stage, a similar timetable for Energy Ltd which is 90% owned by the has been completed and work on the second submitting a planning application is Shetland Charitable Trust and SSE to tunnel has progressed beyond the geological envisaged and the two projects are develop on Shetlands Central Mainland fault zone at the site.
This work is being managed by a single development team.
a wind farm with a capacity expected to undertaken by BAM Nuttall.
Construction of Coire glas and or If good momentum is maintained, the Balmacaan would not begin before 2014 In addition to its onshore capacity, SSE has process of re-filling the reservoir at Glendoe at the earliest and, subject to planning offshore wind farm capacity in operation or is expected to begin this winter and electricity consent, SSE will have the option to build under construction totalling almost 350MW, generation should resume in the first half of neither, one or both of the schemes.
Meanwhile, SSE is continuing to make would be the first new pumped storage sure that the contractual and insurance schemes to be developed in Great Britain kk a 50% stake in the 10MW Beatrice issues arising from the fall of rock are dealt since work began on the Dinorwig scheme offshore wind farm in the Moray Firth: with satisfactorily.
in Wales in 1974. kk a 25.1% share of the 367MW Walney Final decisions on these and on other offshore wind farm now under options for investment in renewable energy developments will construction in the Irish Sea: and hydro electric schemes also depend upon acceptable charging kk a 50% share of the 500MW Greater Hydro electric schemes which use arrangements being in place for the use of Gabbard development now under impounded water to generate electricity the transmission network in Great Britain, construction in the outer Thames Estuary.
have an important part to play in meeting an issue which is the subject of the Project peak demand and also complement the TransmiT review launched by Ofgem in This means that SSE now has 3,750MW of variable output from the growing number September 2010. renewable energy capacity onshore wind, of wind farms.
SSE has developed four main offshore wind, hydro and dedicated biomass options for new hydro electric schemes: producing electricity from wind farms in operation, under construction or with At 31 March 2011, SSE owned and operated consent for development in the UK and kk Kildermorie: In September 2010, SSE 910MW of wind farm capacity and output the Republic of Ireland.
This excludes the received consent to develop a new during 2010 11 was as follows previous possible Arklow wind farm scheme off 7.5MW hydro electric power station near years comparison in brackets : the east coast of the Republic of Ireland.
It will consist of a new dam and storage reservoir, a buried kk 739GWh in the UK, 615GWh : and maximising electricity pipeline and a semi-buried powerhouse kk 914GWh in the Republic of Ireland, output from wind farms with associated tailrace.
While capacity, as measured by megawatts, likely to begin in the second half of 2012: is of central importance in onand offshore kk Sloy: In September 2010, SSE secured On average, the turbines at SSEs wind wind farm development, there are four other from Scottish Ministers consent to farms in the UK and Ireland achieved 97% critical factors which help determine the develop a 60MW pumped storage scheme of their maximum availability to generate electricity output from that capacity and as part of its 152MW Sloy power station, electricity, the same as in the previous thus the value of any development: near Loch Lomond.
Their average load factor was lower addition to electricity produced from than expected, at 24%, compared with kk site selection: water collected and held in the Loch Sloy 26% in the previous year, due to the still kk wind analysis carried out by a reservoir, Sloy will be able to generate weather conditions experienced during specialist team: an additional 100GWh of electricity in a much of the year.
kk site optimisation to maximise output, typical year using water pumped from including turbine layout: and Loch Lomond to the reservoir.
SSE now Developing wind farms kk turbine selection to match turbine expects that developing a pumped storage to produce electricity characteristics with wind conditions facility at Sloy will require investment When SSE entered into the agreement and ensure reliability.
of around 40m, and is expecting to to acquire Airtricity in January 2008, the take a final decision on the investment combined business had just over 870MW of SSE has an experienced wind energy after it has completed further technical onshore wind farm capacity in operation, in development team comprising more than and engineering studies and considered construction or with consent for development 250 people with the specialist skills to make the outcome of the UK governments in the UK and Ireland.
At 31 March 2011, this sure that these factors are rigorously applied consultation on Electricity Market Reform: had more than doubled, to over 1,900MW, so that the electricity output from the wind kk Coire glas: SSE is proposing to develop a comprising around net : farm capacity it develops is maximised.
new large scale pumped storage scheme Scottish and Southern Energy 36 Annual Report 2011 Market-based businesses continued Generation and Supply GGOWL remains in a contractual Onshore wind capacity MW dispute with Fluor Limited, the principal contractor for the wind farm, relating 2011 910 to the need for assurance of the quality 2010 840 of potentially up to 52 of the turbine 2009 690 foundations used in the early stages of development.
Despite these issues, 2008 600 the wind farm remains scheduled to be 2007 160 completed as planned in 2012, although there is some potential risk to this timetable as a result of the GGOWL Fluor Limited dispute.
The total annual electricity output is expected to be In addition to Clyde, Griffin and Gordonbush, around 1,900GWh in a typical year, of Building new onshore wind farms SSE has the following onshore wind farm which SSE will take half, and SSEs The main projects within SSEs onshore projects currently under construction or share of the construction cost is wind farm construction portfolio are Clyde pre-construction in the UK and Ireland expected to be around 650m 350MW in South Lanarkshire, Griffin MW are SSEs share : excluding the cost of connection 156MW in Perthshire and Gordonbush to the electricity grid : and 70MW in Sutherland: kk Slieve Kirk 27MW : kk Walney 367MW development: SSE stake kk Calliacher 27MW : in Walney UK Offshore Windfarms Ltd kk Clyde: Consent has been secured kk Athea 19MW : 25.1% : All 51 turbines for the first phase from North Lanarkshire Council for kk Glenconway 19MW : of the wind farm have been installed the development of a permanent new kk Rathcahill 12MW : and all the array cables have been put primary radar facility to provide the kk Tiev 10MW : in place and connected to the turbines.
necessary level of coverage for the site, kk Balmurrie Fell 9MW : The first 45 turbines have now been and construction work on the new facility kk Tilbury 9MW : and energised and the whole of phase one has begun.
It should become operational kk Bindoo Extension 6MW.
of the wind farm 183.6MW is expected in early 2012.
To ensure aviation safety to be completed in early summer.
in the meantime, a temporary solution SSE has also completed the acquisition, Construction of the second phase of is being reached following extensive from RES, of a 34 turbine 68-85MW wind the wind farm is now under way, with discussions involving the Civil Aviation farm project for which consent for the wind farm as a whole on schedule Authority and NATS En Route plc.
As a construction has been granted at a site for full commercial operation in 2012. result, the first generation of electricity close to its Keadby power station in North SSEs share of the construction cost is is expected in the next few weeks and Lincolnshire.
As a result, Keadby has expected to be around 250m excluding the most advanced of the wind farms become SSEs first consented wind farm connection to the electricity grid.
three sections, South 130MW, should in England.
Subject to a final investment still be completed by around the time decision, SSE expects to begin construction Developing more new offshore wind farms of SSEs six-month financial results of the wind farm during 2012 13, with work SSEs priority for the next year is the announcement in November.
The expected to take up to 18 months.
Keadby successful completion and commissioning of wind farm as a whole is on course for is expected to be part of SSEs investment Greater Gabbard and Walney.
This is consistent programme to 2015. have given it significant experience of offshore with the timetable set out in SSEs Annual wind farm development and construction.
The wind farm is expected Building new offshore wind farms to produce over 1,000GWh of electricity SSE is developing Greater Gabbard in SSE believes that harnessing the power of in a typical year and its total construction partnership with RWE npower renewables offshore wind will enable the UK to generate cost is forecast to be over 500m: through Greater Gabbard Offshore Winds significant amounts of low-carbon electricity kk Griffin: Construction work is well under Limited and Walney in partnership with from a renewable source and therefore help way at the site, and the installation of DONG Energy through Walney UK meet the countrys energy security and turbines at the site has started, with Offshore Windfarms Ltd and believes that climate change objectives.
Against this the first electricity being generated partnerships of this kind represent the best background, it intends to maintain an orderly, earlier than expected in the first week means of managing the risks associated phased and continuing programme of of May 2011.
The wind farm should be with offshore wind farms and maximising development, with the next two offshore wind completed in the spring of 2012.
The the development and construction capability: farm projects to be developed taking priority: electricity output is expected to be between 350GWh and 400GWh in a kk Greater Gabbard 500MW development: kk the 500MW Galloper wind farm, typical year and the construction cost SSE stake in Greater Gabbard Offshore close to the existing Greater Gabbard is expected to be over 200m: and Winds Limited 50% : Over 70% of the development, a 50:50 partnership with kk Gordonbush: Construction work is projects assets are installed.
All 140 RWE npower renewables: and well under way at the site, with turbine monopile foundations are in place at kk the 1,000MW Beatrice wind farm in delivery and installation due to begin the wind farm and 108 turbines have the Moray Firth, a 75:25 partnership later this year.
The wind farm should be been installed.
Turbine installation will with SeaEnergy.
commissioned around the end of the resume later this year: in the meantime, current financial year.
The electricity other work at the site will continue, Planning applications in respect of these output is expected to be around 180GWh including subsea cabling.
The first developments are expected to be submitted in a typical year and its construction cost 17 turbines have now been energised.
Beyond this, SSE is expected to be just over 100m.
37 Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information of these sites and is working closely has secured from The Crown Estate rights interests mainly wind, including assets with The Crown Estate and other for the possible development of additional in operation, under construction or in stakeholders to develop applications offshore wind farm assets later in the development.
It will be wholly-owned to construct the developments.
decade with a total potential capacity of up by SSE for the foreseeable future and its to 4.8GW net.
SSEs disciplined approach establishment will give SSE a company for Generating electricity from to the consideration of the options that such the financing of offshore renewable energy alternative sources like biomass rights have given it was demonstrated by its developments.
The new company is likely SSEs plant at Slough has a current decision, in February 2011, to halt work on to be formed during 2011 12. generating capacity of 80MW and remains the development of its proposed offshore the UKs largest dedicated biomass energy wind farm at Kintyre following detailed Developing marine sources of electricity facility.
During 2010 11, it produced 200GWh environmental studies and consultation The UK enjoys major advantages in the of electricity from renewable sources, with local stakeholders.
development of marine energy technologies, compared with 218GWh during the previous with the huge potential resource of marine year.
Qualifying output from dedicated regular Building a supply chain for offshore wind energy itself, allied to significant biomass plants attracts 1.5 ROCs per MWh.
Offshore wind farms are a new and commitment to the operation and evolving technology, and fulfilling their development of testing facilities.
While looking to the future of alternative energy potential requires the development of a marine energy could play some part in The plant at Slough has given SSE practical sustainable supply chain, including design, helping to meet renewable energy targets experience which it can deploy when manufacture and installation.
Moreover, set for 2020, its longer-term potential is considering investment in biomass and they are characterised by high up-front much more significant and it is in that other alternative fuels such as those capital costs, on which it is vital to exert context that marine energy developments derived from refuse RDF.
Such fuels could a downward pressure.
play a very valuable role in securing firm, controllable generation of electricity from In response to this, SSE has: SSE has a two-pronged approach to the renewable sources to complement other development of marine energy technologies more variable sources such as wind.
SSE kk entered into a joint venture with Marsh and to fulfilling the potential of marine energy resources: has developed a diverse range of options Wind Technology Ltd, the UK subsidiary from which to select potential investments of Marsh Global Holdings Ltd, which has kk it has a 43% stake in the wave which could deliver up to 250MW of new completed the purchase of the Skykon energy developer, Aquamarine Power, alternative energy capacity: wind turbine tower manufacturing following further investment of 2.7m and assembly plant at Machrihanish, in November 2010, taking the total kk the possible 65MW multi-fuel CHP facility Campbeltown, from its Administrators, over the past three years to 19.8m.
at Ferrybridge see Looking to the future in May 2011: Aquamarine Power is currently of coal-fired power stations on page 32 : kk formed an alliance of companies, developing an innovative wave energy kk the possible re-powering of an entire including Siemens, to collaborate on its converter, Oyster 2, which is expected coal-fired generating unit at Uskmouth offshore wind programme, with the aim to be deployed during 2011.
Its existing into a 100MW biomass unit, fuelled of securing substantial reductions in the Oyster device has been undergoing sea by an industrial grade wood pellet cost of delivered power, in February 2011: trials at the European Marine Energy see page 32 also : and kk signed a strategic agreement with Centre in Orkney: and kk the possible re-powering of the Slough Mitsubishi to co-operate on low carbon kk it currently retains exclusive rights from plant into a new 80MW biomass unit.
energy developments, in July 2010: and The Crown Estate to develop 400MW of kk acquired a 15% stake in Burntisland wave and tidal energy at sites in the The creation of RDF for use in electricity Fabrications BiFab, the offshore energy Pentland Firth and Orkney Waters and a generation is a practical means for structure fabricator, in April 2010.
In further 400MW with Aquamarine Power organisations to avoid Landfill Tax, and the addition to the equity stake, SSE secured and OpenHydro.
SSE has submitted an generator is, therefore, paid to take the fuel.
an agreement with BiFab for the supply application to National Grid for an At the same time, the reliability of fuel of at least 50 jacket substructures electricity connection relating to three sources is often a critical issue in any annually to support SSEs offshore wind developments.
The energy potential of offshore wind is vast, and in a resourceand carbon-constrained world it is potential that needs to be fulfilled while developing an effective supply chain The energy potential of offshore wind and keeping costs as low as possible.
SSE is aiming to do this through these initiatives, is vast, and in a resourceand carbonand others such as ongoing participation in the Carbon Trusts Offshore Wind Accelerator, a research and development constrained world it is potential that initiative to reduce costs.
needs to be fulfilled while developing Establishing an intermediate holding company for offshore renewable energy an effective supply chain and keeping SSE has decided to establish a single intermediate holding company for all of its offshore renewable energy assets and costs as low as possible.
Scottish and Southern Energy 38 Annual Report 2011 Market-based businesses continued Generation and Supply alternative energy development.
A major its strategy to ensure the optimum approach Fukushima, which have thrown these issues milestone in the development of the multi to investment in these companies in the into even sharper relief.
fuel plant at Ferrybridge was achieved in years ahead.
April 2011 when 3SE, the joint venture Nevertheless, SSE continues to believe partnership between Shanks and SSE, was a cautious approach to nuclear that the development of new nuclear power confirmed as preferred bidder for the waste power development stations should be an option for the future.
from Barnsley, Doncaster and Rotherham It is expected that the total capacity of the Its joint venture with GDF Suez SA and Council areas BDR.
After Shanks has UKs nuclear power stations will fall by over Iberdrola SA, NuGeneration Ltd NuGen, processed the waste, the resultant fuel 7,000MW by 2020, even if advanced gasin which it has a 25% stake, is developing will secure, locally, around one fifth of the cooled reactor AGR stations are allowed plans for a new nuclear power station of overall requirements of the proposed plant.
by the Nuclear Installations Inspectorate to up to 3.6GW on land adjacent to Sellafield operate for five years beyond their existing in Cumbria, for which it secured an option In addition, Forth Energy, the joint venture planned closure dates.
in October 2009. between SSE and Forth Ports PLC, has now submitted planning applications to In November 2010, SSE said in its sixThese plans will be prepared in consultation develop dedicated biomass power stations, month financial statement, that: the cost, with safety authorities and local stakeholders with a total capacity of 500MW, at four sites development issues and timetable and and should be submitted for consideration in Scotland.
operational efficacy of nuclear power by the relevant planning authorities, with stations all require the greatest possible the aim of a final investment decision being In May 2010, SSE took part in a 13.5m scrutiny before a commitment to invest in taken in the middle of the decade.
On this agreement to invest in the construction new nuclear power stations can be made.
basis, any new power station would not be of Scotlands largest biogas plant at a This was before the devastating events at commissioned until 2023 at the earliest.
former landfill site at Barkip in North Ayrshire.
The investment made SSE the first energy company in the UK to commit to the construction and operation of an anaerobic digestion biogas plant of this type.
The site will be capable of processing around 75,000 tonnes of waste such as food, manures and organic effluent sludges annually, producing around 2.5MW of Generation priorities renewable electricity.
It has received its first loads and has entered the commissioning in 2011 12 and beyond phase, after the successful completion of plant construction.
abate the environmental impact of existing SSEs key operational objective in Generation assets and extend their working lives and to during 2011 12 is to be consistent with its Biogas developments such as Barkip deliver new assets, principally in renewable established principles and in particular: have the potential to provide an important energy but also other forms of generation.
All sustainable energy solution, capturing the of this will support security of energy supply.
kkcomply fully with all safety standards energy contained in waste.
They offer and environmental requirements: opportunities beyond on-site electricity This focus on good operational performance kkensure power stations are available to generation to include connections to the and on effective investment is designed to respond to customer demand and market gas distribution network, an issue that will give SSE a balanced portfolio of efficient conditions: and be of increasing significance in the future electricity generation assets, with a diminishing kkoperate power stations efficiently to achieve environmental impact, in which its exposure to as changes are made to the source of heat the optimum conversion of primary fuel into fossil fuel price volatility is increasingly diluted.
for buildings in the UK, in line with the Renewable Heat Incentive.
Progress at SSE will also actively seek to maintain optionality during 2011 12, SSE expects to invest almost Barkip is, therefore, of direct interest and diversity in the future development of its 1bn in maintaining and upgrading existing to both SSE and SGN.
generation portfolio so that it remains on course generation assets and in developing new assets.
to reduce by 50% the carbon dioxide intensity of its Engineering Centre supports the process of investing in new ventures in energy electricity produced at power stations in which asset maintenance and investment.
Against this SSE Ventures SSEV was set up in 2007 to it has an ownership or contractual interest, background, SSEs investment priorities are to: develop and grow a portfolio of investments over the period from 2006 to 2020. in small and medium-sized enterprises kkcomplete asset maintenance and refurbishment programmes on time The future development of its portfolio will offering renewable, sustainable and energy and on budget: depend to a significant extent on the outcome of efficiency-enhancing products and services.
kkmaximise the potential for existing thermal the Uk governments consultation on Electricity Amongst other things, investments were power stations to operate flexibly: market Reform.
SSE believes a workable made to help SSE anticipate, be at the kkmeet key milestones in new asset package of reforms can emerge from this forefront of and adapt to the kind of changes development and construction: and process, based around carbon price support, a in energy production and consumption that kkmake progress in developing the diverse mechanism to reward all electricity capacity that are likely to occur over the next decade.
range of investment options it has created is available to generate electricity, and continuing for the second half of this decade.
support for the production of electricity from Since its establishment, SSEV has invested renewable sources.
The Uk government is SSEs investment programme is designed to expected to publish a white Paper later this year.
or committed to invest a cumulative total of 138.4m, including equity and loans in a total of 40 companies.
It is now examining 39 Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information processes and is co-operating fully with the Supply kk 3.57 million household gas customer investigation, which is ongoing.
accounts in GB: ssEs approach to retaining kk 430,000 business electricity and gas customers use of energy and gaining customers sites in GB: is continuing to decline Long-term success in energy supply kk 490,000 energy accounts in Northern On a weather-corrected basis, SSE depends on the suppliers ability to retain Ireland and the Republic of Ireland household customers have continued to and gain customers.
SSE aims to do this by: 90% household and 10% industrial reduce their use of energy, and on an actual and commercial : and basis in 2010 11 SSE household customers kk offering consistently competitive prices kk 420,000 home services customer used, on average: over the medium term: accounts, including gas boiler, central kk delivering the highest possible quality heating and wiring maintenance: kk 563 therms of gas, compared with of service: and installation products and services: 558 therms in the previous year, and kk providing market-leading products telephone line rental, calls and 598 therms in 2008 09: and and services to help transform energy broadband services.
kk 4,408kWh of electricity, compared with consumption.
4,465kWh in the previous year, and The increase in customer account 4,748kWh in 2008 09.
Energy supply has one key characteristic numbers was therefore the result of which makes it different from almost success in Ireland where, in April 2011, As a result of the underlying fall in energy any other sector: there are specific SSE through Airtricity, passed the 500,000 consumption, households are less exposed requirements on energy suppliers to help customer accounts milestone.
In contrast, to the impact of high unit prices than they reduce their customers consumption of there was a slight reduction in customer otherwise would be.
This means that numbers in Great Britain in the second half sustainable performance in energy of the year, reflecting the highly competitive Helping customers use less energy supply is about delivering services and market conditions.
Using energy more efficiently is the fastest adding value to customers in ways which and most cost-effective way of reducing support this movement towards greater Within the total, 3.05 million customer customers energy costs, sustaining energy efficiency.
accounts in Great Britain are for loyalty supplies for the long term and reducing products such as: emissions of carbon dioxide.
As an energy increasing customer numbers supplier, SSE has obligations under the in GB and ireland kk energyplus Argos, which rewards Carbon Emissions Reduction Target CERT SSE supplies electricity and gas in Great customers with money-off discount scheme to deliver energy efficiency Britain and Ireland as: vouchers: measures to households throughout kk energyplus Pulse, under which Great Britain and in 2010 11 funded the kk Southern Electric and SSE England : customers are able to support the installation of cavity wall insulation in 87,000 kk Swalec Wales : British Heart Foundation which received homes and loft insulation in 106,000 homes kk Scottish Hydro Scotland : almost 120,000 from SSE in respect of excluding DIY insulation.
kk Atlantic: and energyplus Pulse customers during kk Airtricity Northern Ireland and the 2010 11, taking the total since the In its CERT Annual Report, a review of Republic of Ireland.
product was launched to almost 1.3m : CERT in 2009 10, published in August and 2010, Ofgem stated that SSE had met 78% During 2010 11, it achieved a net gain of kk M&S Energy, available to customers of its overall carbon emissions reduction 300,000 energy customer accounts in Great through M&S stores and website.
obligation for the three years to 2011.
SSE Britain and Ireland, taking the total to 9.65 is the energy supplier which has delivered million.
It also achieved a small increase in SSEs customer growth is partly founded on telephone and face-to-face sales.
Ofgem the highest share of its CERT obligations the number of home services customers, introduced new licence conditions to govern through appliances, via a number of taking the total to 420,000.
SSEs customer sales processes in 2009 and in September consumer electronics schemes.
These accounts therefore totalled 10.07 million 2010 launched an investigation to establish have the benefit of helping to address and at 31 March 2011 comprises: whether four suppliers, including SSE, are directly demand for electricity.
complying with the licence conditions.
SSE kk 5.16 million household electricity is committed to high standards in its sales Complementing CERT, the Community customer accounts in GB: Energy Savings Programme CESP is an obligation placed on energy suppliers and electricity generators to make savings in customers homes by helping to install energy efficiency measures.
The programme Using energy more efficiently is the is designed to ensure that suppliers work in the lower income areas and to incentivise a whole house approach to energy savings.
fastest and most cost-effective way SSEs first CESP programmes got under way in 2010 11 at locations throughout England, of reducing customers energy costs, Scotland and Wales.
sustaining supplies for the long term CESP and CERT will be superseded by the Green Deal and Energy Company Obligation ECO when they are introduced: and reducing emissions of carbon dioxide.
Scottish and Southern Energy 40 Annual Report 2011 Market-based businesses continued Generation and Supply not recovered by suppliers who, as a result, kk the Green Deal is a new financing payment arrangements that suit their have to ensure unit prices are at a level that mechanism for customers seeking financial and other circumstances.
In enables them to recover fixed costs.
to install energy saving measures, March 2011, over 240,000 customers featuring a Golden Rule under which were taking advantage of these Future trends in energy prices for domestic the expected financial savings arising arrangements.
customers will ultimately depend on what from the measures must be equal happens in wholesale electricity and gas to or greater than the costs attached retail energy bills in Great Britain markets, with public policy and regulatory to the energy bill: and SSE increased its prices for household gas decisions on energy production, distribution kk the ECO will replace the obligations supply by 9.4% on 1 December 2010.
Forward and consumption also having a significant arising from CERT and CESP, with annual wholesale prices for gas rose by over impact.
For example, the costs associated suppliers expected to focus assistance 25% in the period between March 2010, when with the EU ETS, RO and CERT are all on on the poorest and most vulnerable SSE previously announced a package of an increasing trend, as are the costs of households and the hardest-to-treat changes to prices for household gas, and distributing energy.
Moreover, forward properties, which may not be able to October 2010, when the price change was annual wholesale prices for electricity and take advantage of the Green Deal.
Throughout this time, domestic gas have risen by around one quarter and gas supply was a loss-making activity for around one third respectively in the six The Green Deal and ECO are subjects SSE and its gas supply business, Southern months following SSEs 29 October 2010 of the Energy Bill, which is making its Electric Gas, has traded at a loss for most announcement of a price increase for way through the UK Parliament and are of the past few years.
expected to be implemented, following extensive secondary legislation, from 2012.
In November 2010, Ofgem adopted, for How people pay their energy bills The Secretary of State for Energy and analytical and comparative purposes, a new A total of 61% of SSEs domestic electricity Climate Change will be responsible for typical annual domestic gas consumption and gas accounts across Great Britain and determining what energy efficiency of 16,500kWh, a reduction of 4,000kWh, Ireland are paid by direct debit or standing measures will be eligible for the Green following a consistent decline in average order.
A further 12% are paid through payDeal, and providing such measures could domestic gas consumption levels.
This demonstrated that the co-operation seen as-you-go or pre-payment meters in Great represent a significant opportunity for in recent years between energy suppliers, Britain and the balance 27% are on credit SSE to market products and services.
government, Ofgem, consumer organisations, terms and settled by cheque or other such and the associated investment, is delivering payment methods.
Helping vulnerable customers a sustained reduction in the amount of gas The UK government has appointed being consumed in Britains homes.
Keeping customers energy Professor John Hills to lead an independent debt under control review of fuel poverty.
A household is The distinction between the price of a unit As at 31 March 2011, the total aged debt currently classed as being in fuel poverty of energy and the amount customers pay ie debt that is overdue by more than six if it would need to spend more than 10% for heating and powering their homes is months of SSEs domestic and small of its income on fuel to keep their home illustrated by the 132 difference between business electricity and gas customers warm enough.
The review will examine the the cost of 20,500kWh of gas and 16,500kWh.
in Great Britain and Ireland was 89.2m, definition of fuel poverty and the government With greater energy efficiency, households compared with 94.9m in March 2010.
A bad targets relating to it.
It is expected to are less exposed to the impact of high unit debt-related charge to profits, covering both conclude in 2012. prices than they otherwise would be, because provision and write-off, of 47.4m has been they are using less energy, and further made.
This compares with a charge of SSE believes that any type of poverty, improvements in this area remain a top 76.1m in the previous year.
including fuel poverty, results fundamentally priority for SSE.
from an individual or household having The general economic climate meant insufficient income.
Nevertheless, SSE When it published its initial proposals from 2010 11 posed significant debt management fulfils two key responsibilities in order to its Retail Market Review in March 2011, challenges, with the volume of work in this help those of its customers who struggle Ofgem claimed to have evidence that area for SSEs Customer Service division to pay for their basic energy needs: energy prices have tended to rise in again increasing.
SSE has sought to manage response to wholesale cost increases this situation by taking a number of steps, kk under the voluntary agreement struck more quickly than they have fallen with including rigorous assessment of the creditwith the UK government in 2008, SSE decreases.
It acknowledged that this worthiness of potential business customers, operated schemes with a value of around finding is dependent on both the analysis and making earlier contact with the 28m in 2010 11 to help vulnerable techniques used, as well as how we assume customer business or household when customers.
It introduced a tiered suppliers hedge their energy purchases.
it becomes apparent from analysis that approach to assistance, featuring its payments are in arrears, so that the issues energyplus Care tariff, rebate tariffs In fact, Ofgems analysis on this particularly are more manageable from everyones and other services, and helped around sensitive point is flawed because it assumes point of view.
The work of office-based 200,000 customers in the year.
This a constant level of energy consumption credit agents is supplemented by the agreement has now been replaced between 2004 and 2010 when, in fact, work of field-based teams who work by the Warm Home Discount, which consumption has declined.
The analytical with customers to resolve debt.
requires energy companies to give flaw arises because energy suppliers like discounts on energy bills to vulnerable SSE recover some of their fixed costs such providing sector-leading customers: and as network costs in gas through charges service to customers kk SSE helps customers who may be having on units of energy used.
This means that if SSEs growth in energy supply has been difficulties in paying for the electricity consumption is reduced, some fixed costs are achieved while being independently and and gas they use by offering tailor-made 41 Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information consistently recognised as the customer Energy customer numbers millions service benchmark for the rest of the energy supply industry.
To provide customers with 2011 9.65 the best possible value for money, SSE 2010 9.35 believes that it needs to provide best-in- 2009 9.10 sector service and products, as well as competitive prices over the medium term.
2008 8.49 2007 7.75 SSEs position as the customer service benchmark for the rest of the energy supply industry is illustrated by: Energy customer numbers 2010 11 composition % kk the UK Customer Satisfaction Index, household electricity Gb 54 published in July 2010, in which SSE household gas Gb 37 achieved the top ranking in the utility business sites Gb 4 sector: household business kk the Customer Satisfaction Report from ireland 5 uSwitch.
com, published in September 2010, in which SSE was ranked the best energy supplier for the seventh successive time: Domestic customers payment methods 2010 11 % kk the JD Power and Associates 2010 UK Electricity and Gas Supplier Customer direct debit 61 Satisfaction Study, published in November Pay-as-you-go 12 2010, in which three of SSEs supply Credit terms 27 brands occupied the top three places in the study of electricity suppliers: and kk the Consumer Focus customer complaints rankings, published in March 2011, in which SSE again emerged as the best, being the only company with a four star rating.
payment history, submit meter readings consumption.
By the end of 2010 11, the During 2010 11, there were 1,161 SSE-related and receive an up-to-date balance on their number of better plan customer accounts complaints to the following third party account, make secure payments on their had increased to 227,000. organisations: the Energy Ombudsman: account and other such services.
Consumer Focus: and Consumer Direct.
This Better plan is a practical example of was a reduction from the 1,231 complaints This, in turn, indicates that the popularity SSEs commitment to product and service in the previous year.
of e-services such as paperless billing is innovation in energy supply.
It was followed likely to continue to increase rapidly over in the autumn of 2010 by iplan, a new energy Although SSE maintained its best-in-sector the next few years.
Enabling customers to product which delivers smart energy position in customer service during 2010 11, carry out more transactions online if they features to customers, allowing them to it was a year in which the profile of the energy choose is now one of SSEs top customer track their energy usage by providing the supply sector remained very high.
real-time and historic information they SSEs energy supply customers in Great need to change the way they use energy, Britain made just over 20 million calls to the Developing new energy thus helping to lower their energy costs.
Companys teams in Basingstoke, Cardiff, products and services Cumbernauld, Havant and Perth during the The energy supply market in Great Britain SSE is more than just a retailer of electricity year.
These conversations allow SSE to is evolving from the simple retailing of and gas.
It has, for example, developed a assess, consider and respond to customers electricity and gas to the provision of a number of products based on solar PV, solar concerns and, over time, adapt the services comprehensive range of smarter products thermal and air-source heat pumps.
This and products it provides accordingly.
and services, consistent with the long-term reflects the fact that while Feed-in Tariffs for decarbonisation of energy production and localised electricity generation introduced making services available online consumption.
This process will receive in April 2010 and the phased introduction of Web and email are now firmly established additional impetus with the introduction the Renewable Heat Incentive will reinforce as the second most common means of of the Renewable Heat Incentive from July the decline in customers electricity and gas communication with the Company used 2011, forthcoming roll-out of smart meters consumption, they are also creating by SSEs customers.
Around one third of in Great Britain and the introduction of the opportunities for SSE to broaden the range SSEs transactions with customers now Green Deal.
of products and services it delivers.
SSE launched better plan four years Microgeneration is a very small market at Moreover, SSEs customers in the Great ago as part of its commitment to work the moment, but it is growing fast.
SSEs Britain and Ireland markets now have in partnership with its customers to help turnover in this area more than trebled 1.3 million online accounts, up from just them reduce their energy use and to during 2010 11 and milestones achieved over 800,000 a year before.
Online create a more sustainable level of energy included: customers can view their account and Scottish and Southern Energy 42 Annual Report 2011 Market-based businesses continued Generation and Supply kk the completion, in March 2011, of its first and deliver energy savings and to enable social housing project for ground-source the government to establish the Data heat pumps, in conjunction with Communications Company to manage Geothermal International, an investee smart meter communications: and company of SSE Ventures: kk the roll-out stage, between 2014 and kk the installation of a solar PV installation 2019, during which the meters for a housing association in Oxfordshire: themselves will be installed.
Supply priorities in and 2011 12 and beyond kk the alignment of SSEs domestic solar In line with its measured and realistic PV business with its gas and electrical approach to the roll-out, SSE installed 2,000 installation businesses to achieve gas and electricity smart meters in 1,000 with smart metering and other developments, greater synergies and a better-aligned dual fuel customers homes in the Midlands SSE is moving towards a much more dynamic, package of products and services.
and Southern regional electricity areas two-way relationship with customers.
It plans to build on this with 2011 12, and beyond, SSE will seek to build momentum in this direction and: In summary, SSE is aiming to build on the installation of up to 10,000 smart meters its position as the sector leader in service during 2011 12 and by making substantive kkprovide consistently competitive prices: provision and on the development of progress on the necessary IT systems to kkretain and gain customer accounts across transition products such as iplan by support the wider roll-out.
the markets in Great britain and ireland: accelerating the long-term transformation kksecure further efficiencies in day-to-day of its energy supply products and services Delivering zero carbon homes operations, including the ways in which that is already under way.
This will require Products and services provided by energy customers are retained and gained and sustained, but disciplined and pragmatic, companies have to change because the the ways in which they are given the investment in systems and processes over way people consume energy has to change.
services they need: kkmaintain the highest standards of the next few years and SSE is developing People are customers of energy companies, operations, delivering best-in-sector and so the only sustainable option is for comprehensive plans to do this.
service, including improvements in billing, companies to change also.
call handling times and enhancements preparing for the roll-out of smart meters to online and smart services: In line with this, SSE completed a Energy supply in Great Britain will also be kkdeliver energy efficiency improvements, development of 10 zero carbon homes on transformed by the installation of 53 million principally through the CERT and CESP a brownfield site in Slough in September smart energy meters in 30 million homes programmes: 2010, when it was opened by the Secretary and businesses.
They will enable the kkmake substantive preparations for the of State for Energy and Climate Change.
quantity and value of electricity and gas roll-out of smart meters and related They feature triple glazing, mechanical developments: and used by the customer to be continuously kkcontinue to develop the energy-related ventilation systems, solar PV tiles, solar monitored and allow information about its products and services provided to thermal panels and an energy centre use and cost to be available to the customer customers, including microgeneration with a biomass boiler and a ground source and exchanged with the supplier, through and insulation.
heat pump and conform to the highest two-way electronic communications.
specification for sustainable building, SSE will seek to achieve all of this while Code 6 in the Code for Sustainable Homes.
As the UK government said in March 2011, engaging constructively with Ofgem as it takes when it published its plans for the national forward the findings and initial proposals from The homes are now occupied and roll-out, smart meters will deliver a range its Retail market Review.
information is being gathered about of benefits to customers, energy suppliers in summary, SSE is aiming to build on its how householders adapt and respond to and energy network companies: position as sector leader for the quality of zero carbon living to help inform future service provided to electricity and gas developments in the decarbonisation kk customers will have real-time information customers and develop a broader, deeper of the energy sector.
on their energy consumption to help energy services offering capable of being them control energy use, and thereby geared towards, and targeted at, the needs save money and reduce emissions, and of individual customers.
bring an end to estimated bills: kk energy suppliers will have access to accurate data for billing, and will be able to deliver enhanced customer service and reduced costs: and kk energy network companies will have better information with which to manage and plan current activities and the move towards smart grids.
SSE supports the two-phase approach to the smart meter roll-out which has been adopted, featuring: kk the foundation stage to enable the energy industry to build and test all the systems needed to start the roll-out, ensure positive customer engagement
