65 Overview Remuneration Report Strategy Group performance Introduction Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information the need to maintain a balance between Executive Directors remuneration and that this strategy while still keeping employees of other senior executives, managers and motivated.
It is also part of the strategy that employees.
It was in this context that the remuneration principles apply CompanyCommittee approved a scheme designed to wide, and that reward is viewed in the retain the members of the new Management context of the economic environment as Board over the next five years.
It recognises well as alongside sectoral benchmarks.
that they now carry broader responsibilities than other senior managers, and we are Benchmarks are useful if they prompt debate confident that each of them understands about whether our remuneration strategy what they must do to contribute to longLady Rice CBE and our position are right for the business term dividend growth.
Remuneration Committee Chairman and where we want to take it in the future.
While we continue to look at the energy a high profile issue companies in the UK, they are few in number, Remuneration is a high profile issue, and so we have now added the MSCI list of energy rightly so.
The Remuneration Committee companies in Europe and refer to Deloittes and the Executive Directors welcome the Complexity Index as well, to provide broader transparency and accountability which the a matter of balance relevant benchmarks.
That is also why we public expects and which the Remuneration At SSE, the notion of balance runs benchmark against FTSE 20-50 companies Committee endorses.
The Committee throughout the business.
We balance a excluding financial services which share continues to look for ways in which reward range of market-based and economicallymany characteristics with SSE.
leads to behaviours which support the regulated businesses.
We try to maintain a culture and values of SSE throughout the well-balanced portfolio of assets, contracts Given the current economic background, organisation.
and customers, to balance fossil fuel and and despite strong financial and operational renewable sources of energy, to balance performance last year, it was decided not to The Committee believes that the Directors independence and experience on the increase the base salaries of the Executive are fairly remunerated, and above all, that Board.
Balance is also fundamental Directors, which remain below market through remuneration they are recognised.
to remuneration policy at SSE.
median for FTSE 20-50 companies We continue to test performance targets excluding financial services.
The terms each year and believe they are robust and We see remuneration as being about a of the Annual Bonus Plan were unchanged, that the Company has set targets which balance between supporting the Companys and the terms of the Performance Share reflect equivalent stretch over the years, over-riding financial goal sustained real Plan which, following consultation, now even though those targets may change growth in the dividend while keeping include an element relating directly to SSEs according to the Companys activities employees engaged in the short-term.
Its primary financial objective sustained or the economic environment.
about doing whats right for the business growth in dividend are as set out in last which requires a long-term view and years Remuneration Report.
This objective We link reward to risk as well as to understanding this in the context of the is also reflected in the long-term incentive performance, and specifically to the time energy sector today.
plan for the new Management Board.
horizon of the major risks in the business.
Reward needs to reflect both the prudence a long-term business Reward by definition reflects the and the dynamism which are balanced A feature of SSE, and an illustration of responsibility and contribution of the within SSE and everyone who works for the long-term nature of the business, is individual.
At SSE, teamwork is one of the the Company must be crystal clear about the fact that the Executive Directors have essential elements on which individuals what is expected of them.
all held either Board or senior management are rewarded, creating another aspect of positions with the Company since it was balance.
Reward also has to make sense If the Remuneration Committee had five formed in 1998.
Their total Board service in the context of companies similar to SSE balancing objectives this year, they would is 42 years with total Company service of even while it supports SSEs own unique be: to develop the Companys reputation, 86 years, including their stewardship of the business plans.
contribute to its business results, enable predecessor companies Southern Electric stakeholder agreement to remuneration and Scottish Hydro Electric.
a year of consolidation policy, link compensation to performance SSEs remuneration policy was reviewed in plus risk, and provide leadership so that Their personal commitment to SSE is strong 2009 2010 against new guidelines and best reward is aligned through the organisation.
as is their leadership of the Company SSE practice.
This year has been a time to let is one of just six FTSE 100 companies to recent changes bed in as well as to complete Balance is a hallmark of a dynamic and have delivered above-inflation dividend that review.
The Committee stayed close to productive organisation.
Balance is also a growth every year since 1998, the year it was the concerns of shareholders and other hallmark of a strong remuneration approach formed.
Any objective analysis of Executive stakeholders, to the guidance of government the balance between short-term and Director remuneration must also reflect that for instance on pensions, and to the views of long-term, between the individual and the leadership and commitment.
We will continue to welcome collective, between the tactical and the shareholder feedback in the future and strategic.
The Remuneration Committee At the same time, SSE has developed indeed now on any aspect of this Report.
believes it has achieved that balance and genuine strength amongst its other senior will be vigilant to ensure it continues to do managers, a number of whom now sit on The remuneration strategy is to reward the so in the future.
The Executive Directors below market median: Remuneration Committee has continued the same is also true for non-Executive Lady Rice CBE to look closely at the linkages between Directors.
The Committee is sensitive to Chairman
