67 Overview Remuneration Report continued Strategy Group performance Remuneration explained Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Executive Directors salary and incentive plans 2010 11 performance measure purpose link to strategy policy and decisions Base salary Reflects market data, role, business and Following the annual review in March 2011 the individual performance measured against salary for the Chief Executive and the three SSEs strategy as set out on pages 10 to 15.
short term annual Bonus 60% awarded The Annual Bonus is determined by the The performance targets are clearly linked Maximum award of up to 100% of base salary: Remuneration Committees assessment to SSEs strategy in three key ways: financial 75% in cash non-pensionable : 25% compulsorily of the performance of SSE during the year, performance: teamwork: and personal deferred into shares which only vest, subject based on three key areas.
objectives relating to the Companys priorities.
to continued service, after three years.
Financial performance 60% Financial performance 60% Financial performance max 60% Group financial performance is measured Adjusted profit before tax is a key means During 2010 11, SSE delivered a 1.6% increase by adjusted profit before tax, which reflects of achieving SSEs first responsibility in adjusted profit before tax resulting in a the underlying profits of SSEs business.
to shareholders: sustained real growth target payment at 50% of maximum.
Teamwork 20% Teamwork 20% Teamwork max 20% Teamwork is measured by performance against SSE believes it will only be successful financially Safety: Total Recordable Injury Rate again the SSE SET of core values: Safety: Service: if it exercises a wider corporate responsibility improved but below stretch target.
Service: Efficiency: Sustainability: Excellence: and to others, such as customers and employees, Rated number one in almost all key independent Teamwork.
Performance against these values on whom its success ultimately depends.
Efficiency: Additional cost savings is assessed through SSEs performance core values summarise this approach.
achieved during the year and other efficiencies management process.
secured in specific areas such as credit management.
Sustainability: Renewable energy development and smart home project goals achieved.
Excellence: Culture of innovation reinforced with diverse successes such as the hybrid bond issue and zero carbon homes development.
Teamwork: It is clear to all of the non-Executive Directors that the Executive Directors continue to perform strongly as a team with no evidence of a culture of individualism within SSE.
All of this resulted in an above-target payment of 75% of the maximum.
Personal objectives 20% Personal objectives 20% Personal objectives max 20% In keeping with its Teamwork value, and to avoid Personal objectives set during the year include: Overall, the Remuneration Committee setting Executive Directors potentially conflicting management of political and regulatory issues concluded that progress was made in each of personal objectives, SSE believes personal Ian Marchant : generation availability Colin these areas during 2010 11 and that individually objectives should form a part of the Annual Hood : improving working capital management and collectively the Executive Directors delivered Bonus.
They are designed to support achievement Gregor Alexander : and energy trading risk levels strong performance during the year resulting of SSEs strategy and reinforce its values.
and fuel procurement Alistair Phillips-Davies.
in an above target payment of 75% of maximum.
long term performance share plan 2008-2011 0% awarded For awards granted in 2008 performance is The two elements of TSR and EPS reflect Maximum award of 150% of base salary each measured against the following two elements relative and absolute measures of performance.
Awards are released to the extent over a three-year period.
Total Shareholder Return TSR The relative TSR measure is dependent on SSEs TSR max 50% kk 100% vests at or above 75th percentile relative long-term share price performance and Out-turn below median of FTSE 100 so 0% kk 25% vests at median dividend return sustained real growth is SSEs TSR element awarded: the graph on page 70 kk straight-line basis between median and first financial responsibility to shareholders.
reflects performance over a five-year period.
75th percentile Further vesting of this element requires the kk no vesting of award if median performance Remuneration Committee to be satisfied with not achieved SSEs underlying financial performance.
Adjusted Earnings per Share EPS Adjusted EPS is used to monitor SSEs EPS max 50% kk 100% vests where EPS is 9% RPI performance over the medium term because Out-turn growth below the EPS minimum growth kk 25% vests where EPS is 3% above RPI it is straightforward: it defines the amount target RPI 3% so 0% of EPS element awarded.
kk straight-line basis between 3% and 9% of profit after tax that has been earned for above RPI each Ordinary Share.
kk no vesting if EPS minimum growth of RPI 3% is not achieved Scottish and Southern Energy 68 Annual Report 2011 Remuneration Report continued Remuneration explained remuneration agenda 2010 11 Regular items Other items May Directors Remuneration Report.
Approval of Performance Share Targets and 2010 Grants.
November Review of Total Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors Long-term Incentive Review.
Review STI and LTI performance results.
February Review of new Management Board contract and salary levels.
Salaries were increased only for the roles which contained a significant increase in responsibility and scope.
Approval of new one-off five-year LTI plan 2011-2016 for the Management Board excluding Executive Directors.
Overview of succession issues for remuneration purposes.
March Review of Directors and Senior Executives Salaries and Changes to the implementation of pension policy.
Application of new FSA remuneration code.
Update Establishment of the 2010 11 Bonus Performance targets.
Performance Share Plan Forecast Results.
The Remuneration Committees composition, responsibilities and operation comply with Section B of the Corporate Governance Code.
In forming remuneration policy, the Committee has given full consideration to the best practice provisions set out in the Code.
This report sets out the Companys policy advisors The policy comprises: on Executive Directors remuneration for kk the Chief Executive and the Director the year ended 31 March 2011 and complies of Human Resources advised the kk base salary: with the regulations made under the Committee on matters relating to kk benefits, including a defined benefit Companies Act 2006.
The report will be the appropriateness of awards for the pension plan: presented at the AGM on 21 July 2011 for Executive Directors and Senior Executives kk a short-term incentive plan: and approval and shareholders will be able to although they were not present for kk a long-term incentive plans.
ask questions on the report at the AGM.
discussions on their own remuneration: kk in addition the Director of Human The current shortand long-term incentive How the Remuneration Resources advised on HR strategy plans are shown in the chart on page 66.
Committee works and the application of policies across the organisation: total remuneration policy members and meetings kk the Company Secretary advised the Remuneration policy for Executive Directors Attendance Committee on corporate governance is to remain below median of the FTSE 20-50 Membership at meetings guidelines: excluding financial services.
For peer group kk Deloitte LLP provided market information comparison, the Committee takes account Lady Rice Committee Chairman 4 4 drawn from published surveys and advice of total remuneration in specific UK listed Nick Baldwin 4 4 on appropriate awards of bonuses, longcompanies in related sectors and their Richard Gillingwater 4 4 term incentives, and comparator group reported financial results.
SSEs goal is to Lord Smith of Kelvin 3 4 pay and performance.
Deloitte LLP were retain Executive Directors who are motivated appointed by the Committee: and by the long-term success of the Company, Informal consultation takes place outwith kk Bank of America Merrill Lynch provided rather than short-term remuneration.
the scheduled meetings as necessary.
They were appointed by the Committee for these This policy and goal reflect SSE culture terms of reference services.
in which Executive Directors and Senior kk sets the total remuneration policy on Managers are motivated by developing the behalf of the Board: Total Remuneration Policy Company for the future, and explains why kk approves the detailed remuneration terms long-term growth and sustainability of the of the Executive Directors including their Total Remuneration Policy is integral business are of such importance when service contract and the impact on senior to overall HR Strategy and the SSE set of determining remuneration policy.
management remuneration: core values are supported in the objectives, kk approves the remuneration of the plan design and application of the policy.
kk The Committee reviews regularly Chairman: the total compensation, including kk approves the design and performance the principles pensions, of the Chief Executive and targets of incentive schemes: The core principles of the Companys the Executive Directors compared to kk grants awards under the Companys remuneration policy are outlined in the FTSE benchmarks to make sure that Long-term Incentive Plans: and At a glance section as shown on page 66 the Company is not disadvantaged by kk reviews the total remuneration of the together with policy details and diagrams the current position nor are there any Management Board and other Senior which illustrate the degree of stretch in the adverse consequences stemming from Executives below Board level.
target and maximum values of the packages.
the long service of the leadership team.
69 Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information the introduction of a safety modifier to kk A number of institutional shareholders 2011.
It considered the following factors in the any STI awards as safety is of paramount were consulted on the implications of light of recent market and governance trends: importance to SSE.
This modifier applies the changes to the Performance Share to team working and personal objectives.
Plan measures and other aspects of the kk total remuneration and basic salary, This modifier does not apply to the Total Remuneration Policy as part of a when benchmarked where relevant to Executive Directors short-term bonus, regular dialogue between shareholders FTSE 20-50 excluding Financial Services, which already takes account of the and the Remuneration Committee.
remain behind market median for the Companys safety performance.
kk During the year the Committee Executive Directors: discussed succession issues across kk the Executive Directors continue to Long-term incentives a broader spectrum of management deliver a strong financial performance Performance Share Plan levels and takes account of these with significant results to shareholders The Performance Share Plan is the main factors when making any remuneration in a difficult trading year as dividend scheme to reward Executive Directors and decisions both in the interests of the growth has exceeded RPI inflation for other Senior Executives over a three-year Company and the individuals.
the twelfth consecutive year: and period for the continued profitable growth of kk As a matter of policy the Committee takes kk management and Collective Agreements.
SSE as measured, up to 2010 11, by Earnings account of any changing or increasing per Share and the Total Shareholder Return responsibilities when determining the Despite continued solid performance, after compared to the FTSE 100.
taking careful consideration of all factors, the awards equivalent to 150% of salary have Committee decided not to increase salaries been granted to Executive Directors and the balance of fixed and for the Executive Directors including the at lower rates to other Senior Executives.
variable remuneration Chief Executive for the year 2011 12.
Taking into account the SSE business profile, Awards will be released after three years the Remuneration Committee believes current incentive plans subject to the meeting of demanding that around 50% of the total remuneration Short-term incentive Annual Bonus Plan performance conditions relating to the should be performance-related, increasing The purpose of the Annual Bonus Plan is Companys relative total shareholder return up to around two thirds for exceptional to reward Executive Directors performance during the year, based on an analysis of TSR performance and the Companys performance as shown in the table on page financial results, team working and personal adjusted EPS growth.
Further details of 66 as this rewards performance sufficiently objectives.
Performance is considered in the the performance targets are in the table on without causing undue risk taking.
context of targets set in each of the areas page 67.
The TSR performance measure is at the start of the financial year.
In addition, dependent on the Companys relative longsenior Executives, managers the Remuneration Committee considers term share price performance within the and employees Executive Directors management of, and FTSE 100 bringing a market perspective to the The Committee is aware of the importance performance in, all of the business issues plan.
The vesting of this element requires the of an appropriate relationship between the that arose during the year.
Committee to be satisfied with the underlying remuneration levels of the Executive Directors, financial performance of the Company.
The Senior Executives, managers and other For 2010 11, the total Annual Bonus paid to TSR measure is balanced by a key internal employees within the Group.
As outlined on the Executive Directors was 60% of salary, measure, adjusted EPS growth, which is page 54, this year has seen the appointment of compared to 59% in the previous year and with critical to the Companys long-term success the Management Board reporting to the Chief the maximum payable of 100%.
Around half of and ties in with the Groups strategic goals.
Executive which consists of operational and the bonus was payable in respect of financial functional Managing Directors.
The Committee performance and around half in respect of The Committee considered that the received and approved a paper which team working and performance against achievement of real annual adjusted EPS benchmarked their total remuneration to the personal objectives.
Executive Directors growth of 9% above RPI per annum was relevant marketplace and introduced a new, salary and incentive plans 2010 11, on page a demanding target for maximum vesting one-off five-year LTI 2011-2016 featuring the 67, sets out performance metrics used in the in light of the regulatory regime applicable key measure of dividend growth.
The Executive assessment of the Annual Bonus for the year.
Directors will not participate in this scheme.
For 2011 12, the structure of the Annual The 2007 PSP award vested in May 2010.
There is a wider group of Senior Executives Bonus will remain the same as in 2010 11.
The TSR out-turn was below median for who have a significant influence on Group The maximum bonus payable will be 100% FTSE 100 so this part of the PSP award performance.
The Committee seeks of salary, split between: did not vest.
EPS growth was 3.6% above assurance that there is a consistency inflation per annum, and accordingly 32.4% of approach to remuneration and that kk financial performance 60% : of the EPS element in the 2007 award remuneration is of sufficient value to attract kk team working 20% : and vested.
and retain key executives for the longer term.
The 2008 PSP award will vest shortly after Base salary In any single year, it is expected that the the announcement of the preliminary results The Committee is mindful of the remuneration Annual Bonus paid will be around 50% of in May 2011.
It is envisaged that the TSR of different groups of employees and Executive Directors salary for on-target out-turn will be below median so this part of considers wider internal pay arrangements performance.
The Annual Bonus is paid 75% in the PSP will not vest.
EPS growth was 1.1% and other relevant external indices such as cash, and 25% deferred into shares which vest below inflation per annum which is below inflation in the process of reviewing base after three years, subject to continued service.
Therefore this salary for the Executive Directors.
award will lapse this year.
Achievement of For the Management Board and other this performance criterion is independently The Committee conducted its regular review Senior Executives, the Committee approved reviewed each year by the auditors.
of salaries for Executive Directors in March Scottish and Southern Energy 70 Annual Report 2011 Remuneration Report continued Remuneration explained changes to performance of total Remuneration policy and is designed employees.
These schemes comprise: share plan 2010 awards to help maintain long-term commitment As outlined in last years Remuneration Report, and business understanding, offering the kk the Sharesave Scheme which allows the Committee approved a number of changes: opportunity to benefit from any growth in employees options to acquire shares from the 2010 11 award, there are now four shareholder value.
using the proceeds of a monthly savings performance criteria of 25% each as follows: contract of up to 250 per month.
kk The interests of the Executive Directors Exercise of the options is not subject to kk relative TSR performance compared and other Senior Executives are closely satisfaction of any performance target.
to FTSE 100: aligned with those of other shareholders.
The option price is set at a discount kk relative TSR performance compared to The Performance Share Plan, the maximum of 20% to market value: a dedicated peer group of UK and other deferral of 25% of the Annual Bonus kk the Share Incentive Plan the SIP European utilities: award and employee share schemes which allows employees to allocate kk EPS growth of RPI plus 2% threshold facilitate this alignment.
part of their pre-tax salary to purchase vesting to 8% full vesting : and kk The Executive Directors and certain shares up to a maximum of 125 per kk dividend per share growth of RPI plus other Senior Executives are required month.
Participants receive two free 2% threshold vesting to 6% full vesting.
to maintain a shareholding equivalent matching shares monthly for each share to one years salary built up within a purchased up to a maximum of six free TSR performance compared to a dedicated reasonable timescale.
Consent to sell shares: and peer group of UK and other European shares is not normally given unless in kk the long service award scheme which utilities the MSCI Europe Utilities thereby exceptional circumstances or to fund purchases 10, 20, 30, 40 or 50 shares on provides sector emphasis and market a connected tax liability until this level behalf of an employee on the occasion of perspective to the plan.
the employee reaching 10, 20, 30, 40 or 50 kk It is also expected that all non-Executive years service respectively with the Group.
The Dividend per share growth target reflects Directors should hold a minimum of the fact that the Companys core financial 2,000 shares in the Company.
Funding of share schemes and dilution objective is to deliver continued real dividend kk As reported on page 50, 44% of SSE Shares are purchased in the market to growth in the future whilst maintaining a employees are members of the Share satisfy the exercise of awards under the dividend cover around the established range.
Deferred Bonus Plan, the Performance kk 35% of employees are members of the Share Plan, and the Share Incentive Plan.
The reasons for the two new measures are Share Save Scheme.
that the Committee believes that these new The Companys Sharesave Scheme uses criteria provide a focus on the performance Directors shareholdings as percentage unissued shares to satisfy the exercise of of SSEs wider competitive group, its key of annual salary share options.
As at 31 March 2011, there 2011 2010 financial goals and the level of dividend paid.
were approximately 6 million share options % salary % salary For these reasons, the Committee intends outstanding under this scheme, and if all to discuss with shareholders and other the outstanding options were exercised this Ian Marchant 338 286 stakeholders the application of these criteria would amount to 0.64% of the issued share Colin Hood 270 221 to the 2009 Performance Share Plan award, capital of the Company at that date.
Gregor Alexander 230 191 which is due to vest in 2012.
More broadly, Alistair Phillips-Davies 256 210 the Committee will continue to review all pensions policy Based on a share price at 31 March 2011 of 12.61. targets for relevance and stretch in line Pension planning is an important part with the financial forecasts and prevailing of the remuneration strategy because it all-employee share schemes business and economic environment.
is consistent with the long-term goals and Executive Directors are eligible to horizons of the business.
Each employee is participate in the Companys all-employee share ownership policy encouraged to join the relevant pension plan.
share schemes on the same terms as other Employee share ownership is a key part In response to recent government and fiscal changes, the Company has provided cash allowance options in exchange for reduced accrual at no extra cost to the Company.
ssE tsr performance: 31 march 2006 to 31 march 2011 160 SSE Overall the Executive Directors have no FTSE 100 right to any special or preferential pension 140 benefit terms upon leaving.
However, in common with all members of the pension 120 schemes who joined at the same time as the Executive Directors, the following provisions 100 relating to leaving the Company apply: 80 kk for retirement through ill-health an unreduced pension based on service 60 to expected retirement is paid: kk in the event of any reorganisation or Mar 06 Mar 07 Mar 08 Mar 09 Mar 10 Mar 11 redundancy an unreduced accrued The graph above charts the cumulative TSR Total Shareholder Return of SSE since 1 April 2006, pension is paid to a member who is compared to the FTSE 100 Index over the same period.
The Company is a member of the FTSE 100 aged 50 or above, with at least five and it was considered to be the most relevant benchmark for comparison purposes.
years service or, for a member who 71 Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information has not yet reached that age, it will service contract key items be payable with effect from 50: and kk from the age of 55, a scheme member Provision Detailed terms is entitled to leave the Company and Notice period kk 12 months by either Company or Director receive a pension, reduced for early payment, unless the Company gives Termination kk Up to 12 months salary excluding any bonus or other enhancement consent and funds this pension being payment kk Payment in lieu of notice in staged payments subject to the paid on an unreduced basis.
Executive gaining new employment kk No special change of control provisions All the Executive Directors remain members kk Obligation on departing Executives to mitigate loss of either the Southern Electric Pension Remuneration kk Salary, pension and benefits Scheme or the Scottish Hydro Electric kk Company car or cash allowance Pension Scheme and their plan membership kk Participation in bonus scheme, employee share schemes predates their Board appointments.
These and Executive incentive plans are both funded final salary pension schemes kk Private Health Insurance and the terms of these schemes apply Non competition kk During employment and for six months after leaving equally to all members.
Contract dates kk All four contracts dated 11 March 2005 The Directors service contracts provide for a possible maximum pension of two thirds length of service final salary from the age of 60.
In relation to Industry service Length of Board service Executive Directors who are subject to the Ian Marchant 19 15 years scheme-specific salary cap which mirrors the provisions of the previous HM Revenue Gregor Alexander 20 8 years and Customs cap arrangements the Colin Hood 33 10 years Company provides top-up unfunded Alistair Phillips-Davies 14 9 years arrangements which are designed to provide Including two years as Finance Director of Southern Electric plc.
an equivalent pension on retirement from the age of 60 to that which they would have earned if they had not been subject to the In the event of a change of control of the 2,000 Company shares.
There are no arrangements to Company, performance in the PSP will be kk The fees of the independent noncompensate members for any change in measured to that date and will normally Executive Directors are agreed by their personal tax liability.
be scaled down to the period prior to reflect the Board, with the non-Executive the change of control.
Directors concerned not participating Full details of the Executive Directors in this process.
pension plans can be found in Table B outside appointments kk The fees are reviewed against companies of the audited information on page 72.
Executive Directors are entitled to accept of similar size and complexity.
To be a non-Executive appointment outside the consistent with wider remuneration Service contracts Company with the consent of the Board, policy, fees are set at below median.
as such appointments can enhance It is the Companys policy that Executive Directors experience and value to the The non-Executive Directors do not Directors should have service contracts Company.
Any fees received are retained receive any additional fees for Committee with the Company which can be terminated by the Director.
Membership, only for Chairmanship of the on 12 months notice given by either party.
Reasonable travelling and In 2010 11 Ian Marchant held a nonother expenses for costs incurred in the The current Executive Directors service Executive Director position with the John course of their duties are reimbursed.
contracts contain the key items shown Wood Group plc, and received 45,000 in in the table above.
fees: and Colin Hood held a position as fee history non-Executive Director of FirstGroup plc, The Company may at its discretion terminate 2011 2010 000s 000s receiving 45,000 in fees and accepted a any Executive Directors contract by making position in Southern Water Services Ltd a payment in lieu of notice equal to the basic Board 54 52 and received 16,667 in fees.
salary which would have been received Audit Committee during the notice period excluding any bonus Chairmanship 12 12 Non-Executive Directors and any other emolument referable to the Remuneration Committee employment.
Payment may be made in Chairmanship 10 10 kk The non-Executive Directors have letters staged payments, and will either reduce Senior Independent of appointment, and are appointed for or cease completely where the departing Director 10 10 fixed terms of three years, subject to Executive Director gains new employment.
Company Chairman 341 332 retirement by rotation and re-appointment at AGMs.
If an Executive Director retires or is made kk They do not participate in the Bonus From April 1 2011, the fees for the roles redundant, the PSP shares will be reduced Scheme, Deferred Bonus Plan, any of of Committee Chair have both increased to reflect the point during the three year the share option schemes, or contribute by 2,000 per annum to 14,000 for the performance period when the Director to any Group pension scheme although Audit and to 12,000 for the Remuneration leaves.
If the Executive Director leaves for any as indicated above are required to hold Committee Chairmen.
other reason, PSP share awards will lapse.
