23 Overview  businesses Strategy Group performance Energy networks Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information such as reliability of supply, customer Energy networks service and innovation and thus earn additional incentive-based revenue under the various Ofgem schemes: Performance indicators kk deliver efficient and innovative capital expenditure programmes, so that the number and duration of power cuts and 2009 2010 2011 Change gas supply interruptions experienced by assets customers is kept to a minimum, and so Electricity network Regulated Asset Value RAV bn 2.89 2.97 3.21 8.1% that there is adequate capacity to meet demand on the electricity system: Gas network RAV share bn 1.82 1.97 2.15 9.1% kk increase the RAV of the networks Total RAV of energy network assets bn 4.71 4.94 5.36 8.5% businesses and so secure increased Electricity network capital expenditure m 314.6 334.5 328.5 -1.8% revenue from them: and Gas network capital replacement spend share m kk engage constructively with the 191.4 206.4 199.7 -3.2% regulator, Ofgem, to secure regulatory operations outcomes that meet the needs of SEPD customer minutes lost 66 65 64 -1.5% customers and investors.
SEPD customer interruptions 64 61 64 4.9% financial performance in energy networks SHEPD customer minutes lost 75 74 78 5.4% Operating profit in energy networks SHEPD customer interruptions 76 78 74 -5.1% increased by 7.1%, from 599.5m to SEPD SHEPD performance-based revenue m 18.0 24.0 16.3 -32.1% 642.3m, contributing 38.9% of SSEs total operating profit.
This comprised: SGN uncontrolled gas escapes attended within one hour 98.6 97.9 97.2 -0.7% kk 455.5m in electricity networks, SGN gas mains replaced km 951 1,062 1,102 3.8% compared with 415.8m in the previous Volume year: and kk 186.8m representing SSEs share of SEPD electricity units distributed TWh 34.4 33.7 33.6 -0.3% the operating profit for SGN, compared SHEPD electricity units distributed TWh 8.5 8.4 8.5 1.2% with 183.7m in the previous year.
SGN gas volume transported Scotland TWh 58.6 55.2 55.8 1.1% Electricity Distribution SGN gas volume transported Southern TWh 114.9 107.8 110.4 2.4% and Transmission performance in southern Electric a balanced group of energy kk 2.15bn for gas distribution ie 50% of power Distribution network companies the businesses total RAV of 4.3bn.
In Southern Electric Power Distribution SSE has an ownership interest in five SEPD in 2010 11:  energy network SSE is the only energy company in the UK companies: to be involved in electricity transmission, kk operating profit increased by 11.9% electricity distribution and gas distribution.
to 287.4m: kk Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission Together, these lower-risk economicallykk electricity distributed fell by 0.1TWh 100% : regulated natural monopoly businesses, to 33.6TWh: kk Scottish Hydro Electric Power featuring RPI inflation-linked revenue, kk the average number of minutes of Distribution 100% : provide a financial backbone and lost supply per customer was 64, down kk Southern Electric Power Distribution operational focus for SSE and balance from 65: 100% : its activities in the competitive Generation kk the number of supply interruptions per kk Scotland Gas Networks 50% : and and Supply markets.
100 customers was 64, up from 61: and kk Southern Gas Networks 50%.
kk performance-based additional income focus on operational and of 10.8m is expected to be earned, The electricity networks transmit and investment efficiency compared with the final out-turn of distribute electricity to around 3.5 million The aim of economic regulation is to attract 15.8m in the previous year.
businesses, offices and homes via almost investment in electricity and gas networks 130,000km of overhead lines and under and encourage companies to operate them The increase in operating profit follows ground cables and the gas networks distribute as efficiently as possible.
Against this changes in the price of units distributed gas to around 5.7 million homes, offices and background, SSEs objectives in energy under the electricity Distribution Price businesses via 75,000km of gas mains.
networks are to: Control for 2010-15, plus a continued focus on efficiency and cost control and SSE estimates that the total Regulatory kk comply fully with all safety standards some benefit from the over-recovery of Asset Value RAV of its economicallyand environmental requirements: allowed income.
Performance in respect of regulated natural monopoly businesses kk ensure that they are managed as customer interruptions was ahead of the IIS is now over 5.36bn, comprising: efficiently as possible, including targets set by Ofgem under its Interruptions maintaining tight controls over Incentive Scheme IIS, which gives financial kk 515m for electricity transmission: operational expenditure: benefits to distribution network operators kk 2.70bn for electricity distribution: and kk provide good performance in areas that deliver good performance for Scottish and Southern Energy 24 Annual Report 2011  businesses continued Energy networks for operating and capital expenditure to SSE has undertaken a fundamental remove the perceived bias in favour of the latter and to ensure the delivery of not only the investment itself but of agreed outputs review of all of the processes around from it.
The most successful electricity distribution companies, therefore, will be operating and capital expenditure, those that apply efficiency and innovation to maximise outputs from agreed expenditure.
looking at every step in the value chain, In response to this, SSE has undertaken a fundamental review of all of the processes in order to secure the maximum possible around operating and capital expenditure, looking at every step in the value chain, outputs from any expenditure.
in order to secure the maximum possible outputs from any expenditure.
As a result, it has identified a number of solutions and interventions for wider deployment in 2010- 15 to ensure its success throughout the customers.
Performance-based income Earning revenue by delivering Price Control period.
This means SSE covers a number of issues, including the a good quality of service has robust and cost efficient network quality of service provided to customers SSEs two networks earned additional investment processes that deliver real and innovation.
revenue of 59.4m in nominal prices value for customers.
It has also identified in the five years to March 2010 for their a number of technological advancements performance in scottish Hydro Electric performance in respect of Customer that are delivering cost savings and power Distribution and scottish Hydro Interruptions and Customer Minutes Lost.
Electric transmission On this measure, they were ranked first In Scottish Hydro Electric Power Distribution SEPD and fourth SHEPD among the 14 For example, use of directional drilling SHEPD and Scottish Hydro Electric electricity distribution companies in Great units, a method of cable installation, is Transmission SHETL in 2010 11: Britain.
This reflects effective investment well established in SSE.
The directional in the automation of the networks and drill burrows under ground holes for cables, kk operating profit increased by 5.8% effective operational responses to electricity resulting in minimum disturbance to the to 168.1m: supply interruptions.
highway and thereby reduces disruption kk electricity distributed increased by to the public and the costs associated with 0.1TWh to 8.5TWh: operating electricity networks efficiently ground reinstatement.
This has been taken kk the average number of minutes of lost Efficiency is one of SSEs core values and a stage further with the first use in the supply per customer was 78, up from 74: amongst Ofgems explicit purposes in UK for under ground cable replacement kk the number of supply interruptions per 100 setting Price Controls is to keep as low as of a wash-over drill head, which injects customers was 74, down from 78: and possible the costs of providing secure and water at high pressure to loosen soil kk performance-based additional income reliable networks.
SSE has a straightforward around cabling.
The old cable can then of 5.5m is expected to be earned, operating model, under which the vast be removed and a new one installed along compared with the final out-turn majority of activities are in-house.
The idea was developed and of 8.2m in the previous year.
this model: introduced to SSE by an employee under its Licence to Innovate scheme and in 2010 11 The increase in operating profit reflects kk customer-facing activities, such as reduced open excavations highway closures changes in the price of units distributed restoring power supplies or providing by an estimated 620 days.
under the Price Control 2010-15, increased new connections, are managed from allowed revenue in respect of the a network of 14 depots in communities Techniques such as these will be more transmission network and a continued throughout central, southern England widely deployed and developed during the focus on efficiency and cost control.
and the north of Scotland: and new Price Control.
Their deployment, plus Performance in respect of interruptions kk network management activities, good performance in response to Ofgems was ahead of the IIS targets set by Ofgem.
such as inspections, maintenance enhanced incentive mechanisms in areas The position on customer minutes lost was and investment, are carried out in such as customer service, and the headline negatively affected by the severe weather Operational Production Groups.
allowed weighted average cost of capital, experienced in the north of Scotland in should enable SSE to achieve the post-tax early March 2011.
This model gives SSE a strong oversight real return in excess of 5% which it is of operations and investment, allows targeting in electricity distribution.
Volume of electricity distributed flexibility in responding to changed The total volume of electricity distributed circumstances and supports a culture Against this background, capital expenditure by SSE during 2010 11 was 42.1TWh, of efficiency, teamwork and excellence, in electricity networks including transmission unchanged from the previous year.
and the Beauly-Denny upgrade see below the electricity Distribution Price Control for during 2010 11 was 328.5m.
The need for 2010-15, the volume of electricity distributed investing in electricity networks further significant investment in Great will no longer affect companies overall and securing growth in their raV Britains electricity networks, to maintain allowed revenue.
This has further reduced 2010 11 was the first year of the electricity and or replace ageing assets or to provide the level of risk associated with energy Distribution Price Control for 2010-15.
The additional capacity, is likely to mean SSE networks businesses.
new Price Control changed the framework will invest in 2011 12 around: 25 Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information the MINI E and the Ford Transit Connect kk 250m in its electricity distribution renewable generators to connect to the consortia.
These are pioneering trials networks: and network: introducing new commercial to evaluate the psychological, social kk 220m in its electricity transmission arrangements to encourage businesses and technical aspects of living with network, including around 180m on to change the times at which they use an all-electric vehicle: upgrades, such as the replacement of most energy: and installing a 1MW the Beauly-Denny line around 100m battery, part-funded by the Department kk the MINI E consortium is led by BMW and in the year.
for Energy and Climate Change, at includes SSE, Oxford Brookes University, Lerwick Power Station: and the South East England Development Significant distribution projects include a kk Thames Valley Vision TVV in and Agency SEEDA, Oxford City Council 40m project to install new 132kV plant at around Bracknell: TVV aims to and Oxfordshire County Council: and Bracknell and Camberley substations and demonstrate that applying new kk the Ford Transit Connect project is led new 132kV cables between the substations.
technologies to Bracknells network by Ford and includes SSE, the University The project will help to meet demand for will provide a lower cost alternative to of Strathclyde and the London Borough electricity in a key area between the M3 and redeveloping the substation to meet of Hillingdon.
M4 motorways and should be completed increasing electricity demand, with the in 2014. potential to significantly reduce costs to Financial support for both these projects has customers.
TVV involves: monitoring come from the Technology Strategy Board.
making electricity networks smart measuring and understanding power Although there is no standard definition, flows and usage patterns: modelling As part of the projects SSE completed, in the European Technology Platform for the taking data produced by monitoring January 2011, the installation of a public Electricity Networks of the Future defines and applying sophisticated demand network of over 20 re-charging points in smart grids as electricity networks that prediction techniques: and managing Oxford and a similar number in Hillingdon.
can intelligently integrate the behaviour installing network automation and In a pioneering move to further widen the and actions of all users connected to it constraint management systems, energy availability of such charging points across generators, consumers and those that storage technologies and automated the UK, the Oxford and Hillingdon networks do both in order to efficiently deliver demand response to manage network flows predicted by modelling.
are linked to a new sister network in sustainable, economic and secure Milton Keynes, so drivers can charge their electricity supplies.
SSE is committed to making sure that both cars in any of these locations.
This kind of areas benefit from the ideas put forward.
It interoperability between the two networks SSE, with Smarter Grid Solutions Ltd, an is working with Ofgem to ensure sufficient will be crucial as electric cars become more associate company, has already deployed funding is secured under the Price Control popular in the decades ahead.
SSE had commercially smart grid technology on for 2010-15 to allow NINES to move forward.
already installed home charging points for SSEs power distribution network on Orkney, SSE aims to finance TVV with sums received each driver taking part in the project.
It is allowing the connection of 15MW of extra new from Ofgems Low Carbon Networks Fund: planning other public charging points across renewable energy generation, an increase of it will submit a bid for funding in August 2011. central southern England.
one third, with the potential for this to grow further.
The Orkney Smart Grid is based on supporting deployment of SSE is also a major partner in the Mayor of the principle that capacity exists in real-time electric vehicles EVs Londons ambitious SourceLondon scheme on the power distribution grid due to variation Electric vehicles will be an essential part to install EV charging points in the capital, in demand for electricity and diversity in the of the move towards a low-carbon transport a major adopter of EV technology, and has output of grid-connected generators.
The potential number of EVs already installed EV charging points in more innovative smart grid technology permits on UK roads is predicted to be over one than 20 NCP car parks as part of this project.
greater numbers of renewable generators million by 2020.
One study in 2010 forecast to be connected to the existing electricity that EVs will overtake hybrids in UK market When their numbers become significant, EVs network, in a much cheaper and faster share and will reach a combined total of could change greatly the volume and pattern way than traditional means, by allowing over 20% by the end of the decade.
of electricity demand, and it is for this reason generators to access power network capacity in addition to supporting the low-carbon not normally available under conventional Against this background, SSE has been objectives behind them that SSE is so network planning requirements.
a full participant in two EV projects actively involved in projects such as these.
SSE has two other principal projects to support smart grid developments, working with a wide range of organisations and partners: kk Northern Isles New Energy Solutions Electric vehicles will be an essential NINES in Shetland: NINES features installing smart storage heaters and hot water tanks in up to 1,000 homes part of the move towards a low-carbon which can help balance the electricity network: adding a new electric boiler transport infrastructure.
The potential to the existing district heating system, which will be associated with the number of electric vehicles on UK roads is proposed medium-scale Gremista wind farm: deploying new technology on the network that will allow more small scale predicted to be over one million by 2020.
Scottish and Southern Energy 26 Annual Report 2011  businesses continued Energy networks expenditure around 500m.
Networks regulated asset value bn Independent consultants appointed by Ofgem have confirmed that SSEs 2011 5.3 submission represents a prudent 2010 4.9 assessment of efficient costs and 2009 4.7 Ofgem will shortly undertake a 2008 4.5 consultation.
Subject to that and to continued progress, full construction 2007 4.2 work on the replacement line, including the erection of new pylons, should begin later this year, with the replacement Networks asset value 2010 11 % line being completed in 2014: kk Beauly-Mossford: SHETL has undertaken ShEPd 10 public consultations on the proposal to SEPd 17 reinforce the existing 132kV electricity ShETl 32 transmission infrastructure, including SGn 50% share 41 a new substation and a new line to accommodate a higher capacity.
An application for consent to undertake the work was submitted to Scottish Ministers in January 2011.
Based on early estimates, two parts of the project are likely to require total investment of around 45m: upgrading scotlands electricity of transmission projects to help connect kk Shetland: SHETL has now secured transmission network renewable energy to the electricity consent for converter stations Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission network.
These projects have a total associated with the proposed 320km Ltd SHETL is responsible for operating, value of almost 200m and should all subsea 25km onshore under ground maintaining and investing in the transmission be completed between 2011 and 2015: high voltage direct current HVDC network in its area, which serves around kk Beauly-Denny: Scottish Ministers transmission link between the Shetland 70% of the land mass of Scotland.
As the granted consents, with associated Islands and Moray on the Scottish licensed transmission company for the area, conditions, in January 2010, to install a mainland to accommodate renewable SHETL has to ensure there is sufficient 400kV overhead electricity transmission energy developments in Shetland.
The network capacity for those seeking to line to replace the existing 132kV link would also connect properties in generate electricity from renewable overhead transmission line between Shetland to the mainland electricity and other sources within it.
The existing line will network for the first time.
Construction works in this, in December 2009, the European A series of major developments have the line with the 58.8m of initial funding Commission announced that SSE had potential to transform the scale and scope authorised by Ofgem in September been successful in securing a capital of SSEs electricity transmission business: 2010 are well under way.
Substantive grant of up to 74m under the European progress has also been made in Energy Programme for Recovery.
The kk Knocknagael Substation, Beaulysatisfying conditions associated with grant is towards the incremental cost Blackhillock-Kintore and BeaulyScottish Ministers consent to replace of including an intermediate offshore Dounreay: Ofgem has authorised prethe line which apply to the SSE section.
HVDC hub off Caithness on the route construction and construction funding Proposals were submitted to Ofgem in of the proposed Shetland link and for these three upgrades in the SHETL December 2010 for authorisation of the increasing the capacity of the southern area, which form part of the first phase remainder of SSEs share of the project section to Moray.
The hub is at the centre of a potential, innovative threeended Y configuration, with legs from Caithness and Shetland to accommodate substantial planned renewable energy developments in the far north east of Scotland and the Northern isles and With such significant investment could be the first step towards an offshore super grid: and requirements over the next few years, kk Western Isles: In October 2010, SHETL concluded that the lack of financial not least in providing the infrastructure underwriting from electricity generators attributed to the level of transmission charges relating to the link from the to accommodate electricity produced Western Isles to the mainland meant it would not be able to conclude a contract from renewable sources, the scope for the supply of the necessary electricity cable.
As a result, it withdrew its request for additional incremental growth to Ofgem for authorisation to make the investment.
The project remains active and SSE will prepare a new request for in electricity networks is clear.
27 Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information authorisation to invest in the link as soon kk the length of time over which assets will Gas Distribution as these issues are resolved.
In practice, be depreciated, with 20 years for existing this is likely to take around one year.
assets and 45 years for new assets: performance in sGn kk the allowed cost of equity, with an SSE receives 50% of the distributable Based on current estimates although these indicative range of 6.0-7.2%: and earnings from Scotia Gas Networks SGN, in will inevitably be revised the Shetland and kk the allowed cost of debt, with the use line with its equity holding, and also provides Western Isles links could require investment of an index for determining companies it with corporate and management services.
In SGN in 2010 11: The charging arrangements for electricity This package represented a step forward kk SSEs share of operating profit was and gas transmission networks are in reaching an acceptable Price Control, but 186.8m, up from 183.7m in the currently the subject of an Ofgemextensive engagement with Ofgem and other previous year: sponsored independent review named stakeholders is required to ensure the final kk gas transported increased by 3.2TWh Project TransmiT which was launched in settlement fulfils the objectives that have to 166.2TWh: and September 2010.
It is designed to ensure been set for it.
Transmission companies kk 97.2% of uncontrolled gas escapes that the framework for transmission such as SHETL are required to develop were attended within one hour of charging promotes security of supply and business plans by the end of July 2011, notification, compared with 97.9% a low carbon future, while keeping the cost demonstrating how they will meet the in the previous year.
of transmission to customers under control.
sustainability challenge, fund network The outcome of Project TransmiT will have investment and ensure continued safe SGNs two networks therefore both a bearing on the amount of electricity from and reliable operation of the networks achieved the 97% standard for uncontrolled renewable sources that is developed in and high levels of customer service.
Scotland and, therefore, on the way in which the transmission network is upgraded.
The increase in operating profit for SGN is primarily due to two things: Looking to the longer term, SSE has participated in the Electricity Networks kk the impact of the price changes agreed Strategy Group, sponsored by Ofgem as part of the five-year gas Distribution and the UK Department of Energy and Price Control to March 2013: and Climate Change and involving all of the kk underlying operational efficiencies transmission companies in Great Britain.
It has identified a potential need for Electricity Distribution sub-sea cable links between Scotland Only 3.5% of SGNs transportation income and Transmission and England known as bootstraps.
SSE is volume-related: the remaining 96.5% priorities in 2011 12 expects to be a major participant in this is related to the maximum capacity and other transmission developments over and beyond requirements of its customers.
A small the next decade and beyond.
part of SGNs operating profit is derived from the non-regulated activities of its during 2011 12 SSEs priorities Keeping the lights on and contracting, connections and commercial in electricity networks are to: supporting growth services operations.
Keeping the lights on and supporting kk maintain safe and reliable supplies of growth was the name given to the public operating gas networks efficiently power and to restore supplies as quickly consultation issued by Scottish Hydro When SGN acquired its networks in June as possible in the event of interruptions: Electric Transmission Ltd SHETL in 2005, National Grid was contracted to kkrespond effectively to the new February 2011 through which it sought the provide it with services with a total value arrangements in electricity distribution views of customers and other stakeholders of 30m per annum.
In the period since, for allocating costs between support on the key activities and investments that activities expenses and networks services have been brought within SGN, capital : should be included in its business plan for and SGNs remaining service contracts with kkdeliver successfully its investment plans the new electricity Transmission Price National Grid total 7m per annum.
These in its electricity distribution networks: Control that is due to run for eight years Managed Services Agreement contracts kkdeploy innovative techniques to maximise from 1 April 2013. cover transmission services, control and IT the returns from good performance in services and emergency call handling, and electricity networks: The consultation stemmed from Ofgems the process of bringing them within SGN kkmake further progress in upgrading new RIIO Revenue Incentives Innovation is continuing.
During 2011 12, it will stop the transmission network in the north Outputs model for economic regulation.
using National Grids Gas Transportation of Scotland: and RIIO is designed to encourage the efficient kkcontinue to work with stakeholders to Management System and replace it with its secure an acceptable outcome to the new investment and innovation needed to secure new Distribution Network Control System.
energy supplies and meet environmental targets while delivering long-term value for investing in gas networks and with such significant investment requirements money for customers.
securing growth in their raV over the next few years, not least in providing The five-year gas Distribution Price the infrastructure to accommodate electricity In March 2011, Ofgem published its strategy Control, which began in April 2008, produced from renewable sources, the scope for the new electricity Transmission Price provides the opportunity for SGN to for additional incremental growth in electricity Control RIIO-T1.
The financial package increase significantly investment in its gas networks is clear.
addressed key issues such as: distribution networks, thereby reinforcing their safety and reliability and securing Scottish and Southern Energy 28 Annual Report 2011  businesses continued Energy networks preparing for the new gas SGN was awarded 1.1m under Ofgems Distribution price control As with electricity transmission, a new eight-year Price Control will be introduced scheme for rewarding companies for for gas distribution from 1 April 2013 RIIO-GD1.
SGN has undertaken extensive developing and adopting best practice in consultations with stakeholders to help determine what should be included in its serving the interests of customers, society business plan for the new Price Control.
In March 2011, Ofgem published its strategy and the environment.
This was the second for the new gas Distribution Price Control RIIO-GD1.
In addition to the allowed cost of successive year in which SGN secured equity and allowed cost of debt see Keeping the lights on and supporting growth above the highest award under the scheme.
the financial package included proposals to refine the depreciation profile, so that it is entirely front loaded, and to capitalise all replacement expenditure only 50% is capitalised at present.
another significant increase in their RAV.
Earning financial rewards for As in electricity transmission this package By 2013, SGN estimates that its total RAV corporate responsibility represents a step forward in reaching an will be around 4.8bn.
In September 2010, SGN was awarded acceptable Price Control, but still requires 1.1m under Ofgems scheme for rewarding extensive engagement with Ofgem and other During 2010 11, SGN invested 399.3m in companies for developing and adopting stakeholders to ensure the final settlement capital expenditure and mains and services best practice in serving the interests of fulfils the objectives that have been set for it.
replacement projects, compared with customers, society and the environment.
412.8m in the previous year: This was the second successive year in which SGN secured the highest award kk the most high profile capital project under the scheme.
Amongst other things, is the 21m replacement of the underthe award was in respect of SGNs Green sea gas main between the south coast Gas project, to introduce biomethane from mainland and the Isle of Wight, which is sewerage into the gas network.
The project involves which is judged by a panel of industry connecting Lepe and Gurnard through experts, was established as part of Ofgems Gas Distribution priorities the longest directional drill ever gas Distribution Price Control 2008-13. undertaken 3.9km.
Two tunnels in 2011 12 and beyond have been bored, meeting around making gas networks more sustainable 40 metres below the seabed, to take In March 2011, the UK government launched the two 12 inch diameter pipes: the Renewable Heat Incentive to revolutionise during 2011 12, SGns priorities are to: kk the majority of the mains replacement the way heat is generated and used in kkdeliver a safe and secure gas supply expenditure was incurred under the buildings.
It will support emerging to customers: 30:30 mains replacement programme technologies and is designed to reduce kkdeliver to time and budget the 2011 12 which was started in 2002.
This requires dependence on heating from fossil fuels.
mains replacement and capital works that all iron gas mains within 30 metres programmes: of homes and premises must be replaced SGN has long recognised that renewable kkestablish the new distribution network over a 30-year period.
During 2010 11, heat is an untapped resource.
Working with Control System: SGN replaced 1,102km of its metallic a water company and a gas supplier, it began kkcontinue to work with stakeholders to gas mains with modern polyethylene the delivery and supply of biomethane to 200 secure an acceptable outcome to the pipes: and homes in Oxfordshire.
Under the scheme, the new gas distribution Price Control: and kksupport sustainable developments in kk SGN is also committed to making new first of its kind in Britain, sludge is subjected gas distribution.
gas connections to existing homes that to the process of anaerobic digestion to are not on mains gas as affordable as create biogas which, after the removal of possible, and is running a new Assisted impurities, is fed into the gas distribution Connections scheme, under which network.
It is estimated that biomethane 4,700 properties were connected to its could account for up to 15% of domestic networks during 2010 11.
A further 5,000 gas needs in the UK in 2020. properties are expected to be connected in 2011 12.
SGN is now developing this technology so that larger volumes of biomethane at other Investment will continue to be a top priority sites can be commissioned into the network for SGN and, in line with that, it expects to and is progressing around 50 enquiries for invest around 400m in capital expenditure biomethane network entry points from and mains and service replacement projects anaerobic digestion and landfill gas projects during 2011 12. in Scotland and southern England.
