Scottish and Southern Energy 10 Annual Report 2011 Why invest in SSE?
Dividend SSEs principal financial objective SSE has delivered above-inflation dividend increases every year since it was formed in is to deliver annual above-inflation 1998 one of only six FTSE 100 companies to have done so.
To do Diversity SSE is the only company listed on the this, it operates and invests in a London Stock Exchange with a balanced mix of  and marketrange of energy-related businesses, based energy businesses.
setting great store by diversity.
Discipline SSEs commitment to above-inflation dividend growth is supported by the application of a series of financial principles, including In doing this, it exercises discipline a strong balance sheet.
through adherence to a series Delivery SSE is focused on delivery of annual of well-established financial dividend growth, sector-leading service to customers and value-adding investments principles and prioritises delivery in new energy assets.
in everything from cost control to constructing new assets.
SSE has a balanced business, preparing for a decade of change in energy Set out below are some of the developments SSE has interests in electricity generation, that will affect the energy sector over the transmission, distribution and supply and next decade and beyond and when they are in gas production, storage, distribution set to take effect.
SSE is actively preparing and supply, and so this period of change for the changes that these developments will affect every part of its business.
With its balanced business model and The EU Energy Commissioner, commitment to core values such as efficiency, Gnther Oettinger, has said that Europes sustainability and excellence, SSE believes energy sector is on the threshold of an it is well-placed to make the most of the unprecedented period of change.
opportunities that change will bring.
2011 2012 2013 Key development rEnEWaBlE HEat GrEEn DEal pHasE 3 of Eu Emissions nEW ElEctricity nEW Gas DistriBution incEntiVE traDinG scHEmE transmission pricE pricE control riio-G1 control riio-t1 2010 First part of a phased Forecast implementation in Phase 3 of EU ETS, all RiiO-T1 will set for an RiiO-G1 will set for an main impact rollout designed to increase of new energy efficiency carbon dioxide emissions eight-year period the eight-year period the rapidly renewable sources framework for Gb, with allowances for electricity allowed revenues electricity allowed revenues gas of heat in Gb.
the Green deal finance generators will be auctioned.
transmission companies distribution companies mechanism and new Energy Carbon price support in Gb can collect.
