78189 Front FINAL 78189 StCchV10 FRONT 05 07 2011 11:39 Page 18 4 Directors biographies Details of corporate governance, including the operation of the Board of Directors, are given in section 6 of this Annual Report.
A brief biography of each director is given below.
4.1 4.2 Executive Directors 4.1 Sir Brian Souter Position: Chief Executive Appointment to the Board: n a co-founder Age: 57 a Committee Membership: None.
External appointments: Chairman, Souter Investments.
4.3 4.4 Previous experience: A Chartered Accountant, Sir Brian i co-founded Stagecoach, Scottish plc of the year 2008.
Sir Brian was named Businessman of the year at the Insider Elite Awards 2004. o Executive responsibilities: Sir Brian is the architect of the Groups o strategy and philosophy.
He has extensive knowledge of the ground transportation industry around the world and is responsible for o managing all of the Groups operations.
4.2 Martin Griffiths 4.5 4.6 Position: Finance Director Appointment to the Board: 2000 Age: 45 Committee Membership: Pension Oversight and Health, Safety and Environmental.
External appointments: Virgin Rail Group Co-Chairman, a Robert Walters plc Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, AG Barr plc Non-Executive Director.
4.7 4.8 Previous experience: A Chartered Accountant, Martin Griffiths is a member and former Chairman of the Group of Scottish Finance Directors and former Director of Troy Income & Growth Trust plc, Trainline Holdings Limited, RoadKing Infrastructure HK Limited u and Citybus HK Limited.
He was young Scottish Finance Director N of the year in 2004.
Executive responsibilities: Martin Griffiths is responsible for the Groups overall financial policy, taxation, treasury, employee benefits a and pensions management.
He supports the Chief Executive in all 4.9 aspects of the management of the Groups operations and new business development.
page 18 | Stagecoach Group plc 78189 Front FINAL 78189 StCchV10 FRONT 05 07 2011 11:39 Page 19 o s o 4.6 Garry Watts MBE Non-Executive Directors Position: Non-Executive Director Senior Independent 4.3 Sir George Mathewson Appointment to the Board: 2007 Position: Non-Executive Chairman Age: 54 Appointment to the Board: 2006 Committee Membership: Audit Chair, Remuneration and Nomination.
Age: 71 External appointments: Spire Healthcare Limited Executive Committee Membership: Nomination.
Chairman, Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc Non-Executive Director.
External Appointments: Cheviot Asset Management Chairman, Previous experience: A Chartered Accountant, Garry Watts Arrow global Ltd Chairman, DBRS Inc Board member.
is a former Chief Executive of SSL International plc, Non-Executive c Previous Experience: Former Chairman of the Royal Bank Director of the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory of Scotland Group plc.
Former Chief Executive of the Scottish Agency and Protherics plc and Executive Director of Celltech plc, Development Agency now Scottish Enterprise.
Former Director Finance Director of Medeva plc and partner with KPMG.
of Scottish Investment Trust plc.
Former member of the Board of Directors of the Institute of International Finance.
Former member of the Financial Reporting Council.
Former Chairman of Wood 4.7 Helen Mahy Mackenzie Limited.
Former Chairman of Council of Economic Position: Non-Executive Director Advisors, Past President of the International Monetary Conference.
Appointment to the Board: 2010 Age: 50 4.4 Ewan Brown CBE Committee Membership: Health, Safety and Environmental Position: Non-Executive Director Chair, Audit.
Appointment to the Board: 1988 External appointments: National Grid plc Group Company Age: 69 Secretary and General Counsel, member of Executive Committee : S advisory Board member of Opportunity Now.
Committee Membership: Pension Oversight Chair and Nomination.
Previous experience: Former Non-Executive Director of Aga R Rangemaster Group plc and Group General Counsel and Company External appointments: Noble Grossart Holdings Ltd Secretary of Babcock International Group PLC.
Non-Executive Director, Royal Society of Edinburgh Treasurer Senior Governor of St Andrew University, Deputy Chair of the i Edinburgh International Festival.
4.8 Phil White CBE Previous experience: Executive Director of Noble Grossart Position: Non-Executive Director until 2003, a former Chairman of TIE and Lloyds TSB Scotland, a Appointment to the Board: 2010 Non-Executive Director of the Wood Group and Lloyds Banking o Age: 61 Group plc, Chairman of Creative Scotland 2009 Limited.
Committee Membership: Audit, Remuneration Chair and Health, Safety and Environmental.
4.5 Ann Gloag OBE External appointments: Lookers plc Non-Executive Chairman, Position: Non-Executive Director Kier Group plc Non-Executive Chairman, Unite Group plc Appointment to the Board: n a co-founder Non-Executive Chairman.
Age: 68 Previous experience: A Chartered Accountant, Phil White served Committee Membership: Health, Safety and Environmental.
as Chief Executive of National Express Group plc from 1997 to 2006.
External appointments: Mercy Ships International Board Member.
Previous experience: Ann Gloag co-founded Stagecoach and 4.9 Will Whitehorn served as executive director until 2000.
Position: Non-Executive Director Appointment to the Board: 2011 Age: 51 Committee Membership: Remuneration, Nomination.
External Appointments: Loewy Group Ltd Chairman, Scottish Exhibition Centre Ltd Non-Executive Director, ILN Group Limited Non-Executive Director.
Member of the Science Technology Facilities Council and member of the First Minister of Scotlands GlobalScot business mentoring network.
Previous Experience: Former President of Virgin Galactic and Brand Development and Corporate Affairs Director at Virgin Group.
Former Non-Executive Chairman of Next Fifteen Communications Group plc.
