ovErviEw, BusiNEss ModEl & strAtEgy for the year ended 27 November 2011 Overview are disclosed in the notes to the financial SThree is a specialist permanent and statements.
contract staffing business, currently This section, the Chairmans and other comprised of four main operating brands, officers sections of this Annual Report Computer Futures, Huxley Associates, provide information relating to the Groups Progressive and Real Staffing Group, all activities, its business and strategy and of which operate under a well established the principal risks and uncertainties multi-brand strategy.
The first office, as faced by the business, including analysis Computer Futures, opened in London using financial and other KPIs where in 1986, whilst international expansion necessary.
These, together with the started in 1998 with the launch of an office Russell Clements Directors Remuneration Report, Corporate Chief Executive Officer in Brussels.
Each brand shares common Governance and Corporate Responsibility services such as finance, information Reports, provide an overview of the Group, services, human resources and legal.
The including environmental and employee Group has grown organically and has a matters and give an indication of future diverse client base of over 7,000 clients.
developments in the Groups business.
Currently 60 offices are located globally, This provides a balanced assessment of with ambitious expansion plans and our the Groups position and prospects, in priority is to grow the business in line with accordance with the Business Review the strategy below.
requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
From our well-established position in the Business model & strategy ICT sector, the Group has broadened SThree specialises in placing permanent its operations by building fast-growing and contract staff in niche segments of businesses serving the Engineering & the staffing market, with the ultimate aim Energy, Banking, Pharmaceuticals & of being the most respected and highly Biotechnology, Accountancy and job valued international, specialist staffing board sectors.
The Group began trading services business.
on the London Stock Exchange in November 2005 and in 2007 launched For permanent placements, the Group a US Level One ADR facility.
From its charges a commission, which is inception, the Group has avoided the high typically expressed as a percentage of a volume, low margin business model in candidates starting salary, the quantum favour of a focus on high quality business.
of which depends upon the particular role The Groups main subsidiary undertakings specialism, underlying market, geography Lyon Berlin Lille Stavanger INDICATIVE OFFICE ROLLOUT Oslo Cologne Geneva Vienna 2012 & 2013 Eindhoven Nuremberg Calgary Toronto Vancouver San Diego Austin Tokyo Mexico City Shanghai Kuala Lumpur Rio fide Janeiro Buenos Aires Brisbane Abu Dhabi Melbourne Johannesburg 02 SThree plc Report & financial statements 2011 OvERvIEw, BuSINESS MOdEL & STRATEgy and candidate skills.
For contract are in short supply.
This niche within a placements, a daily, weekly or monthly niche approach means we are typically rate may be charged, which includes a representing a candidate for whom there mark up on top of the candidates own is competition amongst employers.
rate, the quantum of which depends upon This mitigates against margin pressure, the particular role specialism, underlying ensures that we benefit from wage rate market, geography and candidate inflation and operate in markets where a skills.
This simple but successful basic high rate of employee churn is the norm.
recruitment business model is built around Growth through our multi-brand the following core principles: model The specialist staffing market is highly fragmented with the typical player a small niche operator.
This reflects the profile of the candidates whose skillsets are developed around specialist expertise and who have a strong preference for dealing with equally specialist recruiters.
By engaging with the candidate in this way the recruiter is able to offer the client higher quality candidates.
For this reason SThree operates as a House of Brands rather than a Branded House with four major specialist Brands.
Organic growth our default assumption We have never acquired another business to date and none of the ambitious plans we have for the future is predicated upon us doing so in the future.
We are not philosophically opposed to the idea of acquisitions in principle.
However in the event we did buy a business it would be a small bolt-on acquisition which expedited our growth into a specific geography and or segment.
Growth through international & sectoral expansion Having started in the UK we now generate around Pure play specialist staffing SThree two thirds of our business from our has a twenty five year track record international operations.
We have of success as a pure play specialist established a total of sixty offices in staffing company and we feel no need seventeen countries and are adding to fundamentally change this approach.
approximately six new international We do not position ourselves as a offices each year.
In parallel having initially Recruitment Process Outsourcer RPO focused exclusively on the ICT sector, but as a specialist solution provider with we now derive around forty percent of our consultants offering expertise in high our Gross Profit from the Engineering value niches.
This means that we do not & Energy, Banking, Pharmaceuticals & need to trade value for volume to grow our Biotechnology, Accountancy and job business even in our mature markets.
Focus on highly skilled, niche Growth through home grown candidates A key criteria for deciding management We prefer wherever the attractiveness of a market is the possible to grow the business using extent to which the candidates skills management that we have developed SThree plc Report & financial statements 2011 03 OvERvIEw, BuSINESS MOdEL & STRATEgy ourselves typically from early on in the historical success and a major reason why individuals career and often direct from we have retained key staff.
We then provide industryvalues are Energy, Reward, Rapport leading training and career development.
These values are common Well over 90% of our management have across the SThree brands and although come through this route.
We only hire the brands have distinctive propositions, external management on rare occasions our values help ensure that we have a where to do so would strengthen our coherent set of shared beliefs across the bandwidth in a particular geography and organisation and an identity as SThree.
Key Performance Indicators KPIs Senior management engagement Both financial and non-financial Key through equity participation Given Performance Indicators KPIs are used the low barriers to entry a key strategic throughout the Group to drive the challenge to scaling staffing businesses business forward and monitor progress, is retention of senior staff.
Uniquely in with the principal indicators listed in the our sector we operate a tracker share table below, including how these apply in or Minority Interest model which a strategic, remuneration or risk context.
allows selected management to buy Further analysis is provided within the a stake in the business for which they Chairmans and other officers sections are responsible, at an early stage.
This of this Annual Report, where this is means they are owner managers who do appropriate.
not need to leave SThree for an external For financial KPIs, comparison figures wealth creation opportunity.
are shown for both the current and prior Growth in line with our values year, whilst for non-financial KPIs, other SThree has a strong cultural identity generally applicable metrics are indicated.
which has been a critical element in our Definition and method of Strategic Remuneration Risk KPIs financial 2011 2010 calculation context Revenue 542.5m 474.5m Total fees earned by the Group, These are very broad indicators of before any cost deductions.
how the business is trading.
Gross Profit GP 195.5m 166.4m Revenue less cost of sales.
Also known as Net Fee Income.
Profit Before 30.3m 21.6m Gross profit, less administration Same as above, although this Tax PBT and expenses and finance income costs measure also shows how efficient exceptionals before exceptional items.
the Group is in terms of managing its cost base, a key strategic measure and component of the Groups bonus arrangements.
Total Shareholder 14% 16% TSR is defined as share price Generally used by investors but also Return TSR growth plus dividends attributable to for the Groups LTIP over a three year shareholders over a specific period.
Earnings Per Share 16.8p 11.9p Adjusted EPS is defined as profit Generally used by investors but also EPS adjusted before exceptional items for the year for the Groups LTIP over a three year attributable to the Groups equity period.
shareholders divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year.
04 SThree plc Report & financial statements 2011 OvERvIEw, BuSINESS MOdEL & STRATEgy Definition and method of Strategic Remuneration Risk KPIs financial 2011 2010 calculation context Group Gross Margin 36.0% 35.1% Gross profit as a percentage of Increasing margins, day rates and revenue.
fees, are all indicators of business quality and therefore important Contract Margin 21.4% 21.6% Contract gross profit as a percentage to maintain improve as a niche of contract revenue.
As such, they are key strategic measures and components Gross Profit per Day 86.70 84.24 Contract gross profit per average of the Groups bonus arrangements.
Rate number of working days.
Permanent fees 13.0k 12.1k Average fees of permanent average placements that started during the period.
Geographical 63% 59% Split of gross profit by location of These indicate how well the Group diversification client, whether by country or other is diversifying geographically, or by international non UK & regional classification.
sector and are important as the Group Ireland mix seeks to reduce its risk exposure to slower growth, more mature markets.
Sectoral diversification 40% 38% Split of gross profit by candidate skill As such, they are key strategic non ICT set, categorised by sector.
measures and components of the Groups bonus arrangements.
Contract Perm mix 48% 52% 51% 49% Proportion of gross profit attributable Having a mix of both contract and to contract and permanent perm business helps to protect the placements.
Group from cyclical extremes, typical of the recruitment sector.
Conversion Ratio 15.3% 12.8% The conversion ratio is the operating These indicate how efficient the profit stated as a percentage of business is in terms of controlling gross profit and measures both how costs and consultant productivity, productive consultants are and how turning profit into cash or collecting effective the Group is at controlling cash.
As such, they are key strategic the costs and expenses associated measures and components of with its normal operations and its the Groups bonus arrangements.
level of investment for the future.
Focusing on these measures also helps protect the Group in poor Cash Conversion 102% 123% Cash conversion is calculated as the economic conditions.
cash flows from operating activities for the year after deducting capex, stated as a percentage of operating profit before exceptional items and is a measure of the Groups ability to convert profit into cash.
Days Sales 36 37 Represents the length of time it takes Outstanding DSO or the Company to receive payments debtor days from its debtors.
It is calculated by comparing how many days billings it takes to cover the debtor balance.
Risk Management see N A N A The Group has a well defined ERM Some of the specific risk mitigation also section below and framework embedded throughout actions taken during 2011 are detailed Corporate Governance the business using an EBITDA below.
Report measurement scale to assess impact and probability.
Risk appetite levels are set by the Board and risks are regularly reviewed to ensure continued alignment with strategy.
SThree plc Report & financial statements 2011 05 OvERvIEw, BuSINESS MOdEL & STRATEgy Definition and method of Strategic Remuneration Risk KPIs financial 2011 2010 calculation context People Measures 2,272 heads 1,863 heads These are measures of employee To achieve its strategic growth plans Headcount Churn retention and also an indicator of and expand efficiently the Group must The overall how well a business is run.
Lower attract and retain sufficient headcount, Group churn will generally result in increased thereby building the experience pool churn productivity, as churn often occurs and avoiding constant re-training.
As % has once consultants have become such, they are key strategic measures decreased productive, through avoiding having and components of the Groups year on to spend time constantly re-training bonus arrangements.
During the year, churn reduced in all but four existing countries, with one country staying the same.
Interviews Interviews Number of interviews conducted by Whilst this provides a general measure have consultants per year.
of sales team activity, the number of increased interviews required to translate into year on a placement can vary dramatically year between perm contract as well as sectors.
64% The Group has a well defined Adherence to this policy helps to DSO above aged B.
26% credit policy, which sets out certain ensure that the Groups exposure debt metrics: C. 6% C. 7% minimum requirements in order to to customer client default is kept to A.
Current D. 1% D. 1% do business with potential clients a minimum.
The policy also helps to B.
The policy includes protect the Group in poor economic C. 31-60 days specific targets for DSO, ageing of conditions.
100% 100% D. 61-90 days receivables, credit evaluation and E. Over 91 days payment collection.
Strategic 9 new 6 new offices The Group has significantly enhanced Measures specifically focused on Development UK offices in in year its strategic development capabilities, developing the business help to Framework country year to fully assess emerging market ensure that the Group is able to expansion limits risks, off strategy risks, development maximise its return on investments pipeline and also set other new venture and minimise risks in each geography, minimum KPIs, to ensure that they whilst also building on the experience grow in a controlled and risk-contained gained in setting up each strategic manner, whilst also not neglecting the new venture.
Compliance targets by Contract Contract Above industry standard contractor Compliance processes are regularly country sector retention retention compliance targets in respect of reviewed to align with changing local 100% basic 100% basic client contractor terms, rates duration legislation, guard against deemed higher risk sector types and ID collection are set employment and to significantly sector documents annually, plus there is zero tolerance mitigate risks in higher risk sectors, documents on code of conduct breaches or e. g. oil & gas resources, where fines.
Measures are in line with Board insurance cover may also be approved risk appetite levels and strengthened.
Environmental N A N A Steadily improving targets are being Measures are agreed strategically, but see also Corporate set to reduce the Groups carbon with local implementation parameters, Responsibility report footprint and also make savings in based on specific office location, age energy expenditure.
06 SThree plc Report & financial statements 2011 OVERVIEW, BUSINESS MODEL & STRATEGY Risk management Tracker share minority interest Geographic Analysis by The Group has well defined Enterprise arrangements these arrangements are Location of Client Risk Management ERM processes, now better targeted and administratively Gross profit having articulated both Group and local streamlined, with governance FY 2011 195.5m risk appetite measures, all of which are strengthened, to promote co-ordinated 13% monitored via the various KPIs described sector growth across the business.
above and underpinned by a formal Risk 37% Supporting the business project Management Policy.
Connect was initiated to ensure all 23% Using this framework, the Board regularly support functions and processes are assesses and re-evaluates the Groups fully aligned and effective as the Group material key risks and the following are expands, whilst the Groups structure was highlighted as specific areas of focus also further rationalised in line with the by the Board during 2011, showing the corporate simplification project announced 7% various actions taken to mitigate the risk in 2010.
Consequently the Group now has 20% UK&I Benelux France and reduce both likelihood and impact in far fewer subsidiary companies, having Germany ROW each case: started with 218 in 2010 and with fewer Gross profit than 40 remaining at the end of 2011.
FY 2010 166.4m Headcount churn regional MDs 10% targets bonuses are now set against Cyclicality of business continued specific retention criteria, with localised focus on KPIs such as geographical plans in place.
Initiatives such as the sectoral diversification, contract perm Talent Drain and the Identity project mix, profit and cash conversion and debt 20% 41% were launched to specifically identify ratios, all help to ensure that the business remedy areas with higher levels of churn, is as aligned as possible with the prevailing whilst a Group wide profiling initiative, economic conditions.
Strategy and including psychometric testing, has also performance are regularly reviewed and 7% started.
the cost base can be quickly adapted, should conditions dictate.
Currently Attracting talent an improved talent 22% investment is targeted to growth markets UK&I Benelux France management process was rolled out, or geographies and sectors with a good Germany ROW in line with the Groups five year plan, strategic fit.
to identify talent early enough to give relevant support development and allow for effective time line projections into the plan.
A career portal to search for internal candidates who may not have applied for positions or who may not be Russell Clements considered was also launched, along with Chief Executive Officer a dedicated resource to actively headhunt suitable senior external staff.
There are 27 January 2012 now also more sophisticated on-boarding processes to improve cultural other assimilation for those relocating.
SThree plc Report & financial statements 2011 07
