StobartGroup CaseStudies David Irlam, Executive Director AG Barr Eddie Stobart began its contract with A G Barr, the leading soft drinks manufacturer, in May 2010.
It is excellent business for Eddie Stobart, as a large portion is transporting goods from Scotland 15 into England, which is always attractive in the transport sector.
Theres plenty of work taking goods North from England to Scotland, but less going South this contract helps fill empty miles and improves fleet utilisation across the business.
AG Barr Soft Drinks Providing Bespoke Solutions The AG Barr business is enjoying significant success, as the AG Barr wanted to outsource its significant logistics operations, companys most recent results show, and the relationship with which it had been running in-house.
Following an open tender Eddie Stobart is growing too.
Initially the warehousing contract process and pitching alongside other leading transport and in Daventry was for 10,000 pallets a week, now it has grown to distribution specialists, Eddie Stobart became A G Barrs sole 14,000 pallets a week and with the transport and distribution, transport, rail, logistics and warehouse services provider.
This is worth some 7million per annum to Eddie Stobart.
comprehensive multimodal service offering, covering road, rail and warehousing, put Eddie Stobart at a distinct advantage over other providers pitching for the business.
Case Studies Case Studies 16 David Irlam, Executive Director 17 Case Studies Now, the company is responsible for the storage, distribution and one-way traffic coming out of Scotland, integrating AG Barr movement of A G Barrs soft drinks such as the IRN Bru, Tizer, into existing fleet and labour resources was a welcome addition Orangina and Rubicon brands to major supermarket chains to the business.
across the UK, and to a dedicated Eddie Stobart Distribution Centre DC in Daventry.
Benefits to the Customer The client was eager to look at alternative greener transportation The AG Barr business is going from strength to strength, and options, and immediately Eddie Stobart was pleased to growing apace, crediting Eddie Stobarts distribution and integrate rail freight into the service, moving volumes south by warehousing service in their results demonstrating the fruitful rail from Moss End to the dedicated railhead at the companys relationship between the two companies.
In addition to extensive experience and expertise in the soft drinks market, together with valuable relationships with Competitive Advantage many of the major retailers, AG Barr also values the Eddie Stobart has an excellent track record and considerable passionate and dedicated approach to the logistics business expertise in the soft drinks market, with long-standing within Eddie Stobart.
relationships with Coca-Cola, Britvic and many supermarket In their most recent results statement, AG Barr declared an 18 chains.
The company has also invested heavily in state-of-theincrease of over 10% in pre-tax profits, Chief Executive Roger art technology, such as Isotrak and GTS, which gives clients even White said: Across 2010 we made significant investments in greater confidence in the companys renowned service levels.
"our operations and supply chain, which will give us the ability The scale and spread of the Eddie Stobart business 24 hours to improve service to customers and drive efficiency in the a day, seven days a week from over 40 UK locations - allows future. """
He added that the relationship with Eddie Stobart for operating flexibility without much risk, for example no had progressed extremely well.
significant extra resources were required to meet the demands of the new AG Barr contract.
As a result of a large amount of Pictured: The AG Barr contract draws on the complete road transport, rail freight and warehousing offering of Eddie Stobart.
This multi-disciplined capability, combined with a well-proven soft drinks sector track record made the company an ideal choice for the famous Scottish manufacturer of Irn Bru.
19 Case Studies Tesco Chilled Distribution, Widnes Building on a relationship dating back to 2005, Eddie Stobart secured a major new contract with Tesco last year for chilled distribution across the north of England.
The construction of the Chilled Distribution Centre The contract, initially for a three-year term and worth some 20 by Stobart Developments million a year, was won by Eddie Stobart, who, having pitched for the business alongside several other transport companies, Tesco was looking to consolidate its chilled distribution in the was able to offer the most comprehensive range of benefits and North, and had a requirement for a new distribution centre, in service levels to Tesco.
an optimal location to service its stores from Carlisle and the Scottish borders down to Merseyside and North Wales.
Eddie Stobart Chilled Division Stobart Park in Widnes, geographically, presented the ideal solution other than the fact that there was not yet any The Tesco contract is serviced by the Eddie Stobart Chilled 20 construction taking place on the site, let alone a fully functional operating unit as a fully comprehensive provider complete and state-of-the-art distribution centre.
with dedicated personnel manning the outbound transport distribution office on site, and senior management also resident Stobart Group, using its in-house civil engineering and at the 24 7 Widnes facility.
developments expertise, set about constructing such a chilled warehouse for Tesco all of 528,000 square feet with room for All Tesco stores across the north of England are serviced with expansion, complete with a cutting edge recycling services unit chilled and fresh goods from the facility, with Eddie Stobart RSU.
Tesco moved in during Spring 2010 and started the providing all outbound logistics of produce and return transport tendering process for the outbound distribution contract.
of packaging and waste for the on-site RSU.
Pictured: The use of special short wheelbase trailers was key to the successful winning of the Tesco contract.
Many Tesco Extra stores have very limited loading space, and the small turning circle of these shorter units allows access where use of a standard articulated vehicle would simply be impractical.
21 Bespoke Solutions Upon winning the new business, Stobart set about putting together bespoke solutions internally, such as a dedicated fleet Beyond the service levels synonymous with Eddie Stobart, there of 90 tractor units to be based at Widnes, complete with are several other benefits to Tesco of locating at Stobart Park, specialist chilled multi-temperature trailers.
for example its proximity to the on-site rail freight terminal.
Tesco is continually looking to its environmental policy and Delivering the Goods means within the business of improving its carbon footprint.
Rail freight offers these solutions, particularly over long The result is a contract now more than 12 months into full distances, and with a large portion of fresh produce coming operation, worth nearly 400,000 per week in revenue, and from the south of England and Continental Europe, Stobarts delivering 2.5 million cases each week with nearly 3,000 weekly rail freight operation has proved to be a very attractive Tesco store drops across the north of England.
In addition, the availability of clean, green energy at Stobart Park was a further advantage to Tesco, as an alternative to simply connecting to the grid to power the substantial chilled distribution operation.
David Irlam, Executive Director May 2011 22
