Stobart Group Board of Directors Year ended 28 February 2011 Rodney Baker-Bates Group Non-Executive Chairman Andrew Tinkler Chief Executive Officer Rodney Baker-Bates has had a long career in the City and international In 1988 Andrew formed WA Tinkler Building Contractors.
This was finance sector and is a seasoned Director of large UK PLCs.
later to become WA Developments, a very successful business 35 focussed on civil engineering and railway infrastructure.
It is now He has held a series of senior positions across the sector, including part of the Group and is known as Stobart Rail.
Managing Director of UK banking at the Midland Bank and Chief Executive at Prudential Financial Services, as well as serving on the BBCs In 2004, Andrew acquired Eddie Stobart Group with colleague Management Committee.
He was formerly a Non-Executive Director William Stobart and was appointed CEO.
He was instrumental in of C. Hoare & Co and Deputy Chairman of Co-Operative Financial developing the strategy and vision that is todays successful Stobart Services Limited.
In addition to his role as Stobart Group Non-Executive Chairman, A past winner of the IoD North West Director of the Year Award, Rodneys current roles include Chairman of Assura Group and EG Andrews proven risk management experience has played a valuable Consulting Limited.
He also serves as a Non-Executive Director on role in building a solid foundation for implementing the Groups the Boards of several other companies, including Bedlam Asset multimodal plans and delivering on the strategy.
Management plc and AtlasFarm Group.
Ben Whawell Chief Financial Officer Alan Kelsey Non-Executive Director & Senior Independent Director A Qualified Chartered Accountant, Ben spent nine years at Grant Alan Howard Mitchell Kelsey, aged 62, has forty years experience in Thornton before joining Eddie Stobart in 2004. the City and industry, with a strong focus on the Transport sector.
His banking roles included Deputy Head of Corporate Finance at Smith Ben has managed Eddie Stobarts International division and has been New Court which became Merrill Lynch and Co-Head of Corporate active in reshaping the Group and led a number of innovative finance Broking and Global Head of the Transportation Industry Group at and IT initiatives.
He spent fifteen years at RBC Dominion Securities Ben oversaw the Companys merger with Westbury Property Fund, International and Kitcat and Aitken and in that time was the top resulting in the formation of Stobart Group in 2007. ranked investment analyst for the Transport sector.
He also played a key role in the successful the acquisitions of James He was Group Corporate Development Director at National Express Irlam, Innovate Chilled, WA Developments, London Southend Group PLC, where he was one of the executive directors and was a Airport, Carlisle Lake District Airport and more recently, Stobart non-executive director at PD Ports PLC where he was the senior Biomass Products.
He is currently Chairman of Nord Anglia Education Ltd having previously been Chairman of Nord Anglia plc and is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport.
Appointed to the Board 23 May 2011.
The Board of Directors The Board of Directors Michael Kayser Jesper Kjaedegaard Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Michael is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Jesper has more than 30 years experience in transport and logistics.
He has held several senior positions within A. P. Moller-Maersk Group and was appointed Chief Executive of The Maersk Company UK He has extensive experience in corporate transactions, both in Limited in 2004. quoted and private markets.
Leaving in 2008, he co-founded Mercator International, an Michael has also held a variety of senior finance appointments at independent ports and infrastructure consultancy.
Currently, Jesper Laporte PLC, Doncasters Limited, Amey PLC, Unilever and Guinness is also President of the British Chamber of Shipping and Chairman Brewing Worldwide.
David Beever Non-Executive Director Paul Orchard-Lisle, CBE Non-Executive Director David Milton Maxwell Beever is a former Vice Chairman of SG Paul David Orchard-Lisle, aged 72, has nearly fifty years experience in Warburg and Co. where he was Head of Financing and handled the property sector.
He joined Healey & Baker in 1961 where he was major corporate finance transactions for UK and International Head of Investment between 1986-1998 and Senior Partner between companies.
He then joined KPMG where he was a member of the 1987-1999.
He oversaw the Companys merger with Cushman & UK Board and Chairman, UK and International.
Wakefield in 1998, forming a global company, covering the entire commercial property spectrum with a turnover in excess of $700m.
He is currently the Senior Independent Director of Premier Foods plc.
He has previously been Chairman of Volex Group plc and Paul was previously President of The Royal Institution of Chartered London and Continental Railways Ltd.
He was also a Non-Executive Surveyors and Chairman of Slough Estates now Segro plc and Director of Paragon Group of Companies, JJB Sports, Northern executive chairman of the Falcon Property Trust.
He is Chairman of Electric, TLS Group and Servomex plc.
He is a member of the Board Standard Life Investments Property Income Trust and a Director of of Trustees, University of London, and a Vice Chairman of Royal Powerleague Limited, as well as Chairman of Apache Capital LLP and Holloway College, London University.
a Senior Advisor to Patron Capital.
