The New Business Structure This division includes all of the forms of transport, shared-user network, the road distribution operation storage and handling services provided by the Group, achieves industry-leading fleet utilisation levels of Transport and Distribution encompassing all of the multimodal services provided approximately 83%.
through road, rail and ports.
The multimodal offering presented by this division is a With over 2,250 vehicles and six million square feet core strength of the Group and the divisions of warehousing, Stobart Transport and Distribution technology will enable it to remain highly competitive.
meets ambient and chilled distribution and warehousing requirements across ten business units operating from 40 sites in the UK and Europe.
Using a Stobart Group owns five operational, transport and Stobart Estates is responsible for the management, warehousing sites, development land at Widnes, development and realisation of all Group land and Estates a waterway port at Runcorn, two airports and building assets.
Performance of this division will be investment properties.
monitored by regular third party valuations on the same independent basis that any stand-alone 9 property asset company would be valued.
Incorporating Stobart Rail Infrastructure and Civil The Civil Engineering operation is responsible for the Engineering, this division delivers internal and development and improvement of the Groups property Infrastructure external infrastructure and development projects holdings.
and Civil Engineering across the Group.
A fully comprehensive operation, Stobart Infrastructure The Rail business is one of the UKs leading names in rail and Engineering delivers completed projects from the network maintenance, repair and improvement, design and planning stage through to handover, delivering earthworks, structures, bridge replacement, covering a broad range of industrial, warehousing, permanent way, emergency works, drainage and freight, distribution and rail infrastructure requirements.
Stobart Air is operator of two complementary airport The Directors believe that LSA will be able to develop facilities located at London Southend and Carlisle.
The new routes and attract new operators over the next Air sites, which are already home to a number of few years, with the aim of servicing over 2 million successful commercial tenants, also represent attractive passengers annually.
locations for subsidiary businesses and the The Group will also pursue air freight, maintenance development of both passenger and air freight services.
and airport service opportunities at LSA, including The Group intends to grow Stobart Air significantly airport retail, private facilities, lounges and fees including the ongoing development at LSA in time for generated from the rail terminal, which will provide the 2012 Olympics.
up to eight services an hour direct to London Liverpool Street.
The launch of Stobart Biomass Products represents a A significant percentage of the cost of biomass fuel pivotal move into a rapidly developing new business relates to transport and logistics.
When coupled with Biomass sector for the Group.
the fact that importation of biomass is already on the increase, the Group believes that there are significant Stobart Biomass sources sustainable biomass, primarily benefits and synergies between Stobart Biomass and life-expired timber and low-grade softwood for the the Groups road, rail and port assets.
generation of minimum-carbon power plants utilised both in large-scale electricity generation and smaller, on-site industrial power plants.
The New Business Structure The New Business Structure William Stobart, Group COO and Head of Stobart Transport and Distribution Eddie Stobarts son, William, started his career with the transport company as a teenager, carrying out a broad spectrum of roles including HGV Driver, Planner and Distribution Manager.
This comprehensive early experience at the heart of the UK transport and logistics sector provided William with an in-depth knowledge and understanding of every level in the business.
As COO William focuses his extensive experience and leadership skills on the core operations of the Group with a particular responsibility for the Transport and Distribution division.
Richard Butcher, Group Deputy CEO and Head of Stobart Estates Richard joined Eddie Stobart in 1997 after 14 years with HSBC Corporate Finance and has been closely involved in a wide range of Stobart business activities.
Richard has played a key role in the development and leveraging of the companys property assets, such as the Groups extensive land and commercial interests in the North 10 West, with particular emphasis on the Widnes and Runcorn sites.
He has also concentrated on other property purchases and disposals across the Group, as well as continuing the Stobart tradition of building close and lasting relationships with customers.
Andy Bathgate, Divisional Co-Head Kirk Taylor, Divisional Co-Head With 20 years experience in the sector, Kirk Taylor has over 20 years experience in Andy, has completed projects ranging from construction civils, including the last ten in power stations to major water and sewage rail works with WA Developments and works, as well as several Stobart Rail Stobart Group.
As Stobart Rail MD, his infrastructure projects.
Most recently he has knowledge and experience have helped overseen the development of Group assets, establish its exceptional reputation for such as Stobart Park in Widnes and the delivering projects on time and on budget - new 500,000 square foot Tesco Chilled DC often to very tight deadlines.
Most recently at the site.
he has steered the construction of the new rail station at London Southend Airport.
Alastair Welch, Head of Stobart Air Alastair Welch has two decades experience in the airport industry, starting his career in the sector at Heathrow during the 1980s.
He has held senior operational, engineering, finance, strategy and large capital project roles at several airports.
Leading the Stobart Air business since the Group acquired London Southend in 2008, Alastair is now responsible for the operation and development of both LSA and Carlisle Lake District Airport.
Under his guidance the major projects at LSA, including the new terminal, hotel station, control tower and runway extension will all be completed by the end of 2011: in readiness for the large passenger influx to the Olympic Games in 2012.
Allan Jenkinson, Head of Stobart Biomass Founder of AW Jenkinson Forest Products, Allan started in business in the mid-1960s by collecting the unwanted sawdust from mills around Penrith in Cumbria and selling it on to local farms to meet great demand for the timber by-product as bedding in cattle sheds.
A pioneering environmentalist, Allans business expanded across the North West and into Scotland, with the growth of new emerging uses for timber by-products such as bark for garden mulch and peat-free compost preparations.
Today, demand for such products worldwide is enormous, with timber by-products used on an industrial scale for board manufacture and fuelling new carbon neutral power stations.
