SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 07 4 Chief Executive Officers Review Group strategy The Group has established a strategic plan which will 2010: c. 4%.
We have set ourselves a target of all e-Commerce sales to constitute 20% of total Group revenue.
grow revenues and profits as well as build the necessary supporting infrastructure.
Growth will be driven in the following key areas: International franchises While the UK retail opportunity has potential, developing a UK Retail roll-out network of franchise stores across the world is the initiative Our objective is to expand the UK Retail standalone store with the greatest potential to drive revenue and profit estate by up to 150, in locations that show the greatest growth.
profit potential, match the brand demographic and target specific customer bases.
We will continue to develop a worldwide network of franchise and licensed stores and currently have 80 stores and 25 concessions in 22 countries.
Three countries served Each year we plan to open approximately 20 new by SuperGroup Europe BVBA France, Belgium and Holland standalone sites which include relocations.
have 39 of our international stores.
While the concession estate has limited opportunity to We plan to open a minimum of 50 franchise stores in 2012. grow there will be a number of additions to complement the standalone estate.
European own Retail roll-out Accelerate internet roll-out The acquisition of SuperGroup Europe BVBA in February 2011 provides us with an opportunity to accelerate delivery During the year the Group operated from two main of our strategic plan.
It enhances profitability, facilitates websites which were supplemented by local language sites acceleration of the franchise store roll-out and gives the in France, Germany and Belgium and we now sell to over Group a management team that has a deep understanding 85 countries worldwide.
of the European retail environment.
The internet route to market has demonstrated exceptional We aim to establish an estate of owned stores in key cities growth and now represents c. 8% of Group revenue with the first openings likely to start in 2013.
20130.04 08 08 2011 Proof 15 Financial Statements Governance Performance Introduction
