38 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 10 Corporate Governance Statement Statement of compliance with the Combined Code 2008 the Code The Board remains committed to the achievement of high standards of corporate governance which it considers to be central to the effective management of the Group and to maintaining the confidence of investors.
Considerable progress has been made during the reporting year to continue to develop appropriate and adequate corporate governance arrangements.
The following sections, together with the Directors Remuneration Report in section 12 on pages 48 to 53 the Directors Report in section 9 on pages 32 to 35 and the Directors biographies in section 8 on pages 30 to 31, provide an explanation of how the principles of the Code have been applied and of areas of non-compliance during the period in which compliance with the Code was required.
The Audit Committee report in section 11 forms part of this statement.
The Board The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the success of the Group.
The Board provides leadership for the Group and concentrates its efforts on strategy, performance, governance and internal control.
The system of internal control in place within the Group is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk, and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or risk.
As at the date of this report, the Board has nine members: the Non-executive Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, three other Executive Directors and four Non-executive Directors.
Biographies of these Directors appear in section 8 on pages 30 to 31.
The area of non-compliance during the reporting year was the ratio of Non-executive Directors to Executive Directors Code provision A.
This area of non-compliance was reported in the Annual Report 2010.
At the date of this report, the ratio of Non-executive to Executive Directors is in accordance with the principles of the Combined Code following the resignation of Diane Savory on 6 May 2011.
During the financial year ended 1 May 2011, SuperGroup complied with the relevant provisions set out in section 1 of the UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance the 2008 Code in all areas apart from code provision A.
The Board intends to comply with the provisions of the new UK Corporate Governance Code the 2010 Code in full during the financial year ended 29 April 2012.
We are adopting early the provisions relating to the annual re-election of directors and will be proposing the relevant resolutions at the Annual General Meeting in September 2011.
Keith Edelman was appointed as the Groups Senior Independent Director in March 2010.
All the Non-executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of management and free from any relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Board meets regularly to consider issues relating to the overall performance, strategy and future development of the Group.
In accordance with the Combined Code, a schedule of matters reserved to it for decisions has been approved by the Board and this has been communicated widely to the Group.
The principal matters reserved for the Board are: l setting and managing Group strategy: l changes relating to the Groups capital structure including share issues and buy backs: l financial reporting and controls: l ensuring maintenance of sound internal controls and risk management: l capital expenditure and long term commitments: l board membership and appointment: l remuneration policy: l delegation of authority: and l corporate governance and company policy.
The requirement for Board approval on these matters is understood.
