48 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 12 Directors Remuneration Report Introduction This report has been prepared on behalf of the Board by the Remuneration Committee.
It has been prepared in accordance with the Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 the Regulations issued under the Companies Act 2006 the Act and meets the requirements of the Financial Services Authoritys Listing Rules.
A resolution to approve this report will be proposed at the 2011 Annual General Meeting of the Company at which the financial statements will be approved.
The report has been divided into separate sections for unaudited and audited information.
UNAUDITED INFORMATION Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee consists of three independent Non-executive Directors.
The members of the Remuneration Committee are Keith Edelman Committee Chairman, Indira Thambiah and Steven Glew.
The Remuneration Committee meets at least three times per annum but more frequently if required.
Meetings held, and attendance by Remuneration Committee members during the financial year ending 1 May 2011, are detailed in the corporate governance statement.
None of the Remuneration Committee members has any personal financial interest other than as shareholders, or conflicts of interests arising from cross-directorships or day-to-day involvement in running the Group.
Directors are not involved in discussions about their own remuneration.
At the invitation of the committee, except where their own remuneration was being discussed, the Chief Operating Officer and the Head of Human Resources attended committee meetings during the year under review and provided advice to assist the committee.
The main responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee include: l determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration policy for the Chairman, Executive Directors and senior management: l setting individual remuneration arrangements for the Chairman and Executive Directors: l recommending and monitoring the remuneration of senior management: and l approving the service agreements for the Chairman and Executive Directors, including termination arrangements.
The remuneration of the Non-executive Directors is a matter for the Chairman and Executive Directors.
The remuneration of the Chairman is a matter for the Remuneration Committee.
The role of Remuneration Committee Secretary is fulfilled by the Company Secretary.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee are available at www.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for appointing external independent consultants to advise on executive remuneration matters.
Hewitt New Bridge Street HNBS were appointed by the Remuneration Committee during the year to advise on the development of an executive remuneration policy.
The terms of engagement between the Company and HNBS are available from the Company Secretary on request.
Remuneration policy The Company currently operates an Executive Director remuneration policy comprising base salaries and benefits car allowances are paid and medical benefits provided to certain individuals.
As a result of the Executive Directors significant shareholdings in the Company and commitments to retain shares, the Remuneration Committee believes that individuals are sufficiently incentivised to mitigate the need to offer annual or long-term incentive arrangements at this point.
The Remuneration Committee will keep this policy under continuous review.
However, following a review of remuneration arrangements for senior executives below Board level Senior Executives, the Remuneration Committee concluded that it needed to introduce a competitive suite of market-consistent annual and long-term incentive arrangements to enable it to recruit, retain and incentivise those individuals who do not hold significant shareholdings in the Company.
The Remuneration Committee has, therefore, developed market-consistent and competitive annual bonus and long-term incentive arrangements for certain Senior Executives.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee has continued to review the remuneration policy and has implemented a range of employee benefits for certain employees in order to attract and retain talent.
These include private medical cover and life insurance for certain senior executives.
The Board has approved the introduction of a defined contribution pension plan in May 2011 to be rolled out across the Group by September 2012.
