Synergy Health plc 32 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Report of the Directors The Directors present their management report together with financial Directors statements for the period ended 3 April 2011.
The present Directors of the Company are shown on pages 30 and 31.
G Hill was appointed to the Board on 26 April 2010 and I M Jacques Principal activity resigned on that date.
C F Baroudel was appointed to the Board on The principal activities of the Group are the provision of outsourced 22 September 2010 and both S G Wilson and M L M Smit resigned healthcare support services and contract sterilisation services.
No other Director served during the period.
In accordance Business review with the recommendations set out in the UK Corporate Governance The Business Review comprises the chairmans statement on page 3, Code, all the elected Directors will submit themselves for re-election the Chief Executives review on page 6 and the Finance Directors report at the Annual General Meeting.
C F Baroudel, having been appointed on page 18. since the last Annual General Meeting, submits herself for election.
Details of the Directors service contracts are given in the Remuneration A separate report on page 22 sets out the principal risks and report on page 39. uncertainties facing the Group.
The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company as at 3 April A further separate report on page 24 sets out Corporate and Social 2011 and 28 March 2010 were as follows: Responsibility activities.
3 April 2011 28 March 2010 The Chief Executives report on page 6 sets out the main trends and ordinary shares ordinary shares factors likely to affect the future development, performance and position of 0.625p each of 0.625p each of the Groups business.
R M Steeves 2,477,674 2,455,934 Results and dividends G Hill 16,300 There was a profit for the period after taxation amounting to R E Lerwill 3,000 3,000 28,799,000 2010: 22,159,000.
A final dividend C F Baroudel of 5,421,000 2010: second interim 4,540,000 is proposed by the Board for the period ended 3 April 2011.
The final dividend will, or at date of appointment.
subject to shareholders approval, be paid on 6 September 2011 to There was no change in the shareholding of any Director between the shareholders on the register at 12 August 2011.
A review of the Groups end of the financial period and the date of this report.
Details of options performance for the period ended 3 April 2011 is contained in the held by Directors are contained within the Remuneration report.
Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review and the Finance Directors report.
Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements Share capital All the Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and As at 3 April 2011 the Companys authorised share capital consisted the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with of one class of 106,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.625 pence each of applicable law and regulations.
which there were 55,090,782 ordinary shares in issue.
No shares were held in Treasury.
At that date the authority granted to the Company Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent for the purchase of up to 5,479,520 ordinary shares remained in force Company financial statements for each financial period.
Under that law and unused.
the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as The rights and obligations attached to the Companys ordinary shares, adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the and restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company, are set out in Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK the Companys Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted from Companies House in the UK or the Company Secretary.
Shareholders are entitled to receive dividends, when declared: to receive the Companys reports and accounts: to attend and speak at general Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial meetings of the Company: to appoint proxies: and to exercise voting statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of rights.
the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial agreements between the holders of securities that may result in statements, the Directors are required to: restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Unless Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles of Association of the Company, the Companys Articles of Association may be amended by Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: a special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
For the Group financial statements, state whether they have been The Company issued 386,569 ordinary shares of 0.625p each during prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: the period for an aggregate consideration of 1,189,000 in respect of For the Parent Company financial statements, state whether options exercised under the Companys share option schemes.
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company will continue in business.
B6 B$5 BS LQGG Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 33 The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records For several years the Company has operated a Savings Related Share that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys Option Scheme, which gives employees an opportunity to enter into a transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the savings contract for a fixed period with an opportunity to acquire shares financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure in the Company at the end of that period.
that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They Directors indemnity have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Directors to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect have been granted a continuing indemnity issued by the Company to fraud and other irregularities.
the extent permitted by law in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible their office.
The indemnity would not provide any coverage to the extent for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and that the Director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Corporate Governance statement that comply with that law and those Directors and officers liability insurance regulations.
During the period the Company maintained insurance cover for The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Directors and officers liability as permitted under Section 233 of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of Corporate and Social Responsibility financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The statement on Corporate and Social Responsibility on page 24 Employee engagement contains disclosures concerning environmental matters, employee The Group recognises the impact that positive employee engagement involvement and social and community issues.
has on developing a culture of excellence, maintaining organisational Substantial shareholders stability and fostering an environment in which people feel valued and At the date of this report the Company had been notified of the following included.
holdings of voting rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares of The Group is an equal opportunities employer.
Equal opportunities are 0.625p each in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency offered to all regardless of race, colour, nationality, ethnic origin, sex Rules: including gender reassignment, marital or civil partnership status, Name Shareholding% disability, religion or belief, sexual orientation, age or trade union AXA S. A.
Prudential plc group of companies 3,458,504 6.28 The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for Global AEGON Asset Management Group 3,296,843 5.98 employment from people with disabilities.
The policy is to offer equal opportunity to all disabled candidates and employees who have a INVESCO Asset Management Ltd 3,154,839 5.73 disability or become disabled in any way during the course of their F & C Asset Management plc 2,726,059 4.95 employment.
A full assessment of the individuals needs is undertaken Black Rock Advisors 2,705,645 4.91 and reasonable adjustments are made to the work environment or Artemis Investment Management Limited 2,688,327 4.88 practices in order to assist those with disabilities.
Old Mutual Asset Managers UK Limited 2,599,250 4.72 All candidates and employees are treated equally in respect of Newton Investment Management 2,561,177 4.65 recruitment, promotion, training, pay and other employment policies and conditions.
All decisions are based on relative merits and abilities.
R M Steeves 2,477,674 4.50 Legal & General Group plc 2,084,368 3.78 The Group continues to employ multiple channels of communication and is committed to improving these channels so that all employees Contractual relationships or other arrangements have access to information, as well as having an opportunity to express The Company has no contractual relationships or other arrangements their views and ideas on matters affecting their employment and the with contractors, customers or suppliers that are critical to the business.
Channels include: Policy and practice on payment of creditors Employee Forums and where appropriate, Works Councils All Group companies are responsible for establishing terms and Touch Point the Group intranet site conditions with their suppliers and it is Group policy that payments are made within such agreed terms and conditions.
Trade creditors at the Regular Leadership briefings followed by communication period end amount to 58 days 2010: 57 days of average supplies for cascades team briefings the period.
An Employee Satisfaction Survey Political and charitable donations Regular business updates via circulars During the period the Group made charitable donations totalling 17,000 2010: 5,000.
No political donations were made during Employment policies are updated in a timely way to reflect legislative the period 2010: nil.
Further information on the Groups charitable changes and training to communicate or embed change is developed donations is contained in the Corporate and Social Responsibility report and rolled out as appropriate.
Training is provided as required to ensure that we have a skilled Treasury and risk management workforce this requires a balance of training for the work our The Groups treasury and financial risk management objectives, and employees do now and developing and preparing people for the future.
details in respect of the Groups exposure to these risks are detailed in note 19 to the financial statements.
B6 B$5 BS LQGG Financials Governance Operating and financial review Our strategy Who we are
