Synergy Health plc 30 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Board of Directors 1 Robert Lerwill 2 Richard Steeves 4 Sir Duncan K Nichol Non-executive Chairman Group Chief Executive Non-executive Director Robert was appointed as a non-executive Richard founded the business in 1991 and Duncan became a non-executive Director in Director of the Company in January 2005 and was appointed Chief Executive in 1992.
He was Chief Executive of Chairman in September 2010.
He is currently Previously he was corporate development the National Health Service Management a non-executive Director and Chairman of the manager for Braithwaite plc, a plant hire Executive between 1989 and 1994, and a audit committee of BAT plc and non-executive company, and associate consultant with non-executive Director of BUPA between Director and Chairman of the audit committee strategic consultants, LEK Consulting.
Duncan is currently a of Transcom Worldwide SA.
Until November Richardhas a PhD in biochemistry from non-executive Director of Lorica Group, 2008, Robert was Chief Executive of Aegis StJohns College, Cambridge and a BSc DeltexMedical Group plc, the Christie NHS Group plc.
Between 1997 and 2003 Robert 1stClass Hons in human physiology from Foundation Trust and UKAS.
He is also was an executive Director of Cable & Wireless the University of British Columbia in Chairman of Skills for Justice.
Duncan was plc, and prior to that was Group Finance Vancouver, Canada.
Richard is a Companion Chairman of HM Courts Service Board for Director of WPP Group plc.
Robert qualified as of the Chartered Management Institute.
England and Wales between April 2008 a chartered accountant with Arthur Andersen.
He is Chairman of the He is Chairman of the Companys Nomination 3 Gavin Hill Companys Remuneration Committee and and Audit Committees and a member of the Group Finance Director amember of the Audit and Nomination Remuneration Committee.
Gavin joined the Group as Finance Director Committees.
He was previously Director, Corporate Finance for Serco Group plc 5 Constance Baroudel following a number of divisional Finance Non-executive Director Director and Commercial roles.
Prior to Constance was appointed to the Board as a Serco, Gavin worked for Syngenta AG and non-executive Director in September 2010.
AstraZeneca plc in both Finance and She is the Group Director of Strategic Corporate Treasury.
Gavin is a chartered Marketing at fide La Rue plc.
Prior to fide La accountant and associate member of the Rue she was a senior consultant for Strategic Association of Corporate Treasurers.
Constance attended lInstitutdEtudes Politiques fide Paris where she majored in corporate finance and international relations.
Constance also has anMSc in International Accounting and Finance from the London School of Economics.
Constance is a member of theAudit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
1 2 3 5 4 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 31 Senior Executive Board and Advisors Senior Executive Board 6 Marcello Smit 9 Glenn Thibault CEO Europe and Middle East CEO Americas Richard Steeves Group Chief Executive 7 Paul Santing 10 Adrian Coward Group Commercial Director CEO UK and Ireland Gavin Hill Group Finance Director 8 Tim Mason Paul Wynne Group Company Secretary CEO Asia and Africa Company registration number: Advisors Joint brokers: Auditors: Solicitors: 3355631 Bankers: Investec Bank KPMG Audit plc Taylor Wessing LLP Lloyds TSB Bank plc UK Ltd St Nicholas House 5 New Street Square Registered office: 25 Gresham Street 2 Gresham Street Park Row Blackfriars Ground Floor Stella London EC2V 7HN London EC2V 7QP Nottingham NG1 6FQ London EC4A 3TW Windmill Hill Business Park Whitehill Way The Royal Bank of Morgan Stanley & Co Registrars: DLA Piper UK LLP Swindon Wiltshire SN5 6NX Scotland plc International plc Computershare Victoria Square House Third Floor 20 Bank Street Investor Services plc Victoria Square Secretary: 3 Temple Back East Canary Wharf The Pavilions Birmingham B2 4DL T C Mason MA, FCIS, MCIPD Bristol BS1 6DZ London E14 4AD Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 6ZZ 6 7 8 9 10 Financials Governance Operating and financial review Our strategy Who we are
