Synergy Health plc 12 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 High value added services With over 30 years experience in the sterilisation industry, Synergy Health has a wealth of knowledge to share with its customers.
Offering a complete range of sterilisation technologies, we are able to offer advice on the development of new products and materials, and on the seamless integration of our services into our customers manufacturing process.
In the past year we have hosted a number of education days across our businesses, to share this knowledge.
As an example, in 2011 we held an event in Ireland to help medical device manufacturers understand the effects of electron beam irradiation on commonly used polymers, and our approach to processing and validation.
Manufacturers gained an understanding of emerging technologies, taking into account material compatibility and packaging requirements.
We were delighted to welcome speakers from AIT, RAPRA, Boston Scientific and SteriPack, as well as in-house experts from both our UK and Ireland sites.
In the UK we held a similar event which focused on ethylene oxide sterilisation.
This year we broadened the education events to our hospital sterilisation customers, providing an insight into the principles and regulations of good cleanroom practice.
Our laboratory business also provided similar insights into microbiological validation and compliance.
These events have been well received, and when combined with our record of operational excellence, have proved a catalyst for achieving joint success.
A foundation forjoint success Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 13 High value added services Focus on hospital sterilisation Leicester 2 Opened in February 2011, our new 1,472m 2 nearly 16,000ft sterile service supercentre is capable of processing 6 million instruments per year and will employ over 60 people.
It is already handling Leicester Royal Infirmarys full output, plus key areas of Leicester General Hospital, with Glenfield General Hospital due to follow in April 2012.
Operating 24 hours per day, the unit is capable of processing more than three times the daily demand from these three main hospitals.
Leicesters Low Carbon Footprint Built to service the University Hospitals of Leicester Steam boilers that recover waste heat and NHS Trusts sterilisation requirements for the next transfer it back to the boiler water feed 15 years, the unit is Synergys most efficient yet in A free air steriliser cooling capability that respect of carbon consumption per instrument utiliseslow ambient air temperatures to processed.
Synergy worked together with principal supplement the cooler capacity contractor Merit Merrell Technology and equipment supplier Getinge to develop a facility that combines A sleep mode for the control system when optimal energy consumption with the best possible thecleanroom is unoccupied and air flow processflow.
ratesthat can be adjusted to reflect varying occupancylevels Following completion of the main building works, asoft opening took place in November 2010 when Lighting that maximises energy efficiency Trust stakeholders were invited to view the facility throughout the unit and appreciate its capabilities.
It was also the Compressors that are 35% more efficient firstopportunity for many Trust employees to thanstandard models experience their new place of work.
Before the Leicester site could process any instruments, itrequired an audit to assess compliance with theMedical Device Directive and appropriate international standards.
The auditor commented that in the thirteen years he had been performing inspections, Synergys Leicester facility was his very first site with ZERO non-conformances.
The new Synergy unit will take over the activity of 6m two existing Sterile Services Departments SSDs, delivering services to the three hospitals within Capable of processing 6 million instruments per year theTrust.
The first SSD to transfer was based at Leicester Royal Infirmary, while the workload from 2 1,472m 60 the Glenfield General Hospital SSD will follow in two 2 months time.
nearly 16,000ft sterile service Employs over 60 people supercentre Financials Governance Operating and financial review Our strategy Who we are
