Synergy Health plc 10 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Internationalisation E xpanding our global footprint At the start of the year, we signalled our The acquisition of BeamOne is Synergys first intention to increase capacity and enter expansion into the US sterilisation market, newmarkets via both organic growth and estimated to be worth US$600 million per bolt-on acquisitions.
As well as acquiring a well established and growing business in a key market, In late 2010, we acquired Gamma Service BeamOnes respected relationships with USProduktbestrahlung GmbH GSP, an electron based, global medical device manufacturers, beam and gamma irradiation business based in should enable Synergy to deepen further its Saxony, Germany.
relationships and capture greater sterilisation This acquisition builds our capacity in Germany, business for its operations in Asia, and in and enables Synergy to add electron beam particular China.
processing to our service offering in mainland Furthermore, the acquisition will provide a Europe.
In addition, GSPs proximity to Poland platform from which Synergy can start to research and the Czech Republic provides Synergy with and develop the provision of its world-class aroute to enter new markets in eastern Europe.
hospital sterilisation services to American Germany could become a key market for Synergy hospitals and healthcare providers.
and we are actively bidding for a number of hospital sterilisation contracts there.
This is a significant step for Synergy, providing us with an entry into one of the worlds largest and In April 2011, after the end of the financial most established sterilisation markets.
BeamOne period, we acquired BeamOne LLC BeamOne.
is the leading electron beam sterilisation provider BeamOne is the largest provider of outsourced in the USA, and by adding it to our network electron beam medical device sterilisation wehave created the second largest global services in the USA.
BeamOne has FDA outsourced sterilisation business in the world.
approved sites in San Diego, California: Denver, Colorado: Lima, Ohio: Saxonburg, Pennsylvania: and a fifth site in Costa Rica.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 11 9.5 million 1s t entry Enterprise value of Gamma To North and Central America.
Service Produktbestrahlung GmbH GSP when acquired.
10 MeV Energy output of BeamOnes 5 4 Irradiation facilities electron beam irradiators.
Builtaccording to GSPs own plans as modern and highly productive service centres.
1 bis 10 kGy h Dose rate at the Gamma Irradiation Facility GS 60.
Financials Governance Operating and financial review Our strategy Who we are
