Governance Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report 2011 31 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS for the year ended 31 December 2011 The directors submit their annual report including a management Director indemnity provisions report and the audited financial statements for the year ended Under the Companys Articles of Association, the directors of the 31 December 2011.
Company have the benefit of a qualifying third-party indemnity provision which provides that they shall be indemnified by the Results and dividends Company against certain liabilities as permitted by Sections 232 The loss attributable to shareholders for the year was 6,946,000. and 234 of the Companies Act 2006 and against costs incurred The interim dividend of 1.2 pence per share was paid on by them in relation to any liability for which they are indemnified.
The directors recommend a final dividend of The Company has purchased and maintains insurance against 2.3 pence per share payable on 6 July 2012 to those shareholders directors and officers liabilities in relation to the Company.
registered at the close of business on 8 June 2012.
A dividend re-investment plan is available to shareholders and this alternative Share capital and control will continue to be offered until further notice.
Details of the Companys share capital are contained in note 26 to the financial statements.
On 31 December 2010 194,217,582 Principal activities and business review shares were provisionally allotted nil paid in connection with the The principal activities of the Company and a business review rights issue announced on 13 December 2010.
On 17 January 2011 are set out on pages 9 to 29 and form part of the report of such 194,217,582 shares were allotted fully paid.
No shares were the directors.
A total of 38,517 shares were purchased on the open market on behalf of the shareholders who elected to Acquisitions and disposals participate in the dividend re-investment plan.
On 31 March 2011 the Group completed the acquisition of PolymerLatex Deutschland  mbH The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary PolymerLatex from PolymerLatex Holdings BV.
On 14 October shares, being the only class of issued share capital, as well as the 2011 the Group acquired Quality Polymer Sdn Bhd from Nippon powers of the Companys directors, are set out in the Companys Paint M Sdn Bhd through its 70% subsidiary Revertex Malaysia Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from Sdn Bhd.
The Group sold its Pharmachem Division comprising Companies House or can be downloaded from the Companys Union Qumico Farmacutica SA and Uquifa Mexico SA fide CV website.
There are no restrictions on the voting rights attaching to Vivimed Labs on 30 November 2011.
Further details of these to the Companys ordinary shares or on the transfer of securities transactions are contained in notes 28 and 29. in the Company.
No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to the control of the Company.
Financial instruments The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of Details of the Groups use of financial instruments and its financial securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities risk management objectives and policies, and of its exposure or on voting rights.
Unless expressly specified to the contrary to price, credit, liquidity and cash flow risk in relation to such in the Articles of Association of the Company, the Companys instruments, are contained in note 23 to the financial statements.
Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
Directors The present membership of the Board is shown on page 30 all of Other than in relation to its borrowings which, unless certain whom served throughout the year except for Mr N A Johnson who conditions are satisfied, become repayable on a takeover, the joined the Board on 1 September 2011.
All the directors will retire Company is not party to any significant agreements that would and will be seeking election or re-election as appropriate at the take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following forthcoming Annual General Meeting except for Mr P S Wood and a takeover bid.
Dr A A Dobbie who are leaving the Board.
Mr D D Fournier joined the Board on 1 January 2012 and resigned on 13 March 2012.
The Company does not have agreements with any director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office None of the directors seeking election or re-election has a service or employment resulting from a takeover.
contract other than Mr Whitfield and Mr Blackwood who each have a service contract which contains a 12 month notice period.
All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to Details of directors emoluments and the interests of each director a change of control.
Outstanding options and awards would normally in the share capital of the Company are shown in the Remuneration vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the report on pages 39 to 45. satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
Governance Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report 2011 32 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Contractual arrangements UK pension funds The Group has contractual and other arrangements with numerous The trustees have reviewed the independent investment third parties in support of its business operations.
The disclosure management of the assets of the Company pension schemes in in this report of information about any such third parties is the UK and assured themselves of the security and controls in place.
not considered to be necessary for an understanding of the In particular, it is the trustees policy not to invest in Yule Catto development, performance or position of the Groups business.
shares nor lend money to the Company.
Major shareholdings Creditor payment policy Other than the shareholdings disclosed as directors interests in The Groups policy is to make payments to creditors and other the Remuneration report as at 17 February 2011, the Company had suppliers in accordance with terms of payment agreed at the been notified under Section 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency time the contract of supply is made, subject to all the terms and Rules of the UK Listing Authority of the following significant conditions of the order being satisfied by the supplier.
Trade creditor holdings of voting rights in its ordinary shares: days of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2011 were 28 days 2010 31 days based on the ratio of trade creditors at the Percentage year end to the amounts invoiced during the year by trade creditors.
Ordinary of ordinary shares shares in Nature number issue of holding Charitable donations Charitable donations in the year amounted to 53,500 2010 Kuala Lumpur 73,507 There were no political donations during the year.
Kepong Berhad Group 64,111,401 18.86 Direct interest Standard Life Direct and Statement as to disclosure of information to auditor Investments Limited 30,804,259 9.06 Indirect interest Each director of the Company confirms that, so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor Employment policies is unaware and that he has taken all the steps that he ought to have The Group gives every consideration to applications for taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant employment from disabled persons.
Employees who become audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor disabled are given every opportunity to continue employment is aware of that information.
For these purposes, relevant audit under normal terms and conditions with appropriate training, information means information needed by the Companys auditor career development and promotion wherever possible.
The Group in connection with preparing their reports on pages 47 and 90. seeks to achieve equal opportunities in employment through recruitment and training policies.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Authority to purchase own shares The Company has a general authority, which expires at the Corporate governance conclusion of the 2012 Annual General Meeting, to make market The Corporate Governance report is set out on pages 34 to 38 purchases of not more than 33,988,076 of the Companys ordinary and forms part of the report of the directors.
shares in accordance with the terms of the special resolution passed at the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
A resolution will be tabled Principal risks and uncertainties at the 2012 Annual General Meeting to renew this authority.
The directors have appropriately considered the Groups principal risks and uncertainties including the following: Employee involvement The Group is organised on a decentralised basis so as to promote C onditions in the global economy, economic fluctuations in greater employee involvement and better communications with customer industries and volatility and cyclicality of the global employees.
Each Group company is encouraged to make its chemicals and polymers markets may adversely affect the results employees aware of the financial and economic factors affecting of operations, financial condition and cash flows of the Group: the performance of the Company.
Performance related bonus V olatility in raw material prices and energy prices may adversely schemes are in operation in a number of Group companies.
affect the profitability of the Group and its working capital position: T he failure of the Group to procure key raw materials may lead to A new long-term share incentive plan for directors and senior production interruptions that may adversely affect the profitability executives was introduced in 2011 with the approval of shareholders.
of the Group and its working capital position: T he markets in which the Group operates are highly competitive and the Group may lose market share to other producers or sellers of water based polymers or to other products that can be substituted for the products of the Group: Governance Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report 2011 33 T he Group operates in a number of different geographies Going concern which may present different legal and regulatory risks.
In addition, The directors have acknowledged the latest guidance on going the Group operates in a number of different tax regimes, which concern and in reaching their conclusions have taken into account may increase the volatility of the effective tax rate and cash factors including: tax rate of the Group: T he ability of the Group to compete is highly dependent on its t he Groups Euro denominated 150 million term loan facility ability to develop technological innovations, to introduce new and 60 million multicurrency revolving credit facility the products and to protect its intellectual property, trade secrets termination dates of which were extended from 13 December and know-how.
Failure to do so could have an adverse affect 2013 to 31 March 2015 on 22 December 2011: and on the Group: t he first repayment under the 2004 series private placement T he Group may be liable for damages based on product liability notes of US$43 million due in September 2012. claims brought against its customers in end-use markets.
In addition, compliance with extensive environmental, health and Further discussion on liquidity and financing is provided in the safety laws and regulations could require material expenditure, Financial review.
changes in the operations of the Group or site remediation: T he manufacture, storage and transportation of chemicals is After making enquiries and taking account of reasonably possible inherently dangerous and any incidents relating to the hazards changes in trading performance, the directors have concluded which the Group faces may adversely affect its financial that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to condition, results of operations and reputation: continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
F luctuations in currency exchange rates may significantly Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis impact the results of the operations of the Group and may in preparing the annual report and accounts.
significantly affect the comparability of financial results between financial periods: Key performance indicators C redit market conditions and credit ratings may restrict the Management monitors a number of financial and non-financial ability of the Group to obtain credit facilities or to refinance key performance indicators, which are disclosed within the Chief its existing debt facilities in the longer term.
In addition, interest Executives report, the Financial review and Corporate Social rate fluctuations and increases in bank lending margins may Responsibility report.
These key performance indicators include increase the Groups costs of borrowing in the longer term: and divisional sales and underlying operating profit, net borrowings, T he Group has funding risks relating to defined benefit pension reportable safety incidents, energy usage and water consumption.
schemes and any deterioration in the value of assets in which the pension scheme has invested as against the financial Cautionary statement obligations to make payments to members of the schemes The purpose of this report is to provide information to the members could have an adverse affect on the Group.
It contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the operations, performance and financial condition Not all these risks can be managed or substantially mitigated.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty The Group has a number of key processes to effect reduction since future events and circumstances can cause results and and some mitigation of operational risks where reasonably developments to differ materially from those anticipated.
The practical, including: forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this report and the Company A ctive management processes to manage margins and undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking recover input cost increases from customers: statements.
Nothing in this report should be construed as S ourcing strategies to access multiple sources for key a profit forecast.
raw materials: A ctively managed innovation processes: Auditor P roduct quality control and testing processes: A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys auditor A c entralised internal audit function dedicated to SHE issues, will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
and programmes for continuous improvement across all major SHE areas: and Annual General Meeting I nternal audit and business performance review processes, The Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.00 am on the format of which has been enhanced for 2012.
Thursday 17 May 2012 at Manor of Groves Hotel, High Wych, Sawbridgeworth, Hertfordshire CM21 0JU.
Financial risks are partly mitigated through currency and interest rate hedging and the Group has a policy on leverage limits By order of the Board and seeks to ensure it has adequate borrowing headroom R Atkinson on a 12 month forecast basis.
