Overview Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report 2011 2 WHO WE ARE TODAY Synthomer is the trading name of Yule Cattos Polymer business, and for over 50 years has stood for reliability and innovation in the emulsion polymer market.
To find more details about our business please go to www.
com The Polymer Chemical business of Yule Catto 59% 41% Europe & North America Asia & Rest of World 59% of sales 41% of sales 13 manufacturing plants 8 manufacturing plants 2 R&D centres 1 R&D centre 1 2 1 S BR latex plant, 3 4 5 Marl Germany 2 N BR latex plant, Pasir Gudang Malaysia 3,4 R&D Europe, Marl Germany and Harlow UK 5 R&D Asia, Kluang Malaysia Pro-forma basis.
Eastern Europe included in Asia & Rest of World.
Overview Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report 2011 3 WHERE WE ARE TODAY Our manufacturing plants in Europe are well located to supply our customers, with a strong presence in Germany, the industrial heartland of Europe.
In Asia we have manufacturing in Malaysia and Vietnam, and a growing selling and distribution activity in China, and we also have long established positions in the Middle East and South Africa.
The global locations of Yule Catto Locations Europe China 01 Synthomer Shanghai Chemical Co Ltd, Guangzhou & Shanghai Egypt 02 Synthomer SAE, 10th of Ramadan City England 03 Synthomer Ltd, Batley 04 Synthomer Ltd, Harlow 04 Yule Catto & Co plc, Harlow 07 05 Synthomer Ltd, Ossett 03 06 06 Synthomer Ltd, Stallingborough 05 07 William Blythe Ltd, Accrington 04 09 15 Finland 08 Eka Synthomer Oy, Oulu 16 10 Germany 09 Synthomer GmbH, Langelsheim 10 Synthomer Deutschland GmbH, Marl 11 11 Synthomer Deutschland GmbH, Worms Italy 12 Synthomer Srl, Filago Malaysia 13 Revertex Malaysia Sdn Bhd & 12 Synthomer Sdn Bhd, Kluang 14 PolymerLatex Sdn Bhd & Quality Polymer Sdn Bhd, Pasir Gudang Rest of World Netherlands 15 Synthomer BV, Hasselt 16 Synthomer BV, Oss Saudi Arabia 17 Synthomer Middle East Company, 08 Dammam South Africa 18 Synthomer Chemical Pty Ltd, Durban UAE 19 Synthomer Sales GmbH, Dubai USA 20 Synthomer LLC, Atlanta 20 Vietnam 21 Synthomer Vietnam Co Ltd, 02 01 17 Ho Chi Minh City 19 21 Key 13 14 Plant location Sales office 18 R&D centre Head office Overview Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report 2011 4 OUR PRODUCTS Our products combine chemical reaction Sales by product and formulation, based on a diverse range A A Latex 49% of chemistries.
B Specialties 24% C Compounds 5% Synthetic latex D Dispersions 22% Consists of three principal product families: Styrene Butadiene D Rubber SBR manufactured in Germany and Italy, Nitrile Butadiene Rubber NBR manufactured in Italy and Malaysia and High Solids C Styrene Butadiene HSSBR produced in Germany HSSBR is shown in Specialties in the chart.
Dispersions Consists of primarily Vinyl and Acrylic based emulsion polymers B used in a wide range of applications including in the coating, A construction, adhesives and textile industries.
These products are A NBR 36% manufactured at our facilities in Germany, Italy, UK, South Africa, B SBR 64% Middle East, Malaysia and Vietnam.
Compounds These products are specially formulated at our plants in the UK, Netherlands and Egypt using SBR latex, HSSBR latex, Natural B Rubber latex and a wide range of other functional materials.
Specialties Comprise a number of specialty polymers, mainly non aqueous including, Polyvinyl Alcohol, Liquid Polybutadiene, High Solid SBR Latex and Chloroprene.
Specialties also includes Inorganic products based on Copper, Tin and Iodine from the Groups one remaining non-Polymer business.
1 NBR latex High solid SBR latex producer globally producer globally Overview Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report 2011 5 OUR MARKETS Our products are used in many different Sales by market end use markets across the globe, providing A Construction and Coatings 23.1% the business with substantial application B Health and Protection 22.2% and geographic diversification.
A F C Carpet, Compounds and Foam 19.4% D Paper 15.9% Health & Protection E Functional Polymers 14.5% E Medical, clean room and industrial gloves, medical devices F Performance Polymers 4.9% e. g. catheters, condoms and other dipped latex goods.
B Paper Coated paper and paperboard, fine-coated paper, lightweight D coated paper, food packaging and other specialty paper grades.
C Construction & Coatings Construction Cement and mortar modification, bitumen modification, concrete Sales by destination repair systems and plasticisers, bonding aids, primers, flooring and construction adhesives, liquid applied membranes, flexible roof A Western Europe 56% coatings, sealants and primers.
B Eastern Europe 4% F A C North America 3% E D Asia 27% Coatings E Africa & Middle East 8% Acrylic and Vinyl Acetate copolymers for walls interior & exterior, F Rest of World 2% gloss semi-gloss emulsion paints, plasters textured finishes, flexible wall coatings, wood paints and stains, anti-corrosion paints, industrial coatings and water based fillers.
Carpet, Compounds & Foam D Binding and backing of tufted and other carpets, foam backed C B carpets, automotive and artificial grass.
Foams for mattresses, pillows and shoes.
Functional Polymers Non-woven fabrics, insulation, textile coatings, printing, gaskets, masking tapes, specialty non-graphic papers, abrasives, tyre cord, pressure sensitive adhesives, packaging and wood adhesives.
Performance Polymers Lithene for various automotive applications in electrical insulation and sound damping.
Alcotex Polyvinyl alcohol used as a stabilising material in the PVC polymerisation process.
Polyvinyl Acetate for Solvent Adhesives, Polyester resins and composites.
Inorganic non-Polymer Specialties for catalysts, flame retardants and other niche applications.
3 Acrylic and vinylic SBR latex producer Acrylic dispersion dispersion producer in Europe producer in Europe in the Middle East Overview Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report 2011 6 THE RIGHT FORMULA Innovation is at our core.
We have excellent product application know-how and consistently develop and produce quality products using our leading process capability and well located facilities.
Customer Focus Central to our success is the in depth understanding of our customers needs, from application performance to product formulation to service requirements.
Changing Markets We have a deep understanding of the mega-trends and industry specific drivers that affect our markets, allowing a unique insight into future requirements.
The Right Knowledge We have been developing specialty polymers for over 50 years, and have over 150 highly experienced R&D and technical support professionals at our three research centres.
We have a culture of continued technical learning built through interaction with our customers, suppliers, industry bodies and academia.
Overview Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report 2011 7 5.
Reliable Service Our sites are well located for our customers and we use our experience in logistics to get the right product to our customers when and where they need it.
Technical service support is provided by our experienced personnel so that our customers can maximize the performance benefits that our products 4.
01 Formula 02 A thorough understanding of our core chemistry, formulation know-how and applications technology is essential for us to create market leading products.
03 A fast time to market is achieved through the combination of our state of the art development facilities, extensive applications capabilities and flexible modern manufacturing facilities.
Global R&D centres 01 Harlow, England 02 Marl, Germany 03 Kluang, Maylasia Overview Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report 2011 8 THE RIGHT FORMULA FOR GROWTH We deliver growth from the application of knowledge, and our ability to develop and produce the right product for our customers, with leading process capability and well located manufacturing.
The The Right Knowledge Right Product The The Right Locations Right Processes C ustomer knowledge A ccess to multiple A ccess to Asian and C ost effective production and relationships Polymer technologies Emerging Markets F lexible and effective A pplications technology D ifferentially managed M anufacturing close organisation and understanding product portfolio to customers F ast and commercially H ighly experienced V alue sales approach P roximity to suppliers focused R&D and expert personnel
