26 Board and advisors John Gildersleeve Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Introduction Board balance and independence The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate The Board has nine members, four of which, excluding the governance and in accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Chairman and Deputy Chairman, are considered independent Listing Authority the Board confirms that except to the extent Non-Executive Directors.
These are John Gildersleeve, our stated below, the Company has throughout the year and as Senior Independent Director, John Allwood, Brent Hoberman at the date of this annual report, complied with the provisions and Ian West.
Jessica Burley was also an independent set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Non-Executive Director during the period until she stood Governance published by the UK Financial Reporting Council down on 16 November 2010.
Ian West was appointed a FRC in June 2008 Code.
Roger Taylor, the Deputy Chairman, is not considered independent given This section of the annual report together with the Directors he was previously Chief Financial Officer of The Carphone report and Directors remuneration report provide details Warehouse Group PLC from the which the Company was of how the Company has applied the principles and complied demerged in March 2010. with the provisions of the Code.
The Chairman and Executive Directors have service contracts UK Corporate Governance Code that can be terminated by either the Company or the Director On 28 May 2010 the FRC published a new UK Corporate on 12 months notice.
Governance Code New Code to replace the Code.
The New The Non-Executive Directors have three year periods of Code applies to reporting periods beginning on or after appointment.
All the independent Directors have a three 29 June 2010.
It will therefore apply to the Company for the month notice period with no compensation for loss of 2012 financial year and not the financial year covered by office.
Roger Taylor has a six month notice period.
The Board has however initially reviewed the New Code and Points of non-compliance with the code has decided to voluntarily adopt the following principles ahead This is the first annual report of the Company since the demerger of the implementation of the New Code.
First, all Directors and, as stated in the Companys prospectus issued as part will stand for reappointment annually at the Companys Annual of the demerger as published on the Companys website General Meeting AGM starting from the 2011 meeting.
com, Charles Dunstone, Chairman, was Second, the performance of the Board will be externally not independent on his appointment due to the fact that he facilitated at least every three years, with the first review to was previously Chief Executive Officer of CPW and also has a be carried out no later than during the 2014 financial year.
significant shareholding in the Company.
The Board believes that the appointment of Charles as Chairman benefited the Group given that Charles was both the founder of CPW, in which the Company was created, and his knowledge of the market place is important to its future development.
Major Shareholders were also consulted prior to his appointment.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 Overview Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 27 At least half of the Board excluding the Chairman are independent Performance evaluation and continued development and this has been the situation for all of the financial year The Board has not been subject to a formal external except for between 16 November 2010 and 8 February 2011 evaluation during the course of the year as it is the Boards following the resignation of Jessica Burley and prior to the first year of operation since the demerger of the Group.
During this short period, the Board Each Board member has been subject to an internal believed that there was sufficient independence on the Board performance review during the year, where the balance still to enable the other independent Non-Executive Directors of skills, knowledge and experience of each Director was to influence appropriately and challenge any Board decisions.
This was undertaken by each member of the Board completing detailed questionnaires.
The results of How the Board operates these were analysed by the Chairman, Senior Independent The Board has reserved certain matters, and delegated Director and the Board as a whole.
others to the Groups Executive committee, which comprises Dido Harding Chief Executive Officer, Amy Stirling Chief As part of the performance review the ability of each Director, Financial Officer, David Goldie Group Commercial Director in particular the Non-Executive Directors, to demonstrate the and other senior employees drawn from across the Group.
required time commitment to the role was assessed.
Reserved matters include approving the Groups strategy, As a result of this performance evaluation the Chairman confirms annual budgets and other longer term planning.
that each of the Directors seeking re-election at the AGM The Board had six formal meetings during the year as well continues to be effective and has demonstrated the appropriate as other meetings as were appropriate for approving certain commitment to the role.
All Directors attended The Senior Independent Director also met with the other each of the meetings during the period, save for Roger Taylor Non-Executive Directors to assess the Chairmans effectiveness absent from the meeting on 30 September 2010 due to a prior taking into account the views of Executive Directors.
arranged meeting, David Goldie absent from the meeting on 27 July 2010 due to annual leave, Jessica Burley who attended The Company Secretary ensures that the Board is made aware all meetings until her resignation on 16 November 2010 and of new laws, regulations and other information appropriate to Ian West who attended the sole remaining meeting following the Group to ensure that all Directors continually update their his appointment on 8 February 2011. skills and knowledge and familiarity of the Group in order to fulfil their roles.
Additionally each Director has access to the It is important to the Board that Non-Executive Directors advice and services of the Company Secretary and also has have the ability to influence and challenge appropriately.
the ability to take independent external advice if required.
To this end all Non-Executive Directors are given a thorough induction to the Group and take priority in Board discussions.
All Directors receive papers in advance of meetings.
They also receive regular reports and members of the Groups Executive team are invited to present at Board meetings so that the Non-Executive Directors form a good knowledge of how the Group operates.
The Chairman meets regularly with just the Non-Executive Directors, usually in the evening prior to every other Board meeting.
This ensures that any concerns can be raised and discussed outside of formal Board meetings.
The Senior Independent Director also attends these sessions where it is also possible, if required, to discuss any matters with the other independent Non-Executive Directors.
As stated below, the Board has also delegated certain matters to a number of Board Committees.
It is important to the Group that all Directors understand external views of the Group.
To this end regular reports are provided to the Board by the Groups Investor Relations Director, covering broker reports and the output of meetings with significant Shareholders.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011
