04 What we do We are the UKs leading value for money provider of fixed line broadband and voice telephony services to consumers and business users.
We serve over 4.8 million customers across the UK under the TalkTalk, AOL Broadband and TalkTalk Business brands.
Largest unbundled UK network Over the past five years, through a combination of organic How we are delivering value for money services for growth and acquisitions, we have built one of the UKs largest our customers: broadband and voice customer bases.
During the year we We operate the UKs most extensive Next Generation completed the integration of the former Tiscali business we Network.
We use this advanced network to provide our had acquired in 2009, so that the majority of our base now customers with a range of clear, consistent value for comprises TalkTalk customers.
money broadband, voice and associated services.
For more information visit: www.
com TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 Overview Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 05 Our network We have installed our own advanced equipment in more than 2,000 of the UKs local telephone exchanges, which serve around 86% of the countrys households.
These exchanges are connected via our own high speed, high capacity all IP national network, enabling us to carry all of our customers voice and data traffic efficiently and cost effectively.
This investment enables us to take control of the telephone line from the exchange to the customers premises on terms established by the telecoms regulator Ofcom and to manage all of the voice and broadband services we provide over this line.
Known as local loop unbundling, this process brings major advantages for the customer, such as optimised broadband speed and service quality and access to our growing range of additional products and services.
At the end of the year, 86% of our customers were being served through our own network.
Further unbundling, to extend our network coverage to 93% of the UKs households, is central to our plans to continue growing our revenue and our profit margins.
Our consumer business TalkTalk Business TalkTalk is strongly positioned as the value for money In January we rebranded our Opal business to business broadband and voice provider in the UK market.
We offer operation as TalkTalk Business, to benefit from the strength two straightforward, compelling customer propositions: of the TalkTalk brand.
TalkTalk Essentials TalkTalk Plus Simply great value Unlimited broadband Office Complete Need a new and phone Your broadband, landline, business line?
6.50 14.50 FREE connection mobile and calls solution.
Connect to the UKs largest 12.60 line rental a month FREE connection Next Generation Network.
12.60 line rental a month More info More info In 2011 we launched three mobile products aimed at our This business is a long-established supplier of voice and data customers seeking to reduce the costs of calling between services to the small and medium sized enterprise market, family members.
using our extensive, low cost network infrastructure to deliver a wide range of propositions to these customers.
In 2012 we plan to launch innovative value for money, broadband based television services to our customers.
These will be built around YouView, a new technical standard for mass market television being developed by a joint venture that comprises TalkTalk and all the UK Public Service Broadcasters, including the BBC, BT and Arqiva.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011
