10 Market overview At the end of December 2010 there were 19.5 million household broadband connections in the UK, 3.9% more than at the same time the previous year.
It is estimated that more than 75% of UK households now have a fixed line broadband connection.
The UK has one of the most competitive and innovative telecommunications markets in Europe.
With consumers and businesses still facing a tough economic environment, and budgets under pressure, TalkTalk is clearly positioned as a value for money provider, with a strong appeal to customers seeking the best value offers for what is now an essential household and business service.
Fixed line broadband Unbundled broadband With 4.2 million fixed line broadband customers, TalkTalks At the end of March 2011 there were 7.6 million unbundled market share at the end of December 2010 was 21.5%.
broadband lines in the UK.
TalkTalk was the largest unbundler, BT Retail was the largest broadband service provider, with a with 3.6 million lines, 47.3% of the total UK market, and a total 27.7% market share.
The other large scale service providers of 2,007 local exchanges unbundled.
were Virgin Media and BSkyB.
% % 21.5 47.3 TalkTalk market share at December 2010 TalkTalk share of unbundled market On-net base Percentage of customers on-net 2011 2011 3.607 86 2010 2010 3.110 74 million % TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 Overview Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 11 UK telecoms regulation The UK telecoms market is regulated Ofcoms objective is to ensure fair by Ofcom, which sets the charges for competition in the market, so that wholesale access to infrastructure consumers and businesses benefit and associated services owned by from a choice of services and service BT Openreach, where BT is deemed providers.
Three areas regulated by to enjoy significant market power.
Ofcom are most material for TalkTalk.
LLU Charges IPStream Charges Next Generation Access A consultation is currently in progress This covers the charge control for BT Openreachs NGA infrastructure, to establish the level of BT Openreach BTs wholesale broadband services, currently mainly comprising its FTTC charges for LLU for the period until of which IPStream is the most relevant, network is now being rolled out.
This consultation covers being the service used in areas that are Openreach is required to offer a wholesale MPF, SMPF and WLR charges, and takes outside TalkTalks unbundled network NGA product on equivalent terms and account of a range of factors including footprint.
Ofcoms market review in conditions for all communications providers.
BT Openreachs cost of capital, the 2010 established that there should be At present it is not subject to formal price value of the local loop infrastructure a charge control for IPStream covering controls.
The current wholesale product for regulatory purposes, and potential the 12% of the population located in is GEA, which TalkTalk is using to efficiency gains.
Ofcoms mid case the most rural, least competitive areas provide customers with its Fibre Optic proposals based on update published of the market.
The development on 18 May 2011 are for MPF prices on the actual charge levels is now in of this product further is the subject of to change to RPI minus 2.7% and RPI progress and Ofcoms initial proposal discussions between TalkTalk, BT minus 4.6% for WLR.
A final decision is that this should be based on a mid Openreach and Ofcom, aiming to on the new charges is expected in case of RPI minus 13%.
improve the customer experience and Autumn 2011. to make its economics more attractive for providers and customers.
Other regulation Other significant areas of current or potential legislation for TalkTalk.
Digital Economy Act Net Neutrality This Act was enacted in 2010 and A number of parties have lobbied vocally FTTC Fibre to the Cabinet GEA Generic Ethernet Access requires Internet Service Providers to at national and EU level for the introduction ISP Internet Service Provider send notifications to customers whose of rules to prevent certain forms of data LLU Local Loop Unbundling connections have been identified as traffic management by ISPs.
However, MPF Full unbundling being used for illegal file sharing.
The the EU, the UK Government and Ofcom NGA Next Generation Access RPI Retail Price Index Act includes reserve powers to require all appear to be committed currently to SMPF Partial unbundling the ISP to disconnect these customers.
allow market transparency and competition WLR Wholesale Line Rental TalkTalk, along with BT, was given to protect consumers interests, rather permission for a judicial review of these than prescriptive regulation.
provisions of the Act, on five grounds.
In a judgment handed down in April 2011 the majority of the challenge was rejected.
An appeal is currently being considered.
In parallel, the Government is considering whether there should be a requirement on ISPs to block certain websites that promote illegal file sharing, and whether such a scheme should be voluntary or compulsory.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 12 Overview Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 13 Directors Report: Performance review Business review 14 Finance review 16 Principal risks and uncertainties 20 Corporate and social responsibility review 22
