Governance Executive management The Group Executive Committee oversees the development and execution of the Groups strategy, and has overall responsibility for achieving business results.
The biographies for Javed Ahmed, Tim Lodge Olivier Rigaud and Robert Gibber are on pages 32 and 33.
President, Speciality Food Ingredients Joined Tate & Lyle Amylum business in Karl Kramer 1988 as a sales manager in France.
A chemistry President, Innovation and graduate from Aix-Marseille University, he has Commercial Development held various management positions within Joined Tate & Lyle in April 2008, became Tate&Lyle, including in industrial products, liquid President, Sucralose in June 2008 and was sweeteners and alcohol sales.
In 2000, Olivier appointed President, Innovation and Commercial became Vice President Food Ingredients, Europe Development in June 2010.
A graduate of and was appointed President, Food & Industrial Chemical Engineering from the New Jersey Ingredients, Europe in 2008.
He was appointed Institute of Technology, Karl also holds an MBA President, Speciality Food Ingredients in from the New York University Stern School of June 2010. Business.
Began his career in R&D at General Foods and then worked in brand management Matt Wineinger for Nestl, and in international sales for the President, Bulk Ingredients NutraSweet Kelco Division of Monsanto.
Joined Tate & Lyle in March 2008, became Before joining Tate & Lyle, Karl held various President, Food & Industrial Ingredients, international general management roles in Americas in July 2008 and was appointed the flavour division of Givaudan.
President, Bulk Ingredients in June 2010.
A graduate of Kansas State University, Matt started Rob Luijten his career in the Food Products Division at Executive Vice President, Human Resources Procter & Gamble and then worked in a variety Joined Tate & Lyle in February 2010 and was of roles for Monsanto and later Cargill, where appointed Executive Vice President, Human he became President of Sales, Marketing and Resources in June 2010.
Holds a Masters Research & Development in 2002 for its Meat degree in Human Resource Studies from Tilburg Solutions platform.
Subsequently joined Swift University and began his career with Inamed and Co, where he was President of its Australian Corporation before spending ten years with Meat Holdings division until 2007.
GE Plastics where he held a number of senior human resources roles in both Europe and Asia, including five years based in Shanghai as Human Resources Director, Asia Pacific.
Subsequently joined BG Group PLC where he was Human Resources Director, Africa, Middle East and Asia until 2009.
Javed Ahmed Chief Executive Matt Wineinger Olivier Rigaud Karl Kramer Tim Lodge Rob Luijten Robert Gibber President, President, President, Chief Financial Executive Vice Executive Vice Bulk Ingredients Speciality Food Innovation and Officer President, President, Ingredients Commercial Human Resources Company Development Secretary and General Counsel 34 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011
