Business review Bulk Ingredients Matt Wineinger Bulk Ingredients manufactures and markets a range of President products including nutritive sweeteners, industrial starches, ethanol, acidulants and animal feed, for food and beverage, industrial and agricultural customers around the world.
Bulk Ingredients also partners with an increasing number of bio-based materials companies seeking expertise in the commercialisation of green chemistry fermentation.
One such partnership is our joint venture with DuPont which manufactures Bio-PDO a bio-based ingredient used in the textile and plastics industries.
Sales Operating profit Operating cashflow 1 % 11 1,915m 157m 99m main locations Customers Products Americas EMEA Large, multi-national food Liquid sweeteners including corn 2 Dayton, Ohio Razgrad, Bulgaria and beverage manufacturers sugar, dextrose and glucose Decatur, Illinois Szabadegyhza Paper and board producers Industrial starches Duluth, Minnesota Hungrana plant, Fuel and gasoline suppliers Citric acid 2 Lafayette, Indiana Hungary Textile manufacturers Bio-fuels Loudon, Tennessee Casablanca, Animal feed compounders Animal feed including corn gluten Santa Rosa, Brazil Morocco feed and corn gluten meal 2 2 Cali, Colombia Boleraz, Slovakia 2 Guadalajara, Adana, Turkey 2 Mexico Summary of financial results Year to 31 March Change Constant m unless stated otherwise 2011 2010 Reported currency Sales 1 915 1 745 10% 7% Adjusted operating profit 157 136 15% 11% 3 3 Margin 8.2% 7.8% 40bps 30bps 1 Constant currency change.
3 Basis points one hundred basis points equates to one percentage point.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 15 Financial statements Governance Business review Shareholder information Business review Bulk Ingredients Market conditions Co-product prices were supported by fundamental Whilst US domestic demand for nutritive demand and improved through the year on the sweeteners in the 2011 financial year continued back of higher corn and competing commodity its gradual long-term downward trend, strong prices.
The market for US corn gluten feed was seasonal demand and increased exports of corn boosted by the reopening of European markets sweeteners to Mexico offset this impact.
Higher to EU-approved genetically modified varieties and Mexican demand was driven by high domestic by Chinas increased imports of competing feed sugar prices in the Mexican market, and a relative products.
Demand for corn gluten meal, primarily recovery of the Mexican peso against the US dollar for pet food, remained firm and exports to Latin which accelerated the substitution of cane sugar America were stronger as aquaculture companies with corn sugar.
In addition, demand for corn oil remained strong.
Financial performance Sales increased by 10% 7% in constant currency to 1,915 million 2010 1,745 million.
Adjusted Adjusted operating profit operating profit increased by 15% to 157 million 11% in constant currency driven by strong increased by 15% 11% in levels of co-product income and an improved constant currency.
performance from our ethanol business, despite lower margins in sweeteners and industrial starches.
The effect of exchange translation was to increase operating profit by 5 million.
US corn yields for the 2010 harvest were low compared with recent experience.
The fall in This division comprises three broad product production is expected to reduce stocks to their platforms namely: sweeteners: industrial starches, lowest level since 1996 and the forecast stocksacidulants and ethanol: and co-products.
to-use ratio for the end of the current crop year is the lowest on record.
The latest planting intentions, Sweeteners reported by the United States Department of In the Americas, bulk corn sweetener volumes Agriculture USDA, indicate that planted corn increased by 14% and sales by 3% decreased would increase to the second highest level on by 1% in constant currency to 734 million record, driven by high corn prices.
As anticipated at the time corn price has followed similar trends to the of the announcement of our contracting round in US market.
January 2010, corn sugar HFCS unit margins were somewhat below the comparative period In the European sweetener market world after taking into account lower input costs.
sugar prices rose above the EU preferential rate Whilst we experienced firm demand patterns for thereby discouraging traditional suppliers of cane Corn Sugar 55 and 42 in Mexico and strong US sugar, some of whom also experienced harvest domestic demand as good weather provided an difficulties, from supplying to Europe.
This supply uplift in seasonal demand, the higher volumes did restriction was compounded by lower beet sugar not offset the lower margins which had resulted yields from the harsh winter resulting in higher from the 2010 calendar year pricing round and sugar prices.
The selling price of isoglucose corn profits for the full year were below the sugar, which is closely correlated to the sugar comparative period.
price, rose towards the end of the financial year but not at the same rate as corn prices, resulting in a squeeze on margins.
Although demand for industrial starches in the USA recovered modestly, it still remains significantly Co-product prices were below the levels experienced before the economic downturn.
The demand for industrial starches supported by fundamental in Europe also improved with demand for corn demand and improved starches receiving an additional boost on the back of the poor potato harvest.
In US ethanol, whilst through the year on the back cash margins have increased, levels of profitability of higher corn and competing within the industry remain low overall.
16 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 In Europe, sales of bulk corn sweeteners increased Whilst citric acid sales increased within our by 10% 14% in constant currency to 123 million acidulants business, profits were lower than 2010 112 million.
Volumes increased by 11% the prior year as a result of higher input costs.
year on year reflecting the increased capacity As in the prior year, the Bio-PDO joint venture from our Slovakian expansion and increased broke even in the 2011 financial year.
Unit margins were lower, particularly in Co-products the second half, on the back of higher corn costs Sales of co-products increased by 21% which increased at a faster rate than the price of 19% in constant currency to 349 million sugar, which effectively determines the price for 2010 289 million.
isoglucose corn sugar in the EU.
The impact of rising US corn prices throughout Operating profits from Almex, our Mexican the year resulted in additional profits of joint venture, were up significantly on the 16million from co-products compared with the comparative period, reflecting higher volumes prior year.
Since over 80% of our corn grind is and improved pricing.
utilised to produce Bulk Ingredients, the majority Industrial starches, acidulants and ethanol of this impact is recorded within this segment.
Sales of industrial starches, acidulants and ethanol In anticipation of potential supply tightness in increased by 13% 10% in constant currency to the run up to the new harvest, we plan to hold 709 million 2010 629 million.
our silos full to the beginning of the harvest year.
With the larger volumes in inventory combined Industrial starch volumes grew by 8%.
Whilst we with the higher price of corn, we increased the have seen a modest recovery in market conditions, amount of working capital tied up in US corn margins continued to be under pressure in the USA inventories by approximately 126 million at where the market remains very competitive.
European corn prices also rose performance for the year was below the prior year increasing co-product sales.
However, hedging as the increased volumes were more than offset by options are more limited than in the USA so lower unit margins.
In Europe, tighter supply-side that higher corn prices had a modest negative conditions as a result of the poor starch potato impact on profitability in the second half.
harvest resulted in improved margins towards the end of the year.
Outlook In Bulk Ingredients, we expect sweetener margins to remain flat calendar year on year with volumes slightly down as we diversify some grind to Speciality Food Ingredients.
Elsewhere, industrial starches are expected In Europe, sales of bulk to perform better, particularly in Europe, but not sufficiently to offset more normal corn sweeteners increased co-product returns.
Whilst we experienced improved positive cash margins in US ethanol, this product continued to generate a loss at the operating level.
At the end of the period, we completed the sale of our Fort Dodge facility for cash consideration of 36million resulting in an exceptional credit for the full year of 10 million 2010 impairment of 217million.
The disposal reduces our exposure to what remains a volatile and highly commoditised industry.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 17 Financial statements Governance Business review Shareholder information
