Business review Our business Tate & Lyle is a global provider of ingredients and Customers solutions to the food, beverage and other industries.
Through our production facilities around the world, we turn raw materials into distinctive, high quality ingredients for our customers.
Our ingredients and solutions add taste, texture, nutrition and functionality to products used or consumed by Speciality Food Ingredients millions of people every day.
Here we explain how our business works.
Innovation and Commercial Raw materials Development Bulk Ingredients Customers Sources Operations All our ingredients are produced from crops, We operate through two global business predominantly corn.
Ensuring we have a reliable divisions Bulk Ingredients BI and Speciality source of corn for our plants is essential.
Each division has its own This involves developing long-term, mutually dedicated manufacturing base as well as separate beneficial relationships with growers, farmers commercial organisations to provide the necessary and other commercial partners to secure supply: focus and expertise for customers in their two understanding commodity markets: and hedging different end markets.
BI produces ingredients costs where feasible.
Supply chain ethics are which are relatively undifferentiated and are sold important to us.
We apply rigorous standards, in markets where customers principally look both practical and ethical, to all suppliers, and for supplier reliability, quality and value.
SFI on work with them to help them meet our compliance the other hand produces distinctive, high-value needs.
This is essential if we are to meet our ingredients which are sold in markets where customers requirements for traceability and customers look for technical and innovation quality throughout the supply chain.
2 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 Customers Speciality Food Ingredients Innovation and Commercial Raw materials Development Bulk Ingredients Customers Customers SFI also has a food systems or blending Food and beverage is our most significant market business which sources ingredients and uses comprising over 75% of Group sales.
Other markets them along with our own to develop bespoke we sell into include industrial, animal feed, and combinations of ingredients primarily for pharmaceutical and personal care.
Customer understanding drives all that we do.
Both divisions but principally SFI are We use market research to understand the consumer supported by the Innovation and Commercial our customers customer, the markets we operate Development ICD group.
ICD brings together in and our customers needs.
We use this insight to product development, marketing and platform drive our own product development, to differentiate management into one global team, enabling ourselves from our competitors and, importantly, to a fully integrated approach to developing give our customers an advantage by working with us.
For large customers, our ICD group provides technical and applications support.
For smaller customers, our ICD group is often their R&D team.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 3 Financial statements Governance Business review Shareholder information
