Business review Additional financial information Basis of preparation Energy costs Energy costs for the year were 170 million Adjusted performance 2010 178 million, a decrease of 4% 7% in Adjusted profit is reported as it provides constant currency.
The improvement of 12 million in both management and investors with valuable constant currency was due principally to lower prices additional information on the performance of 22million and efficiency improvements 9million, the business.
The following items are excluded partly offset by higher volumes 14million and an from adjusted profit: unfavourable input mix 5million.
We have covered results of discontinued operations, including the cost of almost 70% of our estimated energy gains and losses on disposal Note 12 and needs for the 2012 financial year, and while contracts Note 37 : have been secured at higher prices than in the 2011 financial year we will look to mitigate some of the exceptional items from continuing operations upward pressure through efficiencies.
Note 7 : and amortisation of intangibles acquired through Exceptional items from continuing operations business combinations.
Year to Year to 31 March 31 March This adjusted information is used internally 2011 2010 m m for analysing the performance of the business.
A reconciliation of reported and adjusted Business transformation costs 15 3 information is included in Note 43.
Gain on disposal of assets net of pre-disposal costs Fort Dodge 10 Impairment charges Fort Dodge 217 Impact of changes in exchange rates UK Group Pension Scheme Our reported financial performance has been changes 5 positively impacted this year by exchange rate Closure costs 55 translation, in particular due to the strengthening Write-down of assets 28 of the average US dollar exchange rate against Exceptional items 5 298 sterling.
The movement in exchange rates had led to increased profits and a reduction in net debt as a result of the translation of accounts recorded Exceptional items within our continuing operations in foreign exchange.
The average and closing during the year totalled a net charge of 5 million exchange rates used to translate reported on a pre-tax basis.
We recognised an exceptional results were as follows: gain of 10 million relating to the Fort Dodge facility which was sold on 30 March 2011.
The facility was Average rates Closing rates impaired in the previous financial year.
We have 2011 2010 2011 2010 incurred an exceptional charge of 15 million in US dollar:sterling 1.55 1.61 1.60 1.52 relation to business transformation costs, principally Euro:sterling 1.19 1.13 1.13 1.12 restructuring associated with the new Commercial and Food Innovation Centre in Chicago, USA and Segmental analysis the implementation of a common global IS IT Following the change of the organisational platform and global support services.
structure announced in May 2010, the Group The tax impact on continuing net exceptional items restructured its internal organisation into four is a charge of 10 million.
In addition, an exceptional distinct segments: Speciality Food Ingredients, tax credit of 8 million has been recognised in Bulk Ingredients, Sugars and central costs.
Sugars respect of unrealised profit on inventory following was subsequently classified as discontinued the restructuring of our business.
This credit has no following the announcement on 1 July 2010 of the impact on cash paid or received.
disposal of EU Sugars and the launch of processes to sell the remaining businesses within the Sugars Exceptional items from continuing operations division.
Comparative information has been in the 2010 financial year comprised a 3 million reclassified accordingly.
charge relating to business transformation costs Central costs in Speciality Food Ingredients, an impairment Central costs, which include head office, treasury charge of 217million relating to the decision to and reinsurance activities, increased by 11 million mothball our Fort Dodge facility, a 55 million charge to 42 million reflecting the costs associated with relating to our decision to mothball the sucralose strengthening the Groups senior management manufacturing facility in McIntosh, Alabama, USA, team, costs associated with our financing portfolio and the write-off of 28 million of research and and one-off costs of 6 million in the first half development assets from which we no longer expect relating to the review of the Groups activities.
We also recognised The effect of exchange translation was to a 5million exceptional gain in relation to changes increase central costs by 1 million.
to the UK Group Pension Scheme.
The exceptional tax credit on continuing operations was 117 million, primarily due to the deferred tax asset related to the impairment of the Fort Dodge facility.
An exceptional tax credit of 15million was also recognised in respect of the release of various tax provisions.
22 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 Net finance expense These items relate to the impact of major The net finance expense from continuing turbulence in the supply of raw sugar to the operations decreased from 72 million to EU during the period prior to closing which 58million, principally as a result of lower pension resulted in an increase in certain rolling re-export interest expense.
We were not able to benefit fully commitments of the business arising under the EU from the decrease in average net debt due to the Sugar Regime.
The Group believes that its position fixed nature of our gross borrowings.
is fully supported and as such will be robustly defended.
No provision in respect of outstanding However, the net interest charge is expected to items has been recorded.
be significantly lower in the 2012 financial year as a result of lower levels of average net debt, Earnings per share a reduction of our average effective interest rate Adjusted diluted earnings per share from principally as a result of the repayment of our continuing operations was 45.7p 2010 33.7p, US$300 million bond in June 2011, and a change an increase of 36% 34% in constant currency as from a 4 million pension interest expense in a result of higher operating profits, lower finance the year ended 31 March 2011 to an anticipated costs and the reduction in the effective tax rate.
pension interest credit of 5 million in the year On the same basis, basic earnings per share was ending 31 March 2012. higher by 37% 36% in constant currency at 46.5p 2010 33.9p.
Taxation The taxation charge from continuing operations Total basic earnings per share at 35.3p was higher before exceptional items and amortisation of than the prior year as the 2010 basic earnings acquired intangible assets was 49 million per share of 3.3p was impacted by significant 201041 million as a result of higher pre-tax exceptional costs.
The effective rate of tax on adjusted Dividend profit decreased to 18.5% 2010 20.8% as a The Board is recommending a 5% increase in the result of the geographic mix of profits and also final dividend to 16.9p 2010 16.1p making a full the resolution of some historical tax issues.
year dividend of 23.7p 2010 22.9p per share, The effective tax rate for the 2012 financial year up 3.5% on the prior year.
Subject to shareholder is expected to remain broadly in line with this years approval, the proposed final dividend will be due effective tax rate assuming the geographic mix of and payable on 5 August 2011 to all shareholders profits is in line with our expectations.
on the Register of Members at 1 July 2011.
In addition to the cash dividend option, shareholders Discontinued operations will also be offered a Dividend Reinvestment Plan Discontinued operations comprise our former DRIP alternative.
The DRIP replaces the scrip Sugars Division, principally our former EU Sugars alternative that was previously available business which we sold in September 2010, to shareholders.
our former Molasses business which we sold in December 2010, our former International Sugar Assets Trading business, and our Vietnam and Israeli Gross assets at 31 March 2011 were 3,051million, sugar interests which are reported as assets held 237 million lower than the previous year principally for sale.
On 20 April 2011 we announced we had as a result of the disposal of EU Sugars and entered into a conditional agreement to sell our Molasses.
Net assets increased by 119 million Vietnam business.
to 973 million driven by the profits generated in the year and actuarial gains relating to our Sales from discontinued operations for the year post retirement plans partially offset by dividend decreased to 590 million from 1,074 million as a payments and foreign exchange losses on the result of the sale of EU Sugars and Molasses part translation of overseas subsidiaries.
The operating loss from our discontinued operations totalled 45 million, after Post-retirement benefits exceptional losses of 43 million 2010 profit of We maintain pension plans for our employees in a 50 million, after exceptional profits of 22 million.
Some of these arrangements are defined benefit pension schemes and, although The exceptional pre-tax loss for the year of we have closed the main UK scheme to future 43million comprises the 55million loss accrual and commenced the process for closing on disposal of EU Sugars booked during the the US schemes to future accrual during the year, year partially offset by the 12million profit legacy obligations remain.
In the USA, we also on the disposal of Molasses.
Taxation on our provide medical and life assurance benefits as discontinued operations was a 16million part of the retirement package.
credit 201011million charge after reflecting an exceptional tax credit of 19million 20105million charge.
The loss from discontinued operations after taxation for the year was 29 million 2010profit of 40million.
The final loss on disposal of EU Sugars is subject to closing adjustments arising from the agreement of post completion statements.
The process to reach such agreement is ongoing, and items totalling 54million remain outstanding and are expected to be submitted for adjudication to an independent expert.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 23 Financial statements Governance Business review Shareholder information Business review Additional financial information The net deficit on our post retirement Net interest paid decreased by 13 million to obligations reduced by 118 million to 139 million 46 million principally as a result of a decrease in at 31March 2011 from 257 million in the prior interest paid on our bank and other borrowings.
year principally as a result of increasing asset Income tax paid was 31 million.
valuations and cash contributions during the year.
The UK pension obligations relating to EU Sugars Capital expenditure of 58 million was 64% of the and Molasses remained with the Group.
depreciation charge, reflecting the transition to our new Group capital allocation process.
Including Net debt the investments we will be making in growth and Net debt fell by 350 million to 464 million business transformation and the additional capital 2010 814 million driven by free cash flow of investment required to restart production at the 190million from the continuing businesses and McIntosh facility, we expect capital expenditure 316 million relating to the sale of EU Sugars, to be up to 1.4 times depreciation in the 2012 Molasses and Fort Dodge.
These inflows were financial year.
partially offset by cash utilised by the discontinued businesses amounting to 105 million, principally Free cash inflow representing cash generated the repayment of letters of credit ahead of from continuing operations after working capital, disposal, and dividend payments of 70 million.
interest, taxation and capital expenditure was In addition, the Groups debt is primarily 190 million, 224 million lower than the prior year denominated in US dollars and euros to match principally as a result of the increases in working the underlying currencies of the operational cash capital discussed earlier.
flows and net assets and, therefore, as sterling has strengthened against the US dollar and the Cash outflow related to discontinued operations euro, net debt reported in sterling has reduced was 105 million compared with an inflow of by 27million.
97million in the prior year due to the timing of working capital flows ahead of the disposal of During the year, net debt peaked at 836 million in EU Sugars and Molasses.
The average net debt was 661 million, from the sale of EU Sugars and Molasses were a reduction of 359 million from 1,020 million in 280million.
Equity dividends paid were 70 million, 33 million Cash flow lower than the previous year due to the high take Year to Year to up of the scrip dividend.
31 March 31 March 2011 2010 m m Financial risk factors Adjusted operating profit from 321 268 Our key financial risk factors are market risks, continuing businesses such as foreign exchange, transaction and Depreciation amortisation 96 105 translation exposures, and credit and liquidity risks.
Working capital 101 186 Please refer to Note 21 of the financial statements Share-based payments 9 4 on page 89 for a discussion of these risk factors.
Operating cash flow 325 563 Capital expenditure 58 60 Off balance sheet arrangements In the ordinary course of business, to manage Operating cash flow less 267 503 our operations and financing, we enter into certain capital expenditure Net interest and tax paid 77 89 performance guarantees and commitments for capital and other expenditure.
Free cashflow 190 414 The aggregate amount of indemnities and other Operating cash flow from continuing operations performance guarantees, on which no material loss was 325 million, a decrease of 238 million has arisen, including those related to joint ventures compared with the prior year primarily due to and associates, was 1 million at 31 March 2011 increases in working capital of 101 million 2010 13 million.
2010reduction of 186 million as we took the decision to increase US inventories 126 million in the second half of the year.
This action was taken in response to the anticipated tight supply situation running up to the next corn harvest.
We also made further progress to reduce working capital tied up in payables and receivables.
24 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 We aim to optimise financing costs in respect of Going concern all financing transactions.
Where it is economically The Groups business activities, together with beneficial, we choose to lease rather than purchase the factors likely to affect its future development, assets.
Leases of property, plant and equipment performance and position are set out in this where the lessor assumes substantially all the risks Business review.
The financial position of the and rewards of ownership are treated as operating Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and leases, with annual rentals charged to the income borrowing facilities are described in the same statement over the term of the lease.
In addition, Note21 to the financial under operating leases to pay rentals in future statements includes the Groups objectives, years totalled 173 million 2010 195 million policies and processes for managing its capital: and related primarily to railcar leases in the USA.
its financial risk management objectives: details Rental charges for the year ended 31March 2011 of its financial instruments and hedging activities: in respect of continuing operations were and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
As set out in the sections and note referenced Use and fair value of financial instruments above, the market conditions of the areas in In the normal course of business we use both which the Group operates have been affected, derivative and non-derivative financial instruments.
and are likely to continue to be affected, by large movements in input prices.
However, The fair value of Group net borrowings at the year with some 75% of revenues from food and end was 504 million against a book value of beverage ingredients, the Group has a measure 464million 2010 fair value 823 million: book of resilience although not immunity to economic value 814 million.
In addition, the Group has access to considerable financial resources through its Derivative financial instruments used to manage facilities as described in Note 21 to the financial the interest rate and currency of borrowings had statements.
In making their assessment of the a fair value of 4 million liability 2010 9 million going concern basis, the directors have reviewed liability.
The main types of instrument used are the maturities of these facilities, the headroom interest rate swaps, interest rate options caps or available from them and the Groups ability to floors and cross-currency interest rate swaps.
meet the covenant requirements of certain of them.
As a consequence, the directors believe The fair value of other derivative financial that the Group is well placed to manage its instruments hedging future currency and business risks successfully.
commodity transactions was 3 million asset 2010 6 million liability.
When managing After making enquiries, the directors have a currency exposure, we use spot and forward reasonable expectation that the Company and purchases and sales, and options.
the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The fair value of other derivative financial Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going instruments accounted for as held for trading concern basis in preparing the annual report was 2million asset 2010 22 million.
Fair value estimation The fair value of derivative financial instruments is based on the market price of comparable instruments at the balance sheet date if they are publicly traded.
The fair value of the forward currency contracts has been determined based on market forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
The fair values of short-term deposits, receivables, payables, loans and overdrafts with a maturity of less than one year are assumed to approximate their book values.
The fair values of bonds, bank and other loans, including finance lease liabilities due in more than one year, are estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate available to the Group for similar financial instruments, adjusted for the fair valuation effects of currency and interest rate risk exposures, where those instruments form part of related hedging relationship agreements, financial and commodity forward contracts and options, and commodity futures.
The value of certain items of merchandisable agricultural commodities that are included in inventories are based on market prices.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 25 Financial statements Governance Business review Shareholder information
