Governance Board of directors Sir Peter Gershon Javed Ahmed Tim Lodge Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Became Chairman in July 2009 Joined the Group as Chief Executive Joined the Group in 1988 and after joining the Board in February in October 2009 from Reckitt joined the Board in December 2008 2009.
Formerly Chief Executive of Benckiser plc.
Started his career as Group Finance Director.
Has held the Office of Government Commerce, with Procter & Gamble and then spent a number of senior operational and Managing Director of Marconi five years with Bain & Co.
Joined financial roles, both in the UK and Electronic Systems and a member Benckiser later Reckitt Benckiser plc internationally, including Managing of the GEC plc board.
Subsequently held a number Director of Zambia Sugar: Group Chairman of Premier Farnell plc, GHG of senior positions, both in the UK Financial Controller: Finance Director Limited General Healthcare Group and internationally, including Senior of the Food & Industrial Ingredients, and Vertex Data Science Limited: and Vice President, Northern Europe: Europe division: and Director a member of the UK Governments President, North America: Executive of Investor Relations.
He is a Efficiency Board, and the Advisory Vice President, North America, Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Board of the UK Defence Academy.
Australia and New Zealand: and Management Accountants.
2010 his title was changed to Aged 51.
Liz Airey William Camp Evert Henkes Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Joined the Board in January 2007.
Joined the Board in December 2003.
Formerly Finance Director of Worked for 22 years for Archer Worked for Shell for 30 years before Monument Oil and Gas plc.
Currently Daniels Midland Company, before retiring in 2003 and held a number of Chairman of the JP Morgan European retiring in 2007, and held a variety senior management positions in Europe Smaller Companies Trust PLC and of management positions including and Asia Pacific culminating in Chief the Unilever UK Pension Fund: Senior Executive Vice President, Asia Strategy: Executive of Shell Chemicals in 1998.
Independent Director of Jupiter Fund Executive Vice President, Processing: Currently a non-executive director Management plc: and a non-executive and Senior Vice President, Global of Outokumpu OYJ, Air Products director of Dunedin Enterprise Oil Seeds, Cocoa and Wheat Milling.
and Chemicals Inc, and SembCorp Investment Trust PLC.
Based in the USA and currently serves Industries Ltd.
Aged 52. on the boards of Chiquita Brands Aged 67. International Inc, Grain Storage Inc and Oasis Foods Company.
32 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 Douglas Hurt Robert Walker Dr Barry Zoumas Non-executive director Senior Independent Director Non-executive director Joined the Board in March 2010.
A Chartered Accountant, he is He spent over 30 years with Procter Worked for Hershey Foods Corporation currently Finance Director of IMI plc.
&Gamble, McKinsey and finally, for 27 years before retiring in 1997 and Before joining IMI plc in 2006, he PepsiCo, where he was responsible held a number of positions, culminating held a number of financial and for the companys beverage operations as Corporate Vice President of Science operational roles, including US in Europe, the Middle East and and Technology.
Based in the USA and European senior management Africa.
He is currently Chairman of and currently the Alan R. Warehime positions at GlaxoSmithKline.
Travis Perkins PLC and Americana Professor of Agribusiness and Professor Aged 54. International Holdings Limited: he of Food Science and Nutrition at Penn has also served on a number of FTSE State University, USA and also Global 100 250 boards, including WH Smith Chairman of the International Life Chairman, Wolseley, Severn Trent, Sciences Institute.
BAA, Signet, and Thomson Travel.
Committee membership Nominations as at 26 May 2011 Committee Sir Peter Gershon, Chairman Audit Committee Javed Ahmed Liz Airey, Chairman Liz Airey Evert Henkes William Camp Douglas Hurt Evert Henkes Douglas Hurt Remuneration Committee Robert Walker Evert Henkes, Chairman Dr Barry Zoumas William Camp Sir Peter Gershon Corporate Responsibility Robert Walker Committee Sir Peter Gershon, Chairman Robert Gibber Liz Airey Executive Vice President, William Camp Company Secretary Dr Barry Zoumas and General Counsel A solicitor, Robert joined Tate & Lyle in 1990 as a commercial lawyer.
Previously worked for City law firms Wilde Sapte and Herbert Oppenheimer.
Graduated from Wadham College, Oxford in Oriental Studies Chinese in 1984.
Appointed General Counsel in 1997 and Company Secretary in 2001.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 33 Financial statements Governance Business review Shareholder information
