Business review Speciality Food Ingredients Olivier Rigaud Speciality Food Ingredients develops, produces and President markets distinctive, high-quality ingredients for food and beverage customers across the world.
By leveraging our manufacturing facilities, innovative technology and formulation expertise, we help them create more cost-effective, better tasting products for consumers.
Speciality Food Ingredients works closely with our Innovation and Commercial Development team see page 18 to develop a pipeline of new products.
Sales Operating profit Operating cashflow 1 % 25 805m 206m 263m main locations Products Customers Americas St Petersburg, Large, multi-national food and Starch-based speciality ingredients: Houlton, Maine Russia beverage manufacturers Speciality starches including Lafayette, Indiana Kya Sand, Small and medium-sized food fat-replacers and stabilisers McIntosh, Alabama South Africa and beverage manufacturers Speciality sweeteners including Sycamore, Illinois Mold, UK Private label food and beverage crystalline fructose manufacturers Soluble corn fibres including Van Buren, Arkansas Asia Pacific polydextrose and PROMITOR EMEA Brisbane, Australia Soluble Corn Fiber Lbeck, Germany Jurong Island, High-intensity sweeteners: Bergamo, Italy Singapore SPLENDA Sucralose Noto, Italy PUREFRUIT Ossona, Italy Food systems: Netherlands Koog, The Stabilisers systems Flavoured systems Summary of financial results Year to 31 March Change Constant m unless stated otherwise 2011 2010 Reported currency Sales 805 788 2% 2% Adjusted operating profit 206 163 26% 25% 2 2 Margin 25.6% 20.7% 490bps 480bps 1 Constant currency change.
2 Basis points one hundred basis points equates to one percentage point.
12 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 Market conditions Starch-based speciality ingredients In food starches, increased demand for starch In starch-based speciality ingredients sales derivatives and the poor availability in Europe of increased by 4% 2% in constant currency potato-based starches due to the poor harvest, to 434million 2010 418 million.
Margins has tightened European industry capacity resulting increased by five percentage points and our aim in increased demand for corn-based starches and is to hold on to most of these margin gains during a firming of starch margins overall.
The benefits of operational of tapioca-based starches in Asia resulted in an leverage derived from selling additional volumes of increase in corn-based modified food starch sales higher margin products with only a relatively small in the region.
In the USA and Europe the continuing, uplift in our fixed cost base was the key driver of albeit gradual, recovery from the recession has the profitability growth of this product segment.
seen a strengthening demand for modified food In modified food starches, sales volume starch in the convenience food industry with increases were driven by increased demand innovation in snacks leading the recovery.
Steady growth in developing Continuing high and volatile sugar prices have markets, especially the Asia Pacific region, was had a positive impact on demand for starch-based driven by the demand for more convenience and speciality and high-intensity sweeteners.
During the year we launched regulation in some markets, notably Latin America, RESISTAMYL 140, a bakery cream starch, where some countries are now mandating stricter in Europe and the initial sales response has labelling of sugar levels in foods or restricting the been encouraging.
use of competing sweeteners, further contribute to this trend.
Rising levels of obesity and diabetes in both the developed and emerging markets as well as the Adjusted operating profit high and volatile price of sugar continue to support the market for high-intensity sweeteners.
Sucralose increased by 26% 25% in again increased its value share of the high-intensity sweeteners market, increasing from 27% to 28%.
SPLENDA Sucraloses share of the global market for sucralose remains approximately 90%.
Speciality corn sweeteners benefited from higher The increased focus on healthier lifestyles is sales volumes in Europe, the USA and developing also driving demand in the health and wellness markets, particularly Latin America on the back space and we have seen robust growth in this of high and volatile sugar prices.
area driven by new product launches during the year.
In addition, the favourable opinions granted The successful launch of our high-fibre, low-sugar by the European Food Safety Authority EFSA and low-calorie prebiotic fibre PROMITOR for polydextrose and sucralose in April 2011 Soluble Corn Fiber 85 in the USA and Latin are expected to increase the focus on these America has driven growth in our health and ingredients as key contributors to healthy diets.
wellness platform which we expect will continue to benefit from the consumer trend towards healthier Within Food Systems, a key driver of growth lifestyles.
During the year we also commissioned continues to be the need for customers to develop the first polydextrose fibre manufacturing operation and formulate more cost effective solutions against in Europe, providing our European customers a backdrop of high commodities prices.
with a shorter supply chain and a broader product Financial performance range.
We are very pleased with the customer Sales volumes increased by 7% with volume reaction to our fibre product range.
As high-value growth across all value-added product categories.
products, their growth has improved product mix Sales increased by 2% 2% in constant leading to an improvement in margin.
Whilst sales to developing markets increased Adjusted operating profit increased by 26% strongly across this product category during the 25% in constant currency to 206 million year, they are building from a low base and thus the 2010163million.
The increase in operating contribution to operating profit remains modest.
profit and margin was driven by higher volumes, operational leverage, improved product mix and lower sucralose manufacturing costs.
The effect of exchange translation was to increase adjusted operating profit by 2 million.
This division comprises three broad product platforms namely: starch-based speciality ingredients, high-intensity sweeteners and food systems.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 13 Financial statements Governance Business review Shareholder information Business review Speciality Food Ingredients High-intensity sweeteners In restarting McIntosh, we will incur approximately Within high-intensity sweeteners, we saw 3 million of additional costs which will reduce good sales volume growth during the year.
As profit in the year to 31 March 2012 and the loss expected, average selling prices were lower than for the plant will be around twice that amount the the comparative period, reflecting our strategy following year as fixed costs increase.
The increase of securing long-term sucralose contracts with in fixed costs includes the impact of additional volume incentive arrangements.
As a result, depreciation as the plant is brought back into sales by value decreased by 1% 3% in constant operation.
We plan to operate the two plants in currency to 185 million 2010 187 million.
such a way as to minimise the additional fixed Looking forward, we expect the decline we have costs incurred and expect to achieve good levels seen in selling prices for SPLENDA Sucralose to of operational leverage as volumes increase.
moderate towards the end of this financial year In May 2009, following the significant increase as contracts renew.
A reduction in SPLENDA in manufacturing yields achieved during the 2009 Sucralose manufacturing costs was an important financial year, we announced the mothballing of driver of increased profitability in this product the McIntosh facility and that production of all segment and Speciality Food Ingredients overall.
SPLENDA Sucralose would take place at our Singapore facility.
At that time, we recognised an impairment of 97 million and took a provision of 55 million to cover the cash costs associated with mothballing McIntosh, in anticipation of cash We anticipate the current payback over three years.
In restarting McIntosh we expect to reverse approximately 50 million of steady demand patterns to this impairment this financial year, adjusting the continue and a year of good original amount by the notional depreciation over the last two years and for some equipment which sales growth.
We expect to incur a further 13 million of capital expenditure this financial year to bring the plant back into operation and We have seen continuing strong growth in demand will employ more working capital once we restart for SPLENDA Sucralose.
This growth has come production.
We have achieved the annual savings not only from more mature markets such as from the mothballing as anticipated but expect Europe and the USA but also emerging markets, to be able to release approximately 20 million of particularly Asia and Latin America where, as the original 55 million provision this financial year in developed markets, obesity and diabetes is once we re-commission the facility.
This saving becoming more prevalent.
These markets provide more than covers the cash costs of the restart.
an excellent opportunity to expand our footprint Food Systems where the taste preferences of consumers for During the year, sales from Food Systems beverages and other products are less well increased by 2% 3% in constant currency to established and where the heat stability of 186million 2010 183 million impacted by SPLENDA Sucralose make it well suited to less weaker second half volume on the back of tougher well developed supply chains.
In addition, we trading conditions in some markets, notably have also seen increased demand for SPLENDA Russia.
Volume growth of 4% was driven by Sucralose from customers looking to use more increases in Asia Pacific, the USA and South Africa.
cost-efficient alternatives in an environment of We continue to leverage our product formulation volatile and high-priced sugar.
expertise to provide cost-effective solutions for our We expect these long-term structural drivers customers against a backdrop of high and rising to sustain the growth levels achieved over the prices in raw materials.
last few years, supported by a strong pipeline Outlook of demand for SPLENDA Sucralose both from In Speciality Food Ingredients, we anticipate the existing and new customers.
This means that current steady demand patterns to continue and we will need further capacity to meet future a year of good sales growth.
The lower sucralose demand and as a result we are going to restart manufacturing costs are now reflected in the production of SPLENDA Sucralose at McIntosh, performance of this division and, accordingly, the Alabama, USA during the first half of the year level of profit growth in the coming financial year ending 31March 2013.
The decision to restart is expected to be more modest than the strong production at McIntosh, which was taken following result achieved in financial year 2011. a comprehensive review of alternative options, reinforces our commitment to the sucralose business, provides further resilience in our supply chain and further strengthens our position as the leading global manufacturer and supplier of sucralose.
