Business review Strategy and key performance indicators Our vision is to become the leading global provider of speciality food ingredients and solutions.
Our strategy is to deliver this vision through: A disciplined focus on growing our Driving our bulk ingredients speciality food ingredients business business for sustained cash generation to fuel this growth Deeper customer understanding, continuous innovation and agility Stronger positions in high growth markets PERFORmANCE What we measure We focus on a number of financial performance Sales of speciality food ingredients.
measures to ensure that our strategy successfully delivers increased value for our shareholders.
Return on capital employed: adjusted profit before interest, tax and exceptional items divided by adjusted average net operating assets for continuing operations.
Cash conversion cycle: controllable working capital divided by quarterly sales, multiplied by the number of days in quarter.
FINANCIAL STRENGTH What we measure 1 We look at measures of financial strength to Net debt to EBITDA multiple : the number of times ensure that we maintain the financial flexibility to the Groups net borrowing exceeds its trading cash grow the business whilst maintaining investment flow.
EBITDA is earnings before exceptional items, credit ratings.
interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
1 Interest cover : the number of times the profit of the Group exceeds interest payments made to service its debt.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY What we measure 2 It is important that we act responsibly and consider Recordable incident rate : the number of carefully the impact our activities have on all injuries per 200,000 employee hours that require stakeholders including employees, customers and more than first aid.
the communities in which we operate.
2 Lost-time accident rate : the number of recordable injuries sufficiently serious to result in lost work days or restricted work activities per 200,000 hours.
Update on environmental sustainability 1 Net debt, EBITDA and interest as defined in our banking covenants.
We are establishing an index for environmental 2 In previous years we measured the safety index, a weighted average sustainability which we will report on as a key of injuries sustained in the workplace.
This year we have begun performance indicator from calendar year 2011. instead to report our recordable incident and lost-time accident rates, because they are recognised industry standards for benchmarking.
Like safety, we report environmental figures by The rates reported above are combined rates covering both employees calendar year because we are required to do and contractors.
Further detail on employee and contractor rates is so for other regulatory reporting.
provided in the Corporate responsibility report on page 27.
8 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 The Board has chosen a number of key performance indicators to measure the Groups progress.
The table below sets out these indicators, explaining how they relate to our strategic priorities, and how we performed against them this year.
Why we measure it How we performed Change 2011 2010 restated constant currency To ensure we are successful in growing the division which is the key area of strategic focus 805m 788m 2% for the business.
To track the underlying performance of the business and to ensure sales growth translates 321m 268m 17% into increased profits.
To ensure that we continue to generate a strong rate of return on the assets that we employ and that we 3 have a disciplined approach to capital investment.
20.6% 13.6% 700bps To track how efficient we are in turning increased sales into cash and to ensure that working capital is managed effectively.
34 days 45 days 11 days Why we measure it How we performed 2011 2010 To ensure that we have the appropriate level of financial gearing and that we generate sufficient profits to service our debt.
These measures are 1.1x 1.8x a key focus for banks and providers of both debt and equity capital.
6.9x 5.8x Why we measure it How we performed 4 4 2010 2009 Change The safety of our employees and contractors is of paramount importance.
Ensuring safe and 0.93 0.89 -5% healthy conditions for employees at all our locations is essential to our operation as a successful business.
0.58 0.39 -49% 3 Basis points one hundred basis points equates to one percentage point.
4 Unlike our other KPIs, we report safety figures by calendar year because we are required to do so for other regulatory reporting.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 9 Financial statements Governance Business review Shareholder information
