Business review Innovation and Commercial Development The role of the Innovation and Commercial Development team is to identify and develop new business opportunities and to create and commercialise new ingredients, thereby providing long-term growth for Tate & Lyle.
Innovation centres and laboratories Karl Kramer ICD is currently headquartered in Decatur, President Illinois, USA but, by early 2012, its global headquarters will be the new Commercial and Food Innovation Centre in Chicago, USA.
This new centre, which will feature state-of-theart laboratories, a demonstration kitchen, and sensory testing, analytical and pilot plant facilities, will give us the ideal facilities for working more closely with customers.
In this centre we will be able to develop solutions to meet their functional, formulation and nutritional needs.
As well as the new centre in Chicago, ICD has a research centre in Lille, France.
These two centres are supported by a global network of smaller regional applications laboratories in Remit countries such as China, Germany, Argentina, The Innovation and Commercial Development Australia, and South Africa where our local ICD group is a key enabler of Tate & Lyles applications specialists take our customers strategy.
Established on 1 June 2010, its remit products from a written brief to prototype at high is to drive long-term growth across Tate & Lyle.
speed, while ensuring the final product reflects local tastes.
We are currently building two more ICD brings together three areas product applications laboratories, one in Brazil and development, marketing, and platform one in Mexico.
management into one global team, providing an integrated approach to developing and Pilot plants commercialising innovation.
ICD also operates the Groups pilot plant facilities, both laboratory scale and within our While ICD supports both of Tate & Lyles global manufacturing facilities.
Scaling up and testing business units, it concentrates mainly on growing formulations and ideas at our pilot plants allows our Speciality Food Ingredients division.
As a us to assess the feasibility of new processes, result, ICDs resources are predominantly focused new products and new technology, ensuring on three broad areas within the global speciality we get them right before investing in food ingredients market sweeteners, texturants commercial-scale processes.
Market research Within ICD, we have a dedicated Open Innovation Customer understanding drives all that we team which looks to develop partnerships with do.
We use market research to help us better universities, customers and start-ups specialising understand the consumer our customers in food science, with a goal of bringing their new customer.
Through our research programme, technologies or products to market.
ICD measures consumers views on particular ICD is responsible for developing and ingredients: gets their opinions on the latest managing the Groups innovation pipeline, and trends: analyses their dietary habits: and also for launching commercially successful understands their attitudes towards healthy new products.
Our research covers all the regions of the world we operate in, giving us the insights necessary to offer tailor-made solutions for our customers that we know will work in local markets.
