Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information p02-27 p28-54 p55-105 p106-116 Statutory, regulatory and other formal information Introduction Each of the Directors proposed for election or re-election at the AGM is being unanimously recommended by all of the This section contains the remaining matters on which the Directors other members of the Board.
This recommendation follows the are required to report each year, which do not appear elsewhere completion of the annual performance evaluation process, which in this Directors Report.
Certain other matters required to be included a detailed appraisal of the Board, its Committees and reported on appear elsewhere in the Report and Accounts as in respect of each Director.
Further information relating to the detailed below: evaluation is set out below and in the Corporate Governance t a list of the subsidiary and associated undertakings, including Report on page 33. branches outside the UK, principally affecting the profits or net The Articles of Association of the Company further regulate the assets of the Group in the year appears on page 104: appointment and removal of Directors, as does the Companies Act t changes in asset values are set out in the consolidated balance 2006 and related legislation.
The Companys Articles of Association sheet on page 58 and in the Notes to the accounts on pages may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
61 to 103: The powers of the Directors are described in the Corporate Governance Report.
t the Groups profit before taxation and the profit after taxation and minority interests appear in the consolidated income Qualifying third party indemnity statement on page 56 and in the Notes to the accounts The Company has granted an indemnity in favour of its Directors on pages 61 to 103: and and ofcers and those of its Group companies against the financial t a detailed statement of the Groups treasury management exposure that they may incur in the course of their professional and funding is set out in Note 20 on page 78. duties as Directors and ofcers of the Company and or its subsidiaries afliates.
The indemnity has been put in place in Directors accordance with section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 in The following Directors held ofce throughout the year: respect of which the Company took advice from Slaughter and May.
Kevin Beeston, Chairman: Audit and auditor Pete Redfern, Chief Executive: Each Director has, at the date of approval of this Report, Ryan Mangold, Group Finance Director: confirmed that: Brenda Dean, Independent Non Executive Director: t to the best of their knowledge there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and Tony Reading MBE, Independent Non Executive Director: t they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken Rob Rowley, Independent Non Executive Director and Senior as a Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant Independent Director.
audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor The following changes took place during the year: is aware of that information.
Kate Barker CBE was appointed as an Independent Non Executive This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance Director on 21 April 2011: with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Mike Hussey was appointed as an Independent Non Executive Deloitte LLP have confirmed their willingness to continue in ofce Director on 1 July 2011: as auditor of the Company and a resolution to re-appoint them will be proposed at the AGM.
James Jordan was appointed as Group Legal Director on 21 July 2011 and also continues in his role as the Group It is the Companys general policy that its auditors will not carry Company Secretary : out non-audit services except where it is appropriate to do so and in accordance with the Companys formal policy for the carrying Andrew Dougal and Katherine Innes Ker, Independent Non out of such work.
Deloitte LLP provided non-audit services to the Executive Directors, each stood down as a Director on Group during the year within the policy framework as described 21 April 2011: and in the Corporate Governance Report.
Sheryl Palmer, formerly the Director with executive responsibility Annual General Meeting for the Groups US and Canadian businesses, stood down as a Director on 20 July 2011 following the completion of their sale.
The AGM will be held at 11:00 am on 26 April 2012 at The British Medical Association, BMA House, Tavistock Square, London, The Directors together with their biographical information are WC1H 9JP.
Formal notice of the AGM including details of special business Retirement, election and re-election is set out in the Notice of Meeting on page 106 and on the The Company has determined that in accordance with the Companys Web site plc.
Voting on all UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors should seek resolutions at this years AGM will again be conducted by way election or re-election at this years AGM as explained in the of a poll as the Board believes this gives as many shareholders Notes to the Notice of Meeting and on page 33 of the as possible the opportunity to have their votes counted, whether Corporate Governance Report.
their votes are tendered by proxy in advance of, or in person at the AGM.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 51 Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information p02-27 p28-54 p55-105 p106-116 Statutory, regulatory and other formal information continued Web communication Details of employee share schemes are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 44.
The Employee Share Ownership Trusts With shareholders consent, the Company has adopted Web generally abstain from voting in respect of shares held by them.
The benets of Web communication are that it: No person has any special rights of control over the Companys t enables the Company to signicantly reduce its printing and share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
postage costs: Substantial interests t enables shareholders to access information faster, on the day documents are published on the Companys Web site: and The persons set out in the table below have notied the Company pursuant to Rule 5.1 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of t reduces the amount of resources consumed, such as paper, their interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company.
and lessens the impact of printing and mailing activities on the environment.
At 28 February 2012, no change in these holdings had been notied nor, according to the Register of Members, did any other Shareholder communications including the 2011 Annual Report shareholder at that date have a disclosable holding of the and Accounts are available electronically through the Companys Companys issued share capital.
Directors interests, including interests in the Companys shares, The Company provides hard copy documentation to those are shown in the Remuneration Report.
shareholders who have requested this and is, of course, happy to meet any such requests.
Substantial interests in the Companys shares as at 28 February 2012 Registrar Number of Percentage of The Companys registrar is Capita Registrars.
Their details, together shares held issued voting with information on facilities available to shareholders, are set out Name millions share capital in the Shareholder Facilities section on page 114.
Schroders plc 474.65 14.80 Capital structure BlackRock Inc 313.62 9.81 Third Avenue Management LLC 191.58 5.98 Details of the Companys issued share capital, together with details of the movements in the Companys issued share capital during the JPMorgan Asset Management Holdings Inc 159.64 4.99 year are shown in Note 23 on page 88.
Legal & General Group Plc 127.16 3.97 The Company has two classes of shares: Ordinary Shares of 1p, Ignis Asset Management Limited 97.50 3.05 each of which carries the right to one vote at general meetings Standard Life Investments Limited 96.39 3.02 of the Company and such other rights and obligations as are set out in the Companys Articles of Association: and Deferred Dividend Shares which carry no voting rights.
Information relating to the recommended 2011 final dividend is set As part of the debt restructuring announced on 21 April 2009 out in the Chairmans Statement on page 4 and in the notes to the Company issued Warrants to certain of its lenders giving resolution 2 on page 109 in the Notes to the Notice of Annual the holders the right, up to 29 April 2014, to subscribe for up General Meeting.
to an aggregate of approximately 58 million Ordinary Shares The Company will be operating a Dividend Re-Investment Plan, representing approximately 5% of the Companys issued share capital at the time the Warrants were issued.
Warrants remain further details of which are set out on page 110 of this Annual Report.
over approximately 1.47% of the current issued share capital at the subscription price per share of 17.4473 pence 25 pence prior The right to receive any dividend has been waived in part by the to the Placing and Open Offer.
The Warrants are transferable and Trustee of the Companys Employee Share Ownership Trusts over carry entitlement to subscription for three months after the those Trusts combined holding of 22,911,329 shares.
passing of a resolution for the winding-up of the Company.
To date, aggregate exercises of Warrants have resulted in the issue Research and development of 10,864,768 new Ordinary Shares of 1p each.
During 2011 the Company continued to prototype the previously introduced house type range.
Feedback from customers and the The authority given by shareholders at the AGM held on Companys regional business units, fed through divisional review 21 April 2011 for the Company to purchase a maximum of 319.8 groups, allowed the Company to make further revisions and million of its own shares remained valid at 31 December 2011. improvements to ensure it has the best house type range to The authority was not exercised during 2011 or prior to the date support the business and to provide customers with what of this Report.
The Company has no current intention of exercising they want.
the authority but will nevertheless be seeking the usual renewal of this authority at the AGM.
The Company currently holds no shares In addition, during 2011 the Company started building its first in treasury.
houses to the 2010 building regulations.
These provided for an improvement in the thermal efficiency of the Companys homes.
There are no specic restrictions on the size of a holding, the Simultaneously, the Company started to work with its expert exercise of voting rights, nor on the transfer of shares, which are consultant team and supply chain on how it would meet the governed by the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
These will be a stepping stone The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
52 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information p02-27 p28-54 p55-105 p106-116 from the 2010 regulations to Zero Carbon housing in 2016.
The Equal opportunities Company will continue to pursue its strategy of building fabric first The Company remains committed to equality of opportunity in all before adding renewables.
of its employment practices, policies and procedures across the Group.
To this end, within the framework of applicable law, we are Taylor Wimpey personnel chaired the NICOLE Network for committed, wherever practicable, to achieving and maintaining a industrially contaminated land in Europe Browneld Working workforce which broadly reects that of the local catchment area Group which published a significant report in 2011 on within which we operate.
No employee or potential employee will environmental liability transfer in Europe.
receive less favourable treatment due to their race, creed, colour, Taylor Wimpey personnel sit on the Advisory Board of HOMBRE nationality, ethnic origin, religion, political or other opinion, afliation, Holistic Management of Browneld Regeneration, a four year gender, sexual orientation, marital status, family connections, age, Seventh Framework EU funded research project looking at membership or non-membership of a trade union, or disability, sustainable browneld re-use.
unless justifiable in exceptional circumstances, for example due to health and safety considerations.
Instruction on equal opportunities Through CIRIA Construction Industry Research Information is part of the induction programme.
Association Taylor Wimpey personnel have contributed to Steering Groups on VOC volatile organic contamination remediation and Employment of people with disabilities asbestos in soils.
It is our policy that people with disabilities should have fair Taylor Wimpey personnel are also continuing collaborative work consideration for all vacancies within the Group.
with WRAP Waste and Resources Action Programme on wastage, The Company is therefore committed, where possible, to ensuring recyclates, reverse logistics and qualitative supply chain that people with disabilities are supported and encouraged to apply assessment on waste and resource efficiency.
for employment and to achieve progress once employed.
They Through the Land Forum, Taylor Wimpey personnel have will be treated so as to ensure that they have an equal opportunity supported various early stage research initiatives into evaluating to be selected, trained and promoted.
In addition, every the true cost of browneld land, supporting the revised statutory reasonable effort is made for disabled persons to be retained in the guidance and better regulation of regeneration.
employment of the Group by investigating the possibility of making reasonable adjustments to the job, workplace or equipment.
Employee involvement and communication Charitable donations The Company is committed to ensuring open and regular communication throughout the Group on both business-related The Company has a Charity Committee, which operates within issues and issues of general interest.
There is a formal Employee written terms of reference and charitable guidelines approved by Consultative Committee structure in place in all operations and the Board.
The Committees aims are to monitor and review elected representatives meet with management to consult on charitable donations made by regional businesses as against the appropriate issues.
Intranet systems are continually updated which guidelines and to assess and administer larger donations centrally.
provide a valuable communication tool across the Group and an The members of the Committee are the Group HR Director important facility for providing employees with access to a wide Chairman, Group Legal Director and Company Secretary, UK range of information.
Information is regularly cascaded throughout Land and Planning Director, Group Investor Relations Manager the Group via e-mail including regular communications from the and Group Financial Controller.
The Company and the Committee Chief Executive and via verbal briengs and by management encourage non-financial contributions also and for employees presentations.
to participate in charitable causes.
During 2011, a total of fourteen presentations took place across During the year, Group companies donated 211,000 the country, which were attended by staff from all the Companys 2010: 95,000 excluding North America to various charities Business Units, at which the Chief Executive and other senior in the UK.
management presented the Companys strategy first hand.
This Further information on the Groups donations, activities and was a very successful exercise and was very well received initiatives can be found in the 2011 Corporate Responsibility by the Companys workforce.
All employees were invited to Report which is available on the Companys Web site: contribute to the development of the strategy and several of their plc.
co. uk  ideas were adopted in framing both the strategy and its method of implementation.
An internal forum has been established on the Political donations Groups intranet inviting employees to comment and make The Company does not make donations to political parties and suggestions on the strategy and its implementation with each neither does it intend to.
The Company does support certain one being read by the Chief Executive and responded to.
industry-wide organisations which directly assist the housebuilding This is in addition to the continuing forum on the intranet called industry such as the Home Builders Federation and the CBI.
Whilst Open Door which allows direct communication with the Chief we do not regard this as political in nature, the Companies Act Executive on strategic areas of focus and other matters in order to 2006 denition of political organisations and related terms is very enable all employees to contribute and comment.
All employees wide and in certain circumstances a donation or a subscription to are encouraged to participate and use the forum.
a charity or other organisation could retrospectively be categorised as a political donation.
Accordingly, the Company will be seeking The Company promotes share ownership as widely as possible the usual annual dispensation at the Annual General Meeting as and maintains all-employee share plans, including the Save As You a matter of prudency.
Earn share option scheme and the Share Incentive Plan, as widely as possible across the Group.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 53 Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information p02-27 p28-54 p55-105 p106-116 Statutory, regulatory and other formal information continued Policy on payment of suppliers t prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will The nature of the Groups operations means that there is no continue in business.
single Group standard in respect of payment terms to suppliers.
Generally, business units are responsible for establishing payment In preparing the Group financial statements, International terms with suppliers when entering into each transaction or series Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: of linked transactions.
In the absence of dispute, valid payment t properly select and apply accounting policies: requests are met as expeditiously as possible within such terms.
Our standard framework agreements with contractors establish t present information, including accounting policies, in a the due date for payment as 30 days from the later of the date manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and of issue of the invoice or request for payment, or the relevant understandable information: month end notied by the employer, and for suppliers, the due t provide additional disclosures when compliance with the date for payment is the end of the month following the month specic requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users of receipt of the suppliers invoice for goods and or services to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events delivered to the Company.
and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial Trade creditor days for the Group for the year ended 31 December performance: and 2011 were 32 days 2010: 30 days.
This is based on the ratio of t make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue year end Group trade creditors excluding sub-contract retentions as a going concern.
and unagreed claims of 31.2 million 2010: 34.4 million and land creditors, see Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting to amounts invoiced during the year by trade creditors.
The records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys Company had no significant trade creditors at 31 December 2011. transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure Agreements that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
Apart from a small number of borrowing agreements, pursuant They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the to which the Company borrows or is able to borrow money, which Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention could potentially be terminated by the other party upon a change and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
of control of the Company, there are no significant contracts or agreements which take effect, alter or terminate upon a change The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of control of the Company.
of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys Web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing Important events since the year end the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may There have been no important events affecting the Company differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
or any of its subsidiary undertakings since 31 December 2011.
Responsibility statement Directors responsibilities statement The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report t the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the and the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view and regulations.
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required taken as a whole: and to prepare the Group Financial Statements in accordance with t the management report, which is incorporated into the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted Directors Report, includes a fair review of the development and by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and performance of the business and the position of the Company have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted a whole, together with a description of the principal risks Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and uncertainties that they face.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true This Report of the Directors was approved by the Board and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit of Directors on 28 February 2012. or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing the parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: t select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: t make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable James Jordan and prudent: Group Legal Director and Company Secretary t state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been Taylor Wimpey plc 28 February 2012 followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and 54 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
