Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information p02-27 p28-54 p55-105 p106-116 e u l a v g Chief Executives Review continued Our vision We aim to become the UKs leading residential developer for creating Components of the value cycle value and delivering quality.
Selecting land Our strategic objectives Land is the critical raw material for our business In line with the evolution of our strategy, we will measure our success against and the ability to purchase the right sites in the an amended set of strategic KPIs: right locations at the right price is a key driver of shareholder value.
Driving further UK operating margin progression beyond 2011 Delivering at least a 15% return on net operating assets through the cycle Growing net assets by 10% per annum on average through the cycle UK operating Group return on net Tangible net asset a Managing the planning and community margin % operating assets % value per share p engagement process 6.4 9.7 5.3 9.8 56.9 57.3 Designing a sustainable community that meets the needs of local residents, is attractive to potential customers and provides attractive returns for shareholders requires a consultative and iterative process of community engagement.
2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 Our approach Getting the homebuilding basics right In order to achieve these strategic objectives, we need to deliver enhanced value We work with selected sub-contractors and build from each component of our value cycle.
The table opposite provides a description using carefully sourced materials to ensure that the of each component of the value cycle, the strategy that we employ to deliver homes that we sell are of a high quality and are built safely, efficiently, cost effectively and with minimal enhanced value and the operational KPIs that we monitor to measure our success.
Caring about our customers Buying a home is a significant financial and emotional Caring about investment.
We aim to make buying, moving into and our customers living in a Taylor Wimpey home as easy as possible for Selecting our customers.
land Simply the best people Optimising value Developing sustainable homes and communities Managing the Getting the is a time-consuming process, but this provides planning and homebuilding community us with the opportunity to undertake regular basics right engagement reviews over the life of each development to process identify potential improvements.
Simply the best people This value cycle requires significant input from skilled and committed people to deliver aspirational, profit on ordinary activities from continuing operations before finance costs and exceptional items, after share of results of joint ventures.
high-quality homes and communities for Operating profit divided by the average of the opening and closing net operating our customers.
assets, which is dened as capital employed plus intangibles less tax balances.
Tangible net assets per share is dened as net assets, excluding goodwill and intangible assets, divided by the number of shares in issue at the period end.
a 2010 comparative excludes a one-off pension curtailment credit of 12.0 million in the UK.
8 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 n i is m i t p O Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information p02-27 p28-54 p55-105 p106-116 Our UK operational Our strategy to deliver enhanced value Key Performance Indicators Owned and controlled Contribution per We are highly selective with regard to the types of sites that we buy, focusing on the plots with planning legal completion k quality of the land rather than the number of plots acquired.
We employ dedicated land teams in each of our 24 regional businesses, who use their expertise and local knowledge to identify potential high quality, sustainable sites.
Our regional businesses are also supported by our strategic land teams who operate throughout the UK and are tasked 65,264 28.6 with identifying areas where population growth, or other local demand, could create 2010: 63,556 2010: 22.9 opportunities to promote land through the planning system.
The importance we place on effective partnerships, along with our expertise and track record for delivering planning consents, makes us an attractive partner for landowners.
Contribution per Health and safety We believe that a positive and structured approach to working with others is at the heart of a legal completion k incident rate successful scheme.
Residential development is a local business and we work in partnership with the communities in which we build to deliver homes that meet their requirements and aspirations.
We are rolling out a continuous process of community engagement over the lifetime of each development, which will enable us to identify the best use of each site to meet the 28.6 378 needs of local residents, to deliver appropriate financial returns for our shareholders, to ensure 2010: 557 2010: 22.9 that we have a mix of homes that meet local market demand and that the site is optimised for safe, efficient and considerate development.
We are committed to providing a safe place in which our employees and sub-contractors can Health and safety Waste generated per incident rate 1,000 square feet built tonnes work.
We are also committed to high standards of environmental management.
The building process is carefully managed by our site-based and regional production teams to ensure quality, minimise disruption to residents in the surrounding areas and to protect and enhance the value of each site.
378 3.44 2010: 557 2010: 4.18 Customer Forward order book as a No matter what the size or price of a property, for each customer the home that they are satisfaction score % percentage of completions % buying is aspirational to them.
We will maintain our focus on delivering high-quality homes and a consistently excellent Customer Journey to all of our customers.
We continue to make improvements to our on-line capabilities, including our Web site and use of social media such as Facebook and Twitter.
92.1 53.1 2010: 87.1 2010: 47.2 Contribution per legal We look to optimise the value of each site not only during the initial acquisition process, but completion k throughout the planning and development stages so that the original value is not only protected but enhanced.
We achieve this by undertaking a series of thorough reviews of each site at all stages of its lifecycle, using our value improvement and tracking processes to ensure that we are continually optimising and delivering the value within our land portfolio.
28.6 2010: 22.9 We want to be the residential developer of choice for employees.
We want to attract and retain the Employee turnover % best people by having a culture that people identify with, where they can realise their full potential and achieve success and satisfaction.
We will continue to seek a balance of internal and external appointments, in order to combine career development with the introduction of new perspectives 10 and innovative approaches.
2010: 9 For more information see page 15 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 9 Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information p02-27 p28-54 p55-105 p106-116 Chief Executives Review continued People and culture Outlook The people in all functions at both regional and head ofce level are In the UK, while it remains too early to judge the market for the year critical to our success.
In order to achieve our ambition of becoming as a whole, the early weeks of trading in 2012 have followed the the UKs leading residential developer for creating value and delivering encouraging patterns of the second half of 2011, with good visitor quality we need significant input from skilled and committed people to levels, healthy reservations and low cancellations.
We believe that our deliver quality homes and communities for our customers.
ever improving portfolio of sales outlets is well positioned in our local markets, with aspirational products and achievable prices for our But more than this, our people need to understand our strategy and target customers.
Accordingly, during September and October, I went round the business along with a number of other members of the Our priorities remain value creation and margin improvement ahead of senior management team to present our strategy to employees from volume growth, and we are achieving further improvement in the every regional business and our head ofce.
There were opportunities margin on sales in our order book.
Having delivered double digit for questions at each of these meetings and, in addition, a forum on operating margins in the UK in the second half of 2011, ahead of our intranet allows for ongoing discussion of our strategy.
target, we continue to expect to deliver further steady improvement providing that current stable market conditions continue.
As well as rening our strategy, we have also formalised a set of cultural principles that underpin everything that we do: Given the balance between a stable UK housing market and widespread economic uncertainty, we continue to maintain a positive t If something is worth doing, its worth doing properly: but cautious view of the short term trading environment.
In addition to t If we make a mistake, we put it right: creating value in an improving market, our value-focused strategy, high-quality land portfolio, increased order book, and strong balance t We will not compromise in ensuring that everyone leaves our sheet give us a strong defensive position should conditions weaken sites safe and well: during 2012. t We are competitive and dont accept second best: we drive for results: t We behave with integrity, and are honest and forthright, but we support each other: and t We strive to enhance the environment and local community, not Pete Redfern damage it.
Chief Executive We currently have a solid and stable team across the business, both regionally and centrally, who take pride in working for Taylor Wimpey.
We aim to build on this by becoming the employer of choice in our industry, attracting and retaining people because of our culture, and providing opportunities for development, so that Taylor Wimpey is seen as the place where employees can achieve success.
Corporate responsibility We remain committed to being a responsible company and to playing our part in building increasingly sustainable homes and communities.
As Chief Executive, I take ownership of the corporate responsibility agenda at the Board level and oversee the work of our Sustainability Steering Group.
I also continue to sit on the Confederation of British Industrys Climate Change Board, enabling us to benefit from best practice across a wide range of industries.
As a residential developer, we are well aware of the undersupply of new homes in the UK and the issue of homelessness.
We are proud to be supporting Centrepoint, a charity that provides emergency accommodation, support, information and training for homeless young people as our national charity for 2011 and 2012.
In addition we remain a patron of CRASH, the construction and property industries homelessness charity.
Further information about our approach to corporate responsibility is provided on page 23 of this Annual Report and in our annual Corporate Responsibility Report which is available on our Web site at plc.
co. uk  CRreports 10 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information p02-27 p28-54 p55-105 p106-116 Risk Management & Mitigation Our approach to risk management $V ZLWK DQ EXVLQHVV 7D ORU :LPSH IDFHV D QXPEHU RI ULVNV DQG XQFHUWDLQWLHV LQ WKH FRXUVH RI LWV GD WR GD RSHUDWLRQV, W LV RQO E HIIHFWLYHO LGHQWLI LQJ DQG PDQDJLQJ WKHVH ULVNV WKDW ZH ZLOO EH DEOH WR GHOLYHU RQ RXU VWUDWHJLF SULRULWLHV RI LPSURYLQJ RSHUDWLQJ PDUJLQV UHWXUQ RQ QHW RSHUDWLQJ DVVHWV DQG QHW DVVHW YDOXH Principal Risks & Uncertainties Group Material Risk Register BU & Central Risk Registers BU & Central forecast and planning process The Board oversees the risk and control framework of the Group Our risk assessment and management process and the Chief Executive is responsible for implementing any The successful management of risk is essential to enable the Group necessary improvements with the support of the GMT.
In line with our to deliver on its strategic priorities.
The risk management and internal report last year and consistent with the Code, the Board increased control framework define procedures that manage rather than eliminate the frequency of its formal risk reviews to half yearly and the GMT the risk facing the business and can only provide reasonable and not conducts a detailed review as part of the business planning process.
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
At its half year and year end meetings the Board reviewed the risk The risk management framework consists of risk registers at all prole of the Group and the mitigating factors identied with the organisational levels which detail the risk faced by the Group, its significant risks.
At the year end meeting in February 2012 following operating companies and the central service teams.
The registers the annual review by the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of identify key operational and financial risks while strategic risks are internal controls and a formal half year assessment of risk, which identied as part of the business planning process although it is included a detailed risk assessment by the GMT, the Board expected that strategic risks will be included on risk registers.
The completed its annual assessment of risks for the year end risk registers take into account the signicance of environmental, 31 December 2011.
The key risks affecting the Group were social and governance matters of the Company and use a identied and agreed with the Board together with processes standardised methodology for the assessment of risk.
for their elimination or mitigation and actions required to reduce The standard methodology used in risk management requires each risk the likelihood of each risk to the Company and the Group.
identied to be assessed and ranked according to a risk matrix which More information on risk management and internal control accounts for the likelihood and impact of each risk.
The risks identied is contained within the Corporate Governance Report on are assessed for potential effect on the Companys short and long term pages 36 and 37. value.
The completion of risk registers is iterative and refreshed on an ongoing basis.
The risk registers feed into a formal half yearly risk assessment that identies the principal risks see pages 12 and 13 and allows the Board to re-evaluate the identied strategic risks facing the Group.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 11 Strategic Priorities
