Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information p02-27 p28-54 p55-105 p106-116 Board of Directors & Group Company Secretary The strength and depth of our Board and senior management adds value to the effective control and leadership of the Company.
Kevin Beeston Pete Redfern Ryan Mangold James Jordan Robert Rowley Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director Group Legal Director Independent Non Executive and Company Secretary Director and Senior Independent Director Appointed to the post of Appointed as a Director and Ryan was appointed as a Appointed Group Legal Appointed as a Non Executive Chairman in July 2010, to the post of Chief Executive Director and to the post of Director and Company Director in January 2010 Kevin chairs the Nomination in July 2007 upon the merger Group Finance Director in Secretary on 21 July 2011, and as Senior Independent Committee and is a member of George Wimpey Plc with November 2010 having James, a solicitor, was Director in April 2010, Rob of the Remuneration Taylor Woodrow plc.
Pete is a previously held the post of previously Group Company is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He was member of the Nomination Group Financial Controller Secretary and General Committee and a member appointed Chairman of Committee.
In addition he since April 2009.
Before Counsel of George Wimpey of the Remuneration and Equiniti Group Limited in has full day-to-day joining Taylor Wimpey, Plc from February 2002 and, Nomination Committees.
Kevin is operational responsibility for Ryan was Group Financial since the merger, of Taylor was previously a Director of also a Non Executive Director the UK Housing division.
Prior Controller of Mondi Group Wimpey plc.
Before joining Reuters Plc, Deputy Chairman of IMI plc and chairs two to the merger he was Group for five years, prior to which the Group, James held senior of Cable and Wireless plc and private businesses: Chief Executive of George he held a number of senior legal and company secretary a Non Executive Director of Partnerships in Care Group Wimpey Plc and before that finance roles with the Anglo roles in industry which Prudential plc and Taylor Limited and Domestic & successively held the posts American plc group included positions with Nelson Sofres plc.
He was of Finance Director and of companies.
The Rugby Group Plc and Non Executive Director and formerly Chairman of Serco Chief Executive of George English China Clays Plc.
Chairman of the Audit Group plc.
Wimpeys UK Housing Committee of both Capital business.
He is a Trustee Shopping Centres Group of the homelessness plc formerly Liberty charity Crisis.
28 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information p02-27 p28-54 p55-105 p106-116 Board composition Board tenure Q Chairman Q 1 year Q Independent Non Executive Directors Q 1-4 years Q Executives Q 4 years Audit Committee Baroness Dean Anthony Reading Mike Hussey Kate Barker CBE Current members: of Thornton-le-Fylde MBE Rob Rowley Independent Non Independent Non Independent Non Independent Non Committee Chairman, Executive Director Executive Director Executive Director Executive Director Kate Barker and Tony Reading.
Appointed as a Non Appointed as a Non Appointed as a Non Appointed as a Non For more information Executive Director in Executive Director in Executive Director on Executive Director on see pages 35 and 36 July 2007, Brenda is a July 2007, Tony is Chairman 1 July 2011, Mike is a 21 April 2011, Kate is a member of the Remuneration of the Remuneration member of the Nomination member of the Audit and Nomination Committee and Nomination Committees.
He is Chief Nomination Committees.
She Current members: She is a member of the of the Audit and Nomination Executive of Almacantar, is a business economist and Kevin Beeston House of Lords and is active Committees.
He was a private property investment is presently a Senior Adviser Committee Chairman, in a number of public areas, previously a Director of and development company to Credit Suisse and a Non Kate Barker, Brenda Dean, including the House of Lords Tomkins Plc and Chairman which he founded in Executive Director of Electra Mike Hussey, Tony Reading, Appointments Commission.
and Chief Executive of February 2010, and a Trustee Private Equity plc and the Pete Redfern and Brenda is Chairman of the Tomkins Corp. USA, a Non of Photographers Gallery Yorkshire Building Society.
New Covent Garden Market Executive Director of Spectris Limited.
He has held Previously, Kate was a Authority and a Partnership Plc and was a Non Executive a number of senior roles member of the Bank of For more information Director of National Air Trafc Director of George Wimpey in the property sector, most Englands Monetary Policy see pages 34 and 35 Services.
Previously Brenda Plc prior to its merger with recently as an Executive Committee MPC from 2001 Remuneration Committee was a Non Executive Director Taylor Woodrow.
He is a Non Board Director of Land until May 2010.
During this Current members: of George Wimpey Plc prior Executive Director of Laird Plc Securities plc, prior to which period, she also led two Tony Reading to its merger with Taylor and e2v Technologies plc.
he was head of Leasing and major policy reviews for Committee Chairman, Woodrow plc in July 2007 Marketing for Canary Wharf Government, on housing Kevin Beeston, and a Non Executive Director Group plc, a partner at supply and on land use Brenda Dean and of Dawson Holdings PLC.
Before joining the Rob Rowley.
of the Regeneration and MPC she was Chief Development Committee Economic Adviser at the CBI.
For more information of the British Property Kate was awarded a CBE see pages 35 and 39 Federation and a Trustee in 2005 for services to of LandAid, the property social housing.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 29
