34 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Report of the Board It is an essential part of the ongoing success of any business that it should be led by directors with the relevant skills, knowledge and experience to do so.
In recruiting two excellent independent non-executive Directors during the year, we have enhanced our Board to lead the Group in the ongoing success in achieving its strategic aims.
Details of our individual Directors can Division of responsibilities Membership of the Board be found in their biographies on pages Clarity of the responsibilities of and constructive 32 and 33 working relationships amongst our Directors areat the heart of achieving the Boards Our Directors: John Hughes maximum potential.
Most important in this Michael Tobin Chairman arethe responsibilities of and clarity between Chairman contribute a wealth and range of knowledge, Simon Batey Michael Tobin the roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive experience and skill sets to the Board, its SID CEO Officer.
Asrecommended by the UK Code, Committees and more widely in the there is a clear written division of responsibilities Group:and Brian McArthurMaurizio between these roles.
In practice, though, the Muscroft Carli Rob Coupland have been appointed to the Board and GFD John Hughes relationship between them is successful Chief Operating itsCommittees, before, at and since the because of the constructive way in which they officer John Sahar Companys IPO, ensuring their memberships OReilly Elhabashi work together.
Asummary of the individual are progressively refreshed.
responsibilities ofthe Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Senior Independent Director and Company This report summarises the operation of the Secretary undertaken in 2011 is given in the table Board and provides details of the induction Chairman on the next page.
independent on appointment Executive Directors Length of tenure of Directors John OReilly Simon Batey John Hughes Independent n Chairman onexecutive Directors Chairman Chairman The UK Code provides that they should comprise at 4 years John Hughes least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman.
Simon Batey John Hughes SID Michael Tobin 4 years since IPO In add John OReilly ition, other members Maurizio C of senio arli r Group management regularly attend and give John Simon Batey Brian McArthur-Muscroft 4 years since IPO presentations at Board meetings.
OReilly SID Sahar Maurizio Country managers may also attend when Simon Batey Carli 4 years Elhabashi Sahar Elhabashi matters of particular local significance are proposed or being reviewed.
1 Maurizio Carli 1 year At strategy meetings, external speakers 1 1 year are also invited to attend.
These may Sahar Elhabashi include customers, suppliers and 4 years specialist professionals in aspects John OReilly oftheGroupsindustry.
Robert Morse was a non-independent non-executive Director from before the Groups IPO until he stepped down in September 2011.
John Hughes, CBE Chairman UK Code Principle: Every company should be headed by an effective board whichis collectively responsible for the long-term success ofthe company.
Overview Business model and Financial review Governance review Financial statements Investor information operating review 35 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Governance review Introduction Biographies of Directors Report of the Board Report of the Corporate Social  Report of the Audit Committee Report of the Nominations Committee Report of the Remuneration Committee UK Code Principle: There should be a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the company between the running of the board and the executive responsibility for the running of the companys business.
No one individual should have unfettered powers of decision.
Board meetings Chairman Chief Executive Officer As shown in the governance calendar for 2011 Led the Board and, with the other members Led the business and the rest of the onpage 31, the Board holds six main meetings of the Nominations Committee, led the management team each year at two-monthly intervals.
These recruitment of the new Directors Led the development of the Groups meetings, together with any Committee meetings, Ensured all Directors were able to maximise strategy with input from the rest of are generally held at theGroups offices in London their contributions to the Board and, with theBoard over a period equivalent to approximately one the Senior Independent Director, led the Led the management team in the Groups day.
Atleast once per year, the Board meets annual evaluation ofthe Board acquisitions and new build decisions atone of the Groups other locations, for example Provided strategic insight from his wide Was the principal public face of the Group where a major new data centre build is underway.
ranging business experience and contacts with shareholders, customers, suppliers In 2011, itmet in Stockholm where it toured built up over manyyears and the industry generally existing facilities and those in the process Provided a sounding board for the Brought matters of particular significance or ofbeing constructed.
ChiefExecutive Officer on key business risk tothe Chairman for discussion and decisions, challenging proposals An additional full day strategy meeting is held consideration by the Board if appropriate whereappropriate bythe Board every year.
This takes place at a non-Group location.
When appropriate for Met with major shareholders on governance matters and was an alternate point of specific matters, the Board also meets contact to the Chief Executive Officer usuallyby telephone conference between for shareholders onothermatters main meetings.
Effective There is a schedule of matters specifically division of reserved to the decision of the Board.
It is responsibilities designed to ensure that the decisions of the and Board greatest significance are considered by the operation Senior Company Board as a whole.
IndependentDirector Secretary A high level summary of key mattersconsidered and decided Worked with the Chairman on the Secretary to the Board and each of its atBoard meetings during 2011 evaluation oftheBoard Committees, reporting directly to theirChairmen isonpages 36 and37 g Led the evaluation of the Chairman Facilitated the induction of the Provided input to management on business newDirectors Subject to the matters reserved to the Board, governance matters commented on the day-to-day management of the Groups Assisted the Chairman andSenior further inthe report of the Audit business is delegated to management within Independent Director in theevaluation Committee as well asmore generally oftheBoard defined authority limits.
This includes approval Reviewed management of new build of customer and supplier contracts and routine processes fora key Group site Kept the Board and its Committees capital expenditure within those limits.
The informed on governance matters, advising Met with shareholders on governance on these through their Chairmen operation of the business isreported on to the matters and was available as a further point Board as set out on pages 36 and 37. of contact for shareholders on other A ssisted in the ongoing development matters as well ofGroup policies UK Code Principle: The chairman is responsible for leadership of the board andensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
36 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 UK Code Principle: UK Code Principle: As part of their role as members of a unitary board, non-executive directors The board should be supplied in a timely manner with information should constructively challenge andhelp develop proposals on strategy.
inaform and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
Board calendar for 2011 At specific meetings Appraisal of the prior year acquisition of IFL Authorisation of increase in Groups Appointment of two Reviews of: borrowing facilities from 200m to 300m newDirectors Approval of proposals to be submitted S wedish business to provide additional capacity forexpansion tothe AGM and market with Review and approval Reviews of: local country ofinterim management Review and approval of annual manager including statement, including results, including: U pdated process for appraisal Stockholm site visit ongoing expansion plans ofacquisitions R eport of the Audit Committee Pub lic policy Th e Groups information technology A nnouncement advocacy plans P ublic policy considerations Investor presentation Annual Report Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun At each main meeting Review and discussion of: Review and discussions of reports on: M&A opportunities Trading results and KPIs Current and planned new build Risk management projects and significant Customer pipeline and Health and safety and Strategic considerations capital expenditure proposals forecastupdates environmental matters Financing and accounting matters How the Board operates The Chairman, along with the executive Group strategy is reviewed by the Board, Clarification or amplification of reports is Directors and Company Secretary, has most particularly at the Boards annual sought in advance of, or at, meetings established Board processes designed to strategy meeting, with strategic matters asappropriate.
Key aspects of being reviewed and updated as appropriate Once goals have been set and actions these are shown below: at each main meeting.
agreed, the Board receives regular reports Board meetings are timetabled to ensure Good working relationships exist between on their implementation.
adequate time for discussion of each non-executive Directors and non-Board Management accounts with commentary agendaitem.
members of the senior management, which are distributed to the Board on a are encouraged by the executive Directors.
Board discussions are held in a monthlybasis.
collaborative atmosphere of mutual Members of the senior management team The Board reviews risk management at respect allowing for questions, scrutiny and draw on the collective experience of the each main Board meeting and challenges constructive challenge where appropriate.
Board, including its non-executive Directors.
Full debates allow decisions to be taken by Comprehensive reporting packs are provided The Board systematically visits the Groups consensus although any dissenting views to the Board, which are designed tobe clear, business locations both to review its would be minuted accordingly.
accurate and analytical, whilst avoiding excess operations and new builds and to meet and unnecessary information.
The development of strategy is led by withlocal management.
theChief Executive Officer with the Group Reporting packs are normally distributed All Directors have open access to the FinanceDirector, with input, challenge, four working days in advance of Board Groups key advisors as well as to examination and ongoing testing from the meetings, enabling them to be as up-to-date management and the Company Secretary.
as possible whilst allowing sufficient time for their review and consideration in advance Directors are also entitled to seek of the meeting.
independent professional advice at the Groups expense should they consider thisappropriate.
Overview Business model and Financial review Governance review Financial statements Investor information operating review 37 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Governance review Introduction Biographies of Directors Report of the Board Report of the Corporate Social  Report of the Audit Committee Report of the Nominations Committee Report of the Remuneration Committee UK Code Principle: All directors should receive induction on joining the board and should regularly update and refresh their skills and knowledge.
At specific meetings Approval of acquisition of Data Electronics in Review and Initial review of Strategy meeting, including: Ireland andpost acquisition plans approval actions from Review of market opportunities ofinterim strategy meeting Authorisation of acquisition of UK Grid in the UK Review of ongoing growth strategy management Review and Initial discussion on potential for dividend policy Agreement of future plans statement, approval of 2012 Plans for strategy meeting including: Discussion of alignment of executive remuneration budget Review and approval of half year withfutureoverall strategic goals Ongoing Review of results results, including: Initial post acquisition reviews of: expansion plans ofBoard Report of the Audit Committee Data Electronics U K Grid Dividend plans evaluation Announcement Review of Group health and safety Agreement of Investor presentation actions from Board Determination of capacity for dividendsin evaluation additionto funding ongoing growthstrategy Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec At each main meeting Reviews of the appointment of our Review of: new Directors and the evaluation Investor relations and feedback Minutes of previous meetings ofthe Board are included in the report Corporate communications Reports on implementation of our Nominations Committee of actions agreed at previous onpage 48 g meetings Induction of new Directors Building upon the process developed for the last time new Directors were appointed at the time of the Companys IPO, a thorough induction process wasundertaken to maximise the contributions of the new Directors appointed during 2011 as quickly as possible.
The induction process was ongoing through, and completed within, the first four months following appointment.
This ensured that the new Directors received information both in advance of the first Board meeting they attended and also with the benefit of having attended that meeting.
On appointment Following appointment Each Director received a comprehensive briefing prepared by the Partly before and partly after the first Board meeting attended, Company Secretary tosupplement the information on the Groups eachnew Director separately conducted: business provided during recruitment including: Business briefing meetings with each of the Chief Executive Board minutes for the previous year Officer and GroupFinance Director Key papers from the last Board meeting Meetings with other members of the Group managementteam Key papers from previous Board meetings remaining relevant Meetings with the country manager of the UK and one other country different for each Director Key brokers reports on the Group Visits to two data centres one within and one outside theUK Key Group policies four different data centres in total between the twoDirectors Governance information in relation to the Company, including Meetings with the Groups auditors and both of its theroleof the Board, its Committees, the Chairman and the financialadvisors  Guidance for Directors of British public companies generally including under law, the UK Code and the rules of the UK ListingAuthority 38 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Governance review Introduction Biographies of Directors Report of the Board Report of the Corporate Social  Report of the Audit Committee Report of the Nominations Committee Report of the Remuneration Committee UK Code Principle: There should be a dialogue with shareholders based on the mutual understanding of objectives.
The board as a whole has responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place.
UK Code Principle: The Board should use the AGM to communicate with investors and to .
Training Dialogue with shareholders The Board seeks to maximise the contribution ofall Directors on an ongoing basis.
Key to this The Board recognises that it is managing the Group ultimately on behalf of its shareholders.
isappropriate ongoing training, and the Group Itundertakes this responsibility in such a way so as to maximise shareholder value over the long makes this available to all Directors.
Training term and to advance the interests of all of the Groups stakeholders.
A mutual understanding of covers the Group, its industry and governance these objectives between shareholders and the Board as a whole has been developed as set out below.
During the year it included The Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Director meet with institutional shareholder attendance at seminars by individual Directors: representatives regularly during the year to discuss strategic and other issues as well as to give run by the Financial Reporting Council, the presentations on the Groups results copies of which are available on the Companys website.
Institute of Chartered Accountants, and The Board receives reports from the executive Directors of feedback from institutional major accounting firms: and shareholders at main Board meetings, as well as reports from the Head of Investor Relations on the UK Corporate Governance Code, the who is available to speak with shareholders at any time.
UK Stewardship Code, financial reporting The Chairman and Senior Independent Director initiate and hold meetings with a number and executive remuneration.
oftheCompanys largest institutional investors on governance and other matters, the results It also included briefings from the Group of which are reported to the whole Board.
Finance Director, Company Secretary, auditors The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee consults with major shareholders before any and lawyers on subjects including: significant changes in executive remuneration, the results of which are reported to the the Davies Committees and Financial Reporting Remuneration Committee.
Councils reports on Gender Diversity: The Companys Annual Report and Notice of AGM are published as soon as the time required the Institutional Investors Committees for their printing allows normally by the end of February to provide the maximum time in guidance ontheraising of funds: advance of the AGM for feedback on these, which is shared with the relevant Directors.
the ABIs guidance on directors remuneration: A presentation is given to shareholders attending the Companys AGM at which shareholder participation is encouraged, all Directors are present and questions and feedback are invited.
the Takeover Panels amendments to the Takeover Code: and Proxy votes of shareholders for the AGM are tabulated independently by the Companys registrars, provided at the meeting and published on our website shortly after the conclusion ofthe AGM.
In addition, all Directors are able and available tomeet with shareholders if so requested.
Management of any conflicts of interest Inparticular, the executive Directors, the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director areallavailable to discuss matters with shareholders at any time.
They can all be contacted All Directors avoid conflicts of interest with the through the Company Secretary or the Head of Investor Relations.
One of the criteria for the appointment of non-executive Directors isthat For more information contact us at ir@telecity.
com they are free from any such conflicts.
Nonetheless, g actual or potential conflicts of interest Conflicts can arise and theBoard has aset procedure include the Director absenting themselves On behalf of the Board inplace under the Companys Articles of during discussions on the relevant matter.
Association to deal with these as follows: No Director notified any material Conflict during Conflicts are notified to the Board before the year.
Decisions regarding transactions with Directors On such notification, the other Directors John Hughes, CBE and their related parties are always dealt with by consider whether to authorise the Conflict Chairman other Directors.
For example, matters regarding and, if so, under what conditions.
10 February 2012 the remuneration of the executive Directors Such conditions could limit the distribution and the Chairman are handled by the or use of information to or by a Director or Remuneration Committee.
