102 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Directors report The Directors present their Annual Report and audited financial statements of the Company and the Group for the year ended 31 December 2011.
This Directors Report contains certain statutory, regulatory and other information and incorporates, by reference, the Overview, Business Model and Operating Review, Financial Review and Governance Review included earlier in this document.
Business review Substantial shareholdings A review of the development of the Groups business At 10 February 2012, the Company had been notified in accordance with the Disclosure and during the year and its future prospects is included Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Authority, or was aware, that the following held, or were in the Overview, the Business Model and Operating beneficially interested in, 3% or more of the Companys shares the Shares at that date: Review, the Financial Review and Governance Total voting Review onpages 2 to 60, which should be read Number rights inconjunction with this report, ofwhichthey form of shares % part.
The information in thesesections, along with Norges Bank 17,290,683 8.69 this Directors Report, comprises the Business Legal & General Group PLC 16,257,741 8.17 Review as required bySection 417 of the Companies 1 Butterfield Trust 14,351,843 7.21 Act 2006 theAct.
Standard Life Investments Limited 12,106,401 6.08 Principal activities Alliance Bernstein 9,274,356 4.66 The Group is the leading pan-European provider Oppenheimer Funds 8,553,617 4.30 of network-independent data centres providing Old Mutual Asset Managers 8,404,933 4.22 colocation and related data centre services.
William Blair & Company 6,942,066 3.49 The principal activity of the Company is that of Kames Capital 6,189,975 3.11 aninvestment company.
The principal activities 1 These Shares are held by Butterfield Trust as trustee for trusts for the benefit of Oliver R. Grace, Jr. and members of his family.
of the Companys subsidiaries are contained innote 16.
The Company received no notifications of interests of shareholders indicating a different whole percentage holding at 31 December 2011.
Results and dividends 2012 Annual General Meeting AGM orcertain other events, unvested share awards The results for the year ended 31 December 2011 may incertain circumstances become exercisable.
are set out in the Consolidated Income Statement The Companys AGM will be held at the offices of on page 63.
The Directors do not propose a Hogan Lovells International LLP, Atlantic House, Such circumstances depend on the achievement dividend inrespect of the year 2010: nil.
Holborn Viaduct, London EC1A 2FG at 3.00pm of performance conditions or the discretion of the on4April 2012.
The Company does not have any agreements with any Director or An explanation of the resolutions to be proposed at officer that would provide compensation for loss the AGM, and the recommendation of Directors of office or employment resulting from a takeover.
inrelation to these, is included in the circular accompanying this Annual Report to shareholders.
The Group hasfacility agreements with its bank lenders which contain provisions giving those Corporate governance lenders certain rights on a change of control of The Companys Governance Review is contained the Company.
Financial instruments Change of control Information on the financial risk exposure, In the event of a takeover, a scheme of arrangement management objectives and policies of the other than a scheme of arrangement for the Group is set out in the Financial Review on purposes of creating a new holding company pages20 to 28.
Overview Business model and Financial review Governance review Financial statements Investor information operating review 103 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Financial statements Independent auditors report Consolidated income statement Consolidated statement  Consolidated statement of changes in equity Company statement of changes in equity Consolidated balance sheet Company balance sheet Consolidated cash flow statement Notes to the financial statements Directors report them.
1,149,000 Shares were so held as at Directors 31December 2011.
The EBT has an independent trustee which has full discretion in relation to the The Directors of the Company who served during the year were: voting of such Shares.
Shares held in the EBT have any entitlement to dividends waived.
John Hughes Simon Batey John OReilly Saveas described above, Shares acquired Chairman through the Companys employee share plans rankpari passu with Shares in issue and have Michael Tobin Maurizio Carli Robert Morse no special rights.
Chief Executive Officer appointed 9 May 2011 resigned 13 September 2011 Further details of the Groups share schemes Brian McArthur-Muscroft Sahar Elhabashi areset out in note 26 and in the Directors Group Finance Director appointed 9 May 2011 Remuneration Report.
Certain key matters in connection with the Directors are shown below: At the year end, the Company had authority The business of the Company is managed byits Directors who may exercise all powers ofthe exercisable by the Directors to issue up to Company subject to the Articles of Association and UK legislation.
Directors of the Company 66,037,000 Shares subject to certain areappointed either by the Board or by shareholders under the Companys Articles of restrictions.
TheCompany will seek to renew Association and may resign or be removed in a similar manner.
this authority at the 2012 Annual General Meeting AGM.
Biographical details of the current Directors are set out on pages 32 and 33.
TheDirectors interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company and any interests known to the Company oftheir At the year end, the Company had authority connected persons are set out in the Report of the Remuneration Committee on page 58. exercisable by the Directors for the purposes of Section 701 of the Act to make one or more The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its Directors market purchases within the meaning of inrelation to certain losses and liabilities that they may incur in the course ofacting as Directors Section 693 of the Act of up to 19,811,218 of the Company or itssubsidiaries, which remain in force at the date of this report.
The Company will seek to renew this No member of the Board had a material interest in any contract of significance with the Company authority at the 2012 AGM.
orany of its subsidiaries at any time during theyear, except for their interests in Shares and inshare awards and under their service agreements and letters of appointment disclosed inthe Further details of the Companys Report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 58 to 60. share capital are set out in note 25.
The re-election of Directors to be proposed at the Companys forthcoming AGM is commented upon in the Report of the Nominations Committee on page 48.
Charitable and political donations During the year the Group made charitable donations Payment of suppliers The rights attached to the Shares, in addition in cash amounting to 150,682 2010: 116,751. to those conferred on their holders by law, are Individual donations of 2,000 or above comprised The Companys policy, which is also applied set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
the following: bythe Group, is to set terms of payment with TheCompanys Articles of Association may suppliers when agreeing the terms of each Action for Children 29,900 only beamended by a Special Resolution of transaction, ensure that suppliers are made Co-operation Ireland 2,994 the shareholders.
aware of the terms of payment, and abide by Help for Heroes 10,000 these terms of payment.
The year end Group There are no restrictions on the transfer trade creditors balance represented 71 days of Eaves Housing for Women 5,000 ofShares or on the exercise of voting rights purchases 2010: 80.
The creditor days figure attached tothem, except: i where the Worshipful Company isnot representative of the Groups underlying Company has exercised itsright to suspend of Information Technologists 2,800 payment terms with suppliers due to the inclusion their voting rights or toprohibit their transfer Make-A-Wish 27,578 of 14.4m 2010: 13.4m of capital creditors in following the omission of their holder or any NSPCC 8,000 the year end balance.
Adjusting for these capital person interested in them to provide the creditors reduces the creditor daysfor the The London Chamber Company with information requested by it current year to 25 2010: 27.
The Company of Commerce Industry 3,600 inaccordance with Part 22 of the Act: or ii didnot have any trade creditors at 31December where their holder is precluded from exercising The Loomba Foundation 10,000 2011 2010: nil.
voting rights by theFSAs Listing Rules or the The Princes Trust 26,250 City Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
UNICEF 3,800 Share capital The Group operates employee share plans KinderLeben Certain key information relating to the Companys asset out in the Report of the Remuneration Tages-Kinderhospiz Hamburg e. V. shares is shown below.
In relation to the childrens hospice 13,009 The Companys Shares at the year end comprised Telecity Group plc IPO Share Option Plan, an The Group made no political donations during the entirely ordinary shares of 0.002 each which Employee Benefit Trust EBT holds Shares year 2010: nil.
pending employees becoming entitled to 104 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Financial statements Independent auditors report Consolidated income statement Consolidated statement  Consolidated statement of changes in equity Company statement of changes in equity Consolidated balance sheet Company balance sheet Consolidated cash flow statement Notes to the financial statements Directors report Employment Directors responsibility statement The Group is committed to employment policies that follow best practice and are based on equal The Directors have prepared the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with opportunities for all employees, irrespective of age, their responsibilities under applicable law and regulations.
Further details of this are shown below.
gender, race, colour, sexual orientation, disability Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
The Group gives full and fair Asrequired by International Accounting Standards Regulations, the Directors have prepared consideration to applications for employment theGroup financial statements under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS from disabled persons, having regard to their asadopted by the European Union and have also elected to prepare the Parent Company particular aptitudes and abilities.
Appropriate financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The financial arrangements are made for the continued statements have been prepared, as required by law, to give a true and fair view of the state employment and training, career development ofaffairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit of the Group for the year.
and promotion of disabled persons employed by the Group.
If members of staff become disabled In preparing these financial statements, the Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge the Group continues employment, either in the they have: same or an alternative position, with appropriate properly selected and applied accounting policies and applied them consistently: retraining being given if necessary.
made judgements and assumptions that are reasonable and prudent: The Group systematically provides employees with information on matters of concern to them, presented information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, consulting them or their representatives regularly.
reliable, comparable and understandable information: and This enables their views to be taken into account provided additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS are when making decisions that are likely to affect insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events their interests.
Employee involvement in the and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
Group is encouraged, as is achieving a common awareness on the part of all employees of the In accordance with the responsibilities of the Directors, the Group maintains adequate accounting financial and economic factors affecting the records to record all transactions so that they disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Group.
The Group encourages the involvement financial position of the Company and to ensure that the financial statements comply with the ofemployees by means of briefing meetings Act.
They are responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and have taken reasonable aswell as more informal communications.
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial Going concern information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation Comprehensive financial forecasts have been and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
prepared and submitted to the Board for review.
Each of the Directors in office at the date of approval of this report confirms that to the best Based on the information contained in these oftheir knowledge: forecasts and the assessment of the Groups banking facilities, the Directors have a reasonable the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as expectation that the Group and the Company have adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial adequate resources to continue in operational position and profit of the Group: and existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the Overview, the Business Model and Operating Review, the Financial Review and the they continue to adopt the going concern basis in Governance Review, along with this Directors Report of which they form part, together preparing the financial statements.
include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position ofthe Group, together with adescription of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Auditors  LLP, the Groups auditors, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and, on the recommendation Disclosure of information to auditors of the Audit Committee and in accordance with Section 489 of the Act, a resolution to re-appoint Each Director in office at the date of this report has confirmed that: them will be put to the 2012 AGM.
so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditors By order of the Board are unaware: and he or she has taken all the reasonable steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditors are aware of and had access to that information and relevant employees.
This confirmation is given in accordance with Section 418 2 of the Act.
Tony Hunter Company Secretary 10 February 2012 O Ov five er rvie view w B Bu us si in ne es ss s mo mode del l an and d F Fin ina an nc ci ia al l r re evie view w G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce r e rev evi ie ew w Fi Fin nan anc ci ia al l s st ta at te eme men nt ts s In Inv five es st tor or i in nf for orma mat ti ion on o op pe er ra at tin ing g r re evie view w 105 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Annual report and accounts 2011 Investor information In this section: Investor information 106 Five-year track record 107 Corporate information 106 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Investor information Five-year track record Corporate information Five-year track record Shown below are the Groups adjusted results for the last five years.
The definition of adjusted results is contained in note 2.3.
