32 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Biographies of Directors A summary of the balanced skills, experience, knowledge andindependence that our Directors contribute to our Board, and of their key individual roles in this, is shown in the following biographies.
John Hughes CBE Michael Tobin Brian McArthurMuscroft Simon Batey Maurizio Carli Sahar Elhabashi John OReilly Chairman, leading the Board and working Chief Executive Officer, leading the Group Finance Director, leading the Senior independent nonexecutive Independent nonexecutive Director, Independent nonexecutive Director, Independent nonexecutive Director, Role with management on strategic and other management of the Group and the planning and implementation of the Director, Chairman of the Audit and a member of both the Audit and and a member of both the Audit and Chairman of the Remuneration matters: Chairman of the Nominations formulation and implementation financial strategy of the Group and Committee and a member of Remuneration Committees.
Committee and a member Committee and a member of the CSR ofitsstrategy: and Chairman of the associated external financing along boththeRemuneration and ofboththe Audit and and Remuneration Committees.
with its, financial reporting, policies Nominations Committees.
Appointment date October 2007 July 2007 July 2007 October 2007 May 2011 May 2011 October 2007 with the Group since August 2007 with the Group since March 2002 with the Group since Jan 2007 More than 30 years experience Over 25 years experience in senior Over 25 years experience dealing Over 20 years experience in Significant experience of managing Broad experience in the media sector Particular experience in marketing, Experience leading complex, high technology roles across the telecommunications withfinancial strategy, with thelast 20 seniorfinance roles withparticular high growth European organisations having played a key role in helping build public relations, public affairs, businesses operating at a global level.
Joined Redbus specialising in the telecommunications experience in the construction with direct insight into cloud computing international media organisations over property and business development.
Interhouse a constituent part of the and technologysector.
Significant experience of managing Experience within the highly regulated Group in 2002 as Sales and Marketing growth companies, especially those Prior to joining the Group: Finance Qualified Chartered Accountant, Role at VMWare extends to strategic Most recently, was chief operating betting and gaming sector includes Director, becoming Chief Executive supplying complex solutions and Director of Viatel, apan-European having spent the first 12 years of his planning, business operations and officer of Discovery Networks being a founder director and former Officer in 2003.
Subsequently led the services to business customers: communications business: Eckoh career at Armitage and Norton now themanagement of key functions International from 2007 to 2010, vice chairman of the Remote merger with TeleCity, the acquisition ofmergers and acquisitions: of Technologies plc, aUK-listed part of KPMG, latterly as a partner of including sales channels, services responsible for the day-to-day GamingAssociation.
ofGlobix and the Groups successful international channel expansion: and telecommunications and technology the firm.
andmarketing, continuing to grow operations of Discoverys Until 2010, managing director IPO inOctober 2007. ofdevelopment of leadership teams.
group: Cable and Wireless HKT theregion at high pace.
international business, which Between 2000 and 2006, group ofremote betting and gaming at Prior to joining the Group: headed up Multimedia: and Director of distributed 17 media brands to Held senior executive positions at finance director of United Utilities plc.
Previously at Google on a short-term Ladbrokes, joining the Ladbrokes Fujitsus e-Commerce operations in RiskManagement for Cable and 877million subscribers globally.
Thales Group, latterly executive vice From 2006 until 2007, chief financial assignment: spent five years at board following the completion of Germany: ran ICLs Danish outsourcing WirelessAsia.
president and chief operating officer, officer of Thames Water Utilities Business Objects as senior vice Previously at MTV Networks the sale of the Hilton International subsidiary out ofCopenhagen: held responsible for an organisation Qualified as a Chartered Accountant Limited.
From 1987 to 2000, worked president and general manager, EMEA, International from 1992 to 2007, hotels division in February2006.
senior positions based in Paris for over withover 25,000 people: Lucent with  in for AMEC plc, initially as deputy group being responsible for sales, pre-sales, where her responsibilities included Led the Ladbrokes eGaming division eleven years, including with International Technologies where his responsibilities London, specialising in business finance director and then, from 1992, marketing, finance, customer support managing strategy, business from its establishment in 2002 Computer Group and Tricord Systems included being president of its worldwide restructuring and turnaround asgroup finance director.
development, digital media, until2010, with responsibility for Europe: and was Managing Director of GSM and UMTS businesses: and assignments.
Responsible as interim consumerproducts and A non-executive director of Arriva plc Spent 19 years at IBM, latterly as vice international development, including Goupil UK.
CFO for the financial turnround of programmesales.
from 2003 to 2010 and has also president of software group for IBM Ladbrokes growing retail joint venture Recognition: Lifetime Achievement Worldcom EMEA.
Until 2010, non-executive chairman served as a non-executive director EMEA and previously vice president Prior to joining MTV, worked as in Spain, andoversaw Ladbrokes Award for Contribution to the Data ofIntec Telecom Systems plc, a Recognition: TelecityGroup won Deal ofTHUS Group plc.
and general manager for IBMs Tivoli aconsultant for the Boston core bookmaking function.
Centre Industry in 2011 DCE Awards: non-executive director of Chloride of the Year at the 2011 ACT Industry Systems Division, and held sales and ConsultingGroup.
A member of the Postal Services 2010 Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of Group plc, and non-executive deputy Awards forits200m five-year Senior sales management positions in the Commission, responsible forthe the Year for UK IT Services.
Previous chairman of Parity Group plc.
government, education and regulation of the UK postal services recognition includes: Datacentre healthcare sectors for IBM Italy.
Leaders Awards Industry Leader of the Year: techMARK Personality of the Year.
External Non-executive chairman of Non-executive director of Blackrock Senior vice president and general Independent media consultant.
Managing director of Coral appointments Spectrisplc and Sepura plc.
New Energy Investment Trust plc manager EMEA for VMWare, the global Interactive, the online and Non-executive director of since2010.
leader in virtualisation and cloud telephonebetting and gaming CSGSystems International, Inc. infrastructure, responsible for arm of Gala Coral Group.
A member of the corporate Charitable and other Ambassador for theAlzheimers Society.
Board member of Byte Night, which Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Holds a BSc in Electronic Engineering Holds an MBA from Columbia Holds a first class honours degree development board for the National raises money for Action for Children.
Accountants and has an MA in from the Politecnico di Milano in Italy.
Business School and a BSc in inBusiness.
Awarded the CBE for services to Society for the PreventionofCruelty Chairman of the Friends of The Loomba Geography from Oxford University.
Economics from the Massachusetts international telecommunications in the toChildren and the responsible officer Trust, a charity providing education Institute of Technology.
Queens 2011 New Year Honours List.
for Hockerill Anglo European College.
and aid for children of poor widows A native of Alexandria, Egypt and Holds a BSc in Electrical and inIndia.
Member of Eaves Fellow of the Institute of Chartered aUSresident and citizen.
Accountants and holds a Law degree.
Has lived and worked in the US and Has lived and worked in mainland Has lived and worked in Asia and mainland Europe as well as the UK.
Australasia as well as the UK.
Overview Business model and Financial review Governance review Financial statements Investor information operating review 33 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Governance review Introduction Biographies of Directors Report of the Board Report of the Corporate Social  Report of the Audit Committee Report of the Nominations Committee Report of the Remuneration Committee UK Code Principle: The board and its committees should have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the company to enable them todischarge their respective duties andresponsibilities effectively.
