08 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Business model and operating review Business model: The data centre industry TelecityGroups role in the industry Why customers choose us Demand drivers for our business Our operations and management Our growth strategy Why customers choose us Customers choose TelecityGroup because of our high quality infrastructure, connectivity options and capacity to support their future growth.
Each TelecityGroup data centre  and we seek constantly to enhancethechoice and availability of networks to customers.
Customers are charged primarily for Customers rely on TelecityGroup to keep Our customer base is diverse.
We have locating their equipment within the highly their mission-critical IT infrastructure over5,000 contracts to supply data centre connected and resilient environments that running and, over time, become increasingly capacity to companies operating in the ourdata centres provide.
These charges connected to other customers, partners digital economy.
Although varied by sector, are supplemented by additional fees for and suppliers in the data centreecosystem.
our customers benefit by locating networkengineering support, connectivity and intensive IT infrastructure in carrier-neutral Ourcustomers typically increase the other IT services.
We typically use access data centres, where they can cross-connect amount of power they take as the online, toelectrical power as a charging mechanism withothercustomers.
network-intensive elements of their for equipment hosted in our facilities.
business grow and as they become moreinterconnected within the data centreecosystem.
What makes our data centres different?
Hubs for content, connectivity Quality of service and andcommerce infrastructure With over 400 carriers, internet Our core business is designing, exchange points IXPs, content building and operating highly distribution networks, financial connected and secure datacentres.
service companies and cloud Resilient power and cooling serviceproviders, TelecityGroup Secure infrastructure datacentresoffer significant Intelligent fire protection connectivityoptions.
Business supported by highly skilled and experienced engineers Quality and management Customer service systems certified to respected and reputation international standards 80% of our staff are employed in customer facing roles.
100% are Expanding committed to delivering European footprint exceptional service.
We are expanding our capacity in all ourmarkets by building new data centres and expanding existing facilities ensuring we have the capacity to support customer growth.
Suitability of location success stories date centres Our data centres are strategically located within each city.
Easy for customers to visit Access to availability of power Proximity to connectivity Scan to read some of our customer success stories: and internet hubs Overview Business model and Financial review Governance review Financial statements Investor information operating review 09 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Business model and operating review Business model: The data centre industry TelecityGroups role in the industry Why customers choose us Demand drivers for our business Our operations and management Our growth strategy Demand drivers for our business Our customers are the networks and providers of content andapplications that make up the internet.
As the internet grows, our customers need to deploy more IT and communications equipment in data centres and this in turn drives our growth.
We also attract new customers, often due to advances in technology that enable a wider range of applications and services to be migrated towards the internet anddelivered digitally over a network.
Our top-100 customers by revenue are categorised below by the type of applications that they run: 1.
Connectivity Revenue Connectivity companies are telecoms operators, including fixed line networks, mobile operators, internet service providers and content 45% distribution networks CDNs.
These companies use our data centres to connect to internet exchanges, each other and their endcustomers, such as internet content companies.
Internet content Internet content companies represent the next largest category of ourcustomers.
They are diverse in nature and include organisations 21% that provide digital media, such as internet video, music and gaming.
Cloud and hosting Revenue Hosting companies and, more recently, cloud services operators provide technology platforms and services that enable their customers to run 12% theirown IT in a more cost-efficient manner.
Services offered by these companies are offered increasingly on an on-demand basis and can improve the IT operating performance of their end customers.
Systems integrators System integrators SI use TelecityGroup data centres to host their customers mission-critical IT infrastructure.
SI specialise in the provision 11% of IT systems, services and applications and not, typically, data centres.
SI require high quality, connected data centres where they can scale their customers operations as they grow.
TelecityGroup is seeing significant growth from both global and local operators in this sector.
Financial An increasingly diverse range of financial services companies choose TelecityGroup data centres in which to locate their network-intensive 11% ITinfrastructure.
These customer deployments support a wide range ofbanking and insurance services, latency-critical trading platforms andalso companies in-house IT systems.
These classifications are a guide to the functions that customers perform in our data centres and to the types of businesses that are our customers operate.
Often there are overlaps between customer types, with for example, online banking arguably fitting into both the financial and internet content areas.
