12 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Our growth strategy TelecityGroup aims to deliver controlled, sustainable, profitable growth by constructing and selling high quality, differentiated data centre capacity in the key internet economy cities in Europe, to meet the demand for highly connected and resilient capacity that is being driven by thegrowth in the digital economy.
Our approach Read more about our operations in the 2011 Performance Review on page 16 g As an infrastructure business we aim to continue to generate strong returns on the capital we invest.
A focus on We do this by only competing in the premium data centre market where we can add value for our customers with high levels of connectivity, excellent strong returns infrastructure and high quality service.
We are able to leverage the value of on capital our existing connectivity and customer ecosystems by opening new capacity close to our established sites.
We have an unrivalled multi-year, demand driven, announced capacity expansion programme Building new across Europe.
capacity to meet This fully funded programme provides our growing customer demand as the base with visibility as to how their needs for capacity can be met digital economy now and in thefuture.
grows We aim to make acquisitions, either for the purpose of entering new markets or to provide growth capacity in Expanding our existing markets where our data centres are fully occupied.
European growth This enables us to shorten the time to market for growth capacity as the highly connected internet data centre market is characterised by long lead times for platform with new capacity.
acquisitions Overview Business model and Financial review Governance review Financial statements Investor information operating review 13 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Business model and operating review Business model: The data centre industry TelecityGroups role in the industry Why customers choose us Demand drivers for our business Our operations and management Our growth strategy After construction and one year on Images of one of the new data halls in Condorcet, Paris when it was first opened and the same hall approximately one year later with customer equipment.
What we did in 2011 Associated challenges Our full analysis of our KPIs can be found on pages 1415 Our complete risk review starts on page 26 g g Power pricing volatility risk 1 In 2011, we grew our adjusted EBITDA margin to44.3% and achieved a ROCE of18.0%.
Technological, environmental and regulatory change risks8and 9 Infrastructure failure risk 10 Interest rate and liquidity exposure 44.3% 18.0% risks 13 and 15 ROCE EBITDA margin Securing appropriate sites risk 2 In 2011, we opened 4MW of new highly connected capacity and increased our Power availability risk 5 announced capacity pipeline to 124MW.
New build execution risk 6 Potential for over-supply risk 7 4MW 124MW new capacity total announced capacity Acquisition execution risk and In 2011, we acquired Data Electronics, the underperformance of acquisitions market leading carrier-neutral data centre risk 4 operator in Ireland, and UK Grid in Manchester.
Lack of availability of suitable targets risk 3 6MW 7MW additional capacity additional secured expansion acquired potential acquired
