BUSINESS REVIEW Growing the UK core To grow the UK core In our market-leading UK business, we have delivered a solid performance by keeping our focus on the customer, providing them with great value, choice and service.
Introduction and market context 44.6bn 5.5% The UK economy is in recovery but consumers have been under pressure this year due to a combination of high petrol prices, food UK sales Sales up and utility inflation and, more recently, the VAT increase.
As a result, were experiencing a period of unusually subdued industry growth.
Excluding petrol, like-for-like growth in the industry has been significantly lower than last year.
Against this backdrop, our UK business has delivered a solid performance.
Total UK sales were 44.6 billion, growing by 5.5%, 2.5bn 3.8% which was ahead of the market.
UK trading profit increased by 3.8% or by 6.4% before the effects of our sale and leaseback Trading profit Trading profit up programme: principally the additional rents incurred.
Clubcard Clubcard is our unique customer loyalty programme our way of saying thank you to our customers.
It is now more popular than ever before, 6.1% with active membership of over 15 million customers, compared to 13million at the start of 2008 9.
Customers who say they would prefer Trading margin a Tesco to open in their area rather than a competitor store cite Clubcard as the main reason.
Clubcard continues to be a significant driver of growth for our business and ensures that our customer base continues to demonstrate considerably higher levels of loyalty than our competitors.
For most of 2010, Clubcard was the number one reason behind customers switching to us for their weekly shop.
Customers have responded well to our new and up-weighted Clubcard initiatives.
Three million customers participated in the Big Clubcard Voucher Exchange promotions held in August and November, which provided new ways to get more value from vouchers through categoryspecific deals.
We have seen 60% growth in Rewards through our Partner Reward Scheme as customers recognise that Clubcard is about more than just earning money-off vouchers and that they can use points as currency in other areas of their lives.
16 TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
