BUSINESS REVIEW Growing the UK core To grow the UK core In our market-leading UK business, we have delivered a solid performance by keeping our focus on the customer, providing them with great value, choice and service.
Introduction and market context 44.6bn 5.5% The UK economy is in recovery but consumers have been under pressure this year due to a combination of high petrol prices, food UK sales Sales up and utility inflation and, more recently, the VAT increase.
As a result, were experiencing a period of unusually subdued industry growth.
Excluding petrol, like-for-like growth in the industry has been significantly lower than last year.
Against this backdrop, our UK business has delivered a solid performance.
Total UK sales were 44.6 billion, growing by 5.5%, 2.5bn 3.8% which was ahead of the market.
UK trading profit increased by 3.8% or by 6.4% before the effects of our sale and leaseback Trading profit Trading profit up programme: principally the additional rents incurred.
Clubcard Clubcard is our unique customer loyalty programme our way of saying thank you to our customers.
It is now more popular than ever before, 6.1% with active membership of over 15 million customers, compared to 13million at the start of 2008 9.
Customers who say they would prefer Trading margin a Tesco to open in their area rather than a competitor store cite Clubcard as the main reason.
Clubcard continues to be a significant driver of growth for our business and ensures that our customer base continues to demonstrate considerably higher levels of loyalty than our competitors.
For most of 2010, Clubcard was the number one reason behind customers switching to us for their weekly shop.
Customers have responded well to our new and up-weighted Clubcard initiatives.
Three million customers participated in the Big Clubcard Voucher Exchange promotions held in August and November, which provided new ways to get more value from vouchers through categoryspecific deals.
We have seen 60% growth in Rewards through our Partner Reward Scheme as customers recognise that Clubcard is about more than just earning money-off vouchers and that they can use points as currency in other areas of their lives.
16 TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements CLUBCARD Clubcard continues to play an important role in earning customers loyalty.
Weve continued to invest in Double Points, we have introduced the Big Clubcard Voucher Exchange and we have expanded our Partner Reward Scheme.
1 reason for customers switching to Tesco TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 17 BUSINESS REVIEW Growing the UK core 2,000 Over 2,000 new and improved products 1 0m Self-service transactions per week Stores Price New space has continued to drive sales growth.
Weve opened over We remain focused on delivering the best value to all customers.
200 new stores in 2010 11 and have a strong opening programme The launch of Essential Savings in May was an investment in lower for the coming year.
prices on the everyday products which our customers buy.
We have introduced more multi-buys into the promotion programme to help We have seen particularly strong growth in our convenience format, customers save money.
We also launched our Price Check initiative this Tesco Express, with over 150 new stores and have achieved significant year.
Price Check enables customers to check the price of individual share gain in the convenience sector.
This growth follows our work to products and the total price of their shopping online.
When we compare tailor the range and promotions in Express to better suit the needs our customers baskets with Asdas prices, nearly 80 per cent are the of our customers locally.
Overall last year, we had 80 million more same price or cheaper in Tesco than they would be in Asda.
Together customer visits to our Express stores than in 2009 10. these initiatives have helped us to maintain our leading position in a We have also refreshed or extended over 400 stores this year, receiving highly competitive market and to encourage customers to switch to a great response from customers.
For example, weve added 7,000 sq ft Tesco throughout the year.
to Wembley Extra, expanding our World Foods offer to meet better the needs of customers in the local area the store is outperforming by 16% and over three-quarters of customers have told us that it is REAL FOOD greatly improved.
Weve also launched an This year, we launched the Range innovative service for customers Tesco Real food magazine.
to receive great recipes via SMS.
The monthly publication, which Our customers tell us that quality is increasingly important to them, is available for free in our stores, Customers are able to send a text it is not simply about finding the cheapest product.
We have provides customers with recipes, message including two or three stepped up our emphasis on quality, with accelerated product cooking tips, information on key ingredients and in return development, leading to the introduction of over 2,000 new and healthy eating and updates on receive an automatic reply with improved food products.
The magazine a delicious recipe suggestion.
has become Britains largest food The increasing importance of quality for customers is also supported tit title le w wi it th h a a circ circulation ulation o of f 1 1.. 2 2 million million.. by the strong performance of our Finest range, which has outpaced the growth of other areas of our food range, with a 6.3% increase R Re eal al food food can can be be found found online online a at t in sales this year.
w ww ww w.. t te esc scorealfood orealfood.. c co om m.. W Wi ith th o ove ver 1 r 1, 0 00 00 0 r re ec ci ip pe es s a an nd a f d a fo oo od d Many of our customers want to buy locally sourced products to support blog blog, t th he e s si it te e get gets s 2 2.. 2 2 million million their local communities.
We are always looking to expand our network p pa age ge v vi ie ews ws p per er m month onth.. of good local suppliers and to support them in building capacity to grow their businesses and supply us at a national level.
We have five dedicated regional buying offices throughout the UK and in 2010 11 we increased sales of local products to 1 billion, up from 850 million in 2009 10.
Tesco is the first UK retailer to launch a website dedicated to local foods, at www.
Weve also worked more closely with farmers and growers to increase the amount of British produce in-store.
This year, for example, we sold over 40% more British apples and pears.
18 TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements STAFF TRAINING We have trained 80,000 staff 1,000 this year in Every Little Helps skills for checkouts.
com Service EVERY COMMENT HELPS We work continually to improve service for our customers.
We have Our Every Comment Helps Over 20,000 of the comments trained over 80,000 staff this year in Every Little Helps skills for initiative encourages customers that we have received have been checkouts, supporting them to deliver helpful, friendly and efficient to give instant feedback on their compliments about the service service.
We also know how important it is for our customers to be able shopping trip including both which our customers have to choose the checkout that is right for them, so we are working to the customer service they receive received.
This is testament to create the ideal configuration in each of our stores based on the local and the range of products we the hard work and commitment customer profile.
Customers are able to share of our teams in-store.
their feedback via text or email.
This year, we have continued to use technology to help deliver great All of the comments have helped service.
Our self-service checkouts provide customers with a quick and us to understand whats important easy option and currently account for over ten million transactions per to our customers and identify week.
Our trials of Scan as you Shop, which uses hand-held technology, where we can do better.
We are putting plans into action based have gone well too.
on the feedback we receive so that we can do even more to improve our customers shopping experience.
Availability We have maintained high levels of availability this year through a number of programmes, from better promotional forecasting through to improved processes for monitoring availability in our stores.
Our customers are benefiting from this work and have noticed the improvements customer satisfaction with availability is at a record high up 7% from last year and 13% from the year before.
We have had great success with our automated weather forecasting technology which accurately adjusts store orders and deliveries based on customers shopping habits in different weather conditions in 14 individual regions nationwide.
We have also delivered a comprehensive plan to improve availability in our Express convenience stores, resulting in a 25% reduction in the number of out-of-stock items in the evenings.
