BUSINESS REVIEW Our business Business review Some elements of the strategy remain unchanged.
The goal to grow The business review analyses the performance the core UK business is as relevant today as it was in 1997.
The UK is of the Tesco Group in the financial year ended the largest business in the Group and a key driver of sales and profit.
There are many opportunities for further growth and so we will 26 February 2011.
It also explains other aspects continue to grow the UK core.
of the Groups markets, results and operations, Another of our original goals was to be a successful international including strategy and risk management.
In 1997, our international businesses generated 1.8% of the Groups profits.
Today they represent 25% and were now either The Directors present their Annual Report to number one or number two in eight of our 13 markets outside the UK.
Our next step is to be an shareholders on the affairs of the Group and outstanding international retailer in stores and online.
Company, together with the audited financial In 1997, we were largely a food retailer so we set ourselves the challenge statements of the Company for the 52 weeks of becoming as strong in non-food as in food.
As our business has grown and we offer an ever wider variety of products to customers, the term ended 26 February 2011. non-food no longer does justice to all the products and services we sell.
We now aim to be as strong in everything we sell as we are in food.
Our services businesses have come a long way since we first included Our strategy in our strategy the desire to develop retailing services.
Today these parts of Tesco generate 583 million profit, representing 16% of the In 1997, Tesco set out a strategy to grow the core business and diversify Group total.
To date this has been largely UK-focused, but as many of our with new products and services in existing and new markets.
This international businesses have now established well-known brands in strategy enabled us to deliver strong, sustained growth over the past their local market, it is time to expand our ambitions and aim to grow 14 years.
Weve followed customers into large expanding markets in the retail services in all our markets.
UK such as financial services, general merchandise and telecoms and new markets abroad, initially in Europe and Asia and more recently In 2007, we added a fifth element to our strategy to underpin our in the United States.
commitment to communities and the environment.
Weve updated this objective slightly by emphasising our responsibilities in these In order to reflect changing consumer needs and the increasingly global areas.
Our goal is to put our responsibilities to the communities nature of our business weve evolved our strategy.
The strategy now has we serve at the heart of what we do.
seven parts and applies to our five business segments the UK, Asia, Europe, the United States and Tesco Bank.
There are two new strategic goals, both of which reflect the way that Tesco has developed over the last decade and our areas of emphasis for the future.
The first is to be a creator of highly valued brands.
Our brand has evolved from a logo above a few stores in the UK to a multitude of store, product and service brands across the world.
Building brands gives our business more meaning with our customers.
On one level, this relates to our Retail brands such as the Tesco brand itself, but it also refers to our Product brands such as F&F and Technika and our Pillar brands such as Finest and Value.
Our final goal is to build our team so that we create more value.
As our business continues to grow and diversify we need more leaders to run the many substantial business and support functions within the Group.
Our leaders not only have an important role today, but also have a responsibility to help build a bigger and better team for the future.
Our progress in these areas is reviewed over the following pages.
14 TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Our sevenpart strategy To grow the UK core 16 To be an outstanding international retailer in stores and online 22 To be as strong in everything we sell as we are in food 26 To grow retail services in all our markets 30 To put our responsibilities to the communities we serve at the heart of what we do 34 To be a creator of highly valued brands 38 To build our team so that we create more value 42 TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 15
