GOVERNANCE Directors report on corporate governance Number of possible Actual Members all independent meetings meetings Remuneration Non-executive Directors attended attended Patrick Cescau 5 5 Committee Stuart Chambers 33 from 3 July 2010 Karen Cook 5 5 Ken Hanna 5 5 Jacqueline Tammenoms Bakker 33 from 3 July 2010 Past Committee members Stuart Chambers Charles Allen 2 1 Remuneration Committee Rodney Chase 2 1 Chairman Harald Einsmann 2 2 The Remuneration Committees role is to determine and recommend Our Remuneration Committee to the Board the remuneration of the Executive Directors.
It also monitors the levels and structure of remuneration for senior management comprises five independent and seeks to ensure that the remuneration arrangements are designed to attract, retain and motivate the Executive Directors needed to run Non-executive Directors.
At the invitation of the Committee the Chairman of the Board normally attends meetings and the CEO and Chief Financial Officer attend as appropriate.
Representatives of the Groups Personnel and Finance functions attend as appropriate to provide support and the Company Secretary also attends in his capacity as Secretary of the Committee.
The Committee met five times this year.
The Committees effectiveness review concluded that the Committee was provided with sufficient resources to carry out its duties.
Details of the work of the Remuneration Committee are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 74 to 91.
Each year the Committee conducts a review of its own effectiveness and its Terms of Reference.
The responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee, and an explanation of how it applies the Directors remuneration principles of the Code and other applicable rules and regulations governing remuneration, are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 74 to 91.
Full terms of reference of the Tesco PLC Remuneration Committee are available at www.
com boardprocess 68 TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
