BUSINESS REVIEW Building brands To be a creator of highly valued brands Tesco has been an industry leader in branding for many years using our broad appeal, wide product assortment and global supply chains to develop businesses that deliver reliable, innovative and great value brands for customers.
The creation and spread of a number of strong brands has helped us to become a growth company, trusted by customers, valued by staff, respected by communities and profitable forshareholders.
A brand is a promise, a set of fundamental principles that define a product or business.
It is an intangible representation of what a company stands for in the minds of its customers and other stakeholders.
Retail brands Product brands Pillar brands 38 TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements TESCO VALUE AND FINEST IN THE UK Customers appreciate the quality and breadth of our range and we are continuing to innovate in this area, particularly with our Pillar brands.
The popularity of our Pillar brands with customers has meant that Tesco Value has become the second largest food brand in the UK ahead of Coca-Cola with sales of more than 1 billion a year.
Tesco Value is only pushed into second place by Tesco Finest.
More than half of our customers buy from the Finest range on a regular basis, from Finest spectacles to Finest Restaurant Collection ready meals, making it an important component of our sales mix.
1bn Both Finest and Value now sell more than 1bn each year TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 39 BUSINESS REVIEW Homeplus Building brands received South Koreas Most Admired Company award in October 2010 and the UK Tesco Great School Run, were known to be a good Why are we building brands?
By benefiting local communities, our brand has taken Building brands enhances the value of our business by benefiting on new meaning among stakeholders that of a responsible retailer.
all of our stakeholders, including customers, staff, communities and By developing a brand reputation for offering great value and service shareholders.
Being viewed positively by our stakeholders supports the creation of a successful, sustainable and profitable long-term business.
to customers and being a responsible member of the community, we can attract great people to work for us.
As a responsible and flexible employer with a track record of developing talent within the business, Whats the benefit to both our stakeholders and our Tesco is also seen as a great place to build a career.
The increased emotional and functional loyalty from customers, By building strong brands through our own products, we offer staff and communities generated by our brand building has contributed customers increased value, choice and quality.
Customers trust our to Tesco becoming a profitable, sustainable growth opportunity brands.
They are loyal to our brands because they know what to expect for shareholders to invest in.
Investment provides us with further from them and what they stand for.
With wine, for example, the Finest opportunities to build and develop our brands across the Group, in turn logo helps customers to pick out a good quality option without having allowing us to diversify to the benefit of customers, staff, communities to be a connoisseur.
Strong Product and Pillar brands give us a key point of differentiation from our competitors and enable us to continue to meet the changing needs of our customers.
Once customers understand the values that our brands stand for, they are more likely to trust in our ability The increased emotional and to diversify into new service areas.
In financial services, for example, functional loyalty from customers, with Tesco Bank weve brought straightforward and good-quality banking solutions based on the needs of our customers to a market staff and communities generated by characterised by complexity and poor customer service.
our brand building has contributed Wherever we operate we support local communities, their causes to Tesco becoming a profitable, and the environment.
Through initiatives such as our Community Champions programme, Get Healthy with Tesco Lotus in Thailand sustainable growth opportunity forshareholders.
F&F We launched our clothing brand F&F in the As awareness and popularity has grown in the As customers have begun to gain confidence UK in 2001 with the aim of offering unbeatable UK, weve also extended the brand launching in the F&F brand, we have also broadened our value for money, not compromised by quality, F&F in nine other markets across Europe and range with sub-brands such as F&F Basics, design or provenance.
F&F is already the market-leading clothing F&F Couture above and F&F Petite and in over 450 stores across the UK and is also brand in the Czech Republic, Hungary and extended the brand into homeware with a available online.
As the brand continues to develop, good, better, best hierarchy under F&F Home we opened our first stand-alone F&F store Basics, F&F Home and F&F Home Collection.
above in Prague this year.
40 TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements EVOLUTION OF THE TESCO BRAND When entering new markets across the world we have broadly followed the same model, adapting where necessary to reflect the local culture and sentiment.
BUILDING THE NETWORK BUILDING THE BRAND EXTENDING THE BRAND When entering a new market, building highOnce a network has been built in a market, Once Retail, Product and Pillar brands are quality stores in great locations is a priority.
we can begin to evolve a collection of stores present in a market, customers have an Our founder, Jack Cohen, developed the first into a Retail brand and to develop Product understanding of what our brands stand for store in the UK, which culminated in the 1980s and Pillar brands.
This means that our with the Tesco superstore still a core part of customers have confidence in our ability Through the introduction of Pillar brands, Tesco today.
Weve since gone on to develop to deliver different products and services, in food, for example, we provide customers hypermarket format stores and smaller allowing us to extend the Tesco brand into with great choice, value and quality.
We work formats such as Metro and Express.
hard to make sure that each of our brands is Its important that our stores meet customers distinguishable and lives up to our customers In many cases, the extension of our brand expectations.
A multi-format store offer, from expectations.
This builds the crucial element accompanies changes in our customers lives.
Express to Extra, provides customers with of trust in our brands.
It also enables us to Changes such as the growth of the internet different shopping trips to suit their varied differentiate ourselves from other retailers, have led to the creation of new platforms needs.
In Europe, we are introducing Extras, particularly in less developed markets.
for our brands with tesco.
offering customers more products and Were also innovating for our customers, Clubcard provides us with unique insight services, from Phone Shops to Pharmacies.
offering new innovative products, such as into our customers shopping habits so that our successful Tesco Bank Fixed Rate Saver.
A crucial part of building an efficient network we can continuously work to meet their needs.
is the creation of centralised distribution Clubcard gives our customers a sense of Were now beginning to extend the brand centres to serve the store network quickly and belonging and says thank you by rewarding in a number of our international markets.
In Thailand this year, Tesco Lotus them for their loyalty.
As a result, customers South Korea, we have a number of co-branded built its first Fresh Distribution Centre, trust in and feel committed to the Tesco brand.
credit card offers to which 1.3 million customers handling over 230,000 cases of food every have signed up, demonstrating the strength day.
In China, we opened three distribution of the Homeplus brand.
centres to serve our growing network.
TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 41 k r o w t e d n d n n a a r r b b e e h e t g h n t h i d g t n e n t x i E d l g i u B n i d l i u B
