BUSINESS REVIEW Property Property developing and building stores for customers Acquiring high-quality property is an important component of being Tescos property activities have one principal a successful retailer.
Through our experience over decades in the UK objective: to ensure our customers can benefit and more recently in international markets we have market-leading property skills that help us stay ahead of our competitors.
from the best located and designed stores.
We have built up a substantial set of assets, which in total have a market As a result of this property development and value of 36 billion.
By owning our property we get the benefits of management, we also create sustainable, appreciation in property prices in particular in the emerging markets in which we operate.
long-term, embedded value for shareholders.
The process for creating value in property starts with finding the right location.
After acquiring a site and gaining planning consent we design and build a world-class store.
We then trade from that store and increase its value as we grow our sales.
And then once an asset is mature we look to crystallise the value created by selling it and leasing it back at a reasonable rent.
This frees up capital which can be invested in new developments.
Finding the right location Flexible, multi-format approach Our Site Research departments in each country direct the property Having multiple formats from large shopping malls to Express acquisition strategy by identifying optimal locations for new store convenience stores allows us to fulfil the full range of shopping developments and extensions.
This work is underpinned by advanced missions for customers and it also gives us flexibility to adapt to spatial analysis and a data-led approach that considers our customers, different local markets and planning regimes.
In some cases we also competitors, local market shares and existing store performance.
develop mixed-use projects, combining new retail space with residential development on the same site.
This enables us to build a store on The Site Research teams provide sales forecasts for new stores a desirable site when otherwise it would not be economically viable.
using highly accurate, in-house models built using our existing store performance, Clubcard data, demographic data, government statistics and road networks.
On average we forecast the sales of new UK stores to within 3% accuracy.
46 TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements SHOPPING MALLS Tesco is one of the worlds relationships with retailers largest operators of shopping help us to design and fill our new malls.
malls, with approximately 30m sq ft of mall space across Our fastest expansion in new Europe and Asia.
In these malls is currently in China where markets we have found that the we are rolling out our new most successful hypermarkets Lifespace mall concept.
The are located in busy shopping blueprint is approximately malls and by owning and 400,000 sq ft of retail and family operating our own malls we are leisure space anchored by a able to ensure we have highTesco hypermarket.
We have quality sites from which our four malls currently trading hypermarkets can trade.
and expect to have up to ten by Our mall business is a the end of this year.
Were also combination of owning and starting to redevelop some of operating existing malls as our older malls around the world a landlord and building new to access their full potential.
The mall In a number of markets we are business provides a stable, starting to convert small strips profitable income stream one of shops alongside well-located that has grown throughout the Tesco hypermarkets into large recession.
Our significant modern shopping malls, creating experience in operating malls compelling retail destinations.
and our many long-term tenant Design blueprints Property Finance Strategy Our formats are supported by design blueprints to ensure Tesco releases some of the value that it has created through carefully best practice is replicated across the Tesco Group.
We have used selected divestments of some of its property, as well as taking our successful UK formats and experience internationally to build advantage of strong market conditions offering good yields.
Over the plans for each of our formats, as well as for our mall developments.
last five years we have delivered in excess of 5 billion of proceeds in The blueprints codify guidelines for the sales area, design standards, line with our stated objectives in 2006 at an average net initial yield of operating procedures, people plans and financial insight.
We have also generated profits from property-related items of allow us to build for less as we standardise building specifications and 1.3 billion over the past five years.
We have used the proceeds to fixtures and fittings for Group scale buying.
invest in property assets in growth economies, buy back c. 1.1 billion of our own shares and enhance dividends for shareholders.
In the future we intend to deliver 250 350 million per year in property profits, which is a sustainable profit stream as it is broadly equivalent to the value we create through development activities.
This will require us to divest just over 1 billion of property per year.
This level of divestment is sustainable as we invest around 2.5 billion per year in growth capital so the asset base will continue to grow.
It is currently more attractive to divest UK property as yields and projected GDP growth in the UK are lower than in our overseas markets.
Over time however, we expect a growing proportion of the divestments to come from our other countries as properties mature.
Some of these future international divestments will be shopping malls that have been fully developed.
In such cases, we will release capital for new investments by selling the mall to investors and leasing back the Tesco hypermarket.
Importantly, when we do this, it will always be our objective to manage the malls after divestment to ensure they remain excellent locations from which our hypermarkets can succeed.
TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 47
