BUSINESS REVIEW To be strong in everything we sell To be as strong in everything we sell as we are in food Weve continued to grow sales and expand our offer in general merchandise, clothing and electricals and we have a great opportunity to do much more.
Introduction and market context Our general merchandise, clothing and electrical businesses have 10.3bn 8.8% continued to grow, despite the challenges of weak demand in some Group sales Group sales growth of our important markets.
We have seen some strong key category and market share performances, which have helped compensate for the effects of cautious consumer spending in these more discretionary areas.
In order to align with our new structures, we will going forward define non-food as general merchandise, clothing and electricals excluding health & beauty and household.
Overall Group sales in this category rose 8.8% during the year to 1 st Fastest 10.3 billion.
In July, in Prague we opened www.
com clothing: the In the UK, high petrol prices and increases in VAT have had a our first stand-alone F&F store fastest growing online retailer significant impact on discretionary consumer spending.
Many high in volume terms in the clothing, street retailers have suffered from declining sales and have issued footwear and accessories market profit warnings.
Tesco has fared better and maintained market share but we havent been spared the impact of subdued demand.
Inthe UK, general merchandise, clothing and electricals sales grew by 0.4% to 5.3 billion.
General merchandise sales growth was affected by a smaller component of extension selling space in this years new space programme, with extensions providing just 10% 5.3bn of new space.
UK sales In our international markets the picture varies considerably by country.
Most of our markets in Europe and Asia saw strong growth in general merchandise as the economic recovery took hold during the year, although a number of markets such as Ireland and Hungary remain challenging.
26 TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements CLOTHING Clothing is a key element of our customer offer in Central Europe and we have had another pleasing year with 9% sales growth.
We are now clothing market leader in the Czech Republic, Hungary and Slovakia.
9% Clothing sales growth in Central Europe TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 27
