BUSINESS REVIEW Building our team To build our team so that we create more value We are sharing operational excellence and leadership excellence across the Group so that we can successfully develop capability and nurture talent across our growing business.
Introduction 492,714 70% We treat people how we like to be treated.
We want our people to enjoy working at Tesco.
Our people do a great job each and every Employees Increase in the number of female day by giving our customers the best possible shopping trip.
Directors across theGroup By creating an open environment of trust and respect, our people feel supported, they share their knowledge and experience and work hard to give our customers great service.
We support our people, trusting in their ability to deliver while helping them to reach their full potential.
We encourage our 75% 105.5m people to learn on the job and take responsibility from day one.
We pay at least 75% of employee Value of shares awarded under Giving our people an opportunity to get on in their careers is very medical, dental, prescription and Shares In Success important.
With the increasing breadth of the Tesco business, vision costs in theUS our people have a great opportunity to develop their skills and experience across new product areas, services and countries.
Every year, we build our plans for the year around our People Promises.
We want all of our people across all of our markets to: 1, 274 be treated with respect: have an opportunity to get on: Employees at Tesco Bank have a manager who helps them: and have an interesting job.
Its through our People Promises and our benefits package that we are proud to say that our people stay with us for a long time.
Around half of our Director population has at least 12 years service.
In recognition of the importance of people across our business, our Group Personnel Director, Alison Horner, is now part of our Executive Committee.
Alison is a great example of talent developed in Tesco, with 12 years of experience across the business in both Personnel and Operations.
42 TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements CAREER DEVELOPMENT We believe that home-grown managers make valuable business leaders because they understand our culture and approach.
Our new CEO, Philip Clarke, is an example of this, having started work at Tesco part-time as a schoolboy.
Across the business, we currently have almost 30,000 people on development programmes, gaining the knowledge, leadership skills and qualifications for their nextrole.
30,000 People training for their next role TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 43 BUSINESS REVIEW Building our team We know that to be a successful international retailer we need to combine deep local knowledge with global experience.
We are committed to developing local leaders in each country were in.
In South Korea, our largest international business, we have over 23,000 employees and just nine people from our UK business.
We are also keen to provide opportunities for our people to gain experience in our global markets.
As the business grows, Tesco benefits from moving our people around, sharing their skills and expertise across the Group.
We want the women in our teams to achieve their full potential.
Back in 1997 in the UK, we had only 31 female Store Managers, we now have almost 150.
In the last four years in the UK the number of female directors has increased by nearly 70% across the Group and we have FRESH & EASY three women on our Board.
Our US business, Fresh & Easy, All Fresh & Easy employees have There is still work to do.
Our Womens Network provides skills created over 800 jobs this year the opportunity to work at least development, mentoring and networking opportunities for our female and the opening of our first 20 hours per week, which entitles managers and directors, and this year were launching our new Women 11 stores in Northern California them to comprehensive and in Leadership programme.
Over 50 women from our UK and European created a further 300 local jobs affordable healthcare, with Fresh businesses have been nominated based on their potential to undertake in March and April.
& Easy picking up the majority of the costs.
The programme consists of seminars and courses focusing on confidence, strategic career planning and building personalauthority.
Three women in Tesco are currently being coached as part of the FTSE100 Cross-Company Mentoring Programme.
The Programme, Recruitment and growth launched in 2003, involves FTSE 100 Chairmen and CEOs acting as mentors to senior women just below board level in other FTSE As Tesco grows and diversifies, we are able to offer more jobs and companies.
The mentors guide and advise women in the management broader roles to people in the communities around our stores, depots of their careers so that they are better positioned to be considered for and offices.
This year we have recruited 21,000 people worldwide.
Our Chairman David Reid, will begin working Over the past year, the Tesco Bank workforce has more than tripled with his third mentee from outside Tesco in June 2011. in size.
As Tesco Bank develops, we have an increasing need for people to join the team so that we can support the expanding Tesco Bank Building capability customer base.
The vast majority of the new Tesco Bank staff are customer service representatives and team leaders, following the As part of our ongoing commitment to building capability, we are investing in the Tesco Academy.
Our Academy supports the opening of new call centres in Newcastle and Glasgow this year.
development of our people through training courses, networking Our graduate programmes fast track graduate trainees with high opportunities and mentoring.
This year we have recruited around Our Academy is especially important to our managers and directors, 140 Commercial graduates into UK and Central European buying and general merchandise roles the largest number of Commercial supporting them in the delivery of their day-to-day roles and the development of their leadership capabilities.
graduates that we have employed since the programme began.
This is part of our ongoing commitment to invest in future leaders.
In July, we will open our zero-carbon Academy centre in Incheon, South Korea.
Asia is a rapidly growing region for Tesco and the Talent and promotions Academy will help us to build capability in the area.
One of our People Promises is that we will provide an opportunity to Each and every job in Tesco has a clearly assigned training programme get on.
We promise to support and develop our people so that they to accompany it.
We work hard to ensure that every member of our are able to advance in their careers.
All of our people have discussions team receives the operational training which they need for their job about their careers and performance and all of our leadership teams and the leadership skills which can support their career development.
talk about succession plans and talent at least once a year.
In China, our Store Manager Programme has been created so that we can recruit and develop people to become our future Store Managers.
This is especially important as we expand in this quickly developing country.
The programme started in October 2010 with 22 candidates taking part.
Thailand is currently in the process of recruiting candidates so that they can launch their own Store Manager Programme.
44 TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements TESCO ACADEMY To read the Annual Report online: http: ar2011.
com Our zero-carbon Tesco Academy centre in Incheon, South Korea, will open in July.
In Malaysia, we have launched our Finance Graduate Programme.
OUR FIRST NATIONAL VALUES AWARDS CEREMONY Building on the knowledge gained from our UK Finance Graduate Last year, we had our first ever scheme, the Malaysian programme was launched to support our Values Awards Ceremony in the ambition of becoming an employer of choice for Finance in the country.
The ceremony recognised By supporting and developing local graduates, we can also support the the exceptional contributions development of our Finance capability in Asia.
made by colleagues from all levels across the business.
60 Rewards and benefits finalists attended the event Our people do a great job for our customers and we want them to from over 6,000 nominations.
We want our people to feel feel valued and rewarded.
We believe that staff rewards should be valued for the work which they The nominees were put forward competitive, simple and sustainable to build trust and loyalty amongst do.
In our business, we have by colleagues in a variety of our employees and assist with hiring and retention.
We invest in pay Values awards which are given categories from Snow Hero to and, in the UK, we have the highest basic pay rates for customer to colleagues to say thank you Being first for customers.
The assistants of any major supermarket.
All of our staff move to higher when they have gone the extra event was a great success and rates of pay within a year of joining our business.
will be repeated this year.
Across all of our markets, we offer a wide range of competitive benefits.
In the US, for example, we pay at least 75% of medical, dental, prescription and vision costs.
Our staff Clubcard launched in Thailand and Malaysia this year with a positive reception from our staff, and we are planning to introduce the staff Clubcard into two further countries later this year.
The card offers a discount to staff when they shop in our stores.
In the UK we have a defined benefit pension scheme which is greatly valued by our staff and rare among FTSE 100 companies.
Our UK pension provides people with an annual income at retirement as well DEGREE PROGRAMMES as benefits on ill health and death based on their pay and service.
Last year we invested over 270 million in our UK staff pensions.
In a number of our markets, over 60% of this population we provide our people with the have progressed to a higher Share ownership incentive schemes help our staff to get their own opportunity to study for a degree managerial role.
216,000 staff shared a total of 105.5 million while they work.
when the Shares In Success scheme matured in 2010.
Building on from the success in the UK and Ireland, in 2008 In the UK and Ireland, we provide in Turkey we launched a Retail the opportunity for employees Programme in collaboration to complete a Retail Foundation with Izmir Economic University.
This is a two-year retail Whilst they are studying, degree undertaken by staff students complete vocational members in association with training with Tesco Kipa, which Manchester Metropolitan ensures them a guaranteed job University.
The first pilot group with us after their graduation.
of 17 employees began their In Turkey, unemployment for courses in 2007 and graduated young people is especially high in 2009. so the guarantee of a job at the These students spend several end of the programme makes days at university at the a real difference.
beginning of each term and the rest of their studying is either conducted online, by telephone or via email.
This way, they earn while they learn, with Tesco paying all their fees.
Given that university fees are now much higher in the UK, we of those who have completed expect the popularity of this a Retail Foundation Degree scheme to increase dramatically.
have progressed to a higher Over the past two years, 56 managerial role students have graduated and TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 45
