GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report and therefore paid in instalments to facilitate this.
If the termination of our international business is driving strong performance in these occurs within one year of retirement, the termination payment will be markets.
Against this performance background, the main aspects reduced accordingly.
of executive remuneration practice for the 2010 11 year are as follows: New appointments of Executive Directors will normally provide for Salaries 2010 11 termination on 12 months notice by the Executive.
However, the Committee reserves the right to vary this period to 24 months for the The base salaries of the Executive Directors following review in initial period of appointment and for the notice period to then revert July 2010 were: to 12 months.
The service agreements are available to shareholders Basic salary 1 July 2010 to view on request from the Company Secretary.
Director 000 Richard Brasher 832 New CEO contract The Committee has taken into account the feedback received from Philip Clarke 832 shareholders and shareholder representative bodies regarding best Andrew Higginson 832 practice in relation to the inclusion of bonus in directors termination arrangements.
To ensure full alignment with best practice, the Tim Mason 832 Committee has agreed with Mr Clarke that under his new contract as Laurie McIlwee 832 CEO any termination payment in lieu of notice will be based on salary and benefits only.
This will also be the policy going forward for new Lucy Neville-Rolfe 624 executives joining the Board.
David Potts 832 Laurie Mcllwee was appointed to the role of CFO in January 2009.
At this time, his base salary was set behind that of the other Executive Directors to reflect the fact that he CURRENT REMUNERATION ARRANGEMENTS AND was new to the role.
The intention was to move his base salary to the level of the other PAYOUTS FOR 2010 11 Directors over time.
The Committee reviewed Mr Mcllwees performance and base salary in July 2010 and concluded that Mr Mcllwees performance was that of an experienced Tescos core objective is to create value for customers to earn their CFO and therefore it was appropriate to increase his base salary to 832,000, the same lifetime loyalty and through this to create value for our shareholders.
level as the other Executives.
2010 11 has been another solid year despite ongoing challenging market conditions.
Returns have grown strongly over the past year The average increase for established Executive Directors last year was representing a significant step towards our long-term goals.
Our core UK 2.46%, which was broadly the same as the increase for other senior business remains robust and the increasing scale and competitiveness executives and employees throughout the Group.
Short-term performance 2010 11 The table below sets out a summary of the maximum opportunity under the short-term remuneration arrangements for 2010 11: Former CEO Executive Directors US CEO Maximum of 250% of base salary Maximum of 200% of salary Maximum of 300% of base salary 200% of salary based on Group All based on Group performance 100% of salary based on Group performance: 50% of salary based performance: 200% of salary based 100% of salary in cash: 100% of on US performance on US performance salary in shares 100% of salary in cash: 150% of salary 150% of salary in cash: 150% of salary in shares in shares Group short-term objectives The table below is a summary of the actual performance delivered in 2010 2011: Performance measures Maximum award opportunity Performance against targets Earnings per share 75% of cash element and 50% The reported underlying diluted Group EPS for 2010 11 was 35.72p, an increase of of share element 10.8% on last year.
Corporate objectives 25% of cash element and 30% The corporate objectives are based on our balanced scorecard, known as the Steering of share element Wheel.
Corporate objectives for the awards made in respect of the financial year 2010 11 were: increasing sales from new space: specific profit targets for international businesses and for retailing services: like-for-like sales growth and the development of the non-food business: focus on productivity improvements and developing trading models internationally: enhancing talent management and capability: embedding the new international Community Plans and Community Promises: and reducing our environmental impact.
Two-thirds of targets were fully met at the stretch level and a solid performance was delivered against the remainder.
Total shareholder 20% of share element The target to outperform against the FTSE 100 and a comparator group of international return retailers that includes Ahold, Carrefour, J Sainsbury, Metro, Wm Morrison, Safeway Inc, Target and Walmart was not met over the short term although long-term TSR performance remained strong.
80 TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements The balance of Group performance measures is illustrated in the Payout levels charts below: Following the Remuneration Committees consideration of the extent to which the various performance measures in respect of the 2010 11 Cash Shares deferred for annual bonus award were achieved, the Executive Directors have been three years awarded 92% of the potential maximum for the cash element and 76% of the potential maximum for the deferred shares element.
The Committee considers this level of reward appropriate.
EPS, on a like-for-like basis, achieved the maximum award level, reflecting strong improvements in underlying profit growth as well as sound financial management.
In respect of corporate objectives, performance against most measures was strong, resulting in delivery at the upper end of the target range.
Performance against financial metrics was excellent with retail profit growth and UK new space addition targets being exceeded.
Performance against operational targets, such as availability, was weakened by the severe weather situation in Q4, but remained good.
The business continues to make 75% EPS 50% EPS strong progress in developing and deploying talent and targets in this 25% Corporate objectives 30% Corporate objectives 20% TSR Tesco Bank area have been achieved.
Performance against corporate responsibility emissions reduced and with metrics has also been excellent, with CO2 the continued development of our community programmes.
Long-term Total shareholder return TSR is the notional return from a share or TSR performance remains strong, but has been behind the market over index based on share price movements and declared dividends.
The graph below highlights the Groups TSR performance over the last five financial years, relative to the FTSE 100 index of companies.
This US short-term objectives index has been selected to provide an established and broad-based The US business continues to make solid progress, with strong comparator group of retail and non-retail companies of similar scale like-for-like sales growth and improved store operating ratios, as to Tesco.
As illustrated below, Tesco has outperformed the FTSE 100 well as steady improvements against a number of other key milestone throughout the period.
Customer feedback remains excellent and our clear objective now is to accelerate the strong growth in customer numbers we are 150 seeing.
The overall business remains on track to break even towards 140 the end of the 2012 13 financial year.
130 Despite the good progress and the achievement of a number of 120 strategic goals, losses in the US business increased in the year, as a 110 consequence of the initial costs of integrating our acquisitions of two dedicated fresh food suppliers and adverse exchange rate movements.
100 90 The Committee has therefore decided, having reviewed performance 80 against both financial and strategic targets, to award 40% of the potential maximum opportunity to Tim Mason and Sir Terry Leahy 70 for that part of their respective annual bonuses which is measured Feb 06 Feb 07 Feb 08 Feb 09 Feb 10 Feb 11 by reference to US-specific targets compared with 65% in 2009 10.
Tesco FTSE 100 This means that Tim Mason will receive an annual US bonus award of 80% of base salary compared with a possible maximum 200% of salary and Sir Terry will receive an award of 20% of base salary compared with a possible maximum 50% of salary.
TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 81 Value of 100 invested 1 March 06 GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report Long-term performance 2008 9 to 2010 11 Performance measures Award size Performance conditions Earnings per share Options over shares with a Vesting of the awards is subject to EPS performance.
face value of 200% of salary First 100% subject to the achievement of underlying diluted EPS growth of at at the date of grant least RPI plus 9% over three years with the balance vesting for achieving growth Granted in 2008 09 of at least RPI plus 15% over three years.
Performance period ended The increase in underlying diluted EPS relative to RPI over the three years from 2010 11 2008 09 to 2010 11 was 32% and therefore significantly exceeded 15% over three years these options will therefore vest in full on the third anniversary of their grant.
This reflects Tescos strong sustained earnings performance during the period.
Return on capital Shares with a face value of Group ROCE performance employed Group and 150% of salary for Executive The Committee considered the level of performance against the target for the International Directors other than Tim first 75% of the PSP award of achieving post-tax Group ROCE of 14.2% by the Mason whose award was end of FY 2010 11.
100% of base salary Post-tax ROCE calculated on a like-for-like basis with the target ROCE originally Granted in 2008 09 set at the end of FY 2010 11 was 14.8% so all of the first 75% of the award will Performance period ended vest.
This represents exceptional performance against this target, particularly in 2010 11 light of the challenging market, and the award related to Group performance will therefore vest in full.
During the performance period the Group has made a number of significant acquisitions including Tesco Bank.
In order to ensure that performance for remuneration purposes is measured in a fair way compared to the target set and that management is not disincentivised to invest, the Committee excludes significant unplanned investments from the calculation of ROCE for remuneration purposes.
However, when assessing performance against targets the Committee also considers the progress of any new investments to ensure that these investments are in line with the key objective of generating long-term shareholder value.
The Committee also exercised its judgement as to the extent to which the remaining 25% of the PSP award should vest by reference to the overall quality of ROCE performance to ensure a fair outcome, taking into account factors including the level of ROCE achieved, the expected ROCE for additional and existing capital investment, whether capital spend was in line with strategic objectives and balanced short-term and long-term investment needs, the level of sales and underlying profit growth and whether this reflected other developments in the marketplace.
The Committee also considered the report from the GOC.
Having considered these factors the Committee concluded that ROCE performance was exceptional in challenging markets and that it was therefore appropriate that, in line with the vesting level for the first 75% of the award, all of the remaining 25% of the award should vest.
International ROCE performance The Committee considered the level of performance against the target for the first 75% of the PSP award of achieving post-tax International ROCE of 9.0% by the end of FY 2010 11.
Post-tax ROCE calculated on a like-for-like basis with the target ROCE originally set at the end of FY 2010 11 was 7.0%.
This represented achievement of threshold performance so 25% of the maximum opportunity for the first 75% of the award will vest equal to 9.4% of salary.
As with Group ROCE, the Committee excludes significant unplanned investments from the calculation including the acquisition of the Homever stores in South Korea to ensure that performance is measured in a fair way compared to the targets.
The Committee does, however, consider the early stage performance of these investments when determining vesting.
The Committee also exercised its judgement as to the extent to which the remaining 25% of the PSP award should vest by reference to the overall quality of ROCE performance, taking into account factors outlined above.
Having considered these factors in detail the Committee concluded that, in line with the vesting level for the first 75% of the award, 25% of the maximum opportunity for the remaining part of the award should vest equal to 3.1% of salary.
In total therefore 12.5% of salary out of a maximum of 50% of salary will vest in relation to International ROCE performance.
82 TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements US long-term objectives Long-term performance awards made in 2010 The first 25% of the awards made in 2007 under the US LTIP to the The long-term performance awards granted in 2010 were made under US CEO and under the Group New Business Incentive Plan to the the 2010 11 executive remuneration policy and were subject to the former CEO was subject to testing against US ROCE and EBIT targets performance measures described in the table below.
The performance targets for 2010 11 have not been met period for these awards is 2010 11 to 2012 13 and the portion of the and no portion of this first tranche will vest.
The next assessment award that vests will be disclosed in the 2012 13 Remuneration Report.
of performance will be in respect of 2011 12.
As mentioned above, in order to refocus his reward on Group performance, the US CEO will no longer participate in the US LTIP and his award will lapse.
No other Executive Directors participate in the US LTIP or Group New Business Incentive Plan.
Senior members of the US management team will however continue to participate in the plan.
Long-term performance awards made in 2010 Performance measures Award size Performance conditions Options over shares with Vesting of the awards is subject to the achievement of EPS performance Earnings per share a value of 200% of salary conditions.
Exercise price equal to the The first 100% is subject to the achievement of underlying diluted EPS growth market value at the date of at least RPI plus 9% over three years.
of grant The balance vests for achieving growth of at least RPI plus 15%.
Any gain is therefore Performance against this target will be measured at the end of 2012 13 to dependent on increasing determine the level of vesting.
the share price between the date of grant and exercise Return on capital Current plan maximum For all the Executive Directors, awards over 100% of salary will vest subject to employed Group and of performance share award Group ROCE performance.
International of 150% of base salary The awards over a further 50% of salary other than Tim Mason, will vest In October 2010 awards subject to International ROCE performance.
The rationale for this is to incentivise were made to all the and reward delivery of higher returns from invested capital outside the UK Executive Directors except but excluding the US.
Tim Mason over Tesco PLC Awards vest over a three-year performance period from 2010 11 to 2012 13. shares equal to 150% of The first 75% of each element of the PSP award is subject to a target of 13.6% salary for Group ROCE and 7.5% for International ROCE.
25% will vest for baseline An award was made to performance and the full 75% will vest for maximum performance against target.
Tim Mason over Tesco PLC The remaining 25% of each element of the award will vest by reference to the shares equal to 100% overall quality of ROCE performance.
of salary The purpose of this element of the ROCE award is to allow the Committee to recognise the right behaviours by the Executive Directors in particular, where they have made substantial capital investments in the Group especially in developing markets with the purpose of growing the long-term returns of the Group but where those investments have led to a reduction in ROCE growth in the short-term.
The Remuneration Committee will take into account a number of factors, including the level of ROCE achieved, the expected ROCE for additional and existing capital investment, whether capital spend was in line with strategic objectives and balanced short-term and long-term investment needs, the level of sales and underlying profit growth and whether this reflected other developments in the marketplace.
If the Remuneration Committee exercises its judgement to allow some, or all, of the remaining 25% of the PSP awards to vest, we will describe in the Directors Remuneration Report in the relevant year those factors taken into account in determining the level of the award which would vest.
There is no retesting of performance in respect of any targets.
Participants are entitled to receive reinvested dividends on the value of the award that vests.
TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 83
