Overview Business review Governance Financial statements The review confirmed that the Board had focused on the important Procedures to deal with Directors conflicts of interest issues in creating shareholder value, including the UK and key The Company has comprehensive procedures in place to deal with any international businesses such as China and the US.
The Board situation where a Director has an actual or potential conflict of interest.
had performed well on governance and much effort was taken on Under these procedures members of the Board are required to: an ongoing basis to ensure compliance with the Code and other consider each conflict situation separately on its particular facts: requirements.
There was a good focus on societal issues and the increasing focus on a global approach was welcomed.
The review consider the conflict situation in conjunction with the rest of their also highlighted that there was a high level of understanding of, and duties under the Companies Act 2006: commitment to, the Boards strategy and the balance of skills and keep appropriate records and Board minutes demonstrating any experience on the Board had strengthened in recent years.
The Board was seen to respond openly and constructively to events and authorisation granted by the Board for such conflict and the scope of any approvals given: and there were open channels of communication with management.
The CEO succession process was praised as exemplary.
The review regularly review conflict authorisations.
recommended that going forward the Board should have a particular focus on the resources required to build a global business in terms of Training and development financial capacity, people development and operational capabilities.
All new Directors receive a personalised induction programme, tailored Annual reviews of the performance of the Nominations, Remuneration to their experience, background and particular areas of focus, which is and Audit Committees have been carried out, led by each Committees designed to develop their knowledge and understanding of the Groups Chairman.
These reviews have confirmed that each Committee culture and operations.
The programme has evolved over time to take continues to operate effectively.
into account feedback from new Directors and the development of best Our CEO reviews the performance of each Executive Director and our practice, and will usually include a combination of meetings with senior Chairman reviews the performance of the CEO and each Non-executive management from across the Group, comprehensive briefing materials Director.
Having completed these evaluations, the CEO and Chairman and opportunities to visit the Groups operations across the world.
The confirm that each individual whose performance they have assessed Chairman agrees the personalised induction plan for each new Director continues to be effective and committed to their role.
The Senior and ensures that it is appropriately tailored.
Areas of focus for the Independent Director assessed the Chairmans performance in the year, induction process include an overview of the business model and Board taking into account the views of both the Non-executive and Executive processes, as well as briefings on key issues including social, ethical Directors, and confirms that he continues to be effective and and environmental SEE issues.
Directors also receive a tailored committed to his role.
induction in relation to those Board Committees they will serve on.
During the year, the Chairman met with the Non-executive Directors, The need for Director development is regularly assessed by the Board without the Executive Directors present, to discuss Board issues and and training sessions are arranged to upskill the Directors on a variety how to build the best possible team.
of areas relevant to the Groups business, including SEE issues.
In the last year the Board received training focusing, inter alia, on recent corporate governance developments, including the implications of the Attendance at meetings Walker Review and the publication of the New Code.
Training was also The Board held nine scheduled meetings in the year ended 26 February provided in relation to the business of Tesco Bank, including its ongoing 2011, and ad hoc meetings were also arranged to deal with matters migration programme and the issues involved in operating a mortgage between scheduled meetings as appropriate.
It is expected that all business.
It is planned to provide training on a number of key areas in Directors attend scheduled Board and relevant Committee meetings, the coming year.
unless they are prevented from doing so by prior commitments, and that all Directors will attend the AGM.
Where Directors are unable to The Board usually holds at least one meeting overseas each year, to attend meetings, they receive the papers scheduled for discussion in facilitate the Directors understanding of the Groups international the relevant meetings, giving them the opportunity to raise any issues operations.
In February 2010 the Board visited China and Korea, and and give any comments to the Chairman in advance of the meeting.
in March 2011 the Board visited our US business.
Board trips allow the Following the meeting the Chairman briefs any member not present on Directors to view first-hand the progress and direction of our businesses the discussions and any decisions taken at the meeting.
Directors leave in these markets, as well as meeting our teams there.
the meeting where matters relating to them, or which may constitute a conflict of interest for them, are being discussed.
None of the Executive Board performance evaluation Directors holds more than one FTSE 100 external non-executive The performance of the Board is a fundamental component of the directorship and Philip Clarke resigned his position as Non-executive Groups success.
The Board regularly reviews its own performance and Director of Whitbread plc effective from 1 March 2011.
The other during the year ended 26 February 2011 it carried out an internally led directorships held by the Non-executive Directors are set out in their evaluation.
This was the third year since a review of the Boards biographies which can be found on pages 60 and 61. performance was last externally facilitated but, given the Board and senior management changes taking place this year, it was decided that it would be appropriate to carry out a further internally facilitated evaluation process this year, with an externally facilitated process next year, once those changes have had an opportunity to bed in.
This years review was coordinated and directed by the Chairman with the support of the Company Secretary.
In-depth interviews were conducted with each Director and there was a wide-ranging discussion of the Boards effectiveness.
The results of the review were considered in detail by the Board, and a number of next steps to improve Board effectiveness further were agreed.
TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 65
