BUSINESS REVIEW Growing retail services To grow retail services in all our markets This year weve made progress in our retail services businesses: tesco.
com, Tesco Bank, Telecoms and dunnhumby our consumer research business.
Weve been investing for the customer and laying the foundations for future growth.
Introduction 4.0bn 6.5m In July 2008 when we announced our intention to take full ownership of Tesco Bank, we set a target to grow the profitability of our retail Retail services sales Tesco Bank customer accounts services businesses from just under 400 million in 2007 8 to 1 billion.
This year, we have made creditable progress in moving towards this target.
We have attracted new customers, grown sales and profit and continued to invest particularly in infrastructure to equip the business for further growth.
We want all of our customers, across all of our markets, to have 15% 2.5m access to our financial, telecoms and online services.
We can do this by applying Group skill and scale and building on the knowledge Online businesses sales growth Tesco Mobile customers which we have acquired from our retail services experience in the UK, Ireland and South Korea.
In 2010 11, total retail services sales were 4.0 billion, up 12% on 2009 10 and trading profit grew to 583 million.
30% Tesco Bank dunnhumbys sales and profits up Despite a challenging year in the wider banking sector, and as it over 30% completes its transition to full separation from The Royal Bank of Scotland RBS, Tesco Bank continues to perform well.
The business has made good progress with its systems re-platforming, which will complete as planned in 2011.
We opened our new banking and insurance service centres in Glasgow and Newcastle in October 2010.
All new motor and home insurance business, including renewal policies sold since then have, as planned, been written on new systems.
We also launched successfully our first new product on our own banking platforms the Fixed Rate Saver last autumn.
This has been followed by our recent innovative retail bond.
Both of these initiatives exceeded plan and serve to diversify our funding base and increase the proportion of long-term funding available to the Bank.
The Bank has made progress in key areas with savings strongly up, good growth in the loan book with improved margins and an excellent year in credit cards, with the transaction value up 20% on 2009 10.
The car insurance book has also resumed growth, having plateaued before the change of control, despite the inevitable challenges of migration.
Retail services profit comprises profit from Telecoms, tesco.
com, dunnhumby and Tesco Bank, including UK store ATM income.
30 TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements TESCO TELECOMS We now have 194 Phone Shops in stores across the UK and this year, we have begun to open Phone Shops in our refreshed Extra stores in Central Europe.
Our Phone Shops provide our customers with support and advice so that they can choose the best option for them.
194 Phone Shops in the UK TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 31 BUSINESS REVIEW Growing retail services 12% 12% of customer traffic to tesco.
com site coming via our grocery app 2m Our international calling card has generated sales of over 2 million since its launch tesco.
com Our online businesses, including online grocery and Tesco Direct, had another strong year.
Taking into account our operations in South Korea and Ireland, total sales grew by 15%.
Our UK operations continued to grow well, with double-digit growth in grocery and a further 30% increase at Tesco Direct.
We have worked consistently over the past year to innovate for customers in our online businesses so that we can provide them with a better online shopping trip.
Our work on upgrading our tesco.
com website has enabled us to launch an iPhone grocery app, which has TESCO CREDIT CARD been very popular accounting for over 12% of customer traffic to the In February, one in eight of all tesco.
MasterCard and Visa credit card We know that our customers lead busy lives and love the convenience transactions in the UK were of our home grocery delivery service, so this year we have invested to made on a Tesco credit card.
make life even easier for customers.
In the UK, we have successfully launched one hour delivery slots in London and we have been trialling a new Click and Collect service for groceries, which allows people to order online and collect their items from a store.
So that we can support our growth momentum, we have increased our UK-wide delivery capacity by adding an extra 350 vans to our fleet and Customer account numbers grew well in active credit cards by we are currently trialling a new scheduling system to increase the 11%, personal loans by 17% and motor insurance by 8%.
Our Fixed efficiency of our vans.
Rate Saver product significantly exceeded expectations and we ended Tesco Direct provides a platform to extend the reach of our general the year with a balance of 397 million, 40% higher than planned, and we now have one, two and three-year options available for customers.
merchandise, clothing and electricals offer through the internet and catalogues.
This year, Direct has achieved strong growth of 30%, The range of products available for customers will be broadened further this year with the planned launch of mortgages.
including clothing online, which represents solid progress against a backdrop of continued pressure on household budgets through 2010 The Banks bad debt position has significantly improved year-on-year, and early 2011. with the charge to the income statement 26% lower, despite the Throughout the year, we have made significant investments in our growth in lending, as credit card and loan defaults reduced, helped by good management of bad debt and the quality of our new business.
stores to improve the multi-channel shopping offer which is available through Direct.
For example, customers can order online and pick up This excellent progress on bad debt has also resulted in an increase in the release of the fair value provisions we made in the Group balance in-store or order in-store and have their delivery dropped off at their door.
We have added 30 new Direct desks and 89 Collection Points and sheet on acquisition.
Based on a lower than expected level of claims, we have also released some of our provisions for customer claims we now have 11 Order and Collect stores.
against payment protection insurance policies.
In South Korea, we have launched a general merchandise website to complement the current grocery site.
The new website launched These strong elements of the Banks performance mean that we have been able to offset the substantial extra provisions made in the year in January.
Our online business has performed well in Ireland with a 15% increase in sales and 12.5% increase in orders.
In the next year, related to bodily injury claims in our motor insurance business a trend affecting the whole industry and the costs of migration, yet still we are launching online shopping sites in the Czech Republic and Poland.
The baseline profitability of the Bank before provisions movements and the adjustments required under acquisition accounting continues to improve steadily, whilst absorbing the higher costs of migration away from RBS.
We expect further improvements in the baseline profitability in 2011 12.
Our Core Tier 1 capital ratio has risen substantially to a healthy 15.9% at the year end.
The strong growth in the Banks deposit base means that we have a significant excess of deposits over loans, as we build out balance sheet capacity ahead of the planned launch of mortgages.
32 TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements In South Korea, we have launched a general merchandise website to complement the current grocery site.
Tesco Telecoms TESCO DIRECT In November 2010, Tesco Direct Our Telecoms business grew well during the year, maintaining strong launched a new mobile website market share, driven primarily by the growth of Tesco Mobile.
In 2010 allowing customers to easily Tesco Mobile was one of the fastest growing UK mobile networks, browse for and buy general growing its customer base by 24% to over 2.5 million.
merchandise items on their Customers have responded positively to an increase in the number smartphone.
of mobile handsets we are offering, including the latest smartphones from Android to HTCmodels.
In 2010, we entered the international calling card market.
The market has recently been investigated by OFCOM and Tesco was one of the top performing service providers praised for its value, clarity and customer service.
Our international calling card has generated sales of over 2 million since launching and around 16,000 cards are sold in-store every week.
Our Tesco Mobile joint ventures with O2 in Ireland and Slovakia are performing well.
Both businesses are growing strongly and moved into profit for the first time this year.
dunnhumby dunnhumby has had a very strong year, increasing sales and profits by over 30% with excellent growth in the UK supplier business and from its overseas joint ventures with retailers.
Following the acquisition of the final 10% of the business in the first half of the year, dunnhumby is now a wholly owned subsidiary of Tesco.
DUNNHUMBY dunnhumby was founded in This strategic approach of 1989 by Edwina Dunn and Clive putting the customer first in Humby with the intention of business improves their clients embedding customer insight into like-for-like sales and profit the way organisations work.
By margins or, put simply, creates analysing data from over 340 measurable value.
million people in 25 countries, Employing more than 1,500 dunnhumby helps companies to people in 30 offices in Europe, put their customers at the centre Asia and the Americas, of every business decision.
dunnhumby serves a prestigious list of companies including dunnhumby uses the insight Kelloggs, The Kroger Co. Mller, generated by data they gather Procter & Gamble, Coca-Cola to allow companies to improve and Mars.
dunnhumbys work customers experiences of has also extended beyond the shopping in their stores, branding and marketing.
They work with grocery sector to include companies to help them tailor partnerships with Macys, Shell their offer to the needs and and the Panera Bread Company.
dunnhumby has worked with dunnhumbys work with Tesco since the launch of some of the worlds biggest Clubcard in the UK in 1995 and retailers and brands has now works across the 12 markets demonstrated that companies where we have Clubcard.
which deliver value to customers HOMEPLUS through personalisation earn Homeplus is the number one customers loyalty.
grocery home shopping provider in South Korea, delivering just under 1.5 million orders last year.
TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 33
