BUSINESS REVIEW Growing the UK core Tesco UK: a growth business Through Clubcard we are able to reward our customers loyalty and Tesco in the UK is an outstanding business.
at the same time use the insight from the data gathered to better We are clear market leader in food retail with understand our customers needs so that we can keep improving the shopping trip.
the broadest customer appeal, widest range By delivering for customers every day we have built the most loyal of formats, market-leading systems and customer base of any of the major food retailers: processes and the worlds leading customer loyalty programme Clubcard.
CUSTOMER LOYALTY vs COMPETITORS Proportion of a retailers We are the largest private employer in the UK, customers who do more offering market-leading pay and rewards to than 50% of their shopping with a single retailer.
our staff, and were a leader in tackling climate change.
We also generate outstanding financial performance with the highest sales densities, profit margin and return on capital of any company in the sector.
Source: Competitor data: Tesco analysis.
Delivering for customers Our success begins with delivering a great shopping trip in every store.
People Behind our Every Little Helps philosophy lie world-class systems and processes for property, buying, distribution, ordering, store operations Our people work incredibly hard every day to serve our customers and and marketing.
give them the best shopping trip.
90% of our store staff tell us that they are committed to doing their best when working at Tesco and 71% say We also have the widest range of any food retailer including the leading they enjoy working for Tesco.
Finest and Value are the two largest food brands in the UK bigger than Coca-Cola each with more than 1 billion of sales 80% of our store staff tell us they are satisfied with the benefits they per year.
receive, which is reflective of our market-leading level of pay.
Climate change LEADING UK FOOD BRANDS As a retail business, we know that we can make a real difference in UK sales 2010 tackling climate change cutting our own emissions, working with suppliers and helping customers to cut their carbon footprint.
In our UK business, we have led the work on climate change and for the second year running, we have reduced our absolute emissions this year by 5% despite space growing by 7% as well as significantly reducing emissions from our baseline portfolio of buildings.
Outstanding financial performance We operate a balanced scorecard approach to managing the business, based on the Steering Wheel segments: Customer: Community: Operations: People: and Finance.
In order to achieve Source: Nielsen and Tesco.
sustainable profitable growth over the long term we must deliver on all these priorities.
This approach means that we have delivered consistently strong financial performance each year, which has led to remarkable performance when looking over a number of years showing the cumulative effect of consistent growth.
The chart below shows the consistency and speed with which we have grown relative to our major UK peers.
20 TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Walkers Crisps 0.5bn 0.7bn Warburtons Coca-Cola 1.0bn Tesco Value 1.1bn Tesco Finest 1.1bn Wm Morrison 14.5% J Sainsbury 15.9% Asda 18.5% Tesco 29.7% Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Future growth GROWTH vs COMPETITORS The UK offers significant opportunities for growth for Tesco in 40 grocery, in non-food categories and in services.
35 The UK grocery market is mature, but far from saturated.
The UK has 30 the lowest grocery space per capita of any country in the EU and only about a third of that of the United States.
25 20 GROCERY RETAIL SPACE PER CAPITA 15 10 sq m per capita 5 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 Asda J Sainsbury Wm Morrison Tesco Source: Tesco and Deutsche Bank Research including estimates for 10 11.
We have also consistently delivered superior financial performance to our peers in terms of profit margin and return on capital, which in turn has helped us invest in our customer offer and in further expansion new stores, new businesses e. g. banking and telecoms, new Source: Verdict Research space per capita, Economist Intelligence Unit population data.
An important indicator of the scope for future growth of grocery space EBITDAR vs COMPETITORS in the UK is that when new stores open the impact on existing stores is 12 minimal.
We track very closely every store opened in the UK by Tesco and our competitors and the impact of these new stores on Tescos 10 sales has remained consistently below 1% of our total sales for many years.
The performance of our own mature stores opened in recent 8 years is exceeding business plan forecasts and our profit margin and 6 return on capital in the UK continue to strengthen.
There is significant opportunity and demand for Tesco to grow its store 4 network for example, only 54% of UK shoppers are able to reach a 2 Tesco Extra within 15 minutes.
Traditionally a fragmented market, Tesco was the first of the J Sainsbury Wm Morrison Tesco UK major retailers to develop a convenience format on a national scale Source: Tesco and Deutsche Bank Research including estimates for 10 11.
EBITDAR defined as statutory profit before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and rent.
We now have 1,285 Express stores but this still Tesco EBITDAR excludes property profits.
represents only a small market share in the convenience segment and we have many years of future growth.
UK ROCE vs COMPETITORS In addition to food and other grocery items such as household and 20 toiletries, Tesco has developed a strong offer in categories such as electricals, clothing and entertainment.
In these new general 15 merchandise areas we only have around a 4% market share in a large fragmented market.
With a large and loyal customer base, the leading 10 store network and a strong online platform, we have a tremendous springboard from which to grow our market positions in these segments.
5 We have also followed our customers into services such as banking, 0 insurance and telecoms, building on our brand reputation for value, simplicity and great service.
We have built successful businesses, such -5 as Tesco Bank and Tesco Mobile, which are already making a significant 00 01 01 02 02 03 03 04 04 05 05 06 06 07 07 08 08 09 09 10 10 11 contribution to sales and profits.
There remains enormous potential for future growth in these areas, through expanding our range of products J Sainsbury Wm Morrison Tesco UK particularly in banking with mortgages and current accounts and by Source: Tesco and Deutsche Bank Research including estimates for 10 11.
Tesco ROCE excludes the positive impact of the sale and leaseback programme.
increasing our penetration of Tescos 15 million Clubcard customers.
TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 21 ROCE % EBITDAR margin % Revenue bn US 0.58 France 0.35 Italy 0.35 Germany 0.34 0.29 Poland Spain 0.28 Netherlands 0.25 UK 0.21
