BUSINESS REVIEW 23,000 Strong in everything we sell Number of products available through Tesco Direct 1st First UK supermarket to stock the Apple iPad and Amazon Kindle UK Improving the performance of general merchandise in the UK is one of our key priorities.
Our aim is to offer our customers the same great quality, price and range in our general merchandise offer as they would find with their Tesco grocery shop.
The focus is on delivering in three key areas with the aim of improving the general merchandise shopping trip for our customers: investing in making the ranges more aspirational: TESCO TECH SUPPORT enhancing the shopping experience with specialist advice: and Tesco Tech Support teams are developing our multi-channel capability.
now in over 200 of our largest Investing in making the ranges more aspirational UK stores providing our We have invested in and expanded our general merchandise ranges customers with expert advice to provide greater appeal to our customers.
Our offer is already good on their electrical purchases.
but there is much more we can do in particular by offering more aspirational products, not just everyday basics.
In electricals, we were the first UK supermarket to stock the Apple iPad and the Amazon Kindle two of the most sought-after technology products on the market.
Keeping in tune with changes in technology and responding quickly to offer our customers the latest electrical innovations is central to our strategy and to building our reputation as a leading retailer in everything we sell.
Enhancing the shopping experience with specialist advice We are investing in our people so that we are able to support and advise our customers when they are making big ticket purchases such as TVs or mobile phones.
For example we have 194 Phone Shops offering customers impartial advice on phone packages and accessories.
In over 200 of our largest stores, we have Tesco Tech Support teams, made up of staff specifically trained to help customers with technical queries on electrical items from TVs to cameras and satellite navigation systems.
The additional advice helps customers get the right product for their individual needs, supporting a reduction in product returns.
Alongside our in-store teams, we have a free electrical helpline for our customers, manned by fully trained engineers, and a dedicated Tech Support website.
Developing our multi-channel capability Our multi-channel approach makes it easy for our customers to shop in a way that suits them online, in-store or from catalogues.
Customers INTERNATIONAL SOURCING can browse in a catalogue, order online and then collect in-store or they can order in-store and have the goods delivered to their home.
This In order to get the best priced cheaper costs: the cheapest and highest quality products for source of products for all year, over 40% of Tesco Direct electrical purchases have been made our customers, we source many countries: online and picked up in-store through our Click and Collect service.
food, clothing and general competitive advantage: on Weve listened to our customers and adapted by expanding our range.
merchandise goods globally and range and quality versus We have increased the number of products available through Tesco buy many products directly from market competitors: and Direct to around 23,000, but we need to do much more in order to producers and manufacturers.
compete with the wider ranges offered by other leading online retailers.
knowledge sharing: best Through our Group Sourcing practice in how we source, In 2009 10, we launched our clothing site at www.
operations, headquartered in buy, make and move products.
The website, which combines our F&F ranges alongside some other Hong Kong above, we can This year, we sourced directly well-known brands, has been extremely popular with customers.
We ensure: more than 4 billion worth of are currently the fastest growing online retailer in the clothing, footwear better products: confidence in food and general merchandise and accessories market.
where and how they are made: products at retail value.
28 TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Our F&F clothing brand launched in South Korea and Thailand this year and the early response from customers has been excellent.
Asia We have seen strong general merchandise sales growth in our Asian businesses which are predominantly hypermarket operations.
We saw particularly pleasing increases in electrical products, with double-digit growth in Thailand and over 30% in China.
Our F&F clothing brand launched in South Korea and Thailand this year and the early response from customers has been excellent a very good example of the skill and scale of the Tesco Group being applied across our global network.
Last year we opened our first three Sports Multishops in Homeplus stores in South Korea.
These innovative sports zones are designed to meet growing customer needs for sporting goods, in a one-stop shopping environment.
GOING THE EXTRA MILE IN EUROPE Sports Multishop presents our customers with a wide range of highquality branded sporting goods, a specialised bicycle shop, a golf shop This year we began the remodelling Were also adding many of the and over ten sports and outdoor brand shops, such as Nike and Adidas, and conversion of some of our complementary services such in a single 15,000 sq ft location.
older hypermarkets across Central as Phone Shop, Opticians and Sports Multishop has increased sales of sporting goods in these and Eastern Europe.
Pharmacy to provide our customers stores by over 60% with high customer penetration.
We will open with a wider range of general Weve listened to our customers merchandise products.
Weve Sports Multishop in ten more stores this year, with plans for further and are making a number of achieved very strong sales roll-out thereafter.
enhancements to our stores improvements across the eight to improve the shopping trip.
Extras completed so far with Weve extended our range by an average uplift of 16%.
These introducing over 5,000 products, refits are delivering particularly introduced product-specialist marked uplifts in general employees to improve service, merchandise categories, and provided a better shopping including clothing and electricals.
environment through the introduction of conforming layout, fixtures and fittings.
Europe In Europe, general merchandise, clothing and electricals sales were strong, reflecting an overall improving consumer background and a strengthening offer in our stores.
Clothing in Central Europe had a successful year with a 9% year-onyear growth in total sales.
We are now the clothing market leader in the Czech Republic, Hungary and Slovakia.
Building on the success of the F&F brand, we have introduced our F&F Blue and F&F Basics sub-brands to provide our customers with a greater range to choose from.
Our first stand-alone F&F store also opened successfully in Prague last year, highlighting the appeal of the brand in the Czech Republic.
SPORTS SHOPS In Central Europe, our trio of mid-market MY department stores Our Sports Multishops in showcase our general merchandise, clothing and electricals ranges South Korea have increased including well-known brands such as Levis, FCUK and Disney.
Our sales of sporting goods in these flagship MY Narodni store in Prague and our stores located in Liberec stores by over 60% with great and Bratislava are traditional multi-floor department stores with open customer feedback.
layouts and a full range of product categories at multiple price points.
In the year, all stores made strong progress in like-for-like sales growth with our brands such as F&F and Go Cook competing well against more established luxury brands.
TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 29
