GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report The key features of the revised arrangements are: REMUNERATION STRATEGY AND POLICY FROM 2011 12 ONWARDS Common remuneration arrangements with a Group focus Executive Directors remuneration strategy There will be a return to a common set of incentive arrangements with a focus on Group performance for short-term and long-term Tesco has a long-standing strategy of rewarding talent and experience.
All executives, including the CEO and the US CEO, will We seek to provide incentives for delivering strong, sustainable and participate in the same plans going forward.
profitable growth, thereby creating substantial additional value for shareholders.
We operate in a keenly competitive and rapidly changing Retain focus on performance related reward and delivery in retail environment.
Business success depends on the talents of the key shares The Remuneration Committee continues to believe that team, but outstanding business performance comes from teamwork.
the majority of total remuneration should be performance related Tesco has a stable and successful management team, and motivating and delivered largely in shares, to closely align the interests of and incentivising that team at senior levels to deliver yet higher levels of shareholders and Executive Directors.
This remains a feature performance is vital to our ongoing success.
We believe our incentives of the revised arrangements.
To further enhance alignment with should support the continued growth and the strengthening of our shareholder interests, the Committee has decided to increase the returns from across the Group, as well as the creation and development executive shareholding guideline from one times base salary to of significant new businesses.
four times base salary for the CEO and three times base salary for the other executives.
Total remuneration levels of Executive Directors are reviewed annually by the Committee, taking into account their contribution in terms of Removal of share options Executive share options will no longer continuing strong performance, their potential and competitive market be granted and will be replaced by a performance share award of practice.
When setting the remuneration of Executive Directors, the comparable expected value.
Committee considers the Groups performance against a mixture of Reduction in measures The number of performance measures corporate objectives and financial measures.
Consideration is also given will be reduced going forward, with a focus on delivery of ongoing to reward levels at the next tier of management below the Board and earnings growth and sustainable return on capital for long-term across the Group in order to sustain a common sense of purpose and elements of reward.
Rebalancing of the CEO package The CEOs package has Remuneration policy for 2011 12 been rebalanced compared to his previous package as an Executive Director, to focus it more on performance-related rather than fixed The Remuneration Committee has undertaken a detailed review elements of reward.
of executive remuneration arrangements in the past few months.
As outlined in the Chairmans introduction, the objectives of this review Introduction of clawback To reflect best practice, we have also were to simplify arrangements and return to using measures relevant introduced clawback for deferred share awards under the annual to group performance for all Executive Directors.
In addition, the review bonus plan and long-term incentive PSP awards to allow the focused on ensuring that executive arrangements are aligned with Committee to scale back awards in the event that results are strategy and shareholder value creation, while offering the right pay materially misstated.
for the right level of performance.
In carrying out its review of Tescos The following chart shows the make-up of remuneration: remuneration approach, the Committee considered total remuneration levels and decided that there should be no overall increase in incentive Fixed element opportunity.
The Committee believes that this package is appropriate for the scope and responsibility of the Executive Director roles.
Base salary When reviewing remuneration and determining the revised level and structure of reward, the Remuneration Committee has also been c14% 40% depending on individual incentive arrangements and performance conscious of the economic background and wider concerns around executive pay and has sought to ensure reward outcomes are proportionate to the performance outcome.
Performance-related element Short-term performance Long-term performance Cash bonus Deferred Performance share plan share bonus c60% 86% depending on individual incentive arrangements and performance 76 TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Fixed remuneration from 2011 12 1 CEO Executive Directors Commentary Base salary 1,100,000 from 2 March 2011 Operational executives For the last few years executive 832,000 salary increases have normally Next review 1 July 2012 been limited to around inflation Executive Director Corporate and have generally been at a and Legal Affairs 624,000 similar level to increases Next review 1 July 2011 throughout the Group.
Pension Current pension provision of defined benefit with a 10% contribution Pension arrangements are and pension of two-thirds base pay at retirement.
This is provided currently being reviewed in the through registered arrangements and secured unfunded context of changes in pension arrangements.
Other benefits The Executive Directors will continue to be eligible for car benefits, life assurance, disability and health insurance and staff discount.
They will continue to be eligible to participate in the Companys all employee share schemes on the same terms as UK employees, details of which are set out in the tables at the end of this report.
In line with our policy for senior executives working abroad, the US CEO will receive a net expatriate allowance of 282,000 per annum to cover costs incurred in relation to his US assignment.
1 Sir Terry Leahys base salary with effect from 1 July 2010 to his retirement on 1 March 2011 was 1,444,000.
Base salary Policy Base pay is designed to attract and retain talented individuals.
It needs to reflect individual capability and any changes in responsibilities as the Group faces new opportunities and challenges.
Benchmarking group The Committee examines salary levels at the major retailers, the leading FTSE companies and ensures consideration is also given to international competitors.
Relationship to all employee pay The Committee also takes into account pay conditions throughout the Group in deciding executive annual salary increases.
The average increase for established Executive Directors last year was 2.46%.
The average increase for senior management below Board level last year was 2.4%, and for other employees the average increase was typically around 2.3%.
Pay levels Group-wide are determined with consideration to a number of factors, including the prevailing economic environment, discussions with employee representative groups, and current market practice.
Review date Base salaries are typically reviewed with effect from 1 July each year.
The next salary review will be 1 July 2011 other than for the CEO and Executive Director salaries following this review will be disclosed in next years report.
Pension be provided from the registered pension scheme before the Finance Pension provision is central to our ability to foster loyalty and retain Act 2004 changes apply.
The balance of any pension entitlement for experience, which is why Tesco wants to ensure that the Tesco PLC all Executive Directors is delivered through an unapproved retirement Pension Scheme is a highly valued benefit.
All Executive Directors are benefits scheme SURBS.
Except for Tim Mason, the SURBS is secured members of the Tesco PLC Pension Scheme, which provides a pension by using a fixed charge over a cash deposit in a designated account.
of up to two-thirds of base salary on retirement, normally at age 60, Over the last few years employee pension contributions by our dependent on service.
Pension drawn before age 60 will be actuarially Executive Directors have been increasing progressively.
In 2010 11 reduced to reflect early retirement.
The Final Salary Scheme is now the level of employee contribution was 9% of salary, which is in line closed to new entrants but has been replaced throughout the with contribution levels by senior management below Board level.
organisation by a defined-benefit pension scheme based on career Contributions will rise to 10% in 2011 12.
Further details of the pension average earnings.
Our defined benefit pension is a key incentive and benefits earned by the Directors can be found on page 85. retention tool throughout the organisation and remains an important part of our reward package.
Since April 2006, following implementation The pension arrangements are currently being reviewed in light of of the regulations contained within the Finance Act 2004, Executive the recent changes to pension tax relief and other tax legislation.
Directors have been eligible to receive the maximum pension that can TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 77 GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report Performance related remuneration from 2011 12 The Committee has considered the performance conditions for each of the incentive arrangements against the Groups business strategy, its growing global leadership, its position as one of the rising companies at the top of the FTSE 100 and the intensely competitive sector in which it operates, and has concluded that they provide a set of comprehensive and robust measures of managements effort and success in creating shareholder value.
Other Executive Performance measures CEO Directors Commentary Short-term 70% of bonus based Maximum of Maximum of These bonus measures have been selected as they are performance on underlying profit 250% of base 200% of base considered to be closely aligned to long-term shareholder measures performance salary salary value creation.
one year 30% of bonus based Strategic performance measures include specific measures Delivered half in cash: and performance on performance based on environmental, social and governance ESG factors, half in shares which are deferred against six key an integral part of the corporate strategy.
Inclusion of these for three years strategic specific measures will help reinforce positive and responsible Clawback introduced for performance behaviour by senior management.
deferred shares to allow the measures Committee to scale back deferred share awards in the event that results are materially misstated Long-term Matrix of ROCE EPS Maximum of Maximum of Share options will no longer form part of the package for performance performance 275% of base 225% of base Executive Directors other than in exceptional circumstances.
measures salary salary The new PSP awards have been set to be of broadly equivalent three year expected value to the current PSP and option awards for performance Executive Directors.
The Committee considered the relative expected values of the PSP and share option awards and determined that a PSP award of 75% of salary is broadly equivalent to the current share option award of 200% of salary resulting in an increase in PSP from 150% to 225% of base salary.
The CEO will receive an additional opportunity of 50% of base salary.
Clawback introduced to allow the Committee to scale back PSP awards in the event that results are materially misstated.
If performance is lower than the maximum targets, incentive payments Short-term performance targets for 2011 12 will reduce accordingly and will be zero if threshold levels of performance Following the remuneration review, the following short-term are not attained.
performance measures will be adopted for the 2011 12 annual US reward from 2011 12 bonus arrangements for all Executive Directors: Since 2007, Tim Mason, the US CEO, has participated in remuneration arrangements which were focused on the performance of the US Short-term bonus opportunity business as well as that of the Group.
In light of the renewed focus Maximum of 250% of salary for the CEO on a collegiate approach to remuneration, together with Mr Masons Maximum of 200% of salary for the other Executive Directors appointment to the roles of Deputy CEO and Chief Marketing Officer, Half payable in cash and half payable in shares which are it has been agreed that Mr Mason will no longer be eligible for awards deferred for three years under the US annual or long-term incentive programmes.
Mr Mason will therefore no longer participate in the US LTIP and the two million Profitability Strategic 70% of short-term performance 30% of short-term performance shares granted to him in 2007 will lapse.
Measured in relation to Based on performance against From 2011 12, Mr Mason will participate in the same collegiate underlying profit key metrics.
For 2011 12 these Group-focused remuneration arrangements as other Executive metrics will be: Directors.
In line with our policy for senior executives working abroad, 1.
UK like-for-like sales growth Mr Mason will receive a net expatriate allowance of 282,000 per 2.
UK return on capital employed annum to cover costs incurred in relation to his US assignment.
Group new space expansion The Committee believes that it is appropriate for Executive Directors 4.
Group internet sales to participate in the same arrangements and to be rewarded based 5.
Group employee engagement on the achievement of measures that are key to Group performance.
Group CO reduction 2 Moving Mr Masons remuneration package entirely to the same structure as other Executive Directors will further support the collegiate This measure incentivises the These measures contain a mix of approach to working which is considered essential to the delivery of our delivery of annual shareholder financial, strategic and corporate long-term business strategy.
value through improved bottomresponsibility targets and were line financial results.
selected to incentivise sustainable improvements in the underlying drivers of performance.
78 TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements About 85% of annual bonus entitlement is based directly or indirectly reserves the right to make such adjustments under the new plan but on financial metrics.
These measures are considered to be important will only do so when the impact is material.
for laying the foundations for future performance growth.
Share ownership guidelines The balance of measures is illustrated in the pie chart below: Shareholding guidelines 4 x base salary The purpose is to create alignment with interests 70% Profitability 30% Strategic for the CEO of shareholders This requirement is at the upper end of typical market practice for similar sized companies 3 x base salary for other Executive Increased from current guideline of 1 x base salary Directors to demonstrate the ongoing commitment of our executives to acquiring and holding shares in Tesco The Remuneration Committee believes that a significant shareholding by Executive Directors aligns their interests with shareholders and demonstrates their ongoing commitment to the business.
Given this, The targets will be clearly measurable and appropriately stretching.
the Committee has increased the shareholding guideline from one The intention is that when payouts are made, the Committee will times base salary to four times base salary for the CEO and to three include a description of the extent to which targets have been met, times base salary for the other Executive Directors.
as well as the rationale for why the Committee believes that the level of payouts is appropriate.
Naturally for reasons of commercial sensitivity Shares held in plans which are not subject to forfeiture will be included we will not be able to publish specific target figures in advance.
on a net basis for the purposes of calculating Executive Directors shareholdings, as will be shares held by an Executives spouse.
New appointees will typically be expected to achieve this minimum level Long-term performance targets from 2011 12 of shareholding within five years.
Full participation in the long-term Long-term plan opportunity Performance Share Plan will be conditional upon maintaining the Maximum of 275% of salary for the CEO minimum shareholding.
Most Executives already meet this enhanced requirement but those who do not will be required to hold and not Maximum of 225% of salary for the other Executive Directors Shares vest in three years time subject to performance targets dispose of at least 50% of the net number of shares which vest under being met incentive arrangements until they meet this requirement.
Shares held by Executive Directors as at 26 February 2011 Tesco believes that the best way to enhance shareholder value is to grow earnings over the long term while maintaining a sustainable level The chart below illustrates the value of Executive Directors of return on capital in other words to keep growing the size of the shareholdings, based on a share price at 26 February 2011 of 4.0605. business in an efficient way.
Richard Brasher For awards granted from 2011 onwards, the Committee intends that performance targets will be set as a matrix of stretching Philip Clarke earnings growth targets and sustainable return on capital employed performance.
The Committee believes that this combination of EPS Andrew Higginson growth and ROCE performance is strongly aligned with our strategic objectives and also reflects the drivers of long-term shareholder value.
Tim Mason In order for full vesting to occur, cumulative earnings have to grow by at Laurie Mcllwee least 12% per annum over the next three years and ROCE for 2013 14 must have increased to at least 14.6%.
No payout at all will be made Lucy Neville-Rolfe unless ROCE is increased from last years actual ROCE of 12.9% to above 13.6% a 70 basis point increase.
For maximum vesting therefore David Potts management is not only required to increase earnings significantly over 0 124 3 5 6 789 the three-year period but also to increase the efficiency of the use of s million Group capital.
Ordinary shares EIP The Committee also believes that these targets are appropriately Includes ordinary shares, and awards of shares and nil cost options made to Directors stretching and if they are achieved will have generated significant value which remain subject only to a holding period.
Excludes unexercised vested executive share options.
The vesting matrix and targets are illustrated below: % of initial award vesting Service agreements EPS The Executive Directors all have rolling service agreements with no Targets Threshold Target EPS fixed expiry date.
These existing contracts may be terminated on 7% 10% 12% 12 months notice by the Company and six months notice by the 14.6% 45% 75% 100% Executive.
If an Executive Directors employment is terminated other ROCE than pursuant to the notice provisions in the service agreement or by 13.6% 20% 60% 85% reason of resignation or unacceptable performance or conduct the Company will pay a sum calculated on the basis of basic salary and the In previous years, under the existing plan, ROCE performance outcomes average annual bonus paid for the last two years.
No account will be were adjusted to take into account acquisitions which were not taken of pension.
Termination payments will be subject to mitigation envisaged when the targets were set.
The Remuneration Committee TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 79
