BUSINESS REVIEW To be an outstanding international retailer To be an outstanding international retailer in stores and online Overall, our businesses across Asia, Europe and the United States have had a strong year, with improvements in sales, profits and returns in most markets.
Introduction and market context 11.0bn 570m Most of our markets have seen steady economic improvement over the past year and in some cases particularly in Asia sharp Asia sales Asia trading profit improvement.
Countries hardest hit in the downturn in particular Hungary, Ireland and the United States have been slower to recover, although even there we are now seeing signs of improvement.
A particularly encouraging feature of our performance in Asia and Europe has been excellent market share growth, with many of our businesses seeing strong growth in both customer numbers and like-for-like sales.
10.6bn 527m We have resumed a faster pace of new space opening now that Europe sales Europe trading profit economic conditions are generally improving.
We opened 6.5m sq ft of gross new space in 2010 11, compared with 5.1m sq ft in 2009 10 and plan to open a further 8.4m sq ft during the current year.
Asia 502m Our businesses in Asia have delivered another good performance US sales leading to increases in sales and profits supported by improving like-for-like sales growth, a useful contribution from new stores and further benefits from our acquisition in South Korea in 2008.
As economies in Asia recover, we are seeing improving sales trends.
Our performance was helped by favourable exchange rate movements but nevertheless profits grew by almost 18% at constant currency rates.
Our businesses in South Korea and Thailand opened 56 and 119 stores respectively and delivered excellent sales and profit growth during the year as these economies rebounded sharply from recession.
22 TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements THAILAND Tesco Lotus, our business in Thailand, is one of our most successful international businesses with strong profitability and the highest return on capital of all our overseas markets.
We now operate 782 stores with 11m sq ft of space, having added a further 119 stores in the year.
21% Sales in Thailand up 21% TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 23 BUSINESS REVIEW 21.5% To be an outstanding international retailer Asia sales growth In China, we are pushing ahead with our expansion plans, opening ANSHAN a further 19 stores in the year, including five Express stores.
Our In October, we opened our fourth investments in equipping the business for faster growth, combined with Lifespace mall our largest so our store roll-out being slower than planned, meant that we made a far in Anshan, China.
Over small overall loss in the year.
600,000 customers flow through our four Lifespace malls each After a sharp contraction in 2009 the economy in Malaysia has also week.
We plan to have up to ten recovered well over the past year.
Our business has delivered very good malls open by the end of the year.
sales and profit growth driven by continued investment for customers in prices, promotions and Clubcard.
In Japan, falling supermarket industry sales are providing a challenging background for our operations and the business continued to make modest losses.
We were one of the first businesses to respond to the devastating earthquake and tsunami in Japan in March 2011 with a corporate donation of 50,000 through our partnership with the Red Cross.
Our early plans in India are continuing to progress well.
Our local management team is helping our franchise partner, Trent, to develop its Star Bazaar hypermarket operation.
Our Asian markets offer an exciting long-term growth opportunity and will be a key focus for our future international expansion, both in our established markets and in China.
We have continued to invest through the downturn to ensure that we are in an even stronger position as the economic recovery continues.
This year we plan to open 5.1m sq ft of new selling area.
We have also continued to make good progress in developing strong brands in our leading Asian businesses with further expansion of Clubcard and our retail services businesses.
HOMEPLUS A WORLD-CLASS BUSINESS Asia results 2010 11 Homeplus in South Korea is retail trade in South Korea still Actual rates Constant rates our largest business outside the represents a relatively small m % growth % growth UK, with revenue of 5 billion, proportion of the total market Asia sales 11,023 21.5 9.7 making the business larger than just 54% of total retail sales.
Asia revenue 10,278 21.4 9.6 many FTSE 100 companies.
We are already the market leader in the rapidly growing grocery Asia trading profit 570 29.5 17.5 We entered South Korea through home shopping sector and have Trading margin a partnership with Samsung recently launched our general trading profit revenue 5.55% 35bp 34bp and opened our first two merchandise website.
Today Revenue excludes VAT and the impact of IFRIC 13. also using our admired brand, we are a sophisticated multistrong store network and large format and moving to multicustomer base to develop our channel retailer with 354 stores retail services offer.
and we employ over 23,000 people.
In just a decade we have Together with delivering grown from two shops to become outstanding financial We have continued to invest the second largest retailer in the performance, we are aiming country and were closing in on to be the most respected through the downturn to ensure that the number one position.
corporate brand in South Korea we are in an even stronger position as and weve already been awarded And there is plenty more to come South Koreas Most Admired the economic recovery continues.
with significant potential for Company award.
The organised modern 24 TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements EXTRAS IN EUROPE Weve remodelled and converted 5.6% eight Extra stores across Central Europe sales growth and Eastern Europe with an average uplift of 16%.
Europe United States Our operations in Europe have delivered record results and strong Customer feedback at Fresh & Easy remains excellent and strong growth in sales, profits and margins.
Recovering economies generally growth in customer numbers is driving steady sales improvement helped but key to this performance was the striking improvement in each store.
in the competitiveness of our local businesses, which won market Although there is clearly some way to go, with these key elements share rapidly.
moving in the right direction, we plan to accelerate the rate of We have invested for customers through lower prices, sharper promotions new store openings to around 50 in the current year.
With the and Clubcard, funded by strong productivity and substantial early improvements in our distribution centre and manufacturing campus benefits of our pan-European sourcing.
The resulting strong sales productivity, we now expect to break-even with around 300 stores growth has driven an improvement in profitability and margins.
rather than the 400 we originally anticipated.
Sales growth varied across the region but all markets saw sharply Our losses increased in the year as a consequence of the initial costs improved like-for-like sales growth compared with 2009 10, with a of integrating our two dedicated fresh food suppliers, 2 Sisters and good contribution also coming from new space.
Wild Rocket Foods, and exchange rate movements.
These businesses have now been fully integrated with our existing kitchen operations, In Ireland, like-for-like growth in the year was significantly stronger, with substantially improved financial performance, product quality and although it was broadly stable during the second half, the two-year and service levels.
trend has continued to improve.
Despite a decline in consumer confidence resulting from political and economic uncertainty and the continued We expect losses to reduce sharply in the current year as strong growth fall in disposable income, our business has continued its strong relative in like-for-like sales continues and improved store operating ratios performance with impressive market share gains.
start to deliver shop-door profitability.
We have a strong plan for the business to break-even towards the end of the 2012 13 financial year.
Our business in Poland had another good year, with good growth in sales and profits despite a period of subdued consumer sentiment following the Smolensk tragedy.
US results 2010 11 Actual rates Constant rates m % growth % growth In Hungary economic conditions and consumer confidence remain challenging but despite this our business made solid progress.
US sales 502 41.8 38.1 US revenue 495 41.8 38.1 Growth in the Czech Republic has been supported by the successful launch of Clubcard with over 10% of the population already enrolled.
US trading profit loss 186 12.7 9.7 Revenue excludes VAT and the impact of IFRIC 13.
A particularly strong performance in Slovakia with double-digit like-forlike sales growth has led to a further increase in our market share over the last year, further consolidating our market leadership.
As the economy in Turkey has continued to recover, weve resumed a faster rate of expansion opening 21 new stores, including ten hypermarkets helping to support strong sales growth.
With the improving economic outlook we are stepping up the rate of new store opening.
Some 2.6m sq ft of new space was opened in the year, with a programme to add a further 2.9m sq ft of new space across the region in 2011 12.
Europe results 2010 11 Actual rates Constant rates m % growth % growth Europe sales 10,558 5.6 7.4 Europe revenue 9,192 5.4 7.1 Europe trading profit 527 11.2 13.7 Trading margin trading profit revenue 5.73% 30bp 42bp Revenue excludes VAT and the impact of IFRIC 13.
TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 25
