GOVERNANCE Directors report on corporate governance The Chairman Board responsibilities There is a clear and effective division of accountability and responsibility The Board held nine scheduled meetings during the year.
It also holds between the roles of our Chairman and CEO and these are set out in an annual two-day off-site meeting, which considers the Groups writing.
The Chairman has primary responsibility for leading the Board, strategy.
The Board maintains a clear Schedule of Matters Reserved for to promote openness and effective debate, setting its agenda and Board Decision in order to ensure that it has appropriate overall control ensuring sufficient time is given to strategic issues.
The Chairman is of the Groups affairs.
The Matters Reserved include the approval of: also responsible for ensuring that the Board acts in the best interests the Companys strategic and operating plans: of the Companys stakeholders and guiding the Companys business conduct and ethical standards.
The Chairman has regular one-to-one annual and interim financial statements: meetings with the CEO and also separate group and individual major acquisitions and disposals: meetings with the Non-executive Directors.
The CEO has executive responsibilities for the day-to-day operations and performance of the authority levels for expenditure: Group, making proposals to the Board for the strategic development treasury policies: of the Group and ensuring effective communication to employees and shareholders.
risk management and internal control systems: Group governance policies: and Senior Independent Director succession planning for senior executives.
Rodney Chase was the Senior Independent Director until his retirement The Board delegates to management the detailed planning and on 2 July 2010.
Patrick Cescau, who has served on the Board since February 2009, was appointed Senior Independent Director from 3 July implementation of these matters in accordance with appropriate risk parameters.
The Board monitors compliance with policy and 2010.
Patrick was selected for the role because of his experience and expertise, both as an Executive and a Non-executive Director.
Patrick achievement against objectives by holding management accountable for its activities through regular updates.
In addition, each business unit was Group Chief Executive of Unilever from 2005 to 2009.
Prior to that he was Chairman of Unilever plc and Vice Chairman of Unilever NV.
within the Group is required to update the Board on a regular basis, giving the Board the opportunity to understand and explore issues in He joined Unilever in 1973 and became Finance Director of Unilever Indonesia in 1986, then led the business in Portugal, before returning depth as appropriate.
All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary and may take independent professional advice to Indonesia as Chairman CEO in 1991.
Patrick ran the Van den Bergh Foods and Lipton beverage and foods businesses in the US from 1995 at the Companys expense in conducting their duties.
The Company provides insurance cover and indemnities for its Directors and Officers.
to 1998, before becoming Group Finance Director in 1999 and Foods Director in 2001.
He has been a Non-executive Director of Pearson plc During the year ended 26 February 2011, the Boards scheduled since 2002 and a Director of INSEAD since 2009. activities included: In his role as Senior Independent Director SID, Patrick Cescau is receiving reports from key businesses within the Group: available to assist in resolving shareholder concerns should alternative channels be exhausted or inappropriate.
The SIDs role includes receiving regular reports on the financial position of the Group and responsibility for Chairman appraisal and succession.
the various businesses within the Group: approving the budget and long-term plan for the Group: Non-executive Directors approving interim and full-year results: Our Non-executive Directors have a wide range of skills and experience.
discussing and approving Group strategy: They provide constructive challenge and help to develop our strategy.
The Non-executive Directors have satisfied themselves with regard to considering opportunities for business development: the integrity of the Groups financial information, financial controls and discussing risk management and controls within the Group, including risk management systems.
a detailed review of the Key Risk Register: The independence of each Non-executive Director is assessed annually receiving reports from the Remuneration Committee, Audit and the Board makes a careful assessment of the time commitment Committee and Nominations Committee and other key committees required from the Chairman and Non-executive Directors to discharge within the Group including the Compliance Committee and their roles properly.
During the year the Chairman conducted a rigorous Corporate Responsibility Committee: assessment of the effectiveness of each Non-executive Directors performance and independence, as well as a review of their contribution receiving reports on governance issues affecting the Group: and to the Board.
Particular consideration was given to the independence conducting a review of the effectiveness of the Board.
of Karen Cook and Ken Hydon, who have both served for six years.
The review concluded that each Non-executive Director continues to be independent and effective and to demonstrate commitment to the role.
Our Non-executive Directors have historically been appointed for a period of three years and have then submitted themselves for re-election on rotation if they wished to continue to serve and remain independent.
Going forward, in line with the provisions of the New Code, all Non-executive Directors will be submitted for re-election on an annual basis, subject to remaining independent.
The terms and conditions of appointment of our Non-executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
64 TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
