Directors Report: 70 Other disclosures Other disclosures SHARE CAPITAL The Company has the following two classes of shares in issue: Number of Name Shares in issue Ordinary shares of 0.10 each 874,990,495 Deferred shares of 1 each 50,000 The ordinary shares carry the right to the profi ts of the Company available for distribution and to the return of capital on a winding up of the Company.
The ordinary shares carry the right to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company: each share holds the right to one vote.
The ordinary shares are admitted to trading on the Offi cial List of the London Stock Exchange.
The ordinary shares make up the signifi cant majority of the share capital as at 30 September 2011.
The deferred shares carry no right to the profi ts of the Company.
On a winding up, the holders of the deferred shares would be entitled to receive an amount equal to the capital paid up on each deferred share.
The holders of the deferred shares are not entitled to receive notice, attend, speak or vote whether on a show of hands or on a poll at general meetings of the Company.
As part of the 200m bank facility announced on 25 November 2011 the Company issued Warrants to certain of its lenders giving holders the right, at any time until 22 May 2015, to subscribe for up to an aggregate of approximately 43m ordinary shares representing approximately 4.9% of the issued share capital of the Company at the date of issue at a subscription price per share of 19.875 pence.
As at 12 December 2011 none of the Warrantholders had exercised their Subscription Rights in respect of the Warrants.
AUTHORITy TO PURCHASE SHARES The Company currently does not have authority to purchase its own shares.
SHARE TRANSFER RESTRICTIONS The Articles of Association the Articles are designed to ensure that the number of the Companys shares held by non-EEA nationals does not reach a level which could jeopardise the Companys entitlement to continue to hold or enjoy the benefi t of any authority, permission, licence or privilege which it, or any of its subsidiaries, holds or enjoys and which enables an air service to be operated each an Operating Right.
In particular, EC Council Regulation 1008 2008 on licensing of air carriers requires that an air carrier must be majority-owned and effectively controlled by EEA nationals.
The Articles allow the Directors, from time to time, to set a Permitted Maximum on the number of the Companys shares which may be owned by non-EEA nationals at such level as they believe is in compliance with the Operating Rights, provided that the Permitted Maximum shall not be less than 40% of the total number of issued shares.
The Company maintains a separate register the Separate Register of shares in which non-EEA nationals, whether individuals, bodies corporate or other entities have an interest such shares are referred to as Relevant Shares in the Articles.
An interest in this context is widely defi ned see below.
The Directors may require relevant members or other persons to provide them with information to enable them to determine whether shares are, or are to be treated as, Relevant Shares.
If such information is not provided then the Directors will be able, at their discretion, to determine that shares to which their enquiries relate be treated as Relevant Shares.
Registered shareholders will also be obliged to notify the Company if they are aware either a that any share they hold ought to be treated as a Relevant Share for this purpose: or b that any share they hold which is treated as a Relevant Share should no longer be so treated.
In this case, the Directors shall request such information and evidence as they require to satisfy themselves that the share should not be treated as a Relevant Share and, on receipt of such evidence, shall remove particulars of the share from the Separate Register.
If the Directors determine that such action is necessary to protect any Operating Right due to the fact that an Intervening Act an Intervening Act being the refusal, withholding, suspension or revocation of any Operating Right or the imposition of materially inhibiting conditions or limitations on any Operating Right in either case, by any state or regulatory authority has taken place or is contemplated, threatened or intended, or the aggregate number of Relevant Shares is such that an Intervening Act may occur or the ownership or control of the Company is such that an Intervening Act may occur, the Directors may, among other things: identify those shares which give rise to the need to take action and treat such shares as affected shares Affected Shares see below : or set a Permitted Maximum on the number of Relevant Shares which may subsist at any time which may not, save in the circumstances referred to below, be lower than 40% of the total number of issued shares and treat any Relevant Shares in excess of this Permitted Maximum as Affected Shares see below.
The Directors may serve a notice an Affected Share Notice in respect of any Affected Share.
An Affected Share Notice can, if it so specifi es, have the effect of depriving the registered holder of the right to attend, vote and speak at general meetings which he would otherwise have had as a consequence of holding such shares.
Such an Affected Share Notice can, if it so specifi es, also require the recipient to dispose of the Affected Shares so that the Relevant Shares will then cease to be Affected Shares within 21 days or such longer period as the Directors may determine.
The Directors are also given the power to sell such Affected Shares themselves where there is non-compliance with an Affected Share Notice at the best price reasonably obtainable at the relevant time on behalf of the shareholder.
Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements 71 In deciding which shares are to be dealt with as Affected Shares the Directors, in their sole opinion, will determine which Relevant Shares may give rise to the fact of risk of an Intervening Act occurring and, subject to any such determination, will have regard to the chronological order in which particulars of Relevant Shares have been, or are to be, entered in the Separate Register unless to do so would in the sole opinion of the Directors be inequitable.
If there is a change in any applicable law or the Company or any subsidiary receives any direction, notice or requirement from any state or regulatory authority, which, in either case, necessitates such action to overcome, prevent or avoid an Intervening Act, then the Directors may either: lower the Permitted Maximum to the minimum extent that they consider necessary to overcome, prevent or avoid an Intervening Act: or resolve that any Relevant Shares shall be treated as Affected Shares.
The rights of the Directors referred to above apply until such time as the Directors resolve that grounds for the making of a determination have ceased to exist, whereupon the Directors must withdraw such determination.
The Permitted Maximum is set at 40%.
This Permitted Maximum may be varied by the Directors.
If the Directors resolve to vary the Permitted Maximum to deal with shares as Affected Shares or relax the ownership limitations, they shall publish in at least one national newspaper in the United Kingdom and in any other country in which the shares are listed notice of the determination and of any Permitted Maximum.
The Directors shall publish, from time to time: information as to the number of shares particulars of which have been entered on the Separate Register: and any Permitted Maximum which has been specified.
As at 30 September 2011, 110,944 ordinary shares 0.013% were held on the Separate Register.
The Directors may not register any person as a holder of shares unless such person has furnished to the Directors a declaration, together with such evidence as the Directors may require, stating a the name and nationality of any person who has an interest in any such share and, if the Directors require, the nature and extent of such interest: or b such other information as the Directors may from time to time determine.
The Directors may decline to register any person as a shareholder if satisfactory evidence of information is not forthcoming.
Existing holders of Shares will be recorded on the Special Register unless and until they have certified, to the satisfaction of the Company, that they are EEA nationals.
A person shall be deemed to have an interest in relation to Thomas Cook Group plc shares if: such person has an interest which would subject as provided below be taken into account, or which he would be taken as having, in determining for the purposes of Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006 whether a person has a notifiable interest: or he has any such interest as is referred to in Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006 but shall not be deemed to have an interest in any shares in which his spouse or any infant, child or stepchild or, in Scotland, pupil or minor of his is interested by virtue of that relationship or which he holds as a bare or custodian trustee under the laws of England, or as a simple trustee under the laws of Scotland, and interest shall be construed accordingly.
PROVISIONS OF CHANGE OF CONTROL The Company has a 1.2bn Group Banking Facility Agreement the Agreement in place, which provides that, on any change of control of the Company, the Lenders under the Agreement are entitled to negotiate for a period not exceeding 30 days terms for continuing the facilities but, where agreement on new terms cannot be reached, any such Lender is entitled to: i receive a repayment of amounts owing to such Lender: and ii cancel all of its commitments under the Agreement.
The amendments to the Agreement dated 21 October 2010, 15 July 2011 and 2 December 2011 did not affect these provisions regarding change of control.
The Company has a 50.1% stake in ITC Travel Investments as part of a joint venture with VAO Intourist and Intourist Overseas Limited.
Under the terms of the joint venture agreement, if a change of control of the Company occurs, the other shareholders which are party to the agreement are entitled to issue an irrevocable notice in writing to the Company requiring it to purchase all of their shares at a prescribed default value.
CONTRACTUAL ARRANGEMENTS The Group has contractual arrangements with numerous third parties in support of its business activities.
The disclosure in this report of information about any of those third parties is not considered necessary for an understanding of the development, performance or position of the Groups businesses.
POLITICAL DONATIONS The Company did not make any political donations during the financial year 2010: nil.
CHARITABLE DONATIONS The Company made cash donations of 5,000 to Leeds Metropolitan University and 25,000 to Just a Drop Charity during the financial year in 2010 the Company made a donation of 125,000 to the Travel Foundation.
Directors Report: 72 Other disclosures Other disclosures continued SUPPLIER PAyMENT POLICy It is the Companys policy to comply with the terms of payment agreed with its suppliers.
Where payment terms are not negotiated, the Company endeavours to adhere to suppliers standard terms.
As at 30 September 2011, the Company had no trade creditors 2010: nil.
MAJOR SHAREHOLDINGS As at 12 December 2011, the Company had been notifi ed, in accordance with rule 5 of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Authority, of the following major shareholdings in the ordinary share capital of the Company: Number of Percentage of Name shares held issued capital % Marathon Asset Management LLP 59,283,472 6.78 Invesco Ltd 45,085,133 5.15 BlackRock Inc 42,946,657 4.91 AXA S. A.
42,030,117 4.80 Lloyds Banking Group plc 40,869,697 4.67 Massachusetts Financial Services Company 40,726,189 4.65 Standard Life Investments Ltd 35,491,827 4.06 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS  LLP have expressed their willingness to be re-appointed as auditors of the Company.
Upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee, resolutions to re-appoint them as the Companys auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed to the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
The Directors Report comprising pages 2 to 72 has been approved and is signed by order of the Board by: Derek Woodward Group Company Secretary 13 December 2011 REGISTERED OFFICE 6th Floor South Brettenham House Lancaster Place London WC2E 7EN REGISTERED NUMBER 6091951
