Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements 13 Our business model We offer a wide range of mainstream and independent holiday options, together with a selection of travel-related fi financial services.
We adapt our business model to the characteristics of individual markets.
Our scale provides opportunity to drive economies in sourcing and operations.
HOW WE CREATE VALUE We create value by selling three product categories which are distributed through multiple channels, both in-house and through third-parties.
Additionally we sell third-party products for which we receive a commission.
Our products Our multi-channel distribution Mainstream Retail Our core product category is mainstream charter packages In most of the Groups operating segments, retail stores where two or more components of travel, such as ights, remain a signifi cant distribution channel for mainstream hotels and transfers, are bundled together and offered package holidays and, in the UK, Thomas Cook and The for sale as a single product through various distribution Co-operatives have recently merged their travel retail channels.
For mainstream package holidays, the customer networks to create the UKs largest travel retailer.
pays the holiday deposit and balance to Thomas Cook before departure.
Thomas Cook then typically pays its airline partner close to departure and the hotel accommodation provider after the holiday is complete.
Independent Online Independent travel products encompass holiday Online is an increasingly important channel for the components, dynamic packaging and scheduled tours and distribution of both mainstream package holidays and give customers greater exibility to tailor their holiday independent travel products.
During 2010, Thomas Cook to meet their own requirements in terms of destination, brought together its existing online activities in the UK, duration, variety and quality.
Thomas Cook aggregates Germany, France, the Netherlands and Belgium into holiday or component content from a wide range of a pan-European Online Travel Agency OTA, based suppliers and sells this either to other travel agents on a in London.
business-to-business basis or direct to consumers.
Thomas Cook does not own the inventory but is paid a commission by the holiday or component provider based on the price of the booking.
Travel-related financial services Our travel-related fi financial services include foreign exchange and travel assurance and are bought by customers alongside their holiday purchases.
Adapting our business model in our individual markets The Group operates different business models within each of its major markets.
In Germany, the Condor airline In the UK, Northern Europe, and in In most other Continental European provides aircraft seats to Thomas Belgium in the West & East Europe markets, where the Group has either a smaller volume of customers or a Cooks German tour operator on an operating segment, the primary lower market share, the vertically arms-length basis, and also sells business model is that of a vertically integrated business model is less directly to other tour operators and integrated charter tour operator, based effective and ownership of an airline seat-only customers.
on use of the Groups own airlines, and is not considered a prerequisite for distribution of products principally successful tour operations.
through in-house retail, internet and call centres.
