Directors Report: 14 Business Review Our strategy Our strategy is to maximise value from our more mature mainstream package travel operations and to capitalise on our scale by continuing to seek a leading position in the growing independent travel segment.
This strategy is supported by a multi-channel distribution so a relatively modest movement can have a signifi cant impact approach and, within this, the Group has placed a strong on performance.
In these areas, the Group has taken action to emphasis on both in-house retail operations and growing coordinate purchasing across its segments, leveraging its e-commerce through development of a central OTA.
Our focus is to drive growth organically and reduce net This year, working together across the Group, we agreed borrowings by improving operating and free cash ow a replacement and harmonisation programme for our generation, with an emphasis on protecting margin rather than narrow body aircraft fleet onto the Airbus 320 family.
Where appropriate to advance our strategy, we programme will run between 2012 and 2017.
It will improve have entered into mergers and acquisitions that have offered fuel effi ciency and reduce maintenance costs, increase value-creating consolidation opportunities in existing markets interoperability and improve customer experience.
It or growth opportunities in new product areas or markets.
delivers optimum exibility by sourcing new aircraft through a combination of fi rm and exible orders with MAINSTREAM PACKAGE TRAVEL the manufacturer and through accessing the aircraft Our key objectives in mainstream package travel are to leasing market.
improve product mix and reduce costs, thus driving an In addition, we successfully completed our airline synergy improvement in margin.
project, delivering a further 19m of incremental annualised Product mix savings in our fleet running costs.
This project included a Product mix is a key factor in attracting and retaining wide range of measures such as implementation of best mainstream customers and in driving higher margins.
Within practice in fuel effi ciency.
each of our operating segments, we are focused on optimising INDEPENDENT TRAVEL the proportion of exclusive hotels, differentiated and uniqueOur principal objective with independent travel has been to concept holidays and replicating successful formats across a grow revenues and profi ts by expanding the product range to range of destinations.
As these products are developed and include accommodation and ight components that customers offered exclusively by the Group, they do not lend themselves can buy separately, by growing scheduled packages and by to direct price comparison.
To the extent that customers value investing in dynamic packaging capabilities that enable travel their unique features, these products also tend to encourage agents or individual customers to combine their chosen earlier booking and higher loyalty.
As a result, exclusive and components into a package at the point of sale.
differentiated products attract a higher average selling price and margin than our more standard packages.
As part of this strategy, we have made a number of important acquisitions in recent years, including the acquisition of This year, we have expanded exclusive and differentiated accommodation and ight consolidators Hotels4U.
com, bookings as a proportion of total package holiday bookings Med Hotels and Gold Medal in the United Kingdom, and from 35% to 45% in the UK: and from 45% to 47% in West & TriWest in Canada.
The exclusive and differentiated proportion has remained constant at 28% and 90% in Central Europe and DISTRIBUTION Northern Europe respectively.
The Group operates a multi-channel distribution strategy, selling through its own and third-party channels.
The Groups Cost management own distribution channels comprise retail stores, online Cost management is another important element in a successful via various Group websites and call centres.
Accommodation and non-fuel aviation costs were approximately 3.3bn and 2.8bn In-house distribution gives the Group greater control over the respectively in the fi financial year ended 30 September 2011, volume and cost of distributing its products and, over the last Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements 15 three years, the Group has increased in-house distribution of package holidays from 51% to 53% of bookings.
Group key performance indicators In most of the Groups operating segments, retail stores In order to measure progress against remain a significant distribution channel for mainstream package holidays.
However, over time, the Groups strategy our strategy, the Board and senior is to increase the share of mainstream package holidays management team monitor a range sold online: the internet is now the primary channel for the distribution of Thomas Cooks mainstream package holidays of key performance indicators.
Immediately following the financial year end, Thomas Cook Airline synergies and The Co-operatives merged their high street networks Aim Deliver 35m annualised Annualised savings m to create the UKs largest high street travel retailer.
savings in Group aviation costs 2009 2 To expand online sales of both mainstream and independent non-fuel and ongoing efficiency 2010 21 products, during 2010 we brought our existing online activities Progress 19.4m incremental 2011 in the UK, Germany, France, the Netherlands and Belgium 40 annualised savings achieved in the year ended 30 September 2011 together into a central organisation, the OTA, which is based in London.
With approximately 256 employees, the OTA brings together specialists from within the Group with new talent Independent travel from across the online industry.
Since its inception in 2010, Aim Increase independent Group revenue % the OTA has improved online sales and delivered a number of travel sales as a proportion important developments: 2009 24 of Group revenue 2010 26 online distribution of the Groups mainstream package Progress Independent travel sales were 2011 25 holidays has increased from 22% of total bookings in 2009 lower at 25% of Group revenue to 25% in 2011: gross transaction value of OTA bookings has grown 35% Controlled distribution from approximately 857m in 2009 to approximately 1,155m in 2011: Aim Increase in-house distribution Share of in-house of mainstream travel products distribution % a common technology platform which is being rolled out Progress In-house sales of 2009 across the Groups key websites will consolidate the previous 51 mainstream travel products 2010 17 platforms on to one to improve functionality, stability 52 increased to 53% 2011 and efficiency: and 53 significant improvements to the graphical user interface, including better search functionality and more Online Travel Agency OTA comprehensive product and price information, will be Aim Develop a top three position in Gross bookings value m deployed across all sites in the coming months to drive the European OTA market, targeting better customer experience and conversion rates.
2009 857 gross bookings with a value of 2010 1,046 around 3.5bn 2011 1,155 Progress 10% year-on-year increase in OTA gross bookings value to 1,155m Group underlying operating profit margin Aim Increase Group operating profit Group operating margin over the medium-term profit margin % Progress Margin fell to 3.1%, principally 2009 4.5 as a result of difficult trading in the 2010 4.1 UK and the impact of disruption in the 2011 3.1 MENA region, particularly in France Independent travel has been redefined to exclude UK seat-only sales and to include Club 18-30 and Neilson.
