directors Report: 6 business Review Joint statement from the Group Chief Executive Of cer and Group Chief Financial Of cer Sam Weihagen Paul Hollingworth Group Chief Executive Offi cer Group Chief Financial Offi cer Thomas Cook has faced a second successive year of exceptional in this section challenges.
In 2010, we had to deal with the disruption caused by the volcanic ash cloud and, this year, the Arab Spring Revenue and underlying results p7 resulted in a dramatic fall-off in travel to the important MENA destinations.
In addition, within the UK our customers have UK turnaround p7 been faced with declining real incomes and, in many cases, employment uncertainty.
Against this diffi cult backdrop, we Strengthening our Group Executive Board p8 have taken action to develop and embed a turnaround programme in our underperforming UK operating segment Strengthening the balance sheet p10 with the intention of signifi cantly improving profi tability through stabilising the business whilst focusing on value for our customers.
In spite of these diffi culties, many of our operating segments such as Northern and Central Europe and Airlines Germany delivered good results.
We are also taking steps to substantially strengthen our balance sheet.
Whilst we have been faced with challenging external circumstances, our performance in the UK and France has fallen well below our own expectations.
We have taken action and put in place new management teams in both these markets.
We have also completed a review of our balance sheet which has resulted in 428m of impairments and write-downs, the majority of which are non-cash and relate to impairment of goodwill in our UK and Canadian businesses and a write-down of IT assets.
Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements 7 Despite the challenging economic environment, there sepaRately disclosed items remain significant opportunities to improve our performance.
Included within separately disclosed items of 573m is a Many of these opportunities for improved performance are 428m charge as a result of a balance sheet review.
Whilst within the UK and we are in the process of implementing clearly a substantial sum, this amount is largely of a non-cash a significant turnaround plan, designed to substantially nature.
As part of our year end review process and given the improve our profitability and deliver 110m of fully annualised reduction in Group profitability, we undertook a review of improvement to profitability, with a phased build-up over the carrying value of goodwill and certain other assets.
Full details of all separately disclosed items can be found in the Financial Review on page 32 and note 5 to the accounts.
As announced on 25 November 2011, the Group agreed a new Cash exceptional costs were 90m, 68m lower than prior year.
200m bank facility and a further relaxation of the financial covenants to provide additional headroom.
The Board is eaRnings aligned on the need to achieve a substantial reduction in the Taking account of the lower underlying operating profit Groups net debt and as previously announced, we have and the separately disclosed items, the Group recorded already undertaken several steps to improve our balance a statutory loss before tax of 398m compared with a sheet, including: profit of 42m last year and the reported loss after tax implementing a 200m non-core asset disposal programme was 518m 2010: 3m profit.
in July, which has already realised 35m of net proceeds The underlying basic earnings per share was 11.7p with a disposal agreed which will result in a further circa 2010: 20.4p and the basic loss per share was 60.7p 2010: 0.3p.
81m net debt reduction: and cash flow and balance sheet suspending further dividend payments until the balance The Group continued to focus on improving its cash sheet is re-built.
management, delivering a 50m improvement in free The Group will be commencing a strategic review which cash flow to 18m.
This was ahead of prior year despite will consider further actions to accelerate the rate of increased losses, largely driven by lower capital expenditure.
The Group cash outflow before changes in debt was 80m, as the payment of dividends and acquisition spend was Revenue and undeRlying Results greater than the free cash inflow.
Net debt at 30 September Group revenue for the twelve months to 30 September 2011 2011 was 891m 2010: 804m.
Revenue benefited from a modest volume uK tuRnaRound uplift and price increases in part due to change in mix.
In Background and overview addition, the acquisition of ger Tours by Central Europe Within the UK business in FY11, 74% of the revenue came and Intourist by West & East towards the end of the year from the mainstream segment, but all the underlying profit added circa 341m to revenues during the period.
was generated by the independent business.
Following the Group underlying profit from operations was 304m, a deterioration in the financial performance and outlook for the decrease of 58m on the prior year.
The Group achieved UK operating segment during the year, the Board changed the UK improved underlying profits from operations in Northern management and initiated a thorough review of the business with Europe of 106m up 15m, in Central Europe of 70m up the aim of substantially improving performance.
11m and in Airlines Germany of 69m up 18m.
However, Despite the erosion of merger benefits and the input cost inflation disruption to our important MENA destinations adversely the business has faced, the new management team sees impacted Group underlying profit from operations by an a significant opportunity for Thomas Cook to operate more estimated 80m, and of that impact, circa 32m was incurred profitably in the UK overseas holiday market.
The market is in France where 40% of bookings are typically to North Africa.
large, mainstream package travel continues to be an important As a result, underlying profit from operations for West & East component and independent travel is forecast to grow.
The UK Europe was 42m lower than prior year at 40m.
Underlying business has significant capabilities across both mainstream profit from operations in the UK segment was 73m down on and independent travel.
However, the business has become overly prior year at 34m as a result of both the MENA impact and a complex and too volume driven.
Having completed a thorough review of To stabilise the business and re-build profitability, the UK the UK business, a turnaround plan to improve performance management team has begun implementation of a turnaround is now being implemented and is set out below.
The plan is intended to optimise the UK airline, refocus The Groups underlying net interest charge for the year product strategy, improve yield management, rationalise was 122m, reflecting higher average debt following the distribution and improve operational efficiency.
In addition, refinancing of the Groups original bank facility in 2010 the business will take action to deliver higher growth and better with a combination of bonds and bank debt with longer returns from its independent operations which accounted for and varied maturities.
directors Report: 8 business Review Joint statement from the Group Chief Executive Of cer and Group Chief Financial Of cer continued estimated impRovements and costs of ouR uK tuRnaRound plan The table below shows the anticipated annual improvement in profi tability and the outlay in costs of our UK turnaround plan: annualised m FY 12 FY 13 FY 14 run rate uK turnaround Cumulative improvements 35 70 100 110 Costs to achieve 30 20 10 Estimated improvements and costs Actions to deliver the UK turnaround plan The UK turnaround plan is expected to deliver a fully annualised The initial steps taken to deliver the UK turnaround plan improvement in profi tability of 110m, with a phased build-up have included simplifying the UK organisational structure, over the next three years for a total estimated cost of circa 60m.
facilitating faster decision making and establishing a transformation team to lead and track the approved The actions expected to deliver the largest cumulative changes.
To deliver the turnaround plan, management have improvement to profi tability are those associated with highlighted the following key aims and action points: refocusing product strategy, improving yield management and rationalising distribution.
Optimise the UK airline 10m improvement The expectation is to reduce Winter season losses, increase On a fully annualised basis, management estimate that fl exibility in Summer season fl ying and better manage seat-only approximately 60% of the improvement to profi tability will come volumes by reducing the size of the UKs integrated airline.
Overall, from cost actions and 40% from actions focused on managing the aim is to reduce the amount of in-house fl ying and for Summer revenue and margin more effectively.
12 we are targeting around 85% vs 93% for Summer 11.
The achievability of the improvements and the estimated costs To achieve this, a consultation is underway to implement a of achieving such improvements, relate to future actions and proposed reduction in the UK fl fleet from 41 to 35 aircraft circumstances which, by their nature, involve risks, uncertainties and a realignment of cabin crew grades which will reduce fi xed and other factors and may be different than anticipated.
strengthening our group executive board to be a successful business today, we need leadership from the top.
Sam Weihagen has led the Group Executive Board since and the Netherlands.
In addition, management of our August 2011, after stepping into the role of Group Chief operations in Russia, Poland, the Czech Republic and Executive Offi cer until a permanent successor to the former Hungary will transfer to the leadership of Peter Fankhauser, Group Chief Executive Offi cer is found.
Sam is hugely Chief Executive Offi cer of our Central Europe segment.
experienced both in the travel industry and within the Group, Following these changes, Thomas Dring, formerly Chief having been Deputy Group Chief Executive Offi cer since 2010 Executive Offi cer of the West & East segment, who started and, prior to that, having led our successful Northern Europe building the Group Online Travel Agency OTA function a segment from 2001. year ago, will turn his full attention to Group e-commerce and hotel-only business.
Since taking up his new position, Sam has worked closely with Ian Ailles and Phil Aird-Mash, who joined the Group Anne Billson-Ross also joined the Group Executive Board Executive Board during the year as UK Chief Executive Offi cer during the year, following her promotion to Group & UK for Mainstream Travel and Independent Travel respectively.
Anne replaced Paul Wood, our Together, they have undertaken a thorough review of our UK former Group HR Director, who resigned from the Group segment and set out a turnaround plan to re-build Executive Board to take on the challenge of an operational profi tability.
role within the UK business.
Jrgen Bser, Group Strategy Director, and Ian Derbyshire, Chief Executive Offi cer, UK From 1 January 2012, it has also been decided that also resigned from the Group Executive Board to pursue management and reporting of the West & East operating opportunities outside Thomas Cook.
Susan Duinhoven, who is currently Chief Executive Offi cer of Thomas Cook Netherlands, will join The Group Executive Board has continued to show strong the Group Executive Board as Chief Executive Offi cer of a new leadership throughout the year and we would like to thank West Europe operating segment, comprising France, Belgium them for their energy and resolve.
Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements 9 lease and maintenance costs by 22m.
Improve yield management 35m improvement are focused in long haul which has a disproportionate risk profile.
Yield management has not been effective, with high frequency price changes driven by volume coupled with high discounting 2.
Refocus the product strategy in mainstream package holidays at the point of sale which resulted in margin erosion.
Going 15m improvement forward, the focus will be on increasing margins by improving The UK business will consolidate its hotel portfolio and seek central yield management capabilities and by implementing to build upon its successful exclusive and differentiated clear parameters in retail discounting.
To drive yield management improvement, the business is The business has cut over 500 under-performing hotels for Summer extending its existing yield management system across all 12 from a portfolio of over 2,200 hotels in Summer 11.
We have UK tour operator products and implementing a new system boosted this by adding 90 hotels, almost half of which are exclusive for seat-only flight products.
In addition, the business is to the UK or offer differentiated features.
The hotel portfolio will strengthening its control processes, management information be further reduced to circa 1,500 hotels over the next three years, and yield tools to bolster its trading strategy and gain with the aim of concentrating customers into fewer, higher more benefit from better yields on its early season sales performing hotels to drive stronger supplier relationships, and in the lates market, closer to customer departure.
higher customer satisfaction rates and efficiency benefits.
Retail discounting has not been adequately linked to yield The aim is to increase the share of differentiated product management.
As a result, management estimate the business from the current 31% to 50% of mainstream holiday sales has lost considerable margin opportunity, for example, by over the next three years, which we believe should deliver an unnecessary retail discounting on high demand product.
incremental margin of circa 25 per customer compared to To remedy this, retail discounting policies and incentives will non-differentiated product, vs 18 per customer in FY11.
be closely aligned with central yield decisions and focused on The intention is to build upon the UKs successful concepts, products where it is clear consumers need incentives to buy.
including Style, Aquamania and SunStar, which grew in aggregate by 39% to 800,000 passengers during 2011 and generate significantly higher customer satisfaction.
from left to right: back row: Michael Friisdahl, Thomas Dring, Pete Constanti, Phil Aird-Mash, Ralf Teckentrup, Anne Billson-Ross, Ian Ailles, Peter Fankhauser, Lars Lfgren, Derek Woodward, Susan Duinhoven.
front row: Sam Weihagen, Paul Hollingworth.
See page 42 for full biographies directors Report: 10 business Review Joint statement from the Group Chief Executive Of cer and Group Chief Financial Of cer continued 6.
Rationalise distribution 25m improvement in the Joint Venture The independent business has grown substantially in recent Increasing the proportion of in-house distribution is years, largely through acquisitions.
This has led to a collection strategically important as it reduces external commission costs, of businesses which are not well coordinated and, in some provides better yield control and drives higher repeat business.
cases have been signifi cant underperformers.
The focus The UK business high street retail shops are particularly now is on improving the management of these businesses important for package holiday sales, with 48% of package and better integrating them in order to leverage off each holiday sales made through this channel in 2011.
Given the other and achieve the growth that is forecast for this market.
importance of high street retail, the UK business recently sought There are two distinct operating models, risk and non-risk, to bolster its position through its retail joint venture with The and in total they carried 2.9m passengers in the fi financial Co-operatives which completed on 4 October.
This is expected year ended 30 September 2011.
The risk model has many to increase controlled distribution to 84% for mainstream.
To similarities to the mainstream business, with niche concept realise cost synergies from the joint venture, we have begun products across the activity, youth and sport brands.
The the process of consolidating our back offi ces and systems.
non-risk model, which includes accommodation only, dynamic A thorough review of the profi tability of the UK business and scheduled packages, has been driving the growth in combined retail estate of 1,300 shops shows the current need recent years and is expected to continue to do so.
for a phased closure of circa 200 under-performing shops where We are taking further action in the niche specialist businesses, leases expire within the next two years.
We will continue to targeting an increase in passenger volumes and improvement review the performance of the remaining portfolio as leases in margin.
Neilson, for example, is expecting to increase the come up for expiry and more customers move online.
In number of its activity holiday properties from 8 to 10 and addition, we will continue with the modernisation programme expects to drive a 22% increase in passengers as a result.
The of our remaining stores to ensure that the brand retains youth brand Club 18-30 has been expanding its concepts and customer appeal.
now includes music festival formats such as NOMUD and We are continuing to invest in our online offering and are in the Big Reunion, which are expected to continue to grow.
the process of upgrading and re-launching our websites in time Growth in the non-risk business is supported by growth in the for peak trading.
We also expect to see the current 25% share market environment.
The management team is targeting an of total UK online bookings increase to between 40% and 50% increase in market share through better leveraging the UKs over time.
Improvements made to our UK websites are distribution platform and increasing awareness of the breadth intended to help to achieve this.
of products available under the umbrella Thomas Cook brand.
Our bed banks, Hotels4U and Medhotels, which have grown 5.
Operational excellence 25m improvement strongly are currently mainly wholesale and have performed Reviewing the performance of the business highlighted well.
There is also a signifi cant opportunity to sell direct to the signifi cant operational ineffi ciencies, driven by a siloed consumer and better allow customers to create dynamic structure combined with overlapping, manual processes.
packages with Gold Medal, our fl ight consolidator and We are now focused on operational excellence and are seeking ancillary business providers.
to improve productivity, remove manual processes where appropriate and focusing on cost effectiveness.
stRengthening the balance sheet In total, the UK management has identifi ed 20 projects across Since early 2010, Thomas Cook has been subject to a number the business where they believe they can improve operational of external shocks, most notably the closure of European effectiveness, spanning retail and call centre staff rostering, the airspace due to volcanic ash clouds in April 2010, and introduction of paperless ticketing and a reduction in brochure more recently the political and civil unrest in the important wastage.
Most of these projects are expected to complete within MENA region destinations, the combination of which have the next 12 months, with a 10m benefi t in FY12.
signifi cantly reduced the Groups fi financial fl exibility.
We have also seen a more recent deterioration in trading as concerns over the Eurozone economy start to impact consumer confi dence.
To stabilise the business and rebuild Against this backdrop, the Board is undertaking a strategic pro tability, the UK management review with the objective of delivering a substantial reduction team has begun implementation in net debt over the next 18 months.
The Board has already taken the following steps to improve of a turnaround plan.
the Groups liquidity position and reduce its net debt: Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements 11 Amendment of the Groups existing bank facilities outlooK On 25 November 2011, we announced that we had reached The first half of the current financial year and in particular agreement with our banking group to amend the terms of our the first quarter is expected to be adversely impacted by existing bank facilities to widen our financial covenants and the uncertain economic environment across Europe, input cost increase financial flexibility for the Group until March 2013. inflation and the ongoing disruption in MENA.
In addition, the In addition, we agreed a new 200m facility to provide acquisition of The Co-operatives and Intourist will add to additional headroom.
This replaces the 100m short-term seasonal losses in the first half given that these businesses earn facility announced on 21 October 2011 and is available until all their profit over the summer months.
We have taken action April 2013. to cut capacity and costs where appropriate.
In the second half results should begin to see the benefits of the UK turnaround Non-core asset disposal programme plan.
Overall, we expect it to be another challenging year given On 12 July 2011, the Group announced its intention to the economic backdrop and we will focus hard on dispose of certain hotel and surplus assets, which are expected strengthening the balance sheet and improving the to generate net proceeds of up to 200m over a six to eighteen performance of our UK business.
To date, the Group has completed four disposals.
These include its share of the sale of certain hotel assets in Spain: its minority stake in Jacaranda, a hotel in Tenerife: Moranda, a vacant hotel in Mexico and its Dutch retail business.
These four transactions will reduce the Groups net debt by 35m.
Sam Weihagen Paul Hollingworth In addition, on 12 December, the Group signed a binding Group Chief Executive Officer Group Chief Financial Officer agreement for the sale of its interest in HCV, the indirect 13 December 2011 13 December 2011 owner of five hotels and a golf course in Spain.
This transaction is expected to reduce the Groups net debt by a further circa 81m.
The transaction is subject to shareholder approval and is expected to complete in the first quarter of 2012.
The Group continues to review options for the sale of other non-core assets.
Suspension of dividends On 29 September 2011, the Board announced its decision not to declare any further dividend payments whilst the Group re-builds its balance sheet.
In the 2010 11 financial year the Group paid out dividends of 92m.
people We are immensely grateful to all our people for their efforts this year, particularly those within our operating segments and markets who have improved their results and achieved a better performance even in spite of the significant disruption from the MENA situation.
The implementation of the UK turnaround plan will inevitably affect our people and while it will offer new opportunities for many, it is expected to result in an overall reduction of our UK workforce.
We appreciate how unsettling change can be and will work to minimise both the uncertainty and the negative impact for those adversely affected.
