Directors Report: 40 Governance Board of Directors BOARD COMPOSITION Chairman Independent Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Director FRANK MEYSMAN 59 ROGER BURNELL 61 Title: Non-Executive Chairman Title: Senior Independent Director Executive Directors Appointment: October 2011 Appointment: March 2007 Committee memberships: Chairman Committee memberships: Chairman of Health, of Nominations Committee Safety & Environmental Committee, Member BOARD TENURE of Audit Committee, Nominations Committee Skills & experience: Frank Meysman was and Remuneration Committee appointed Chairman Designate of the Company on 1 October 2011 and became Chairman on Skills & experience: Roger Burnell was appointed 1 December 2011.
He has had a successful Senior Independent Director of the Company executive career in dynamic global brand on 4 August 2010, after joining the Company as companies, including Procter & Gamble between a Non-Executive Director in March 2007.
He was 1977 and 1986, Douwe Egberts between 1986 also a Non-Executive Director of MyTravel Group and 1990 and the Sara Lee Corporation between plc from April 2003.
Before joining MyTravel, he 1990 and 2003, where, from 1997, he was was Chief Operating Of cer and a Director of Executive Vice President and a member of the Thomson Travel Group plc.
Since leaving Sara Lee, Frank External appointments: Non-Executive Director 1 year has been a Non-Executive Director, including of Coventry Building Society.
Chairman, of a number of public and private 1-4 years international companies.
4 years External appointments: Chairman of Betafence and JBC N. V. Belgium.
He is also an Independent Representative Director of Picanol N. V. Warehouses fide Pauw WDP and Spadel S. A.
COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIPS AUDIT COMMITTEE David Allvey Chairman Roger Burnell Bo Lerenius REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Peter Middleton Chairman Roger Burnell Bo Lerenius HEALTH, SAFETY & ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITTEE SAM WEIHAGEN 61 PAUL HOLLINGWORTH 51 Roger Burnell Chairman Title: Group Chief Executive Of cer Title: Group Chief Financial Of cer Dawn Airey Appointment: November 2009 Appointment: January 2010 David Allvey Committee memberships: Chairman of Group Committee memberships: Member of Sam Weihagen Executive Board, Member of Health, Safety Group Executive Board & Environmental Committee NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE Skills & experience: Prior to joining the Skills & experience: Sam Weihagen was Company as Group Chief Financial Of cer, Frank Meysman Chairman appointed as Group Chief Executive Of cer in Paul Hollingworth was Chief Financial Of cer Dawn Airey August 2011, prior to which he was Deputy to of Mondi Group.
He was previously Group David Allvey the Group Chief Executive Of cer since 2009.
He Finance Director of BPB plc and prior to that Roger Burnell was appointed Chairman, Northern Europe and Group Finance Director of fide La Rue plc and Bo Lerenius Chairman of the Thomas Cook AG Board in Ransomes plc.
Sam was Chief Executive Of cer, External appointments: Non-Executive Director Peter Middleton Northern Europe between 2001 and 2010 and of Electrocomponents plc.
Martine Verluyten he was an Executive Director of MyTravel Group plc for three years prior to the merger.
Sam has 36 years experience in the travel industry.
External appointments: None Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements 41 DAWN AIREY 51 DAVID ALLVEY 66 BO LERENIUS 65 Title: Independent Non-Executive Director Title: Independent Non-Executive Director Title: Independent Non-Executive Director Appointment: April 2010 Appointment: March 2007 Appointment: July 2007 Committee memberships: Member of Committee memberships: Chairman of Audit Committee memberships: Member of Audit Nominations Committee and Health, Safety Committee, Member of Nominations Committee Committee, Nominations Committee and & Environmental Committee and Health, Safety & Environmental Committee Remuneration Committee Skills & experience: Dawn Airey has over 26 years Skills & experience: David Allvey was a Skills & experience: Between 1985 and 1992, experience in the media industry and has held Non-Executive Director of MyTravel Group plc Bo Lerenius was Group President and Chief senior positions at some of the UKs leading between 2003 and 2007.
Prior to this he was Executive of Swedish listed building materials media companies.
She is currently President of Group Finance Director of Barclays Bank plc, group, Ernstromgruppen.
From 1992 to 1999, CLT-UFA UK Television Limited within the RTL B.
A. T Industries plc and Chief Operating he was Chief Executive and subsequently Vice Group.
Until August 2010, she was the Chair and Of cer of Zurich Financial Services AG.
Chairman of Stena Line, following which he was Chief Executive Of cer of Five TV, after joining Group Chief Executive of Associated British Ports External appointments: Chairman of Costain the company from her role as Managing Director, Holdings plc until 2007.
Group PLC and Arena Coventry Limited.
He is Global Content at ITV plc.
Between 2004 also Senior Independent Director of Intertek External appointments: Non-Executive Chairman and 2008, she was also an Independent Group plc and Friends Life Group plc.
of Koole Tanktransport BV and Brunswick Rail Non-Executive Director of easyJet plc.
and Non-Executive Director of G4S plc.
He is also External appointments: Chair of the Grierson Honorary Vice President of the Swedish Chamber Trust.
Dawn also sits on the Board of the of Commerce for the UK and is an adviser to the British Library.
infrastructure fund of Swedish venture capital group, EQT.
PETER MARKS 62 PETER MIDDLETON 71 MARTINE VERLUYTEN 60 Title: Non-Executive Director Title: Independent Non-Executive Director Title: Independent Non-Executive Director Appointment: October 2011 Appointment: November 2009 Appointment: May 2011 Committee memberships: Member of Committee memberships: Chairman of Committee memberships: Member of Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee, Member of Nominations Committee Nominations Committee Skills & experience: Peter Marks has over 44 Skills & experience: Martine Verluyten has held years experience in the retail industry and has Skills & experience: Peter Middleton has anumber of senior finance positions across the managed a broad range of businesses and extensive experience across the global travel and telecommunications, electronics and materials functions.
He was appointed to his current role finance industries, having been CEO of Thomas sectors and has signi cant international financial as Group Chief Executive, The Co-operative Cook between 1987 and 1992, CEO of Lloyds of and IT expertise.
Until November 2011, she was the Group in 2007, prior to which he held a number London between 1992 and 1995 and CEO of Chief Financial Of cer of Umicore, a Brussels-based of senior positions, including Chief Executive, Salomon Brothers International Limited between materials technology group, a position she held United Co-operatives between 2002 and 2007 1995 and 1998.
Since 2000, Peter has been since 2006.
Prior to joining Umicore, she was and Chief Executive, Yorkshire Co-operatives Chairman of a number of small listed and Group Controller and subsequently Chief Financial from 2000 to 2002. private companies in a range of industries.
Of cer of the mobile telephone operator Mobistar, after joining the company in 2000 from Raychem, External appointments: He is on the Board of External appointments: None.
a number of Co-operative Group companies, including The Co-operative Bank plc.
External appointments: Board member of Inco n cvso.
Martine also chairs the Audit Committee of the Flemish Region in Belgium.
