Directors Report For the year ended 31 December 2011 The Directors present their annual report Directors and their interests by the Companies Act 2006 against liabilities and audited accounts for the year ended 31 In accordance with the Companys Articles of incurred by them in the execution of their duties Association, Ruth Anderson will be standing for December 2011.
The Corporate Governance and exercise of their powers.
This indemnity statement on pages 49 to 52 forms part of the election by shareholders at the Annual General is currently in force.
In addition, if proceedings Meeting, having been appointed to the Board Directors report.
against directors are instituted subsequent to since the last Annual General Meeting.
The any person acquiring control of the Company, Board believes that Ruth Andersons professional Principal activities the Company has agreed with each of the Travis Perkins is one of the largest builders financial background and extensive experience Directors that pursuant to article 140 D of the of advising a broad range of companies across merchants and home improvement retailers Companys Articles of Association, the Company in the UK.
The principal activities of the Group many business sectors will greatly benefit the shall provide a director with funds subject to Company, complement the skills of the other are the sale of timber, building materials, and certain restrictions to meet expenditure incurred plumbing and heating products, and the hiring of Board members, and make her an excellent by that director in defending any criminal or civil choice as a non-executive director.
tools, to the building trade, industry generally and proceedings.
the general public, within the United Kingdom.
The UK Corporate Governance Code the A copy of the Companys Articles of Code requires that all directors of FTSE 350 The Directors are not aware, at the date of this Association which contains this indemnity report, of any likely major changes in the Groups companies are subject to re-election at the is available for inspection at the Companys Companys Annual General Meeting each year, activities in the next year.
registered office during normal business hours and therefore executive directors, Geoff Cooper, and will be available for inspection at and during Paul Hampden Smith and John Carter, and non Business review the period of 30 minutes prior to the Companys A review of the Groups position, developments executive directors Robert Walker, Chris Bunker, forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
John Coleman, Philip Jansen and Andrew Simon and future prospects is contained in the None of the Directors had an interest in any Chairmans statement on pages 12 and 13, will all seek re-election at the Annual General contract to which the Company or any of its Meeting.
the Chief Executives review of the year on subsidiaries was a party during the year.
pages 14 to 21, the Deputy Chief Executives The names of the Directors at 31 December The Company has undertaken to comply 2011, together with their biographical details review of the year on pages 24 to 29 and the with the best practice on approval of directors Finance Directors review of the year on pages are set out on pages 46 and 47.
All of these conflicts of interests in accordance with the Directors held office throughout the year, 30 to 34.
A review of the Groups environmental Companys Articles of Association.
Under the performance is on pages 38 to 42. except Ruth Anderson who was appointed on Companies Act 2006, a director must avoid a 24 October 2011.
The executive directors have situation where he has, or can have, a direct or Results and dividends rolling 12 month notice periods in their contracts.
indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may The non-executive directors do not have service The Group results for the year ended 31 conflict, with the Companys interests.
December 2011 and dividends for the year contracts.
In the light of the formal evaluation The disclosable interests of Directors at 31 of their performances as a result of the process ending 31 December 2011 are set out on page December 2011, including holdings, if any, of 74.
If approved, the final dividend will be paid described on page 50, Robert Walker, Chairman, wives and of children aged under 18, were as confirms on behalf of the Board that all directors on 31 May 2012 to those shareholders on the detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on register at the close of business on 4 May 2012. continue to be effective in, and committed to, pages 63 to 66. their roles.
Balance sheet and post Directors and officers of the Company are entitled to be indemnified out of the assets of balance sheet events The balance sheet on pages 76 and 77 shows the the Company in respect of any liability incurred in relation to the affairs of the Company, or Groups financial position.
No significant events have occurred since the balance sheet date.
any associate company, to the extent the law allows.
In this regard, the Company is required to Principal risks and uncertainties disclose that under article 140 of the Companys Articles of Association, the Directors have the A review of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties are on pages 36 to 37. benefit of an indemnity, to the extent permitted 68 TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011 Substantial shareholdings As at 21 February 2012, the Company had been notified of the following interests amounting to 3% or more of the voting rights in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: Number % 57 days 31 December 2010: 55 days of Sprucegrove Investment Management Ltd 13,993,653 5.74 average purchases of goods and services.
The Standard Life Investments Ltd 12,179,018 4.99 Companys trade creditors at 31 December 2011 Pzena Investment Management LLC 11,363,083 4.66 represented 30 days 2010: 30 days.
Morgan Stanley & Co Inc 10,944,193 4.49 Auditor Investec Ltd 9,193,693 3.77 Resolutions to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the Dimensional Fund Advisors LP 9,001,799 3.69 Companys auditor and to authorise the Directors Sanderson Asset Management Ltd 8,912,988 3.65 to fix the auditors remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
UBS 8,512,604 3.49 Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 8,448,143 3.46 Statement on disclosure of information to auditors Close company status member of staff becoming disabled, every effort Each of the persons who is a director at the date The close company provisions of the Income and is made to ensure that their employment with the of approval of this report confirms that: Corporation Taxes Act 1988 do not apply to the Group continues and that appropriate training is So far as the director is aware, there is Company.
It is the policy of the Company that the no relevant audit information of which the training, career development and promotion of Companys auditor is unaware: and Employees and charitable disabled persons should, as far as possible, be The director has taken all reasonable steps donations identical to that of other employees.
that he ought to have taken as a director Statements on these matters are contained in the The Groups policies and practices have in order to make himself aware of any Chief Executives review of the year on page 20 been designed to keep employees informed on relevant audit information and to establish and the Deputy Chief Executives review of the matters relevant to them as employees through that the Companys auditor is aware of that year on page 25 respectively.
Details of the number of employees and representatives are consulted regularly on a wide This confirmation is given and should be related costs can be found in note 7 to the range of matters affecting their interests.
All interpreted in accordance with the provisions of financial statements.
employees with more than three months service s. 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company is committed to equality are eligible to participate in the Companys of opportunity and recognises the benefit of Sharesave and Buy As You Earn plans.
Details are Share capital and change of control diversity within its workforce.
Its approach to provided in the Directors Remuneration Report.
As at 31 December 2011 the Company had the matter of the representation of women on an allotted and fully paid share capital of company boards is set out in the Nominations Political donations 243,816,533 ordinary shares of 10 pence Committee report.
The Company has an equal The Group did not give any money for political each, with an aggregate nominal value of opportunities policy aimed at ensuring that purposes nor did it make any donations to 24,381,653 including shares owned by the employment decisions are based on ability political organisations or incur any political employee share ownership trust.
The ordinary and potential regardless of gender, race, expenditure during the year.
shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
colour, ethnic origin or sexual orientation, All the shares rank pari passu.
The rights and age or disability.
In particular, applications for Supplier payment policy obligations attaching to the shares are set out in employment by disabled persons are always The Groups policy is to pay all of its suppliers in the Companys Articles of Association.
Fully paid fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes accordance with established terms.
Group trade shares in the Company are freely transferable.
In the event of a creditors at 31 December 2011 represented 69 GOVERNANCE Directors report There are no persons that hold securities provide a director with funds subject to certain are summarised in the Appendix to the Notice of carrying special rights with regard to the control restrictions to meet expenditure incurred in Annual General Meeting which can be found on of the Company.
Details of the structure of the defending any criminal or civil proceedings if page 126.
Companys share capital and changes in the such proceedings are instituted subsequent to share capital during the year are also included in any person acquiring control of the Company.
Resolution 16: note 21 to the financial statements.
Renewal of authority to allot shares The Travis Perkins Employee Share Ownership Annual general meeting Paragraph a of this resolution would give the Trust owns 6,305,367 shares in the Company The Annual General Meeting of the Company Directors the authority to allot ordinary shares 2.59% of issued share capital for use in will be held at Northampton Rugby Football Club, up to an aggregate nominal amount equal connection with the Companys share schemes.
Franklins Gardens, Weedon Road, Northampton, to 8,132,018 representing 81,320,185 Any voting or other similar decisions relating to NN5 5BG on Tuesday 22 May 2012 at 11.45 ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
This amount those shares would be taken by the trustees, a. m. A buffet lunch will be available.
In addition represents approximately one-third of the issued who may take account of any recommendation of to the resolutions to approve the receipt of the ordinary share capital of the Company as at 21 the Company.
Companys annual accounts, the declaration February 2012, the latest practicable date prior There are no restrictions on voting rights of a final dividend, the appointment and to publication of this Notice.
attaching to the Companys ordinary shares.
re-appointment of the Companys directors, the In line with guidance issued by the Association The Company is not aware of any agreements re-appointment of the Companys auditors and of British Insurers the ABI, paragraph b of between holders of securities that may result in to give the directors authority to fix the auditors this resolution would give the Directors authority restrictions on the transfer of securities or on remuneration, the following items are to be to allot ordinary shares in connection with a voting rights.
proposed at the forthcoming Annual General rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders The rules governing the appointment and Meeting.
The Board considers that all of the up to an aggregate nominal amount equal replacement of board members and changes resolutions proposed are in the best interests of to 16,264,037 representing 162,640,371 to the Articles of Association accord with usual the company and of its shareholders as a whole ordinary shares of 10p each, as reduced by English company law provisions.
The powers and unanimously recommends that shareholders the nominal amount of any shares issued under of the Companys Directors are set out in the vote in favour of all resolutions put before the paragraph a of this resolution.
This amount Companys Articles of Association.
In particular, Annual General Meeting.
before any reduction represents approximately the Board has the power to issue shares and two-thirds of the issued ordinary share capital to purchase its own shares and is seeking Resolution 14: of the Company as at 21 February 2012, the renewal of these powers at the forthcoming Directors Remuneration Report latest practicable date prior to publication of this Annual General Meeting in accordance with the In accordance with the Directors Remuneration Notice.
If this authority is exercised, the Directors restrictions and within the limits set out in the Report Regulations 2002, this resolution intend to follow ABI guidance issued from time to notice of that meeting.
seeks shareholders approval of the Directors time, including as to the re-election of directors.
There are a number of agreements to which Remuneration Report as set out on pages 56 It is now our practice to propose all directors the Company is a party that may take effect, alter to 66. for annual re-election at each Annual General or terminate upon a change of control following Meeting in accordance with the Code.
None of these agreements is Resolution 15: The authorities sought under paragraphs a considered significant in the context of the Sharesave scheme 2012 and b of this resolution will expire at the earlier Company as a whole.
This resolution seeks shareholder approval to of 30 June 2013 the last date by which the There are no agreements providing for establish a new savings-related share option Company must hold an annual general meeting compensation for Directors or employees on scheme, which will replace the existing 2002 in 2013 and the conclusion of the annual change of control.
As set out in the Directors Travis Perkins Sharesave Scheme, which is due general meeting of the Company held in 2013.
Remuneration Report on page 61, service to expire this year.
The Travis Perkins Sharesave The Directors have no present intention to contracts for executive directors do not specify Scheme 2012 is a standard HM Revenue & exercise either of the authorities sought under any particular level of compensation in the event Customs approved all-employee plan and will be this resolution, except, under paragraph a, to of termination following change of control of the used to encourage employee share ownership satisfy options under the Companys employee Company.
As noted above, the Company has throughout the Group.
A description of the share option schemes.
agreed with each of the directors that it shall principal terms of the Sharesave Scheme 2012 70 TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011 Resolution 17: days unless certain requirements are satisfied, maximum prices.
This authority will expire no Limited authority to allot shares for cash including that shareholders approve a shorter later than 30 June 2013.
This resolution would give the Directors the notice period, which cannot be less than 14 The Directors consider that it is in the best authority to allot ordinary shares or sell any clear days.
At the Annual General Meeting held in interests of the Company to have available this ordinary shares which the Company elects to 2011, shareholders approved a notice period for authorisation, in case of circumstances when hold in treasury for cash without first offering general meetings other than AGMs of not less it would be appropriate to use it.
They would them to existing shareholders in proportion to than 14 clear days effective until the AGM to be only use it after consideration of the effect on their existing shareholdings.
This resolution is proposed to allow earnings per share and the longer-term benefit Except as provided in the next paragraph, this the Company to continue to call general meetings for the Company and shareholders generally.
authority would be limited to allotments or sales other than AGMs on 14 clear days notice.
The The fact that such authorisation is being sought in connection with pre-emptive offers and offers Directors believe it is in the best interests of the should not be taken to imply that shares would to holders of other equity securities if required shareholders of the Company to preserve the be purchased at any particular price or indeed by the rights of those shares or as the board shorter notice period and accordingly are putting at all.
Any ordinary shares purchased pursuant otherwise considers necessary, or otherwise up this resolution, to be proposed as a special to this authority may either be held as treasury to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,219,802 resolution to the meeting.
The shorter notice shares or cancelled by the Company, depending representing 12,198,027 ordinary shares.
period would not be used as a matter of routine on which course of action is considered by This aggregate nominal amount represents for general meetings, but only where the flexibility the Directors to be in the best interests of approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share is merited by the business of the meeting and is shareholders at the time.
capital of the Company as at 21 February 2012, thought to be to the advantage of shareholders As at 21 February 2012, there were options the latest practicable date prior to publication of as a whole.
The approval will be effective until over 12,252,464 ordinary shares in the capital of this Notice.
In respect of this aggregate nominal the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2013, the Company, including 2,044,655 Investment amount, the Directors confirm their intention to when it is expected that a similar resolution will Matching Shares, 240,508 Deferred Bonus follow the provisions of the Pre-Emption Groups be proposed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 in Share Plan shares and 1,653,045 Performance Statement of Principles regarding cumulative order to be able to call a general meeting on less Share Plan shares - these are described in the usage of authorities within a rolling 3-year period than 21 clear days notice, the Company must Directors Remuneration Report on pages 56 to where the Principles provide that usage in excess make a means of electronic voting available to all 66, which represent 5.02% of the Companys of 7.5% should not take place without prior shareholders.
issued ordinary share capital excluding any consultation with shareholders.
If the authority to purchase Allotments made under the authorisation in Resolution 19: the Companys ordinary shares were exercised paragraph b of resolution 16 would be limited to Authority to purchase own shares in full, these options would represent 5.02% allotments by way of a rights issue only subject The authority for the Company to purchase its of the Companys issued ordinary share capital to the right of the board to impose necessary or own shares of 10 pence each granted at last excluding any treasury shares.
As at 21 appropriate limitations to deal with, for example, years Annual General Meeting will expire on the February 2012, the Company did not hold any fractional entitlements and regulatory matters.
date of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
treasury shares in the Company and no warrants The authority will expire at the earlier of 30 The Directors wish to renew this authority and over ordinary shares in the capital of the June 2013 the last date by which the Company a special resolution, which is set out in full in Company existed.
must hold an annual general meeting in 2013 the Notice of Annual General Meeting on page and the conclusion of the annual general meeting 125, will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual of the Company held in 2013.
Any issue of General Meeting to give the Company the shares for cash will, however, still be subject to authority to purchase its own ordinary shares the requirements of the UK Listing Authority.
in the market as permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
The authority limits the number of By order of the Board, Resolution 18: shares that could be purchased to a maximum Andrew Pike Notice of meetings of 24,396,055 representing 10% of the issued Company Secretary The Companies Act 2006 requires that the notice ordinary share capital of the Company as at 21 February 2012 period for general meetings of a company is 21 21 February 2012 and sets minimum and 71 GOVERNANCE
