Directors Chairman Chief Executive Robert Walker was appointed as a non-executive director in Geoff Cooper joined the Company in February 2005 and was September 2009 and became Chairman in May 2010.
He is appointed Chief Executive on 1 March 2005.
He is a chartered chairman of Americana International Holdings Ltd, a non-executive management accountant and worked in management consultancy director of Tate & Lyle PLC and has recently been appointed chairman before joining Gateway now Somerfield plc as Finance Director designate of Enterprise Inns plc.
He was previously chairman of in 1990.
In 1994 he became Finance Director of UniChem plc, W H Smith PLC, Williams Lea Group Ltd and BCA Europe and Group subsequently Alliance UniChem plc which later became part of Chief Executive of Severn Trent Plc.
He spent over 30 years with Alliance Boots plc, where he was appointed Deputy Chief Executive Procter & Gamble, McKinsey and PepsiCo and has also served as a in 2001.
He is non-executive Chairman of Dunelm Group Plc.
He is non executive director on a number of FTSE 100 250 boards.
Chairman of the Executive Committee.
He is Chairman of the Nominations Committee and a member of the Remuneration and Health & Safety Committees.
Finance Director Deputy Chief Executive Paul Hampden Smith is a chartered accountant and joined Sandell John Carter joined Sandell Perkins as a management trainee in 1978.
Following the merger with Travis & Arnold, he was He held a number of regional management positions, before being appointed regional finance director.
In 1992, he became Finance appointed Managing Director, Operations in 1996, and a director of Director of Travis Perkins Trading Company Limited and was Travis Perkins plc in July 2001.
He became Chief Operating Officer appointed Finance Director of Travis Perkins plc in 1996.
He is a in February 2005 and was appointed Deputy Chief Executive in non-executive director of Redrow plc.
He is a member of the Health & Safety Committee.
46 TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011 Non-executive Directors Ruth Anderson was appointed as a Chris Bunker was appointed as a John Coleman was appointed as a non-executive director in 2011.
She is a non-executive director in 2004.
He is a non-executive director in 2005.
He is a chartered accountant and held a number of chartered management accountant and was chartered management accountant and positions in KPMG UK from 1976 to 2009, Finance Director of Thames Water plc, from Chairman of AGA Rangemaster Group being a member of its board from 1998 to 2000 until March 2004.
He has previously been Chairman of 2004 and Vice Chair from 2005 to 2009.
Finance Director of Tarmac PLC and Holiday Break plc, Chief Executive of House She is a non-executive director of Ocado Westland Group PLC.
He is a non-executive of Fraser plc and Chief Executive of Texas plc.
She is a member of the Audit and director of D S Smith Plc and formerly Homecare and of a number of businesses Health & Safety Committees.
was a non-executive director of Mowlem within Burton Group PLC.
He is a member plc, Baltimore Technologies plc and Xansa of the Remuneration, Audit and Nominations PLC.
He is the Senior Independent Director Committees.
and Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
Philip Jansen was appointed as a non-executive director in April 2009.
He is Group Chief Executive of Brakes Group, and a senior advisor to Bain Capital, the private equity group.
He is also a trustee of the charity, Wellbeing of Women.
B. E. was appointed as a non-executive director in 2006.
He previously been Group Chief Operating is a non-executive director of Finning Officer and Chief Executive of Europe for International Inc. Canada, Management Sodexo, Chief Operating Officer of MyTravel plc and Managing Director, Consumer Consulting Group plc, SGL Carbon Division of Telewest Communications PLC.
SE Germany, Exova Group plc, Icon He has also held senior positions with Infrastructure Management Limited Procter & Gamble and Dunlop Slazenger Guernsey and British Car Auctions.
He was previously Deputy Chairman of Dalkia plc, Group.
He is a member of the Remuneration Chairman and or Chief Executive of Evode Committee.
Group plc and has also held non-executive directorships with Severn Trent Plc, Ibstock PLC, Laporte Plc, Associated British Ports Holdings PLC, and Brake Bros Holdings Ltd.
He is chairman of the Remuneration and Health & Safety Committees.
