TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011 Who we are Travis Perkins plc Norman Bell Carol Kavanagh Martin Meech Andrew Pike Robin Proctor Group Development Group Human Group Property Company Secretary Supply Chain Director Resources Director Director and Lawyer Director Travis Perkins, a major plc, is the UKs largest The origins of Sandell Perkins can be traced supplier to the building and construction back over 200 years to 1797 when a carpentry market, one of the most economically significant company was first established in London: Travis activities in the UK.
and Arnold was initially formed as a partnership The present day Company was formed in in 1899.
During the early to mid 20th century 1988 out of a merger between Travis and both businesses expanded before eventually Arnold plc, a company with strong Midlands and becoming listed public companies, Travis and Northern based business, and Sandell Perkins Arnold was the first to the market in 1964, plc, a company with an equivalent strength in followed 22 years later by Sandell Perkins.
Group Reorganisation In 2011 we operated as three divisions into four divisions, General Merchanting, Merchanting, Retail and BSS and it is on that Specialist Merchanting, Consumer and basis we report in this years Annual Report Plumbing & Heating.
It is on the new divisional and Financial Statements.
However, on structure that we have prepared this section of 1 January 2012 we reorganised the business the Annual Report.
9 OVERVIEW Who we are General Merchanting Division Joe Mescall Phil Gransden Kieran Griffi n David Kelman Mark Nottingham Divisional Chairman MD South East MD Midlands and MD North MD South West North West and Wales The general merchanting division of Travis are Phil Gransden Travis Perkins South East, multi channel opportunities.
The Best Practice Perkins plc supplies building materials to Kieran Griffin Travis Perkins Midlands and North programme is designed to enhance our overall professional building companies, contractors and West, David Kelman Travis Perkins North service to trade customers and covers all of tradesman throughout Great Britain.
and Mark Nottingham Travis Perkins South their key requirements: even though all four The core businesses of Travis and Arnold West and Wales.
The customers of the four general merchanting businesses are already plc and Sandell Perkins plc formed, following general merchanting businesses are primarily operating to high standards in these areas they the merger in 1988, what is now the general professional tradesmen, ranging from sole have stretching targets in place to deliver further merchanting business, which trades nationally traders to national housebuilders, whose key improvements.
through the Travis Perkins brand and comprises requirements are product range and availability, Network expansion will be concentrated on four geographically organised individual competitive pricing and customer service.
identifying prime locations through brownfield businesses.
The strategy of the general merchanting openings and small acquisitions.
In addition, Joe Mescall, who has been with the Group business aims to increase market share through store projects and framework agreements will since 1974, leads the General Merchanting implementation of our best practice programme, continue to be expanded with Local Authorities business in his role as Divisional Chairman.
ongoing branch network expansion, entry and Housing Associations.
The Managing Directors of the four businesses into new market segments and exploitation of Consumer Division Jeremy Bird Neil Carroll Simon King Andy Morrison Divisional Chairman MD Toolstation MD Wickes MD Tile Giant The Consumer division comprises three Wickes stores are designed to appeal to and rebranded Tile Magic, a 17 store chain and businesses: Wickes, a national chain of DIY tradesmen, who undertake general repairs, Tile it All, a 16 store chain.
In 2009, Travis Perkins retail outlets, Tile Giant a ceramic tile merchant maintenance and improvement projects for acquired Tile HQ an internet based retailer of acquired in 2007 and Toolstation a multi-channel households and small businesses and to serious ceramic and stone tiles.
The brand is now trading operator, which was acquired by the Group on DIY customers, who undertake more complete from a total of 107 stores.
These customers are more of managing director Andy Morrison, the brand The Chairman of the Consumer Division is demanding in terms of service, quality and price.
offers a strong pipeline for further expansion.
Jeremy Bird who joined Wickes 19 years ago The business meets its customers The Group first took a minority investment in and has held a number of senior positions in the expectations by offering a focussed range of high Toolstation, a direct retailer of lightside products, Group including that of Managing Director of quality, primarily own brand, competitively priced during 2008 before acquiring the remaining Wickes.
The new managing director of Wickes is home improvement products, such as timber, shares in 2012.
Since then, led by its founder Simon King who joined the Company at the end building materials, tools and decorative materials.
Mark Goddard-Watts, with support from the of 2011 and has fulfilled various external retail In addition, Wickes stores offer a range of Group, this multi-channel retailer of lightside roles including chief operating officer of Asda.
kitchens and bathrooms, which are sold through products has rapidly expanded its trade counter Wickes, which opened its first store in the UK both in-store showrooms and 10 standalone network and now occupies 103 trade counters in 1972 at Whitefield in Manchester, was acquired specialist kitchen and bathroom stores.
It also operates a very by Travis Perkins in 2005 and the Company now In 2007 Travis Perkins acquired its seventh successful catalogue based internet business.
In 2008 this business acquired 10 TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011 Specialist Merchanting Division Arthur Davidson Andrew Harrison Chris Larkin Howard Luft Divisional Chairman MD Keyline MD Benchmarx MD CCF The specialist merchanting business consists staff and excellent delivery service.
its competitive pricing, quality products and of four separate businesses trading under the CCF is a leading supplier of interior building knowledgeable staff.
Benchmarx is led by Chris following brands: Keyline, CCF, Benchmarx products to the construction industry.
It operates Larkin, formerly a Regional Director within Travis and Rinus Roofing Supplies.
Arthur Davidson throughout the UK, offering a one-stop-shop to its Perkins South East, who became Managing is the Divisional Chairman.
He has worked in customers from its nationwide branch network.
Director in July 2009. merchanting for over thirty years having joined CCFs Managing Director is Howard Luft, formerly Rinus Roofing Supplies, an associate Keyline prior to its acquisition by the Travis managing director of Buck and Hickman, which company in which the Group holds a 25% Perkins Group.
was sold by the Group in September 2011. interest, is a supplier of roofing materials.
Andrew Harrison, the Managing Director of In 2006 Benchmarx became the first The Group has entered into a development Keyline, has been with the Group since 1989. group brand to be created as a completely agreement with Rinus aimed at creating a new Keyline is a specialist merchant supplying new business within a market adjacent to competitor in this adjacent market.
Although heavy building materials and civils and drainage the markets already served by the Group.
the Group sells many of the products available solutions to the construction industry throughout The business is a leading supplier of kitchen through Rinus, specialist roofing contractors the UK.
Keyline is known for its knowledgeable and joinery products to the trade through prefer using specialist distributors in this market.
Plumbing and Heating Division Paul Tallentire Ian Church Mark Earnshaw Frank Elkins John Frost Mick Magon Paul Nieduszynski Divisional Chairman MD PTS Group MD F&P Wholesale MD BSS Industrial MD City Plumbing MD DHS MD Birchwood Price Tools The new plumbing and heating division was the trade.
In 2010, a new operation was formed, PTS operates from 317 branches and supplies established on 1 January 2012 under the City Heating Spares, the spare parts division of a wide range of customers from national leadership of its Chairman, Paul Tallentire.
contractors to sole trading plumbers and division consists of the original plumbing business The ex-BSS businesses are leading heating engineers: of the Travis Perkins group, City Plumbing distributors of plumbing and heating products to The industrial, commercial, process, Supplies together with the businesses of The specialist trades.
Their principal activities are the construction and warehouse markets are BSS Group, which was acquired on 14 December distribution and sale of heating, ventilation and serviced through a network of sixty two 2010.
It is now the leading plumbing and heating plumbing products, tools and industrial supplies branches of BSS Industrial in the UK and business in the UK to, amongst others, industrial contractors, Ireland: and City Plumbing Supplies, run by managing domestic plumbers, independent merchants Birchwood Price Tools is a wholesaler of power director John Frost, is a major nationwide and industrial end users through a network of tools and accessories, hand tools, safety wear plumbing and heating merchant serving both the 401 branches.
398 branches are located in the and general consumables and F&P Wholesale contract market and the general plumbing and United Kingdom and three in the Republic of supply heating, plumbing and sanitaryware to heating market from 190 branches.
offers high quality products and expert service to 11 OVERVIEW
