Strategic Delivery Overview Travis Perkins is the largest provider of markets on a like-for-like basis.
we judge progress, and which of the principal building materials in the UK.
Our philosophy of Successful execution of our strategy is based risks and uncertainties could prevent it being continuous improvement is intended to increase upon a strong and well resourced share service delivered.
Further details are provided within shareholder value through innovation, organic model, which enables branches to concentrate the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives self-help initiatives and targeted expansion.
on delivering excellent customer service, whilst Review of the Year, the Deputy Chief Executives In order that we might achieve our goal, we allowing the central teams to concentrate on Review of the Year and the Finance Directors seek to ensure that our businesses offer innovation and leadership across the Group.
market leading propositions, as measured by The section below gives a high level overview customers and suppliers and outgrow their of our approach to delivering our strategy, how Strategic Approach Key performance Principal risks and dimension indicators uncertainties People Devolving authority to managers to allow them to compete in the market, but Employee retention.
Employee recruitment, without weakening our control environment.
Recruiting and developing people with attributes that support our core values.
Operating a performance management system closely aligned to incentives.
Sales and Exploiting economies of scale from growth to improve our proposition, gain Like-for-like Competitive pressures.
margin further market share and improve operating margins.
Information technology management Centralising purchasing to increase the benefits of common purchasing.
Improving our supply chain capabilities.
Supplier dependency Adjusted operating and direct sourcing.
Expanding our global sourcing activities to support our own brand proposition.
Continuously improving our customer and supplier proposition.
Harmonising product specifications across our businesses.
Cost control Exploiting the economies of scale delivered by growth and centralisation to Group overheads to Information technology and asset improve our operating margins.
management Centralising most support services.
Improving asset turn and lowering property costs.
Realising surplus assets and reinvesting the proceeds.
Expansion Using our superior financial performance to expand our branch network so Revenue from Integration complexity.
ensuring we penetrate all catchments in the UK.
Operating a well resourced and innovative property function.
Adding additional channels or creating businesses to serve all segments of the UK building materials market where we can achieve synergies.
Developing and owning trade parks and multiple brand sites.
Financial Achieving market leading returns on sales and returns on capital employed.
Reducing debt through cash generation.
Increasing adjusted earnings per share.
Stephen Armstrong, Steve Simms and Nigel Read at F&P Wholesale Bedford 22 TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011 F&P Wholesale, a distributor of plumbing, heating and bathroom products to independent merchants 23 REPORTS
