TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011 sites.
It is now the third largest business in presence in emerging channels by investing in Perkins group responded to the challenges set its sector: and new opportunities in markets adjacent to our for them.
A lot was achieved, but there remains We continued to expand our heating spares existing businesses.
In 2011, we acquired a a lot of potential.
All indications are that 2012 capability adding a further 44 outlets in PTS 25% stake in Rinus Roofing, a small company will be equally difficult, but I fully expect that branches and 28 outlets in City Plumbing selling approximately 2,000 roofing products the initiatives we are undertaking to improve branches.
We now operate 244 spares from seven branches in the north of England.
our business will keep us at the forefront of outlets across the Group: a network that has our sector.
produced exceptional sales growth in this Outlook I would like to place on record my sincere category.
In November, we announced a new divisional thanks to all colleagues across the Group for A further 1,268 colleagues joined the group structure would be put in place from 1 January their outstanding efforts, which have produced, when Toolstation was acquired on 3 January 2012.
Our plumbing and heating businesses yet again, an industry leading performance.
Toolstation is a multi channel retailer of have been brought together to form a new lightside products, trading from 103 sites in division under the leadership of Paul Tallentire, the UK as well as by telephone and through whilst Toolstation joins our Consumer division the internet.
It has expanded rapidly since bringing with it a multichannel expertise that 2008 and as more stores have reached trading we can exploit throughout the business.
John Carter maturity it is now trading profitably.
2011 was a difficult year for companies in Deputy Chief Executive Part of our strategy is to increase our our sector, but colleagues throughout the Travis 21 February 2012 Business Model Travis Perkins is a multi-channel operator selling a wide range of building materials to the trade and consumer primarily through a network of mainly UK branches.
Our business model is based upon: Achieving growth through investing in organic initiatives and acquisitions that leverage our fi xed and central costs to deliver further benefi ts from increasing economies of scale: An organisation structure, which devolves responsibilities close to customers and provides the benefi ts of shared central services: Thorough performance management monitoring systems and processes: A technology approach, where retaining control by writing our own systems delivers lower cost, more fl exibility and higher matched functionality, particularly in areas such as logistics, supply chain and multi-channel: Incentivisation structures that are linked to performance and encourage improvement: A strong culture, which extends to the types of people we employ and the values and leadership behaviours we encourage.
In delivering our product solutions we Our products are distributed to the end user We strive to provide our customers with the through a supply chain network which highest levels of service possible by Are committed to ensuring that we buy quality Operates from 24 central warehouses, enabling Employing the best available people and goods and materials from responsible and us to buy goods in bulk and distribute them to investing in their training and development.
ethical sources, at prices that are fair to all.
our branches in smaller quantities.
Ensuring branches maintain high levels of stock Purchase over 100,000 products from UK and Utilises a distribution fleet of 192 vehicles to availability in full project quantities.
transport product between warehouses and Offering advice and building related services branches.
Stock a wide range of own brand products, that support their needs.
particularly in our consumer business, as well Makes around 350,000 branch deliveries p. a.
Using a fleet of 2,300 vehicles to provide an as branded goods supplied by market leading Engages over 1,500 colleagues to ensure the efficient, on-time-in-full, local delivery service, companies.
efficient movement of stock throughout our where customers have chosen not to collect Achieve economies of scale by focussing organisation.
our purchases towards a limited number of Improves branch efficiency by ensuring we Making credit available for approximately 80% suppliers.
have an appropriate mix of suppliers delivering of customer purchases.
Are the largest or second largest customer for a either direct to our branches or to our central Ensuring our prices reflect both the quality of considerable number of our suppliers, many of warehouses.
the goods we sell and the service we provide, whom have forged close relationships with the Gives customers access to our businesses whilst remaining competitive.
Group over a long period of time.
