TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011 Health & Safety Report For the year ended 31 December 2011 Health & Safety H&S is integrated into colleagues in our branches, to increase their team and supported by the group health everything we do, from the Group Board personal ownership of Stay Safe.
The overall theme is one to every colleague in every branch, store, of colleague engagement, with a focus on warehouse and office.
Our underlying Health & Safety performance improved communication, increased buy-in philosophy is that all injuries are avoidable and initiatives from colleagues and personal ownership of and that everyone involved in our business Our improvement rate in 2011 has slowed Stay Safe with more individual involvement.
should return home safe and well at the end compared to prior years, however, the 10% Several on-going themes from 2010 were of each day, every day.
However, we do not increase in minor injury reporting rates and further supported by new initiatives in 2011. under-estimate the challenge of achieving this a 93% increase in near miss reporting rates The Stay Safe quarterly newsletter remains in a group that now includes 17 businesses, are both clear indicators of the high profile an important tool in the communication with a fully integrated supply chain, operating we continue to place on transparency and campaign, along with regular presentations and from over 1,800 branches with over 23,500 honesty in the reporting of incidents.
The briefings for directors, managers and branch colleagues making in excess of 10 million relatively static year-on-year statistics we colleagues on topics such as Stay Safe focus deliveries per annum.
We aim to be industry have seen for group frequency and severity groups, updated safe systems, safety bulletins, leaders in our sector for the reduction and rates do not truly reflect the great strides in and training DVDs.
During 2011, we health and safety performance seen in many Keep your feet on the ground, an initiative continued improving our standards, with the of our individual group businesses, which are introduced during 2010, has gathered leaders in each of our businesses continuing highlighted later in this summary.
Despite momentum during the year, and is a great to own and drive our Stay Safe culture change these continuing improvements, we recognise example of involving colleagues, developing programme.
there is no quick fix to reducing injuries, and their own ideas, to increase their personal Our group accident frequency rate 8.8 lost this is very much work in progress to make commitment to the Stay Safe programme.
time injuries per million hours worked, and injuries rare.
We intend to further reduce the Likewise, our modification of brick grab our group severity rate 0.14 days lost per frequency and severity rates over the next five equipment to facilitate the grabbing of bulk thousand hours worked remained at similar years, by continuing our focus on high-risk bags was rolled out across the fleet, to remove levels compared to the previous year.
These aspects of our operations, and also by targeting the need for drivers to climb onto vehicle beds results include the BSS businesses for both the working behaviour of our colleagues, to attach bulk bags.
These improvements alone years for comparison purposes.
have reduced by 50% the number of incidents Stay Safe requires effective leadership, a External enforcement officer inspections involving work at height on the vehicle bed.
focus on the key risks in our business and of branches continued to show a favourable To maintain further the momentum of the is simply summarised by the desire to have improvement in performance and standards, Stay Safe programme, a bespoke in-house everyone return home safely at the end of with numerous complimentary letters received.
training programme, based around the each working day.
We continue to develop our The Group received no legal notices in 2011, Institution of Occupational Safety and Health Stay Safe programme in each business, in for the second year running.
IOSH Managing Safely programme, has order to achieve our vision of making injuries a There have been numerous initiatives under continued for all operational directors and key rare occurrence.
We are putting considerable the Stay Safe development programme, led senior managers in support functions.
This emphasis on finding new ways to engage the personally by each business-unit management has proven extremely successful in exploring different personal strategies for achieving culture change, and has also been developed into a Stay Safe Leadership programme for Lost time injury frequency rate Lost time injury severity rate branch managers.
Lost time injuries per million man hours Days lost per thousand man hours All businesses have continued to develop their own approach to driving the Stay Safe 20 0.3 programme in 2011, including: 09 10 11 09 10 11 The CCF Line in the Sand engagement 0.2 programme has helped reduce their lost 10 time injury frequency rate by a further 10% 0.1 during 2011, 42% over the last 3 years : Keyline, similarly engaged with all branches and colleagues to develop their Dont Walk 0 0 GROUP GROUP By programme, which helped reduce their 43 10.6 9.7 8.8 0.17 0.16 0.14 REPORTS Health & Safety Report We aim to be industry leaders in our sector for the reduction and elimination of injuries lost time injury frequency rate by 28% warehouses, supporting the establishment call centre providing specialist advice to over during 2011 alone: and sharing of good practice to drive 1,800 managers.
This innovative approach behavioural change: is intended to better support the Stay Safe The Wickes national delivery service has journey at all levels, driving personal ownership continued to expand massively, delivering and removing the potential for over-reliance almost 10 million products in 2011. on field-based advisors, which carried a risk of Although dedicated training and support for abdication of accountability at local level.
delivery hubs 1,500 training days in 2011 has prevented further increases in driver Group plc and group trading Group supply chain established steering related injury levels during this period of board stay safe committees and implementation committees to help growth, Stay Safe for warehouse colleagues Both established committees have continued drive ownership and support for the Stay and other store based activities remains a to drive and oversee the Stay Safe journey Safe programme.
Numerous initiatives high priority for 2012 to reduce the overall following the format established over the last including forklift truck black box software, injury levels.
Further details of their composition pallet collars, near miss reporting pads, These initiatives and many others across the and terms of reference are available, on the observational safety sessions and IOSH individual businesses are designed to increase investor centre section of the company website.
accredited training programmes have all the personal ownership of Stay Safe and In 2012, the format of these committees will contributed to achieving a 50% reduction in engagement of colleagues.
be reviewed to take account of the larger group their lost time injury frequency rate over the In support of the business desire to increase and divisional structure now in place.
last three years: personal ownership and accountability amongst Travis Perkins in the South West, has regional and branch management teams, developed a Stay Safe support team for the group safety team is being reorganised drivers and yard teams, with drivers and to better reflect the divisional structure of yard managers seconded to the team from the Group.
Consultations commenced at the key branches across the region.
The support end of 2011 to move to a divisional business Andrew Simon team have been spending their time out on partner structure based with the businesses, Chairman, Plc Board Health & Safety Committee deliveries with drivers or in the yards and supported by expert trainers and a central 21 February 2012 Adrian Osbourne and James Harrison at PTS Coventry 44 TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011 PTS was named national builders merchant of the year 45 REPORTS
