Board of Directors QUALITY LEADERSHIP 1 Aaron Regent, age 46 Non-Executive Chairman Appointment: february 2010.
Skills and experience: mr regent has held a number of senior management positions within the mining industry.
He has been the President and chief Executive officer and a director of barrick since 2009.
Prior to joining barrick, mr regent was Senior managing Partner of brookfield asset management and co-chief Executive officer of its 1 2 infrastructure group.
mr regent previously served as President and chief Executive officer of falconbridge ltd. mr regent holds a bachelor of arts degree from the University of western ontario and is a chartered accountant.
Executive Directors 2 Greg Hawkins, age 43 Chief Executive Officer Appointment: february 2010.
3 4 Skills and experience: Prior to joining abg, mr Hawkins was previously employed by barrick, where since June 2006 he served as chief financial officer of the australia Pacific business Unit.
from 1999 to 2006, mr Hawkins served in finance management roles for barrick australia africa and for Homestake mining before its acquisition by barrick.
mr Hawkins also previously held roles as the finance manager for normandy mining and as an audit manager for deloitte.
He holds a bachelor of commerce degree from the University of western australia.
He is a chartered accountant and a member of the australian 5 6 institute of company directors.
3 Kevin Jennings, age 42 Chief Financial Officer Appointment: January 2010.
Skills and experience: mr Jennings was previously employed by barrick where he served from august 2009 as Vice President of corporate development.
mr Jennings has held a variety of senior management positions in the mining industry over the last 13 years, 7 8 including director, business optimisation at Xstrata plc, director, Strategic business analysis at falconbridge ltd, and chief financial officer at american racing Equipment inc, a wholly owned subsidiary of falconbridge.
mr Jennings holds a bachelor of arts degree in Economics from the University of western ontario and a bachelor of administrative Studies, with Honours in accounting, from York University.
Non-Executive Directors 9 10 4 Derek Pannell, age 65 Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Board committee membership as at 31 December 2011 Appointment: february 2010.
EHS&S committee Compensation committee david Hodgson chair, derek Pannell, michael kenyon chair, aaron regent, Skills and experience: mr Pannell is a metallurgical engineer with over Stephen galbraith, ambassador mwapachu James cross, andre falzon 40 years of experience in the mining and metals industry.
He is former Audit committee Nomination committee chair of the mining association of canada and a board member of the andre falzon chair, James cross, derek Pannell chair, aaron regent, international council on mining and metals.
He holds several other michael kenyon ambassador mwapachu www.
com 78 oVErViEw PErformancE GOvERNANCE financial SHarEHoldEr StatEmEntS information board appointments, including agrium inc, and is chairman of the Johannesburg, South africa, a bSc mining Honours from the royal board of directors of brookfield infrastructure Partners lP.
mr Pannell School of mines in london, and b comm majors in Economics and was formerly President, chief operating officer and chief Executive business Economics from UniSa in South africa.
He also attended officer of noranda inc, and falconbridge ltd. mr Pannell holds a an advanced management Program at Harvard University in the USa.
bachelor of Science degree in Engineering from imperial college 8 James Cross, age 63 Independent Non-Executive Director london, England, and is a professional engineer registered in Quebec and Peru.
He is also an associate of the royal School of mines and Appointment: february 2010. a fellow of the canadian academy of Engineers.
Skills and experience: mr cross has held a number of senior positions across the financial and mining sectors.
He is also a board member 5 Ambassador Juma v. Mwapachu, age 69 of the financial Services board of South africa, deputy chairman of Independent Non-Executive Director the Policy board of South africa, chairman of the financial markets Appointment: July 2011. advisory board and non-Executive chairman of Swiss gold dmcc Skills and experience: ambassador mwapachu has held a number of dubai.
He was formerly Senior deputy governor of the South african reserve bank, chairman of Highland gold mining ltd, and a director senior positions in both the public and private sector of tanzania and of namakwa diamonds ltd and mkS finance geneva.
He has a was appointed as tanzanias ambassador to france from 2002 to 2006. bachelor of commerce degree from the University of witwatersrand, He was the founding Secretary general of the chamber of commerce, industry and agriculture, served as chairman of the confederation South africa, and is a fellow of the institute of bankers of South africa.
of tanzania industries between 1996 and 2000 and chairman of the 9 Michael Kenyon, age 62 Independent Non-Executive Director East african business council from 1999 to 2000.
He has also served on a number of Presidential commissions that consolidated tanzanias Appointment: february 2010. market economy and was a member of the team that crafted tanzanias Skills and experience: mr kenyon has more than 35 years of development Vision 2025.
He has played a leading role in the regional experience in the mining industry and is a geologist by training.
integration of East africa, holding the position of Secretary general He is Executive chairman of the board of directors at detour gold of the East african community prior to his appointment to the board.
corporation and chairman of the board of directors at troon ambassador mwapachu holds a bachelor of law degree with Honours Ventures ltd.
He has previously been President and chief Executive from the University of dar es Salaam, a post graduate degree in officer at both canico resource corp and Sutton resources ltd, and international law from the indian academy and a doctorate of a director of cumberland resources ltd.
He holds a master of Science literature Honoris causa from the University of dar es Salaam.
geology degree from the University of alberta in canada.
He was also the recipient of the 2005 developer of the Year award from the 6 Andre Falzon, age 57 Independent Non-Executive Director Prospector and developers association of canada in recognition of Appointment: february 2010. his accomplishments.
Skills and experience: mr falzon is a senior financial executive with 10 Stephen Galbraith, age 40 Non-Executive Director over 25 years of financial and management experience within the mining industry, including a period as Vice President and controller Appointment: January 2010. at barrick between 1994 and 2006.
He is a financial consultant, and a Skills and experience: mr galbraith has been employed by director of aurizon mines ltd.
He holds a bachelor of commerce barrick since august 2000 in treasury and finance functions, and degree from the University of toronto, canada and is a certified is currently managing director of barrick international barbados general accountant canada and a chartered accountant canada.
He previously held the role of audit manager for .
He holds a bachelor of arts degree in 7 David Hodgson, age 64 Independent Non-Executive Director accountancy from Strathclyde University, is a member of the institute Appointment: october 2011. of chartered accountants of Scotland and is a chartered financial Skills and experience: Prior to joining abg, mr Hodgson was analyst charterholder.
employed by the anglo american and fide beers group of companies for over 30 years and from november 2001 through to his retirement in april 2005, he served as the chief operating officer of anglogold ashanti.
He has also held a number of previous non-executive public company directorships at moto gold mines limited, Uranium one inc and goliath gold mining limited.
mr Hodgson is currently a non-executive director of auryx gold corporation.
mr Hodgson holds a bSc in civil Engineering from the University of witwatersrand in James cross retired from the board at the beginning of march 2012 annUal rEPort and accoUntS 2011 79
