Corporate responsibility responsiBle mining responsible mining is a key component of our business model and its achievement is fundamental to the successful realisation of our strategy.
in furtherance of this, we have established a broad sustainability programme, supported by specific commitments as regards governance and ethics, employment practices, environmental practices, community relations, health and safety, security standards and human rights.
our community relations, environmental, health and safety, human resources and security functions work closely together to ensure that all key components of responsible mining are addressed throughout mining and exploration cycles and across all of our operations.
we also work with a number of international organisations, including the international council on mining & metals and the world bank, to help advance our overall sustainability programme and align our practices wherever possible with international standards.
our sustainability focus is influenced by ongoing operational performance reviews and the outcomes of our annual risk assessment review to ensure that we prioritise Responsible Mining means areas that are material to our business and operations and report publicly on these accordingly.
over the longer term, we aim to develop our reporting in line conducting our business in a way with appropriate elements of the global reporting initiative gri guidelines.
that reflects our commitment to excellence, to the benefit of all stakeholders as a whole.
Our material areas Business Ethics Stakeholder Engagement kevin DsoUZa, Senior direcTor, Code of Conduct Social Impacts environmenT and commUniTY relaTionS Corporate Governance Community Development Resettlement GOVERNANCE COMMUNITY & ETHICS RELATIONS Stakeholder Labour Engagement Practices Training & Local SECURITY Development & Employment RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYEES HUMAN MINING Emergency Employee RIGHTS Preparedness Development Incident Talent Reporting Retention HEALTH ENVIRONMENT & SAFETY Occupational Health & Safety Conservation & Protection Emergency Preparedness Biodiversity Community Wellbeing Climate Change Incident Reporting Management of Hazardous Materials www.
com 52 overview performance governance financial Shareholder STaTemenTS informaTion Highlights from 2011 and our targets for 2012 focus 2011 Target 2011 key achievements 2012 Targets devote additional resources to establishment of the abg development Progression of social Community community relations at exploration maendeleo fund incident reporting relations and development projects establishment of additional implementation of community ngo partnerships relations management System introduction of the north mara Progression of the north mara co-existence Plan co-existence Plan continued development of abg negotiation of Union recognition development of collective Employees as an employer of choice agreements at bulyanhulu and Tulawaka bargaining agreements continued improvement of first intake of abg apprenticeships further development employee skillsets completed imTT programme of abg training and further development of employee development programmes benefit packages continued improvement in Positive progress made towards the Successfully complete the Environment energy efficiency discharge of the ePo at north mara commissioning of the north further reduction in carbon obtained Tulawakas recertification mara water Treatment Plant dioxide emissions under the international cyanide code for the discharge of the ePo improved reporting of environmental complete the permitting process incidents and risks across all abg sites for the creation of additional Paf waste dumps at north mara obtain initial certification of buzwagi and recertification of bulyanhulu under the international cyanide management code implementation of an abg health and development of critical risk Standards achieve 10% improvement Health and safety plan to emphasise developing implementation of inthinc in both our lost time injury Safety leadership skills in line management improvements in total reportable injury frequency rate and our total and common ohS standards frequency rate reportable injury frequency rate continued development of Tanzanian development of health impact assessments continue the implementation employees in the ohS profession of critical risk Standards complete community health impact assessments at all operations adoption of abg Security completion of security system upgrades ongoing voluntary Security and management framework at buzwagi, north mara and Tulawaka Principles training for Human Rights Progression of voluntary Principles training Tanzanian Police force across security team further upgrades to the group further progression of human rights Policy security management system and Procedures for 2011 reporting purposes, material areas include community relations, we monitor and review a number of performance indicators across all employee and contractor relationships, environmental performance, health material areas throughout the year for purposes of analysing performance and safety and security and human rights.
as a matter of good practice we and setting future targets.
further details on 2011 performance and 2012 also report on governance and business ethics.
targets in each material area are provided in this report.
annUal rePorT and accoUnTS 2011 53 Corporate responsibility continued ABGs economic contribution abg has had a presence in africa for over 10 years and we continue to contribute to the economic growth of communities, regions and countries to bring sustainable socio-economic benefits to the places where we work.
IN 2011 ABG CONTRIBUTED $186m of taxes borne and collected AND DIRECT ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION OF $1,063m through taxes and government royalties, dividends, suppliers, contractors and community payments, employee wages and salaries DIRECT ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION TAXATION CONTRIBUTION e graph below shows the distribution of revenues generated by our business in 2011 to e graph below shows the total of tax distributions by type: di erent stakeholder groups: 2%1% 11% 12% US$15m 28% US$39m 11% 48% Suppliers, contractors and communities 59% US$72m 1 Available for reinvestment Corporate Income Tax 15% Taxes and government royalties Royalty Government 23% 1 Employees net of tax US$33m Indirect Taxes VAT and fuel levies Dividends Payroll taxes incl.
social security -10% Interest and non-controlling Other taxes incl.
WHT, Stamp duties, -US$15m shareholders environmental levies our direct economic contribution is made up of the economic value The majority of our taxes are paid in Tanzania followed by South africa.
we add by paying our employees, governments, suppliers, shareholders, although abgs headquarters are in london, only a small proportion contractors and communities.
of our operations are located in the Uk.
a large proportion of our administrative, finance and technical support functions are located our true economic contribution is far greater once the greater effect in South africa.
all of our operating mines are located in Tanzania.
of our presence is considered.
These include the indirect effects of people spending their wages, governments distributing tax and royalty country analysis revenues, and neighbouring communities using the infrastructure all amounts are net developed for our operations.
in thousands of Taxes Taxes Taxes payments to US$ borne collected Subtotal refunded governments The basis of preparation for the tax data reported in the context of our Tanzania 130,912 44,742 175,654 40,158 135,496 taxation contribution above is outlined on page 184 of this report as South africa 1,397 6,397 7,794 700 7,094 part of the glossary of terms.
other 1,012 1,302 2,314 616 1,698 The table entitled country analysis shows the total of all tax payments Total 133,321 52,441 185,762 41,474 144,288 for each of the main countries where abg has operations or projects.
The distribution of taxes paid by the group reflects the geographical 1 during the year we settled US$38.8 million in corporate income tax through settling spread of abgs business.
outstanding indirect tax refunds in respect of fuel and vaT taxes as agreed with Tra per the memorandum of Settlement.
com 54 overview performance governance financial Shareholder STaTemenTS informaTion ABG Development Maendeleo Fund Investment Criteria investments made by the abg development maendeleo fund focus on community development, health, education, environment, water projects, skills and training programmes.
we also intend to provide support to non-governmental organisations with demonstrated capacity to deliver on community development initiatives and other forms of philanthropic initiatives, such as donations, sponsorships and partnerships, which fall within the overall focus of our investment objectives.
due consideration is also given to funding broader development initiatives that support Tanzanias national development strategy.
generally, we will give funding priority to programmes that: are developed from participatory community needs assessment and planning: are aligned with village and district development plans: prioritise mitigation of social impacts and risks: include fulfilment of existing social obligations: leverage abgs core business and comparative advantage, including in relation to infrastructure and existing facilities and services: we established the abg development maximise inclusivity and minimise dependency: and maendeleo fund during the year as balance visible short-term projects with longer-term development programmes.
part of our commitment to promoting The launch of the abg development maendeleo fund highlights the focus that we sustainable development.
we intend to place on community and social development in Tanzania and is an important step in make an ongoing annual contribution of the development of our community and social strategies, which we use to harness US$10 million to the fund, making it the synergies across our operations.
largest community development fund of its ABGs Community Investment Committee kind in Tanzania.
The fund will be used to our community investment committee is responsible for setting community support all of our community investment support and investment priorities and oversees all community investments programmes and has already provided made by the fund.
its members include abgs vice President of corporate support for a number of important affairs, abgs community relations manager operations, abgs head of corporate development and investor relations, abgs Pr & communications community and social projects.
it is manager and the general counsel.
The committee liaises with abgs community administered under the guidance of relations team and other appropriate departments whenever necessary for purposes abgs newly established community of assessing and monitoring our community support and investment commitments.
annUal rePorT and accoUnTS 2011 55 Corporate responsibility continued we aim to further progress this years achievements in 2012 with the Community relations implementation of the following: our approach establishing an abg standard and approach for we believe it is critical to establish mutually beneficial relationships stakeholder engagement.
with the communities in which we operate and to ensure local commence implementation of community relations management communities have the opportunity to share in the benefits of system, in particular the development of community risk assessments our activities.
further development of the north mara co-existence Plan.
abgs strategy is to engage with communities, governments and other stakeholders to earn their support for our operations and build Community investment effective community programmes.
we have adopted specific policies and procedures in order to set community relations standards, which corporate social responsibility expenses incurred amounted include a grievance management procedure, to ensure dialogues to US$7.4 million for the year, compared to the prior year of with host communities and other local stakeholders are managed US$3.5 million.
The increase has been driven by site focused projects in a transparent and systematic manner across our operations.
and larger contributions to general community projects funded from the new abg development maendeleo fund.
all members of our community relations team have expertise in social management.
The launch of this fund greatly enhances the available funding for community investment and will be used as the primary source of 2011 achievements and 2012 targets funding for all community development and assistance projects going forward.
The fund has already made significant achievements since its we have made a number of positive developments in our community inception in September 2011, with funding granted for a number of key relations programme throughout the year, notably with the projects during the year.
establishment of the abg development maendeleo fund.
village benefit agreements entered into in the north mara region form part we have also strengthened group procedures and controls, with the of overall action items, which will be provided for as part of the progression adoption of a specific community relations policy and a group wide of the north mara co-existence Plan.
funding for these arrangements will community relations standard, which sets our expectations and be provided under the abg development maendeleo fund.
prescribed minimum performance requirements for our community relations practices.
in addition to abg community assistance programmes, abg also provides donations to caneducate, a registered charity launched in our key area of focus for the year has been the progression of 2010 by abg and barrick employees to provide educational support to meaningful dialogue with local stakeholders and the management students in communities located around our buzwagi and bulyanhulu of trespassing and illegal mining activity at north mara following the mines.
in 2011 caneducate raised US$47,000 funds, which was used site intrusion in may.
in this regard, a number of positive developments to support a total of 697 students.
caneducate aims to raise funds to have been made throughout the year, including the progression of a support a total of 1,300 students for 2012. co-existence Plan between the mine and surrounding communities.
as part of this, we have also established a new partnership with Search for Community engagement common ground to progress constructive dialogue around the mine.
we are committed to inclusive and transparent community engagement in order to build and maintain trust with our host communities and to ensure that our activities are informed by their perspectives, concerns a snapshot of our Coalition for Rural Resource, Research and Action Networks CORRA community support HealtH YoutH and investment implementation of corra drug commitments through control Programme in the Tarime district, aimed at defining the the abg development drivers of drug abuse and delivering maendeleo fund solutions to abate drug abuse www.
com 56 overview performance governance financial Shareholder STaTemenTS informaTion and priorities.
This process involves identifying stakeholders, engaging north mara Co-existence plan in disclosure and consultation processes and operating appropriate and Throughout the year we have improved community dialogue across the effective feedback mechanisms.
we maintain an ongoing dialogue with mara region, developing overall communications with village leadership, individuals, community leaders, government representatives and religious leaders, local contractors and representatives of local government.
we have trained and employed local as part of this, we have embarked on the process of creating a community members to act as liaison officers at bulyanhulu and north comprehensive plan with community leaders around the north mara mara, dedicated abg community liaison officers at all abg sites and mine with the objective of achieving a harmonious co-existence with the created community liaison centres within the communities around surrounding communities.
The plan is focused on the following objectives: bulyanhulu and buzwagi to ensure that all community members have solidifying community trust and credibility by fulfilling all outstanding easy access to information about mine activities.
we are currently legacy commitments: enhancing investment programmes in order to developing plans for a community liaison centre at north mara and will achieve tangible and equitable benefits to all communities: developing review the need for a centre at Tulawaka as part of mine closure plans.
realistic and sustainable alternative livelihoods in the region: and promoting proactive communication and engagement with stakeholders.
we use our community grievance management and resolution procedures key 2011 achievements under this plan include the following: to manage and respond to community concerns.
day to day management of this process is conducted at each of our operations by site based Development of social management plan: all direct and indirect members of our community relations team.
in 2011, 535 new matters were legacy social commitments have been identified, verified, agreed and lodged using our grievance procedures.
The majority of new concerns were submitted to the relevant government authorities for approval as part of lodged in respect of land compensation at north mara, the majority of an updated site Social management Plan SmP.
This will be used to help which related to previous compensation paid for land acquisitions prior to monitor and record progress in implementing all agreed commitments our acquisition of the mine.
The north mara co-existence Plan includes and to record progress on the completion of all agreed SmP obligations.
the resolution of these issues as part of its objectives.
progression of village Benefit agreements vBa vBias : we have assessed and quantified all obligations under our existing BREAKDOWN OF GRIEVANCES LODGED IN 2011 village benefit agreements.
as a second stage, we have formulated village benefit implementation agreements vbias to focus on the implementation of vba commitments.
as at the end of 2011, we had signed binding agreements with three of the seven villages Bulyanhulu: 10 located in proximity to north mara and we are close to the signing Buzwagi: 10 535 of agreements with the remaining local villages.
North Mara: 507 Tulawaka: 8 access to water: we have implemented a three stage water strategy for communities, based on interim, medium-term and long-term solutions for water supply.
The first phase interim plan has focused on community water supply from locally contracted water bowsers to deliver 90,000 litres on a daily basis at no cost to the community.
The second mediumover the course of the year we developed a social incident reporting term plan involves the creation of new well boreholes, 10 of which were pilot scheme for purposes of monitoring emerging social issues in our drilled during the year with the intent to provide at least two wells per surrounding communities.
The procedure is aimed at introducing village.
The third long-term phase involves the detailed assessment, proactive management and engagement in potential social issues from design and construction of a potential water distribution system from the outset, in order to develop community engagement and dialogue.
the north mara water Treatment Plant.
all of these plans will be The scheme was well received, such that we intend to develop it across progressed throughout 2012. all of our operations in 2012.
Human Capital Zanzibar Disaster Fund HealtH eduCation pHilantHropY Support of the roll out of a national education Provision of support to campaign on the effects families affected by the of female genital Zanzibar ferry disaster mutilation fgm in September 2011 annUal rePorT and accoUnTS 2011 57 Corporate responsibility continued improvement to road infrastructure: Through consultation with best performance.
we provide meaningful feedback to them and offer local authorities and other interested parties, we have helped to drive them professional development and training opportunities to develop improvement to existing road infrastructure in the area.
as a result of employee potential.
we encourage accountability and employee discussions, construction has now commenced on the new western involvement in issues affecting the workplace to help improve safety road and upgrading of the gokona eastern bypass roads.
in addition, and work conditions, as well as our efficiency and our business.
as local contractors have been hired to rehabilitate village roads in an employer, we are committed to fair employment practices and a kewanja, nyangoto and kerende.
abg has also provided funds workplace in which all employees are treated with dignity and respect.
to rehabilitate 45 kilometres of the old german road.
we do not tolerate or condone any type of discrimination on the basis of race, gender, national origin, religion, age, sexual orientation, politics progression of other livelihoods: we have progressed our or on the basis of any personal characteristic protected by law.
relationships with local contractors, for road construction, rehabilitation and maintenance, dust suppression and waste our head of human resources is responsible for day to day collection.
in particular, we have worked with a local business to management of our employment practices and employee relations.
create a waste collection scheme focused on the employment of he is part of the Senior leadership Team.
This scheme is one of the few sources of employment for women in the area and is helping to promote 2011 employee achievements and 2012 targets the independence of women as a result.
our key focus this year has been on the progression of relationships in addition to progressing existing project areas, we aim to develop the which promote collective employee dialogue and conducting a review co-existence Plan in the following key areas in 2012: of compensation and benefit packages across our operations.
we have also maintained our focus on employee training and development.
artisanal and small scale mining: we are looking at opportunities key achievements include: to develop an artisanal and small scale mining project to provide both immediate and sustainable benefits to artisanal miners within execution of recognition agreements at bulyanhulu and Tulawaka.
our objective is to identify a low entry project introduction of enhanced cost of living and housing allowances.
concept, with definable resources and obligations to meet all apprentice completion of imTT programmes.
resettlement programme: we are developing a resettlement action our focus for 2012 will remain on the progression of labour Plan for land acquisition, compensation and relocation in accordance consultation and communication processes, namely with the with international standards for resettlement.
as part of this we are development of abg collective bargaining agreements and further developing a town plan to secure a land footprint for the remaining development of our employee development and training programmes.
mine life at north mara, for all future resettlement programmes in Workforce and turnover the area.
we employed a total of 5,379 employees and 3,357 contractors in 2011 compared to 4,815 and 3,651 respectively in 2010.
Employees our approach our turnover rate for 2011 was 17% compared to 18.5% in 2010, a satisfactory achievement given the growing level of demand across the we aim to establish abg as the employer of choice.
we respect and mining industry in general for skilled personnel.
Turnover rates at each value each of our employees and observe the fundamental tenets of our operations were largely comparable to 2010, save for the decrease of human rights, safety and non-discrimination in the workplace.
at north mara and the increase in turnover at Tulawaka.
we fairly compensate our employees for their contributions and award further information Comprehensive Community Based regarding the abg Rehabilitation Hospital in Tanzania CCBRT development maendeleo HealtH fund and the community investment committee is fundraising for a maternity provided on our website: wing in a hospital that www.
com provides health services to the disadvantaged www.
com 58 overview performance governance financial Shareholder STaTemenTS informaTion we are closely monitoring our ability to recruit and retain qualified accordance with functional and mine site requirements.
new employees personnel given the increasing demand for technical skillsets across our receive an overview of abg policy through an orientation process within industry.
our focus is to remain competitive from a compensation and a reasonable amount of time following the commencement of their development perspective in order to promote employee retention.
we aim to complete an annual review of core company policies with all abg employees.
The structure of our organisation GROUP WIDE TURNOVER encourages sites to transfer employees to value-added roles when appropriate.
we also promote wider internal transfers as a means of broadening employees experience and their value to our organisation.
as of 31 december 2011, 56% of our employees had participated in Bulyanhulu: 14.3% Buzwagi: 19.6% technical training courses, compared to 50% in 2010.
Technical training 17% 18.5% North Mara: 13.3% covers mining, process plant, maintenance, geology and metallurgy 2011 2010 Tulawaka: 27.6% training and is based on employee specific roles and site functions.
in addition to internal training programmes, out of 147 abg sponsored apprentices 19 completed the integrated mining Technical Training we place a premium on diversity in the work place and this is reflected imTT programme during the year.
we have developed the imTT in the makeup of our workforce.
while internationals are often programme in collaboration with anglogold ashanti, the Tanzanian necessary for the design and construction phase of a mines chamber of minerals and energy Tcme and the vocational development, we actively favour national employment and, wherever education and Training authority directorate.
The programme is a possible, we seek to reduce international employment levels over the vocational scholarship which has been developed to help promote and productive life of our mines.
we have an ongoing commitment to the progress technical training for the mining sector in Tanzania.
localisation of our workforce and aim to maintain national employment in addition to building technical skills, we also place great emphasis on levels at at least 90% of our overall employee base.
This is largely developing leaders in business.
during the year 84 of our employees reflected in the overall composition of our group workforce in 2011 participated in our Supervisory development Programme, 12 employees and the composition of our workforce at individual operations.
enrolled in our intermediate management development Programme and five employees enrolled in our management development Programme.
LOCALISATION OF WORKFORCE The management development Programme and intermediate management development Programme are run by the University of cape Town.
both aim to equip managers with essential business knowledge and Bulyanhulu: 93% basic management and leadership skills to further career development Buzwagi: 87% 89% 90% North Mara: 84% opportunities.
The Supervisory leadership development Programme 2011 2010 Tulawaka: 85% helps potential supervisors acquire the skills necessary to manage others.
as regards career development systems, we are in the process of developing a learning management System at our operations to support our training and development function, which will assist all employees in tracking and development and training monitoring their respective training and development histories and plans.
we ensure that appropriate training and development programmes are The implementation of the system commenced in early 2012 and should established and maintained to support and develop our employees, in be operational across all sites by the end of 2012.
Tanzania breast Zinduka cancer foundation HealtH eduCation HealtH establishment of youth clubs in secondary Sponsorship for a charity schools for malaria who are raising funds to prevention, sensitisation promote awareness of and awareness breast cancer annUal rePorT and accoUnTS 2011 59 Corporate responsibility continued employee compensation and benefits develop a collective bargaining agreement at bulyanhulu, as part of developments in our relationship with employee unions.
we aim to provide our employees with competitive compensation and benefit packages in line with our industry and peer group.
as part of during the year the commission for mediation and arbitration dismissed employee benefit reviews conducted during the year, we introduced claims relating to unfair dismissal brought against the bulyanhulu mine an increase of 7% to cost of living allowances for all national employees by former employees who were involved in an illegal labour strike at this to help offset the impact of local increases in inflation and volatility operation in 2007.
This decision is currently under appeal.
in the valuation of the Tanzanian shilling in the context of global no new material industrial relations actions were commenced currencies.
we also harmonised housing allowances for all national during 2011. employees to 15% of base salary.
as part of ongoing benefit reviews, we introduced new medical UNION MEMBERSHIP insurance plans during the course of the year and are reviewing life insurance arrangements for improved alignment with the needs and requirements of our employees.
Bulyanhulu: 57% we continuously monitor our benefit schemes to ensure that they Buzwagi: 42% 48% North Mara: 38% remain appropriate for employee needs across our employee base.
2010: 46% Tulawaka: 62% industrial relations we respect the rights of employees to freedom of association and collective bargaining.
This includes the right of our employees to join trade unions or other labour associations.
we work closely with relevant labour groups to Environment develop and manage effective labour relations programmes.
our approach overall, approximately 48% of our national employees were members we conduct our business in accordance with recognised industry standards of unions in 2011.
Trade union membership of our national workforce and applicable environmental laws and regulations.
in furtherance of this, in 2011 at each of our operations ranged from 62% at Tulawaka to 38% we have adopted specific environmental standards and incident reporting at north mara at various points.
Throughout the year we have seen a requirements.
abgs environmental director is accountable for day to day general increase in union membership at our operations, particularly management of abgs environmental practices and is required to work in as a result of membership of the Tanzanian mining and construction close collaboration with abgs mine site managers, project managers and workers Union Tamico, primarily as a result of the unionisation other members of abgs management team to ensure our standards are movement, which is occurring throughout Tanzania.
abgs environmental director reports directly to abgs importance that trade unions play within our stakeholders and we Senior director, environment and community relations.
are in the process of further developing our labour consultation and communication processes.
initiatives in 2011 included the introduction energy, water, greenhouse gases, biodiversity and land are the main of workers forums, capacity building in terms of labour legislation and environmental areas affected by our operations.
we use a number business ethics and regular meetings between management and union of metrics to measure our environmental impact across these areas.
we also concluded recognition agreements with as part of overall environmental controls, we also monitor our Tamico at bulyanhulu and Tulawaka during the year in accordance management processes for handling and disposing of waste and with applicable legal recognition requirements.
in 2012 we will look to hazardous materials used at our operations.
further information Nyamongo regarding the abg Court House development maendeleo CommunitY fund and the community investment committee is building of court house provided on our website: and living quarters to www.
com assist in provision of law and order in the mara region www.
com 60 overview performance governance financial Shareholder STaTemenTS informaTion 2011 environmental achievements and 2012 targets reclamation occurs throughout the mine life.
we revised closure plans and related cost estimates for each of our operations over the course of in 2011 we have seen a general improvement in our overall environmental 2011.
These plans have been submitted to the Tanzanian regulators for performance, primarily as a result of improved environmental controls review, as part of the overall approval processes.
consultation with and reporting procedures.
key achievements this year include: wider stakeholder groups will commence in 2012 as part of our overall the positive progress made towards the discharge of the ePo at long-term closure planning process.
north mara: we are in the process of developing various processes to assess the Tulawakas recertification under the international cyanide impact that our operations may have on biodiversity, which should management code international cyanide code : allow us to report in accordance with gri standards going forward.
improved use of our environmental management systems: improved reporting of environmental incidents and risks across energy use all abg sites: and The largest consumption of energy within our operations is represented positive progress made with permit applications and by diesel use, which is used for mobile fleet operations and electricity permitting processes.
we examine opportunities to reduce reliance on diesel generated power wherever possible and notably through during the year we increased our available resources in order to connection to the TaneSco power system.
however, our ability to progress the implementation of our environmental management system reduce our reliance on diesel generated power in 2011 was greatly and to promote uniform application of environmental management hindered by interruptions and stoppages in electricity and power supply practices across our operations.
as part of this process, we conducted a across Tanzania generally.
we will continue to monitor this issue closely review of social and legal obligations registers at all of our operations in and the overall impact that this may have on our energy consumption order to develop environmental compliance action plans at each of our and energy profile.
The roll out of these actions plans will continue into 2012. we use our fuel management systems to monitor our energy key targets for 2012 include the following: consumption.
electricity consumption is measured using power successful completion of the commissioning of the north mara metering at each of our operations.
overall diesel usage for 2011 water Treatment Plan, required for the discharge of the ePo: equalled 71% of our total energy profile, compared to 68% in 2010, completion of the permitting process for the creation of further primarily as a result of the increased use in diesel generated power at Paf waste dumps at north mara: our mine sites caused by the interruptions to electricity power supply throughout the year.
Purchased electricity totalled 28%, compared completion of buzwagis initial certification and bulyanhulus to 32% in 2010, again primarily as a result of overall reductions to recertification under the international cyanide code: electricity supply across Tanzania.
our use of explosives, propane, reducing abgs overall fresh water usage by 3%: and petrol and other fuels remained largely equivalent to the amounts continuing the implementation of our environmental used in 2010. management system.
over the course of 2011 we implemented a number of energy conservation Biodiversity and land management improvements across our organisation, to improve overall control and management.
in 2012 we aim to improve our power consumption controls we manage 15,531 hectares of land that we either own or lease at bulyanhulu with the implementation of a plant efficiency programme including surface rights and mineral rights.
of this land, less than to improve controls in plant energy use.
at buzwagi we aim to install 16.6% has been disturbed for mining activities.
of the disturbed area, capacitors to improve overall connections between this operation and the 82.7 hectares have been reclaimed to agreed post-mining uses.
Sungu Sungu Hospital AGGY Classic upgrade Entertainment HealtH sports Culture rehabilitation and Support of a sports gala upgrade of district in the mara region to hospital in the promote community mara region engagement annUal rePorT and accoUnTS 2011 61 Corporate responsibility continued national grid in order to improve the consistency and efficiency of energy TOTAL WATER USED supply.
This should improve overall power factors within the operations in litres used per tonne of ore produced electricity usage, thereby improving energy efficiency.
MEGAJOULES OF ENERGY USED PER TONNE OF ORE PROCESSED Bulyanhulu: 844 Buzwagi: 557 568 650 North Mara: 456 Bulyanhula: 780 2011 2010 Tulawaka: 777 Buzwagi: 399 North Mara: 421 505 Tulawaka: 1,185 457 2011 2010 water usage at each of our operations is dependent on a variety of factors including ore characteristics, design of the operations process plant, reagent usage, which in turn is dependent on the mining technique used, and differences in overall processing and throughput capacities.
Water we aim to recycle water as much as possible through our process we use water mainly for ore processing, dust suppression and rock facilities and also seek to improve water consumption by the use of blasting.
we obtain our water from both surface and ground water other water management processes, including rainwater harvesting sources.
each of our operations face water challenges, largely as a result methods, which is currently used as a key water management tool at our of either a surplus or lack of rainfall in the regional areas in which they buzwagi operation.
in this regard, of the total amount of water used in are located.
issues in water supply can impact our production and 2011, 2.8 million cubic metres represents recycled water.
going forward operations in a variety of ways, due to the important role that this and over the longer term, we aim to reduce overall group use of fresh plays in overall mining and processing procedures.
abg had a total volume of approximately 7.1 million cubic metres we strive to improve efficiencies in our overall water management and of water in circulation during 2011.
To maintain this volume for conservation systems.
all of our operations use programmes to monitor production requirements, a total of 4.3 million cubic metres of makeup water supply, storage, use and discharge.
during 2011 we improved data water was imported compared to 5.1 million cubic metres in 2010.
The management systems, developed hydro-geological models for three of decrease is primarily due to the reduction in tonnes milled at buzwagi our operations and upgraded water balance predictions at all of our during the reporting period as well as the use of increased water operations.
in 2012 we plan to implement a water conservation standard efficiencies at north mara.
our water consumption for 2011 is divided across all of our operations and increase overall water management into 0.4 million cubic metres sourced from ground water and 3.3 training to further enhance our water conservation procedures.
million cubic metres from surface water, with an additional 0.6 million cubic metres purchased from commercial sources.
we have also made significant progress in addressing outstanding issues relating to the discharge of the ePo at north mara.
The Tanzanian national environmental council nemc has recently confirmed our compliance with all requirements under the ePo, further to the construction of the water treatment plant.
commissioning of the plant, in accordance with Tanzanian requirements, is now underway.
Mwendakulima Chapulwa School Repair Dispensary Development Project HealtH eduCation an initiative to assist with the To assist with educational health situation around buzwagi facilities at local primary particularly hiv aidS, school where two buildings malaria and child illnesses have been condemned www.
com 62 overview performance governance financial Shareholder STaTemenTS informaTion we expect this exercise to be completed during the first half of 2012, The storage of tailings may present additional risks to the environment, following which we expect the ePo to be lifted.
property and individuals, in the event of a leakage or failure of group tailings dams.
as part of overall environmental risk assessments, gHg emissions our tailings facilities are subject to specific risk assessments and are independently audited on an annual basis.
all of our tailings we recognise that the mining industry is an energy intensive sector facilities passed the 2011 audit process without material issues.
and the related effects that energy consumption has on greenhouse gas ghg emissions and, in turn, climate change.
as part of energy Upgrades to the current tailing storage arrangements at bulyanhulu are conservation efforts, we pay particular attention to the tracking of being assessed in the context of the bulyanhulu cil expansion Project.
we also seek to identify ways in which we can improve environmental assessments and permitting processes to support this our energy efficiency or use alternative energy sources.
project were commenced in 2011 and will continue into 2012. our total ghg emissions for 2011 equalled 290,400 metric tonnes, of from a permitting perspective, we are currently seeking regulatory which 92,000 metric tonnes represented indirect emissions and 198,400 approvals for additional Paf waste rock dumps at north mara to metric tonnes represented direct emissions.
all of our indirect emissions accommodate future mining activities.
for the time being we have are associated with electrical power supply from the national grid.
obtained provisional permits, which provide for the construction of certain waste rock dumps at an extension to our existing Paf dumps.
overall, our ghg emissions in 2011 increased by 5.4% when compared These dumps will provide support for north maras waste stripping to that of 2010, primarily as a result of our increased mining activity schedule in the interim period.
and increased reliance on diesel generated power to address electricity supply interruptions.
we will continue to work with TaneSco, the Tanzanian national Power Utility, to progress the provision of stable Governance and business ethics electricity supply in Tanzania which should help to reduce our ghg The abg business management framework sets out the core standards emission levels.
we will also seek to manage the use of diesel fuel at our and practices for the way we work.
in addition to this, our code of operations, to the extent practicable, pending resolution of overall issues conduct embodies our commitment to conducting our business in in power supply.
we will look to establish longer-term targets for the accordance with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and the highest reduction of ghg emissions in 2012, in the context of overall power ethical standards.
we have also adopted specific policies in the areas of supply considerations.
bribery, corruption and fraud to underline our position on unacceptable and illegal actions.
Together with our code of conduct, these make Hazardous materials up abgs business ethics Policies, and are used to safeguard our core we have adopted a number of processes to mitigate environmental ethical standards during the day to day performance of our operations risks associated with the use, transportation and disposal of hazardous and business functions.
we use specific incident reporting procedures materials at our operations, particularly cyanide.
as regards cyanide to ensure that all alleged or suspected violations of our business ethics management, our core focus is to comply with the requirements of the are reported.
These include the use of our compliance hotline, which international cyanide code.
This code encompasses all areas of cyanide is available to all employees on a global basis.
all members of senior management and is generally recognised as setting best practice management are also required to complete training on our code of standards within the gold mining industry.
conduct and to certify their compliance as part of annual business ethics assessments.
bulyanhulu and north mara were originally certified as compliant under the international cyanide code in 2009.
Tulawaka obtained in 2011 the majority of reports submitted in connection with our code original certification in 2008. compliance recertification must be of conduct related to employee matters at our operations.
none of the obtained every three years.
bulyanhulu and north mara are currently reports made are expected to have a significant effect on abg.
categorised as being in full compliance with the code.
each will an overview of our core corporate governance practices, procedures undergo a recertification process in 2012.
Tulawaka is categorised and performance for 2011 is provided as part of our corporate as being in substantial compliance with the international cyanide governance report on page 81. code, following completion of its recertification in 2011. buzwagi has yet to receive its initial compliance certification, however, the application process for its certification is underway.
at present, Health & Safety buzwagis compliance certification is subject to the successful our approach completion of the upgrade of its detoxification plant.
we expect to The health and safety of our workforce is a critical component of our complete the upgrade of this plant in 2012 and we aim to complete culture.
we have a comprehensive health, safety and risk management buzwagis certification process in conjunction with this.
annUal rePorT and accoUnTS 2011 63 Corporate responsibility continued system for our underground and surface mining operations.
we also 2012 visible felt leadership Targets: require all contractors to provide and maintain a safe and healthy work general managers 2 per week environment, and ask that they meet, at a minimum, our health and safety managers and Superintendents 3 per week standards.
our vision is to ensure that every abg employee and contractor 1st & 2nd line supervisors 2 per shift goes home safe and healthy every day and we are committed to keeping Safety professionals 5 per week health and safety as a value that drives our overall performance.
visiting senior management every site visit abgs director of health and Safety is responsible for day to day in addition to the visible felt leadership, during 2012 we intend to management of abgs health and safety practices and works in close continue the focus on critical risk Standards, building capacity in collaboration with abgs mine site managers, project managers and our ohS team, and improving our governance regarding the timely other members of abgs management team to ensure our standards completion of action items associated with audits and incidents to are maintained.
abgs director of health & Safety reports directly help correct identified deficiencies and prevent recurring incidents.
to abgs chief operating officer.
another key area will be continuing to work with our Security work related injuries and fatalities, driving incidents and occupational department to reduce the number of injuries sustained in association illnesses are key focuses of our health and safety programmes and are with intruder incidents.
monitored on an ongoing basis for purposes of evaluating our health and safety performance.
incidents in the work place we measure progress towards our health and safety goal of ensuring 2011 Health and safety achievements and 2012 targets that every employee goes home safe and healthy every day by our health and Safety Plan was refreshed during the year to focus on monitoring lost time injury frequency rate lTifr and total reportable three core areas: staffing, visible felt leadership and enhanced critical injury frequency rate Trifr.
both of these indicators are industry risk standards across all of our operations.
The critical risk standards standards used to bench mark health and safety performance within the focus on the promotion of best practice health and safety standards as mining industry.
lTifr focuses on employee and contractor injuries regards ground control, hazardous energy isolation, working at heights, in the workplace that result in days lost from work, whereas the wider cranes and rigging and mobile equipment and driving.
a total of 15 Trifr category tracks all employee and contractor reported workplace critical risk Standards will be implemented across abg operations injuries, including lost time, restricted duty and those requiring medical by the end of 2013. we have adopted a new departmental organisation treatment.
Together, these indicators track the number of overall structure to support the implementation of this initiative.
This reportable injuries within our operating environment.
for 2011, included the creation of an occupational health and Safety Project abgs aggregate lTifr was 0.1, a 10% increase on 2010. however Superintendent at each operation to supervise the implementation our Trifr was 1.2 for the year, a 14% improvement on 2010. of the critical risk standards.
going forward, we aim to develop the critical risk standards so as to include other key operational areas.
we aim to achieve 10% improvement in both lTifr and Trifr in 2012. capacity building within the health and Safety function has been a core focus this year and we have seen a number of promotions within mine lTifr Trifr hours worked our existing employee base, increasing the overall skill set of our team.
bulyanhulu 0.07 1.41 9,104,033 we view investment in our existing team as essential to our long-term health and safety effort.
buzwagi 0.07 1.43 5,466,739 north mara 0.08 0.51 7,388,907 we have also progressed our health and safety management training with Tulawaka 0.20 2.15 2,981,029 the introduction of our visible felt leadership Training initiative.
The visible felt leadership programme includes training to understand the exploration 0.39 1.18 1,016,520 basic laws of human behaviour, organisational dynamics, organisational abg corporate offices 0 0 657,774 culture, and how a leader can productively and effectively influence abg 0.10 1.20 26,615,002 employee values, beliefs, and behaviours to improve health and safety performance.
it teaches leaders how to have highly focused and positive lTifr is calculated as the number of lost time injuries multiplied by 200,000 then divided interactions with employees in their work areas.
To support this training, by the total number of hours worked at each abg operation and in aggregate at abg.
targets for minimum interaction have been set for every level of Trifr is calculated as the number of total reportable injuries multiplied by 200,000 then divided by the total number of hours worked at each abg operation and in aggregate management for 2012 onwards.
all targets will be measured and at abg.
assessed as a leading performance indicator for health and safety.
com 64 overview performance governance financial Shareholder STaTemenTS informaTion regrettably, we suffered one work related fatality as a result of a rock fall collect comprehensive data of such illnesses, which should allow us to incident at bulyanhulu.
mining activities were immediately suspended to monitor progress in this area.
we are in the process of implementing allow the mine rescue team to commence the rescue and recovery mission, abg health standards, which are designed to prevent industrial but unfortunately rescue attempts were unsuccessful.
These standards will address illnesses such as occupational thoroughly investigated this incident.
ground support systems were also respiratory disease, noise exposures, musculoskeletal risks, ergonomics reviewed and assessed to ensure they provide a safe working environment and fatigue.
The development of abg health standards will progress and employees were retrained in the installation of these systems.
regular throughout 2012. in addition, all abg operations will be required to inspections are made to ensure that the correct ground support system is review their health risk assessments in 2012 and subsequently update both used and installed properly.
their monitoring and surveillance programmes as part of overall plans to progress our procedures for the mitigation of work related illnesses.
as part of health and safety training initiatives, members of abgs mine rescue teams participated in the barrick global mine rescue Summit as part of wider employee health programmes, we have also during the year.
events included surface and underground mine rescue implemented hiv aidS awareness and prevention programmes, as procedures, fire fighting, first aid, team and equipment function, as well well as tuberculosis and malaria programmes for our employees and as technical skills such as high angle rope rescue.
in turn, participating their families and the local communities at all abgs operating mines.
employees have held follow-up training sessions with wider abg team These programmes are conducted through mine site clinics, which also members to further enhance our emergency training programmes.
provide voluntary counselling and testing for all employees and their families and follow-up care and treatment for hiv-positive employees.
driving safety programmes Community Health impact assessments Hias To support existing safety initiatives, 2011 saw the roll out of inthinc technology across our mobile equipment and light fleet vehicles.
inthinc is hias are a combination of procedures, methods and tools that an electronic in-cab coaching device that monitors and measures real time systematically judge the potential, and sometimes unintended, effects seat belt use, speeding, and aggressive driving behaviours.
This significant of a project on the health of a population and the distribution of those investment in leading edge technology represents our belief that the effects within the population.
They generate information on the application of technology as an engineering control can have a favourable potential negative health impacts of mining to help identify mitigation impact on behaviour for improvements in health and safety performance.
measures and further accentuate positive impacts in a sustainable and replicable manner.
They are recognised as an essential part of overall in 2012 we will look to further enhance our driving safety initiatives in community impact assessments by The world bank and a number of three ways.
firstly, we intend to participate in a barrick global driving multilateral and bilateral donors and development ngos.
safety study group focused on defining ways to reduce driving related incidents.
Secondly, we will continue the process of refreshing, abg commenced a work stream of hias in 2009 at all operations and improving, and implementing our driving critical risk standard.
in development projects to assess potential impacts on public health for collaboration with these initiatives, we will also continue to work with purposes of formulating community health programmes.
we have retained our local communities and government to improve awareness, traffic an internationally renowned health consultancy firm to help drive this controls, and safe driving behaviours, which benefit wider stakeholders process.
The objective is to create community health management Plans within our operating environment.
chmPs for each of our sites.
at present, initial studies have been completed at buzwagi and Tulawaka, which should allow for the creation occupational health and illnesses of chmPs in the first quarter of 2012.
The process for production of hias at north mara and bulyanhulu will commence in 2012 and run health risk assessments form a key part of our health and safety throughout the year.
management system, and we are continuously seeking to identify hazards, to evaluate exposure potential, to control and manage health implementation of Hias risks, and to monitor health-related incidents.
The operational aspects mine Status Target of the programme comprise health surveillance, training and bulyanhulu outstanding commencement 2012 competence, medical care and management, record keeping and reporting, health promotion, employee assistance programmes, buzwagi ongoing completion 2012 mine life cycle planning and community health.
north mara outstanding commencement 2012 Prior to 2011, abg did not have a robust system for the diagnosis and Tulawaka ongoing completion 2012 documentation of occupational illness.
during the year we developed a procedure to guide the process of diagnosis, notification and investigation of occupational illnesses.
going forward we expect to annUal rePorT and accoUnTS 2011 65 Corporate responsibility continued key targets for 2012 include implementation of further improvements Security and Human Rights to security controls and systems, namely in the form of the completion our approach of safety walls, enhanced security technology for monitoring and surveillance, further developing training and understanding of the we believe that effective security controls, standards, policies and voluntary Principles within our local communities and at regional and procedures contribute to the safety and protection of our employees, national level and further development of security standards in line with assets and reputation as well as the communities in which we operate.
in particular, we are participating in the development of a central to this are the voluntary Principles on Security and human national working group to promote the use of the voluntary Principles rights the voluntary Principles.
our majority shareholder, barrick, in Tanzania in collaboration with Search for common ground.
key is a signatory participant to the voluntary Principles, and abg is participants include representatives of the Tanzanian government, committed to alignment with the voluntary Principles.
above all the Tanzanian minister for minerals and energy, members of the else, we respect the human rights of all individuals impacted by our international community, such as US and canadian representatives, operations and we do not tolerate any violations of human rights and other ngos.
committed by our employees, affiliates or any third party acting on our behalf.
security systems and training our security practices are governed by our Security management we employ security staff, retain security contractors and engage with framework.
This includes our Security code of conduct, Security the government of Tanzania in connection with matters relating to law Policy, Security management System, Security Standard for compliance and order in the localities in which we operate.
as part of our Security with the voluntary Principles and a number of guidelines for security management framework all security site personnel must participate processes and procedures, incident reporting and investigations.
This in security training at induction level and on a regular basis.
we also framework applies to all of our operations and must be adhered to by assist with the provision of training on the voluntary Principles to the all abg employees.
The implementation and enforcement of our members of the Tanzanian Policing Unit that are assigned to provide Security framework requires the involvement and co-operative efforts security in the areas surrounding our operations.
of a wide range of abg employees, including operations, security, legal, community, environmental and human resources staff.
our director of in 2011, we also assisted our ngo partner Search for common ground Security oversees day to day management of our security function and with the provision of training on the voluntary Principles to members reports directly to our chief operating officer.
we will continue to support the training of further members of the police force in this way in 2012. overall our objective as part of our commitment to the protection of human rights, we is to ensure all members of the police working in the vicinity of our have a human rights Policy, which defines our commitment to human operations receive training on the voluntary Principles.
rights and provides guidance to all abg employees and third party service providers of their responsibilities in this regard.
we also as of 31 december 2011, our security personnel, including contractors, maintain specific reporting and investigation procedures for all totalled 1,012. in 2011, we provided security training, including training suspected human rights violations.
we expect all abg employees to on human rights and the voluntary Principles to 1,823 individuals.
conduct themselves with the highest ethical standards and to respect we conduct security risk assessments as part of overall security control the rights of all individuals, be they fellow abg employees or members reviews at our operations.
we have concluded security risk assessments of local communities.
at all of our operations during the year and are in the process of 2011 achievements and 2012 priorities implementing recommendations.
we made a number of achievements in the overall progression of The north mara mine has advanced numerous initiatives to improve and our security management programme during the year, notably in enhance security arrangements during the year.
key achievements include: connection with our overall action plan to help progress law and completion of a review of the mines security perimeter to identify order in the north mara region.
construction is now underway on a new 14 kilometre safety wall to prevent illegal miners from accessing hazardous areas.
key achievements include the enhancement of the abg Security construction is expected to be completed by Q3 2012. management framework, the establishment of our partnership with Search for common ground, enhancements to the north mara security installation of gPS tracking functionality to security radios, allowing systems, adoption of a formal abg human rights Policy, initiation of for better oversight and co-ordination of security personnel at the mine.
our updated human rights training programme and increased training installation of additional ccTv cameras in sensitive areas at the of security personnel.
new camera equipment has also been ordered to support the upgraded safety wall.
com 66 overview performance governance financial Shareholder STaTemenTS informaTion recruitment and deployment of additional female security officers our activities in 2012 will focus on the continued development of human for strategic deployment on the mine site where potential for sexual rights training and compliance programmes across our operations.
search for Common ground further development of mandatory human rights training, to encompass sexual assault issues.
all abg security personnel we have established a partnership with an internationally recognised have participated in updated training.
ngo, Search for common ground, to facilitate conflict resolutions and to help strengthen trust and improve collaboration at all abg Upgrading procedures for escalation of allegations of human operations and in the local communities.
active in 27 countries, Search rights violations.
for common ground uses a multi-faceted approach, working with distribution in nearby communities of new materials and local partners to find culturally appropriate ways to deal with conflicts information to improve understanding of the inherent dangers constructively, to understand differences and act on commonalities.
associated with illegal mining and intrusions on the mine site.
representatives from Search for common ground are undertaking This builds on previous public education campaigns.
the following activities around abgs mine sites: in addition, abg and the Tanzanian ministry of home affairs have Providing training on the voluntary Principles on Security and completed a review of existing security arrangements with police in human rights to Tanzanian police.
The review recommended that abg continue to implementing conflict reduction, resolution and negotiation training operate under an existing memorandum of Understanding with police programmes for community members, including leaders, traditional while security upgrades are underway.
once new perimeter fencing and authorities elders, youth and women.
other enhanced security features are complete, both parties will review creating and distributing  educational materials progress with the intention of shifting resources to community policing to inform community members about the voluntary Principles on activities and capacity building for local law enforcement.
Security and human rights, U. n. guidelines on the use of force by law enforcement officials, sexual harassment, community policing Human rights initiatives and universal human rights.
during the year, and unrelated to the site intrusion in may, we learned assisting abg in reviewing its external grievance mechanism to of disturbing allegations of sexual assaults by police and mine security deal with community concerns for use in connection with historical around the north mara mine.
after conducting preliminary inquiries, grievances as well as present and future concerns.
abg launched a full investigation and urged Tanzanian police to do facilitating negotiation processes between abg and the communities the same.
To date, abg investigators have conducted more than 200 on a range of issues of concern, such as resettlement.
interviews and have provided relevant information to police.
designing alternative sources of economic development to help reduce poverty in the area and, as a result, reduce the number we are unwavering in our commitment to respect human rights at all of mine intruders.
of our operations and we have a zero-tolerance approach to human evaluating an appropriate remedy programme for victims of sexual rights violations.
in addition to our existing code of conduct and assault, aligned with international human rights norms.
procedures, which provide for human rights training as part of our developing a proposal for specific initiatives to help address violence commitment to the voluntary Principles, during the year we have against women in the mara region.
adopted a specific human rights policy based on international best practices.
in furtherance of this, we are implementing an updated organising sporting events with mixed teams comprised of human rights compliance programme.
Progress is underway in community representatives, police, mine employees and district numerous areas, including: government officials, with the objective of developing collaborative community spirit.
new procedures for reporting and investigating allegations of human rights violations.
in 2011 Search for common ground provided training on human human rights training for employees, relevant contractors and rights and conflict resolution to 508 members of the Tanzanian Police other stakeholders.
we will continue to support Search for common ground in the progression of these activities and its promotion of the voluntary new procedures related to employee hiring and due diligence Principles across Tanzania as we move into 2012. requirements for certain employees and third party suppliers.
human rights assessments to be conducted by third party experts at all operations and projects, encompassing leading human rights indicators, including sexual violence.
annUal rePorT and accoUnTS 2011 67 Corporate responsibility continued operating sustainaBilitY aCross tHe mine life CYCle Exploration & Feasibility Planning & Construction informed consultation: we follow an approach that demonstrates public disclosure & consultation: through stakeholder engagement sensitivity, patience and commitment to help build relationships that we aim to maintain transparency and consistency to help build and are based on trust and mutual understanding.
from the very beginning maintain credibility, trust and broad community support.
we focus on we strive to engage in a culturally appropriate manner that respects providing a timely and meaningful exchange of reliable and appropriate traditional protocols, to help establish and maintain support for information that works towards a balance of interests with our diverse our activities.
access to land: we work with our local stakeholders to understand permitting: we keep abreast of Tanzanian regulatory requirements individual and communal land use, and both constitutional and in order to apply for formal permits for our activities in a timely and customary land rights.
we focus on conducting access negotiations transparent manner.
in a courteous and transparent manner to gain ongoing acceptance Land acquisition & resettlement: we are mindful of the prevailing and local approval.
traditional customs for gaining access to land, land allocation, land Baseline studies: before we begin our operations we seek to capture use and compensation in rural Tanzania.
we aim to avoid or minimise accurate quantitative and factual qualitative information using the economic, or physical, displacement of communities.
when internationally accepted mapping and participatory methodologies.
resettlement is necessary we seek to align with international standards we seek to gain a thorough understanding of the complexities to minimise the impact on the affected individuals, households and and subtleties of the locality in which we wish to operate to help communities.
our internal governance structures help to ensure that us proactively manage our activities in a responsible and evaluations, negotiations, compensation, relocation and subsequent sustainable manner.
monitoring are all undertaken in a systematic, sensitive and transparent manner giving due consideration to more vulnerable social groups.
impact assessment: we recognise that our presence can affect local conditions in a myriad of ways.
To help us understand this effect we influx management: population growth and project induced follow international good practice and conduct a variety of assessments in-migration has become a significant challenge for the mining that help to ensure we properly identify and fully assess the potential industry throughout africa.
we plan for influx through our proactive impact, risks and opportunities that our proposed activities may have engagement with government and our own strategic and fully integrated on host communities.
approaches: especially with respect to local hiring, employee housing, resettlement and our social investment interventions.
management planning: we develop methodical plans to help mitigate the impacts of our activities.
To help us drive towards true sustainable development our planning continuously seeks to identify and address the key risks, challenges and opportunities that our presence may bring.
com 68 overview performance governance financial Shareholder STaTemenTS informaTion Operations Closure natural resource management: we have focused initiatives at integrated closure planning: we are developing processes to support various stages of development and implementation for cyanide closure planning, which we will develop throughout the life of our management and certification and reducing ghg and other mines.
we aim to provide for continual stakeholder engagement and emissions.
where possible, we aim to improve our renewable energy will seek independent advice, where necessary, in order to develop use, water conservation, and biodiversity management.
our understanding and knowledge of the various risks, impacts and associated mitigation strategies required for effective closure planning.
Local content employment & procurement : we are aware of the our approach aspires to leave a lasting positive legacy in Tanzania by significant potential economic effect of local hiring and purchasing.
working with our stakeholders to prepare for our eventual departure we therefore focus on using the comparative advantage of our business and the closure of our operations.
to create inclusive procedures for local employment, and maximising commercial opportunities for local suppliers through business linkages.
Disclosure & consultation: the responsible closure of our operations we appreciate that effective localisation will add significant value will necessitate the active participation of a range of affected and to Tanzania, our local communities and our company and work interested stakeholders, including government, to define mutually on a variety of programmes to develop local skills, provide our local agreed closure criteria and thereafter plan and implement actions employees with opportunities to advance in the company and meet that will underpin successful closure.
both our ongoing and future workforce needs.
reclamation & rehabilitation: wherever practical we try to focus on social investment: our presence always raises expectations that we will progressive reclamation during the operational mine life.
for all our assist communities in meeting their basic needs.
our social investment operations we aim to develop competent decommissioning, reclamation in Tanzania always seeks to encourage equality, local ownership, active and rehabilitation plans that detail the technical remediation solutions partnerships and sustainability with the objective of avoiding the to provide for the biophysical integrity and chemical stability of our creation of dependency.
management systems: we govern all our sustainability interventions custodial transfer & relinquishment: throughout the closure process through management systems that define performance requirements for we aim to adopt participatory methodologies to promote broad internal all core functions.
our systems and tools help us to promote consistency and external stakeholder acceptance, minimise grievances, and to across our operations, manage our risks, opportunities and relationships, provide for tenure relinquishment, and eventual transfer to the and satisfy our legal obligations and voluntary commitments.
assurance and reporting: we endeavour to monitor, evaluate and Long-term monitoring: we will co-define the closure goals and report on the effectiveness of our actions, and the outcomes, through benchmarks with our stakeholders.
we will endeavour to use qualitative both external independent assessments and internal performance and quantitative monitoring metrics that have external and internal audits.
we are keen to share our achievements and discuss our focuses and that are relevant to different target groups.
challenges with our stakeholders and shareholders.
