Senior management CommITTED To HIgH PERfoRmAnCE in addition to abgs Executive directors listed on previous page, Senior management includes the following: Marco Zolezzi, age 56 Chief Operating Officer Katrina White, age 36 General Counsel and Company Secretary Skills and experience: mr Zolezzi was previously employed as director Skills and experience: ms white was previously employed by barrick, of technical Services for barricks australia Pacific region.
Prior to that, where she served as regional general counsel and company Secretary mr Zolezzi held a number of senior project roles in the industry, for barrick australia africa, subsequently barrick australia Pacific including five years with newcrest mining, where he was general from 2005 to 2010.
Prior to joining barrick, ms white was employed manager at the telfer mine, taking it from the project stage through to as a senior associate at Hunt & Humphry in australia.
ms white has an full production, as well as 13 years with wmc resources in a number Honours degree in law from the University of western australia.
She of senior operational and technical roles.
in total, mr Zolezzi has over is admitted to practise as a barrister and solicitor in western australia, 30 years of experience in complex open pit and underground operations the High court of australia and the federal court of australia.
in australia and South africa, with a variety of operational, technical Andrew Wray, age 48 and project management roles.
in addition to diplomas in mining and Head of Corporate Development and Investor Relations mechanical Engineering from witwatersrand institute of technology in South africa, mr Zolezzi holds bachelor degrees in applied Science, Skills and experience: mr wray was previously employed by JP morgan mechanical from the new South wales institute of technology and cazenove, where he was a director in the corporate finance team.
in applied Science, mining from the western australian institute mr wray has over 13 years of experience in advising a range of mining of technology.
and other companies in their capital-raising activities and in other strategic objectives.
Prior to joining JP morgan, mr wray worked for Deodatus Mwanyika, age 49 vice President, Corporate Affairs the kuwait investment office in london, dealing with their portfolio Skills and experience: mr mwanyika was previously employed by of investments in Spain.
mr wray holds a bachelor of arts Honours barrick, which he joined in 1999 as a legal consultant and where degree in modern languages from University college london.
he occupied various managerial positions over the last 11 years, Kobus van vuuren, age 52 Head of Human Resources culminating in his appointment in 2008 as Executive general manager, tanzania.
mr mwanyika holds a bachelor of law degree with Honours Skills and experience: Prior to joining barrick, mr van Vuuren was from the University of dar es Salaam and a masters in law from the Senior director Human resources and Services at midroc gold University of cambridge.
mr mwanyika is a member of the tanganyika Ethiopia, and occupied various managerial positions over the previous law Society and the East african law Society.
24 years at anglogold and Harmony gold.
He joined barrick in 2007 as Human resources manager at north mara, and served in a number Peter Spora, age 42 vice President, Exploration of capacities, including organisational Effectiveness manager and Skills and experience: mr Spora was previously employed by barrick, mine general manager, before being promoted to his current position where he served as Principal geologist, africa, from 2006 to 2008 and in 2009. mr van Vuuren is a diplomat of the institute of Personnel Exploration manager, africa, from 2008 to 2010. mr Spora has over management and has several qualifications in Hr, training and 17 years of experience as a geologist in australia and africa.
He holds development and industrial relations.
He is a member of the a bachelor of applied Science in geology degree from the University Society for Human resource management SHrm.
He is a member of the australian institute of mining and metallurgy ausimm, a member of the tanzanian chamber of minerals and Energy, and is a member of the Society of Economic geologists.
