Directors report an overview of directors appointments for the duration of the year abg is incorporated and registered as a public limited under review is provided below: company in England and wales.
its headquarters are date of appointment date of termination in london and it is listed on the main market of the aaron regent 15 february 2010 n a london Stock Exchange and the dar es Salaam Stock greg Hawkins 15 february 2010 n a Exchange under the symbol abg.
kevin Jennings 14 January 2010 n a James cross 15 february 2010 march 2012 Principal activities andre falzon 15 february 2010 n a The abg group is the largest gold producer in tanzania and the fifth Stephen galbraith 19 January 2010 n a largest in africa, growing from no production in 2000 to 688,278 david Hodgson 20 october 2011 n a attributable ounces in 2011. it has four producing mines, all located ambassador Juma V. mwapachu 14 July 2011 n a in northwest tanzania, and several exploration projects at various stages of development.
The abg group has substantial gold mining michael kenyon 15 february 2010 n a experience and expertise, from exploration and development through derek Pannell 15 february 2010 n a to mine construction and operation.
with the exception of James cross, all directors will put themselves our four mines are: forward for re-election at the forthcoming agm.
details of director bulyanhulu: an underground gold mine, which began production re-election requirements are provided on page 84. in april 2001: bobby godsell was appointed to the board on 15 february 2010 and buzwagi: an open pit gold mine, which began production in resigned from the board on 11 august 2011 to pursue other interests.
may 2009: north mara: an open pit gold mine consisting of three open pit Directors indemnity insurance deposits, which began production in april 2002: and in accordance with abgs articles of association and to the extent permitted tulawaka: an open pit gold mine, which has transitioned to an by the companies act 2006, abg may indemnify its directors out of its underground operation.
it began production in June 2005. own funds to cover liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
The relevant provision contained in the articles can be categorised as a qualifying third further details of abg groups activities are provided in the overview party indemnity provision under the companies act 2006. abg has and Performance sections of this report.
details of abgs registered adopted directors and officers liability insurance.
This provides insurance office and business locations are provided on the back cover.
cover for any claim brought against directors or officers for wrongful acts in connection with their positions.
The insurance provided does not extend to Business review claims arising from fraud or dishonesty and it does not provide cover for The requirements of the business review are contained in the civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed by law.
overview and Performance sections of this report.
Directors interests an overview of the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the details of the interests of directors and their connected persons in abg group is provided as part of the risk management section abgs shares or in related derivates or financial instruments are of this report.
outlined in the directors remuneration report on page 111.
See the corporate responsibility section for information on Employee share schemes environmental, employee, social and community matters.
details of abgs employee share plans and long-term incentive plans all of the matters above are incorporated by reference in this are contained on pages 104 and 105. directors report.
Employees Directors information relating to employees is contained on page 141 in The names and biographies of the directors serving as at note 6 to the consolidated financial statements and the corporate 31 december 2011 are provided on pages 78 and 79. responsibility section.
abg abides by anti-discrimination legislation in all jurisdictions in which it operates.
These principles are also set out in abgs business management framework and code of conduct, which set out the framework in which abg expects all staff to operate.
com 94 oVErViEw PErformancE GOvERNANCE financial SHarEHoldEr StatEmEntS information is supported by anti-discrimination standards and training in offices details of abgs issued share capital and any movements during and mine sites which identify the required standards and provide the year are included on page 150 in note 22 to the consolidated mechanisms to raise any concerns with management.
Dividends Major shareholdings an interim dividend of US3.2 cents per share was paid to shareholders The following persons as at 1 march 2012 are interested in the following on 26 September 2011.
The directors recommend the payment of a final percentages of abgs issued ordinary share capital.
dividend of US13.1 cents per share.
Subject to shareholders approval of this recommendation at the agm, the dividend will be paid on Percentage number of issued 25 may 2012 to shareholders on the register at 4 may 2012.
The name of shares share capital ex-dividend date is 2 may 2012. barrick international barbados corp. 179,609,530 43.80 abg will declare the final dividend in US dollars.
Unless a shareholder Pdg bank limited 37,378,450 9.11 has elected or elects to receive dividends in US dollars, dividends will be Pdg Sona cayman ltd. 86,258,970 21.03 paid in pounds sterling with the US dollar amount being converted into Total 303,246,950 73.94 pounds sterling at exchange rates prevailing on or around 9 may 2012. currency elections must be made by return of currency election forms all of these shareholders are members of the barrick group.
by the deadline date of 8 may 2012.
Relationship with major shareholder Annual General Meeting an overview of abgs relationship with barrick and the relationship abgs agm will be held on 19 april 2012 at 2.00pm Uk time.
The agreement that has been executed in respect of their ongoing notice of agm and all accompanying details of business to be conducted relationship is provided on page 88. there are included in a separate document accompanying this report: they are also available on abgs website: www.
Political and charitable donations abg does not make political donations.
information as regards abgs The right of a shareholder to participate in the business of the agm social and community contributions for the year is provided on page 56 shall include without limitation the right to speak, vote on a show of and as part of our finance review.
hands, vote on a poll, be represented by a proxy and have access to all documents which are required by the companies act 2006 or Creditor payment policy the articles of association to be made available to the meeting.
it is abg policy to settle all debts with creditors on a timely basis and in accordance with terms and conditions agreed in advance with each Share capital creditor.
further details on trade creditors are provided on page 152 as at 31 december 2011, abgs issued share capital comprised in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
410,085,499 ordinary Shares of 10 pence each.
The voting rights of all abg shares are identical, with each share carrying the right to one vote.
Suppliers abg holds no ordinary Shares in treasury and does not have any class it is abgs policy that, subject to compliance with trading terms by the of share other than its ordinary Shares.
further details on voting rights supplier, payments are made in accordance with terms and conditions and rights relating to the transfer of shares are provided below.
agreed in advance with the supplier.
abgs articles of association provide the authority for abg to purchase as at 31 december 2011 abg had an average of 58 creditor days for its own shares including any redeemable preference shares, provided the abg group compared to 51 in 2010. that it complies with any applicable requirements contained in the companies act 2006, the crESt regulations or any other applicable Policy on derivatives, financial instruments and financial law.
as part of resolutions passed at the 2011 agm, abg obtained risk management shareholder approval to make market purchases of up to 41,008,550 of abgs policies on financial risk management, derivatives, financial its ordinary Shares, equivalent to 10 percent, of the issued share capital instruments and information on its exposures to foreign currency, at the time of approval.
The authority was granted subject to stated commodity prices, credit, equity, liquidity and interest rates can be upper and lower limits in accordance with listing rule requirements found in notes 27, 28 and 29 to the consolidated financial statements and expires at the forthcoming agm.
The authority was not exercised contained on pages 153 to 160 of this report.
during the year under review.
an equivalent shareholder resolution will be sought as a matter of ordinary business at the forthcoming agm.
annUal rEPort and accoUntS 2011 95 Directors report continued the directors consider the following contractual relationships and Material agreements containing change of control provisions arrangements as essential for the conduct of abgs business: The directors consider the following as material agreements and arrangements for abgs business and operations, which contain Tulawaka Agreement: although the tulawaka mine is 100% owned provisions which alter or terminate on a change of control of abg: and operated by Pangea minerals limited, the economic interest in the mine is divided on a 70:30 basis following a 1998 contractual joint Services Agreement: as part of its iPo preparations, abg entered venture agreement between Pangea goldfields inc, an abg group into a services agreement with barrick under which barrick provides company, Pgi and mdn inc mdn.
The tulawaka agreement certain services to abg and the other members of the abg group provides that all capital and operating costs associated with the for the ongoing operation of the business.
These services include tulawaka mine are funded by Pgi and mdn on a 70:30 basis, and support for information technology, technical services, security and that Pgi is contractually obligated to pay mdn an amount equal other administrative and corporate functions.
The services agreement to 30% of the net cash generated by the tulawaka mine, less any provides that the services are to be provided to the abg group for applicable withholding.
an initial period of 12 months and will continue in force unless Mineral development agreements: each abg group operating mine terminated.
The agreements termination events include a basis for has a mineral development agreement mda with the tanzanian either party to terminate the agreement with immediate effect in government.
The material terms and conditions of each such mda the event of specified breaches of the agreement, insolvency or are substantially similar and include provisions governing royalty analogous events or a change of control.
payments, taxes and other charges, banking arrangements, local Relationship Agreement: see page 88 of this report for an overview procurement obligations, and import rights.
The mdas also provide of the relationship agreement.
for no expropriation or nationalisation rights.
broadly these rights Credit Agreement: an overview of the credit agreement between, provide that the tanzanian government will not nationalise or among others, abg and citibank international plc as administrative compulsorily acquire the whole or any part of abgs interest in the agent, is provided on page 49 of this report and page 184, note 27 to applicable special mining licences or any of its property or its the consolidated financial statements.
a change of control of abg is a contractors or subcontractors property used for the purpose of mandatory prepayment event under the credit agreement and, subject mining operations or in relation to the applicable special mining to certain exceptions, a termination event.
Each mda is governed by tanzanian law.
adherence to the terms and conditions of the mdas abgs mining concessions are held by its operating companies in tanzania.
is of significant importance to abgs business, given the agreements Under applicable law, a change of control of the operating companies overall importance to our operations.
requires the consent of the minister of Energy and minerals in tanzania.
TANESCO relationship: the north mara, buzwagi and bulyanhulu There are no agreements in place between abg and its directors mines rely upon electrical power generated by the state power utility or employees which provide for compensation for loss of office or company, tanESco.
abg has entered into a number of agreements employment resulting from a change of control of abg.
and arrangements with tanESco in respect of power supply and purchase prices.
These agreements are reviewed on a regular basis.
Special provisions also allow the early exercise of awards made as national electricity generation and transmission systems in under abgs Stock option Plan and early vesting of awards made tanzania are limited, abgs ongoing relationship with tanESco under abgs long-term incentive Plan ltiP, in the event of a is of significant importance to its operations and business.
any takeover, reconstruction or winding up.
in such circumstances, the adverse change or development in this relationship could produce compensation committee determines whether and to what extent a material adverse effect on abgs operations, performance and options or awards become exercisable, by taking into account all financial condition.
relevant facts and circumstances including, but not limited to, satisfaction of any applicable performance condition.
all other material contracts and arrangements are summarised above, under material agreements containing change of control provisions.
when determining the vesting of ltiP awards or options, the committee may proportionately reduce the award depending on Going concern the time which has elapsed between the first day of the performance The directors statement on going concern is contained on page 50 period and the date of change of control.
alternatively, awards may of this report.
be exchanged for new equivalent awards where appropriate.
Corporate governance compliance Significant relationships The statement on compliance with the Uk corporate governance code abgs relationship with barrick as its majority shareholder is for the reporting period is contained on page 89 of this report.
summarised on page 88 of this report.
in addition to this relationship, www.
com 96 oVErViEw PErformancE GOvERNANCE financial SHarEHoldEr StatEmEntS information paid up on the shares during any portion or portions of the period in Articles of association respect of which the dividend is paid, but if any share is issued on terms The companys articles of association may be amended by special providing that it shall rank for dividend as from a particular date, it resolution of the shareholders.
shall rank for dividend accordingly.
no amount paid up on a share in advance of the date on which a call is payable shall be treated as paid Shareholder rights up on the share.
The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary Shares contained in abgs articles of association are as follows: Payment of any dividend declared may be satisfied wholly or partly by the distribution of specific assets, and in particular of paid up shares voting rights or debentures of abg, with shareholder approval.
Subject to any special rights or voting restrictions contained in the The directors may retain any dividend or other money payable on or articles of association for any class of share, at any general meeting every in respect of a share on which abg has a lien and may apply the same member who is present in person or by proxy shall on a show of hands towards satisfaction of the monies payable to abg in respect of that share.
have one vote and every member present in person or by proxy shall on a poll have one vote for each share of which he or she is the holder.
Unless the directors otherwise determine, the payment of any dividend or other money that would otherwise be payable in respect of shares a resolution put to a vote of the meeting shall be decided on a show of will be withheld, and abg shall have no obligation to pay interest on it, hands, unless a poll is duly demanded.
Subject to the provisions of the if such shares represent at least 0.25% of the nominal value of the issued companies act 2006, a poll may be demanded by the chairman, by at least share capital of their class and the holder, or any other person appearing five members who have the right to vote at the meeting, by a member or to be interested in those shares, has been issued with a Section 793 members representing not less than one-tenth of the total voting rights of notice and has failed to supply the information required by such notice all the members having the right to vote at the meeting, or by a member within 14 days.
furthermore, such a holder shall not be entitled to elect or members holding shares conferring a right to vote at the meeting, being to receive shares instead of a dividend.
shares on which an aggregate sum has been paid up equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all the shares conferring that right.
The payment by the board of any unclaimed dividend or other monies on or in respect of a share into a separate account shall not constitute Unless the directors otherwise determine, a shareholder is not entitled abg a trustee in respect thereof.
all dividends unclaimed for a period to vote at a shareholders meeting, either in person or by proxy, or to of 12 years after having been declared or become due for payment shall exercise any other right conferred by membership in relation to a be forfeited and shall revert to abg.
shareholders meeting, unless and until all calls or other sums presently payable by him in respect of that share with interest and expenses Transfer of shares if any have been paid to abg or if he or any other person appearing to be interested in shares has been issued with a notice pursuant to Subject to any applicable restrictions, each member may transfer all or Section 793 of the companies act 2006 requiring disclosure of interest any of his or her shares, which are in certificated form, by instrument in shares and has failed to provide the required information within of transfer in writing in any usual form or in any other form acceptable 14 days from the service of the notice.
to the board and may be under hand only.
Such instrument shall be executed by or on behalf of the transferor and in the case of a transfer Dividend rights of a share which is not fully paid up by or on behalf of the transferee.
The transferor shall be deemed to remain the holder of such share until The board may declare and pay dividends on any class of shares the name of the transferee is entered in the register in respect of it.
carrying a fixed dividend expressed to be payable on fixed dates and may from time to time pay interim dividends as it thinks fit.
final all transfers of shares which are in uncertificated form shall, unless the dividends shall be declared by ordinary shareholder resolution, in crESt regulations otherwise provide, be effected on a relevant system.
no dividend declared by shareholders shall exceed the amount recommended by the board.
The directors may, in their absolute discretion and without giving any reason, refuse to register any transfer of a share in certificated form Provided that the board acts in good faith, it shall not incur any liability or renunciation of a renounceable letter of allotment unless: to shareholders for any loss that they may suffer by the lawful payment i it is in respect of a share which is fully paid up: of any fixed or interim dividend on any shares ranking after or pari passu with those shares.
ii it is in respect of only one class of shares: iii it is in favour of not more than four joint transferees: Except as otherwise provided by the rights attached to shares, all iv it is lodged duly stamped if so required at the transfer office: dividends shall be apportioned and paid proportionately to the amounts annUal rEPort and accoUntS 2011 97 Directors report continued v i t is accompanied by the relevant certificate for the shares to which The articles contain an express authority for the appointment of it relates and such other evidence as the directors may reasonably Executive directors and provide the directors with the authority to require to prove the title of the transferor and the due execution delegate or confer upon such directors any of the powers exercisable by of the transfer or, if the transfer is executed by some other person them upon such terms and conditions and with such restrictions as they on his behalf, the authority of that person to do so: and see fit.
The articles contain additional authorities to delegate powers and discretions to committees and subcommittees.
vi in the case of partly paid shares listed on the london Stock Exchange, such refusal would prevent dealings in such shares Borrowing powers from taking place on an open and proper basis.
Subject to the provisions of the companies act 2006, the crESt Unless the board otherwise determines, a transfer of shares will not regulations and any other applicable law, the directors may exercise all be registered if the transferor or any other person appearing to be the powers of abg to borrow money, guarantee, indemnify, mortgage interested in the transferors shares has been issued with Section 793 or charge its undertaking, property present and future and uncalled shares in respect of shares representing at least 0.25% of their class and capital or any part or parts thereof and issue debentures and other the relevant information has not been supplied within 14 days.
This securities, whether outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability restriction on transfer will not automatically apply if the member is not or obligation of abg or of any third party up to a maximum amount personally in default as regards supplying the information required and of two times the aggregate of the abg groups adjusted total equity, the proposed transfer is only part of the members holding, provided calculated in accordance with the procedure contained in the articles that certain requirements are satisfied at the time of presenting the of association.
borrowings in excess of this amount require prior transfer for registration.
Division of ABg assets on a winding up new issues of shares if abg is wound up, the liquidator may, with the sanction of a Subject to the provisions of the companies act 2006, the crESt shareholder special resolution, divide the whole or any part of abgs regulations and every other enactment for the time being in force assets between shareholders.
in such circumstances the liquidator may relating to the directors authority to allot shares and or the value any assets and determine how the division shall be carried out as disapplication of pre-emption rights and to any resolution of the between the shareholders or different classes of shareholder.
Subject to company in general meeting regarding the same, the directors may certain requirements, the liquidator may also vest any part of the assets allot with or without conferring a right of renunciation, grant options in trustees on such trusts for the benefit of the shareholders, but no over or otherwise dispose of them to such persons, at such times and shareholder shall be compelled to accept any assets on which there on such terms as they think proper.
abgs shareholders passed the following resolutions relating to the variation of rights allotment and pre-emption right disapplications at the 2011 agm: if at any time the share capital of abg is divided into shares of different i The directors have been granted an authority to allot new shares classes, rights attached to a class may only be varied in such manner and to grant rights to subscribe for or convert any security into if any as may be provided by prescribed rights or, in the absence of any shares up to a nominal value of 13,532,821, which was equivalent such provision, either with the consent in writing of the holders of not to approximately 33 percent of the total issued ordinary share less than three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of the class capital of abg at the time of passing the resolution, exclusive of or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general treasury shares.
meeting of the holders of shares of the class duly convened and held.
ii Pre-emption rights were disapplied over new shares allotted for cash pursuant to the authority granted at i above but only: Powers of Directors a in connection with a pre-emptive offer or rights issue: or managing the business b otherwise up to a nominal value of 2,050,427 equivalent to approximately five percent of the total issued ordinary share abgs business is managed by the board, and the articles of association capital of abg at the time of passing the resolution.
permit the board to exercise all of abgs powers in this regard.
These powers may be exercised by any meeting of the board at which a These authorities have not been exercised during the reporting period quorum of two directors is present.
The power of the board to manage and will expire on the date of the forthcoming agm.
Equivalent the business is subject to any limitations imposed by the companies resolutions for a renewal of these authorities will be put to the act, the articles of association or any directions given by special shareholders at the forthcoming agm.
resolution of the shareholders applicable at a relevant time.
