E C N E L L E C X E L A N O I T A R E S P T O R O N H I N O G I G T H A P F S E I I R N N F A A O G R R N M O C A E I N C Business model Creating a high performanCe organisation at abg we have a best in class approach to business, for our people, our communities and the host countries in which we operate.
our business model focuses on the creation of a high performance organisation, something that is fundamental for the realisation of our long-term strategy.
INDUSTRY EXPERTISE PEOPLE & QUALITY MANAGEMENT ASSET BASE RESPONSIBLE GOVERNANCE & MINING RISK MANAGEMENT www.
com 12 A C N L E A O M P R R E G O R A F F N R I E O S P A R H T M I G O I A H N N C E E T A R E P O O T E C N E C I L overview pErformancE govErnancE financial SHarEHoldEr STaTEmEnTS informaTion ESTABLiSHing SOLiD fOUnDATiOnS DEvELOping KEy STREngTHS at the heart of our business model lie the foundations when combined, the foundations of our organisation which we believe embody our commitment to excellence.
create our core standards, which in turn will create and Together, these foundations form the base structure for develop key strengths in operational excellence and the creation of a high performance organisation.
They also safeguard and help to promote our licence to operate.
all of these factors are industry expertise fundamental qualities of a high performance organisation.
we believe that industry and regional knowledge and expertise are critical operational excellence in order to drive performance.
as such we place a premium on our existing experience of acquiring, financing and building mines in Tanzania and the we believe that the alignment of our operational and governance collective experience of the mining industry and the african region held standards with international, industry and peer group best practice between our board members and management team.
provides us with the framework to achieve the highest possible levels of productivity, safety and efficiency within our operations, all being Quality asset base components of operational excellence that drives business performance.
our long life, high grade reserve and resource base and the substantial strong financial performance expansion opportunities that are available through near mine projects at our existing operations provide us with a solid basis on which to our business and operational processes are focused on the achievement develop and grow our business into a pan-african player within of targets while maintaining a strict cost discipline, optimising capital our industry.
efficiency and maintaining a conservative balance sheet.
This allows us to produce strong financial results to support the development of our governance and risk management business and for our shareholders.
Effective governance and controls is crucial for the realisation of licence to operate our business strategy.
for this reason our business management framework allocates responsibilities for the monitoring, review we maintain our reputation as a good corporate citizen by mining in a and management of our business and strategy throughout our responsible manner for the benefit of our people, the environment and organisational structure, ensuring that accountability for performance the host countries in which we work.
in turn this status provides and is shared across our governance functions.
we use the same approach supports our licence to operate in the eyes of all relevant stakeholders, for risk management to ensure that business risks are identified, allowing us to progress our business on the basis of common mitigated and controlled and focus our business practices on best expectations and objectives.
responsible mining we conduct our business in a way that reflects our commitment to excellence, for the benefit of all stakeholders as a whole.
we ensure that our community relations, environmental, health and safety, human resources and security functions work closely together and with the management teams at each of our operations to ensure that all key components of responsible mining are addressed throughout the exploration and mining cycle and across all of our locations.
people and management an organisation is only as good as its people.
it is for this reason that we are committed to promoting and developing the skill set of our workforce for the benefit of our business and our industry in general.
we ensure that we fairly compensate our employees for their contributions, provide meaningful performance feedback to them and offer them professional development and training opportunities to develop employee potential and reward best performance.
