Exploration and project development PrOgress acrOss The POrTFOLiO during 2011, Us$48.1 million including capitalised exploration expenditure of Us$17.8 million was spent on exploration and evaluation activities leading to a total resource addition of 3.5moz for Us$13.7 per ounce, thereby maintaining our solid track record of delivering high quality, low cost resource ounces.
key achievements during the year included the declaration of an updated in-pit resource in excess of 4moz for the Tusker-kilimani deposit at the nyanzaga project, indicating this deposit has the potential to become abgs fifth stand-alone operation in Tanzania.
we also declared an initial resource at golden ridge and further extended the mine life at Tulawaka through to the end of 2012, with the potential for further extensions.
in addition, we are able to declare a resource from the bulyanhulu tailings, which underpins the cil expansion project.
we made positive progress on feasibility studies at three key projects: gokona Underground, bulyanhulu Upper east Zone and the Tulawaka east Zone Underground extension, and commenced a new feasibility study looking at expanding the cil capacity to reprocess the tailings at bulyanhulu.
further to this, we initiated scoping studies after successful drilling at nyanzaga and nyabirama One of ABGs key focus areas has Underground and continue to assess the best method to develop the resource at been to invest in exploration to lay golden ridge.
in addition to the major development projects we continued to advance regional exploration programmes in Tanzania.
the foundations for the Companys during 2011, abg reviewed further opportunities for regional expansion continued growth.
we are continuing to undertake exploration and evaluation work in a number of countries, assessing the potential for projects that would be accretive peTer Spora, to our business through enhancing our growth profile, strengthening our project vice PresidenT exPloraTion pipeline, and adding strategically important geographic diversification.
overall, the positive progression of our exploration projects and efforts throughout the year by the exploration and Technical services teams clearly show abgs ability Exploration and project development pipeline Grassroots Programme Target Delineation Advanced Exploration & Scoping & Feasibility Studies Resource Development africa-wide m&a buly reef 1 & 2 east gokona buly corridor buly reef Upper east 2 west Tulawaka Zone deeps nyanzaga komarera nyanzaga kahama regional gokona golden gena Ug nyakafuru ridge buly Jv nyabirana cil dett Ug masabi extensions Target size opportunity lake 750 500 100 africavictoria 1 moz mine site satellite wide koz koz koz goldfields www.
com 38 Production overview performance governance financial shareholder sTaTemenTs informaTion 2011 highlights continued successful drilling intercepts at the nyanzaga project have resulted in a significant uplift in the previously declared mineral resource estimate for the Tusker deposit.
The updated in-pit resource is in excess of 4moz consisting of 3.48moz at 1.47g t au indicated and 598koz at 2.05g t au inferred, representing a fourfold increase in the previously declared resource of 313koz indicated and 650koz inferred.
exploration drilling at Tulawaka continued to demonstrate the potential to extend the mine life beyond 2012. to recognise both regional and near mine opportunities.
This is strategically advanced exploration and resource development important, as it supports our existing production platform, organic growth drilling around the gokona pit at north mara has prospects and medium to longer-term growth.
the potential to increase the open pit reserve by 300koz with an updated resource for the abgs commitment to exploration continues, and for 2012 our exploration budget Underground due in 2012. remains strong, with budgeted total exploration expenditure, both expensed and initial resource declared at golden ridge.
advanced exploration drilling beneath the planned The core objectives under which these funds will be deployed in our exploration final nyabirama open pit has identified high grade and development activities are threefold: zones likely to be amenable to mining.
identified higher grade zones at the large dett to continue to drive our strategy of organic growth through near mine exploration prospect, system open below 300m vertical depth.
and resource expansion: to optimise our existing assets through the identification and delineation of high quality stand-alone and satellite deposits: and 2012 priorities to progress regional exploration in order to evaluate new opportunities continuation of drill programmes at the nyanzaga throughout africa through partnerships and acquisitions.
project on the Tusker and kilimani resource areas to target further depth and strike extensions to the Organic growth projects current resource.
Brownfield projects expansion of the Tulawaka deeps Underground drill programmes to further extend the life of mine.
north mara gokona underground This project is focused on developing underground resources beneath the planned complete infill and expansion resource drilling for final gokona and nyabigena open pits.
The objective is to bring high grade both the gokona and nyabirama Underground underground resources into production in order to provide increased flexibility projects at north mara.
to mining operations as well as extending the life of mine at north mara.
continued testing of regional targets within the wider north mara region for new stand-alone deposits.
deep diamond drilling in and around the current gokona Underground resource further testing of additional targets on the area was completed early in 2011.
This drill programme was successful at extending nyanzaga property.
known higher grade mineralised zones to at least 600 metres below the currently planned final open pit depth.
based on the positive results of the programme, complete drill programmes and metallurgical test work abg commenced a significant resource drill-out programme in Q2 2011 aimed on komarera project, 4km south west of nyabirama.
at expanding the total underground resource to greater than one million ounces.
continued testing of dett project to expand higher grade by year-end 2011 we had completed 65 holes for approximately 28,174 metres zones, and scope out size of the mineralised system.
of reverse circulation and diamond drilling.
The infill drill programme is 50% surface drilling programmes around bulyanhulu for complete, and is expected to be finalised by the end of Q2 2012.
These additional open pit opportunities.
drilling results will also be incorporated during the mid-year resource and reserve evaluation, which is expected to increase the overall underground potential.
annUal rePorT and accoUnTs 2011 39 Exploration and project development continued The gokona Underground feasibility study was successfully completed Tulawaka east zone underground extension during Q4 2011 and was based on the 2010 year-end resource.
at the we were able to successfully extend the mine life twice at Tulawaka in same time, during the latter part of 2011 we were able to progress land 2011, through to the end of 2012, and our ongoing drilling programmes acquisitions around the gokona pit and remove a western side road are focused on extending this further.
much of the focus in 2011 was on constraint.
This provides the potential to increase the open pit reserve the east Zone Underground extensions where we continued to extend ounces by approximately 300koz through an additional lateral cut back the known high grade mineralised shoots below 7-level, down to of the open pit, subject to waste dumping constraints and permitting.
12-level, indicating potential to extend the mine life further.
drilling if implemented, this would provide additional near term production in to date indicates that existing mineralised zones continue to at least excess of that anticipated from the underground project.
it would, however, 180 metres below the floor of Tulawakas now-completed open pit.
have the effect of reducing the underground resource by approximately a second portal into the Tulawaka east Zone Underground is 150koz, but the potential addition of the lower cost open pit ounces anticipated to commence in early 2012 to further assist with access sites is a positive for the overall north mara mine.
should the extended for additional resource expansion drilling and increase production gokona open pit cut back prove the more favourable option, then the from gold ore in this part of the underground.
we expect to continue underground project feasibility will need to be recalculated so as to provide drill programmes throughout 2012, which will focus on extensions of for a revised portal position, the successful 2011 12 drilling programme, mineralisation below the eastern end of the final open pit.
in this way, mining design and infrastructure requirements.
while this will lead to we will be able to assess the possible significant expansion of our current some delay in accessing underground production, with the evaluation resource base to add further reserves and extend the mine life through likely to be concluded by Q4 2012 we remain confident that the project an exclusively underground operation.
will continue to be viable and our production profile would be enhanced by both the additional open pit ounces as well as the underground project.
Tulawaka surface deposits in 2011, we also tested the mojamoja and west Zone prospects, which north mara nyabirama deeps lie approximately 4 kilometres northwest of the Tulawaka plant, and The project is aimed at defining underground ounce potential from abg is looking at the potential to delineate further open pit resources areas previously not able to be drilled from the open pit or during early to be trucked to the plant.
The current infill programme is aimed at exploration drilling.
infill drilling is targeting the addition of at least delineating additional resources between the two previously drilled 700koz of material into the nyabirama resource base.
The current reverse areas and was completed in January 2012. circulation and diamond core drilling programme is 80% complete with 86 holes completed for 30,181 metres in 2011, and the remainder of the golden ridge programme is anticipated to be completed during early 2012.
The golden ridge project represents an opportunity for abg to exploit a satellite gold deposit that is potentially amenable to trucking and results from the drilling to date have returned intercepts showing processing at one of abgs current operations.
feasibility work during multiple zones of higher grade mineralisation, including some wider 2011 focused on the opportunity to truck the golden ridge ore to zones in excess of 10 metres with grades in excess of 5g t gold.
we are buzwagi, and whilst generating positive returns, the project did not very encouraged by the progress of this programme to date and expect pass our internal returns threshold.
as a result, we are analysing several to initiate an underground feasibility study during 2012. alternatives for developing the resource at the golden ridge project, north mara gokona corridor with initial analysis suggesting that utilising the expanded process we are also undertaking significant additional exploration elsewhere plant at bulyanhulu could be a viable option.
The feasibility study around the north mara mine, particularly along the gokona corridor, will be reworked during the course of 2012 to establish the viability where historically very little effective drilling has been completed of these options.
outside the immediate mine area.
during 2011, abgs exploration team also completed a programme of for this reason, during 2011 we completed a reverse circulation scout infill reverse circulation drilling and metallurgical test work diamond drilling programme along this corridor to test for additional gold drilling.
elements of this programme confirmed the width and tenor of deposits.
The scout drilling has been successful at identifying favourable mineralisation in the main zone and indicated the potential for further rock types and alteration similar to those observed at the gokona and exploration drilling to target higher grade areas.
several areas of anomalous gold geochemistry have Bulyanhulu upper east zone been identified: warranting more extensive and deeper drilling in order The bulyanhulu Upper east Zone is approximately 2.5 kilometres east to more fully understand the source of the anomalous gold and test of the main bulyanhulu shaft and contains approximately 1moz ounces for satellite or stand-alone opportunities.
in 2012, a programme of of gold at 10g t au within reefs 1 and 2.
The mineralisation in the 18,500 metres of reverse circulation and diamond core drilling has bulyanhulu Upper east Zone is included in current reserves, but it was been budgeted to test identified gold anomalies.
com 40 overview performance governance financial shareholder sTaTemenTs informaTion not scheduled for mining until later in the mine life.
a feasibility study Greenfield projects to bring forward the mining of the area has been positively completed, nyanzaga project with work continuing on the geotechnical and metallurgical drill test since acquiring 100% of the nyanzaga Project in may 2010, abg work.
a test stope to validate the planned mining method will be has undertaken an extensive step-out and infill drilling programme instigated in Q3 2012. if this confirms our expectations, board at both the Tusker and kilimani deposits with the aim of extending approval will be sought for the project.
mineralisation on the northern, western and southern domains of the Bulyanhulu ciL expansion project.
a total of 91,537 metres have been drilled at the project since we expect to complete the feasibility study shortly for the expansion may 2010, representing an investment of Us$21.7 million.
This highly of the cil circuit at bulyanhulu in order to reprocess the tailings at successful programme has extended the known gold mineralisation and the mine.
we have undertaken drill testing of the tailings dam through delineated additional resources closer to surface and as a result abg 2011. as a result of this, we are able to declare an indicated resource was able to release an updated in-pit resource in excess of 4moz au, of 8mt at 1.23g t for 315koz from the bulyanhulu Tailings, which consisting of 3.48moz at 1.47g t au indicated and 598koz at 2.05g t au underpins the project.
as well as delivering increased production, inferred.
This represents a fourfold increase on the previously declared the expansion of the cil circuit will give increased flexibility to the resource.
The drilling has also identified the potential for further higher development of the mine as we look to increase the overall production grade resource extensions at depth and as a result we are initiating profile over the coming years.
preliminary studies to assess the potential for underground mining.
Bulyanhulu reef 1 & 2 east Open Pit testing further exploration has commenced with the objective of defining reverse circulation drilling was carried out along strike to the east the resources at depth at Tusker.
at the same time, the scoping study on both reef 1 and reef 2 structures through 2011. some significant for the project continues, with the current work programme focusing results were attained on both structures, which warrant a continuation on detailed geotechnical and metallurgical drilling and modelling and escalation of the programme in 2012.
The targeting of open pit across the potential Tusker pit area, infrastructure trade-off studies, resources complements both the proposed bulyanhulu cil expansion environmental and social baseline studies and licensing for the project.
and the proposed Upper east mining area.
successful delineation and it is estimated that the scoping study will be completed during Q2 2012. development of open pits in the reef 1 and 2 east area could provide assuming positive economics from the current desktop level scoping a means of ingress and service supply for planned Upper east study and approval from the board, we aim to initiate a pre-feasibility underground workings.
Bulyanhulu underground reef 2 deep central dett The target area is immediately down dip of high grade reef 2 reserves.
The dett prospect lies in the western part of the mara-musoma Though there were delays in the drilling programme, approximately greenstone belt and is located approximately 65 kilometres north 80koz inferred have been added to the resource base.
This area is within east of north mara gold mine.
any target in this area would be for 700 metres of current mine infrastructure, which can be accessed a stand-alone operation.
historic surface mapping and shallow within two years, giving an opportunity to mine shallower ounces.
drilling outlined a large 4 kilometres by 2 kilometres zone of alteration Utilising drill sites located deep on the reef 1 footwall provides an associated with intercalated intrusions and sediments, and limited opportunity to drill reef 2 below 3800 mrl: an area which remains deeper drilling to 200 metres vertical showed a low-grade 0.70g t essentially untested, allowing for a large area of ground to be targeted gold mineralised system, associated with copper and molybdenum for resource and reserve additions.
Targeted reef 2 reserves can be mineralisation, open in all directions including at depth.
brought into the life of mine plan sooner than the majority of existing in 2011, the exploration team reviewed the historical data across the reef 1 reserves, the bulk of which lie below 3800 mrl.
dett prospect and drilled three wide-spaced diamond holes to test the Bulyanhulu north-east Pole-dipole iP potential for higher gold grade structures.
These holes were drilled to an induced Polarisation iP resistivity survey was carried out approximately 300 vertical metres, and all holes showed the gold system approximately 3.5 kilometres north of bulyanhulu mine infrastructure.
The drilling to date has confirmed abgs seven iP resistivity anomalies were identified, the largest of which interpretation of the structural controls to mineralisation and further has been selected for drill testing in 2012.
This target presents an review of the 2011 results will be undertaken in planning for future opportunity for a shallow, potentially open pitable ore source within drill programmes aimed at further validating and extending the higher a short distance of the bulyanhulu process plant, should drill testing grade gold zones and investigating the potential of delineating a large, be successful.
in excess of 1.0 1.5g t au, mineable resource.
