oVErViEw PErformancE GOvERNANCE financial SHarEHoldEr StatEmEntS information they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the abg group and Appointment and replacement of Directors the company and of the profit or loss of the abg group for that period.
Shareholders may appoint any person who is willing to act as a director in preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: by ordinary resolution and may remove any director by ordinary resolution.
The board may appoint any person to fill any vacancy or as select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: an additional director, provided that they are submitted for re-election make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable by the shareholders at the agm following their appointment.
and prudent: state whether applicable ifrS as adopted by the European Union Specific conditions apply to the vacation of office, including cases where have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed a director becomes prohibited by law or regulation from holding office, and explained in the financial statements: and or is persistently absent from directors meetings, or if three-quarters prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is of appointed directors request his or her resignation or in the case of inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that barricks rights to appoint directors are summarised on page 88. are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and disclose Related party transactions with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and the abg group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements details of related party transactions undertaken during the year are and the directors remuneration report comply with the companies act contained in note 32 on page 162 of the consolidated financial statements.
2006 and, as regards the abg groups financial statements, article 4 of the Post balance sheet events iaS regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the abg group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the Particulars of any important events affecting the company or the abg prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
group since the year-end are contained in note 35 on page 164 of the consolidated financial statements.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of abgs website and legislation in the United kingdom governing the Audit information preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the directors are aware from legislation in other jurisdictions.
there is no relevant audit information as defined by Section 418 3 of the companies act 2006 of which the auditors are unaware and Responsibility statement required by Disclosure and each director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken Transparency Rules as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information The directors confirm to the best of their knowledge that: and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with applicable Auditors accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, abgs auditors are  llP Pwc.
a resolution financial position and profit or loss of abg and the undertakings to reappoint Pwc as auditors will be proposed at the forthcoming agm.
included in the consolidation as a whole: and refer to page 117 as part of the consolidated financial statements for the the management report, which is incorporated into the directors independent auditors report.
report, includes a fair review of the development or performance of the business and the position of abg and the undertakings included Directors responsibilities statement in the consolidation as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Under applicable Uk law, the directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the directors report, the remuneration report and the Approval of Directors report financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulation.
This report has been approved by the board and signed on its behalf by Responsibility for financial statements The companies act 2006 requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the group and parent company financial statements in accordance with international financial reporting Standards ifrS as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the directors KATRINA WHITE, must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that comPanY SEcrEtarY annUal rEPort and accoUntS 2011 99
