Group at a glance Strategic overview Business and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 28 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 29 Strategic overview Strategic overview Sustainable development Sustainability is regarded as a serious business Our sustainable development goal is to minimise Key achievements in 2010 11 include: Managing sustainable development issue across TUI Travel, where it is an integral part our environmental impact, respect the culture and This year, the Group has enhanced its governance Circa 16m cost savings realised via environmental of business processes, supplier operating standards people in our destinations and offer real economic structure for sustainable development.
Jane Ashton initiatives between 2008 and 2010 and performance metrics for many of our brands.
has been appointed Director of Group Sustainable 2010 airline data externally veried by PwC We have already experienced a range of business Development, Jacky Simmonds, Group HR Director, and submitted to the relevant authorities in benets, including cost efficiencies, quality now has responsibility for reporting on sustainable Our four strategic priorities for preparation for the EU Emission Trading Scheme improvements and the enhanced engagement development to the Group Management Board GMB sustainable development are: of customers, colleagues and suppliers.
CO per Revenue Passenger Kilometre across and Johan Lundgren, Deputy Chief Executive, 2 TUI Travel airlines in 2010 11 of 75.9g an is responsible for reporting on sustainable In 2010 11 we were pleased that our performance improvement of 2.6% since 2007 08 making development to the TUI Travel PLC Board.
was recognised as follows: Carbon management us one of the most efficient airlines in Europe Pioneer partner Protecting forests in Kenya The GMB acts as the Steering Committee and For the fourth consecutive year TUI Travel was and beyond sets the Groups strategic direction and long term TUI Travel PLC works with TUI Travel supports a project in featured in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Thomson Airways was the first UK airline to achieve Goal: To reduce TUI Travels airlines per Forum for the Future, a UK objectives for sustainable development.
Kasigau Wildlife Corridor, Kenya, Index and was in the top 10% of the FTSE 350 ISO 14001 certication for its engineering operations passenger carbon emissions by 6% by sustainable development NGO.
which is preserving 75,000 acres for its approach to carbon disclosure and The Group Sustainable Development Departments Forum for the Future selects of dry forest under threat from 2013 14 against a baseline of 2007 08.
On 6 October 2011, Thomson Airways became performance and ranked in the top seven for role is to drive change towards a more sustainable a handful of companies as agriculture and charcoal the first UK airline to y customers on Pioneer partners.
dened as carbon performance in the GICS Consumer production.
The project provides Company and to forge Sector leadership.
Our sustainable biofuel leading organisations at the alternative livelihoods for locals, Discretionary Sector covering Global 500, Group-wide work streams meet regularly to tackle Destinations cutting edge of sustainability.
Le Boat introduced a fleet of environmentallyfor example, as game wardens, S&P 500 and FTSE 350, www.
net issues and develop programmes of work.
Each TUI Travel has been selected in sustainable charcoal making friendly vessels in 2011 allowing cruising under Sector within the Group has a sustainable TUI Travel continues to be listed on the as one of these partners.
It is the solar-generated electric power Supplier management goal: All suppliers development coordinator or team with a remit to FTSE4Good Index in recognition of its worlds first project to be issued Two of TUI Deutschlands river cruises achieved in each destination follow sustainability develop and implement sustainable development with Reduced Emissions from transparency and for meeting strict social, Green Globe certication the first in the world Deforestation & Degradation practices and have continuous improvement strategy, supported by a network of champions.
environmental and governance standards REDD credits.
to achieve the new cruise standard and programmes in place.
TUI Travel was featured in the 2011 Dow Jones To review performance and to measure progress, Thomson Cruises trialled the Travelife Sustainability Year Book which features the Destination projects goal: TUI Travel, we have incorporated sustainable development Sustainability System on board best performing 15% of companies who submit working with partners, will make measurable questions into regular employee surveys at TUI Nordic has replaced the majority of overseas data to the index in each industry sector, improvements to local livelihoods and Sector and Group level and we conduct an employees cars with eco-vehicles 130g CO 2 www.
com yearbook environmental protection in destinations.
annual Sustainable Development Evaluation km in destinations across Europe and Turkey of TUI Travel tour operating businesses, as well TUI Travel completed its second submission TUI Nederland built a new head ofce to BREEAM as specic surveys of airlines, hotels and water to the Forest Footprint Disclosure Project in Excellent standard a rating for green buildings Our Colleagues transport operations.
2011 and was one of eight companies listed in the Travel and Leisure Sector in 2010, TUI Travel scored in the top 20% of the UKs 2011 www.
com Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy efficiency Goal: TUI Travel colleagues are engaged and Scheme Performance League Table.
This recognises For further details on awards and our empowered to take action on sustainability Achieved through operational TUI UKs commitment to measuring, managing efficiencies, fuel conservation, capacity latest Sustainable Development Report, see for the future success of the Company.
and reducing its carbon emissions through the amendments as well as the emission Carbon management http: www.
reductions which occurred in 2009 10 Carbon Trust Standard and rolling out Automatic Travel and tourism are responsible for around following the strategic venture with Air Meter Readers across the retail estate to Berlin.
5% of global CO emissions UNWTO, 2007.
As a Sustainable development strategy 2 Our Customers improve day-to-day energy management An approximate gure of Group leading tour operator, our challenge is to prepare TUI Travels sustainable development strategy savings tracked, gross of any upfront for a low-carbon society by further reducing our is based on consideration of the key issues In 2010 11 the carbon emissions from TUI Travel investments required to achieve those Goal: TUI Travel businesses deliver quality environmental impacts.
Three years ago TUI Travel savings between 2008 and 2010.
Part affecting the Company, now and in the future.
It airlines accounted for 91.9% of its carbon footprint.
of previously identied cost savings.
communications designed to raise customer airlines set a target to reduce carbon emissions is regularly reviewed in consultation with internal We have developed collaborative partnerships with Carbon footprint covers Scope 1 and 2 interest and demand for sustainable holidays.
by 6% by 2013 14, against a baseline of 2007 08, and external stakeholders.
Our four strategic data only Scope 1 greenhouse gas many stakeholders whose insight and guidance is both on a total and on a relative basis.
In 2010 11 priorities for sustainable development align with emissions arising from sources owned helping us to develop our position on aviation and or controlled by an organisation, Scope TUI Travel airlines total carbon emissions were TUI Travels strategy.
2 greenhouse gas emissions which do climate change.
Examples include: Forum for the 5,467,814 tonnes, i. e. 9% less than in 2007 08, not physically occur from within the We encourage all TUI Travel businesses to Future, EU Cleansky project, UK Sustainable Aviation organisations reporting boundary and whilst our relative carbon emissions in 2010 11 develop their own strategies, aligning with Group and Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users Group.
were 75.9g per revenue passenger kilometre and Sector priorities and the related targets, CO RPK, i. e. 2.6% less than 2007 08.
continue to work towards achieving our 6% relative reduction target by 2013 14.
Breakdown of TUI Travels carbon footprint in 2010 11 TUI Travel has a carbon management strategy in place covering aviation, water transport, major 0.7% 0.7% 4.2% 2.5% premises, ground transport and agship hotel properties.
We are monitoring and preparing TUI Travel airlines and aviation for regulatory proposals on climate change Water transport that could have a scal impact.
Ground transport Premises Flagship hotel properties 91.9% www.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 30 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 31 Strategic overview Strategic overview Sustainable development continued Key achievements in 2010 11 include: Initiation of a project to understand the key sustainability issues in three destinations Turkey, Cape Verde and Tunisia we are now Destinations Our Colleagues Our Customers planning our operational response Depending on how impacts are managed, we Our aim is to make sustainable development Across the business we have been proactive in know that the leisure travel industry can have both tangible to each and every colleague within the raising awareness of sustainability issues with our Commissioning of a study and report Measuring positive and negative effects on communities and Group.
We communicate regularly about the customers.
To achieve many of our goals we need and improving the socio-economic impact of an the natural environment.
We are committed to progress we have made on our journey towards customers support both through the purchases all inclusive hotel in Turkey with the Travel learning more about how our holidays can benefit securing a sustainable future for our industry and they make and the personal actions they take.
We Foundation and Overseas Development Institute.
local livelihoods and protect the environment and continue to build sustainability into our colleague are working to raise awareness, influence choice, Recommendations have been implemented at Holidays Forever Green ofce opened are putting this into practice.
This is fundamental inductions and training programmes, including change behaviour and develop and promote new this hotel and are being replicated at other hotels to preserving the quality of our product in years development programmes for managers.
products to encourage responsible holiday choices.
In 2010 11, TUI UK unveiled TUI Nederland is leading the Investment in six emission reduction projects in a new consumer sustainable to come.
way by building a new ofce key destinations, which are scheduled to deliver We have a Group Code of Conduct which covers Key achievements for 2010 11 include: tourism campaign called with significant environmental in excess of 500,000 tonnes of CO reductions 2 a wide range of sustainability issues, including Holidays Forever.
The campaign Supplier management features.
Energy consumption Launch of the internal Sustainability Customer by the middle of 2013 human rights, business ethics and transparency brings together the Companys is managed using an advanced TUI Travel has an extensive supply chain operating Communication Awards encouraging sustainability strategy under system that substantially and commits TUI Travel to upholding the principles Support of initiatives to help protect sea turtle across the world see page 48.
These businesses businesses to showcase best practice in this area four ambitions supported by reduces CO emissions, solar 2 of the UN Global Compact.
populations in Turkey and Greece by many are the gatekeepers to TUI Travels sustainability 20 commitments to be achieved energy is generated using solar Over 300,000 parents, teachers and children businesses across the Group performance in destinations.
It focuses on reducing Key achievements for 2010 11 include: panels, cold and heat energy were engaged in sustainable tourism through the sustainability, our suppliers are able to achieve carbon emissions: taking care in is stored and lights only switch Support of clean water projects through Just a UK schools Eco-traveller programme teaching Organisation of sustainability awareness-raising destinations: living our values: cost efficiency savings which ultimately give on when there is insufficient Drop and Pump Aid in Kenya, Bolivia, Uganda, children how they could make a difference on and inspiring customers initiatives at head ofces and overseas, for daylight.
The building is certied customers better value for money.
Our challenge Zimbabwe, Malawi and Liberia holiday developed by TUI UK in collaboration by engaging one million to BREEAM Excellent standard example the Accommodation & Destinations is to extend the reach of influence to all suppliers holidaymakers in sustainable with the National Schools Partnership a rating for green buildings We are conscious of the pressures that tourism Sector held an inaugural Green week, hosting and to monitor their progress.
and when launched in August can place on local populations and resources and sustainability lunch and learn sessions at their TUI Deutschland and TUI UK & Ireland are 2011 it was one of the most Key achievements in 2010 11 include: therefore work collaboratively with communities, head ofce in Palma as well as activities across now including carbon emission information on environmentally friendly local and national governments, non-governmental the world.
Jetair organised a Green Day for the ight element of the holiday in customer buildings in the Netherlands.
Launch of Guidelines for Environmental organisations NGOs and trade associations to colleagues including a car-free day and communication Sustainability in Hotels the guidelines aim to support sustainable management of destinations sustainable lunch help our hotel suppliers achieve best practice Commissioning of the Sustainable Holiday and to shape our strategy in this area.
Examples sustainability performance and highlight case Colleagues within the Specialist & Activity Futures report: showing how travel will have to include: Dutch Association of Travel Agents studies where eco-efficiencies have saved Sector are each given a day to volunteer for change in order to save the worlds dwindling and Tour Operators, Deutscher ReiseVerband, suppliers significant sums their chosen charity, supporting charities such resources Association of British Travel Agents, The Tour as the Chestnut Tree Childrens Hospice Adoption of environmental and social contractual Analysis from TUI UK & Irelands Summer 2010 Operators Initiative, Global Sustainable Tourism minimum standards for accommodation suppliers Volunteers at TUI UK supported sustainable Customer Satisfaction Questionnaires revealed Council, Sustainable Travel International, The by our Mainstream tour operating businesses tourism projects in Cyprus, Turkey and Crete a statistically significant correlation between Overseas Development Institute, Born Free and and other businesses across the Group and launched Project Discovery UK giving all good customer ratings on our approach to The Travel Foundation.
colleagues one day a year to volunteer in the UK the environment and community and overall Sustainability certications for over 700 hotels holiday satisfaction Charitable giving by the end of Summer 2011 TUI Nederland launched a green loyalty In the last year, our businesses supported many programme for travel agencies including third Organisation of sustainability supplier TUI Travel businesses request feedback from source market and destination charities.
Our party to stimulate sales of green accommodation conferences in the Canaries and London customers regularly and some offer the Group-wide charity policy and guidelines help TUI Travels senior management were regular opportunity to comment on the environmentally Launch of BlueContec a sustainability businesses to ensure transparency, report annual public advocates for more sustainable tourism and socially responsible aspects of their holiday.
and energy consultancy business for tourism monies collected and manage charity relationships.
in the media at industry and governmental companies, especially hotels by TUI events.
For example, senior executives presented Key achievements in 2010 11 include: Deutschland Shaping Lives Intrepid Travel wins global at the Hungarian EU Presidency conference Incorporation of sustainability agship hotel We are the largest corporate sponsor of the award in Budapest, the 5th International conference In 2010 11, Le Passage to India standards into Holiday Village, Sensatori and Family Holiday Association a charity that provides on Responsible Tourism in Destinations in developed and launched Shaping Intrepid Travel won the Global the Couples hotel specication contracts in holidays to disadvantaged children and their Lives Le Passage Travel Edmonton, ITB Berlins Corporate Social Tourism business award at the TUI UK & Ireland families.
Since 2009 we have donated more Foundation.
This initiative Responsibility Day and World Travel Markets 2011 Tourism for Tomorrow than 1m, www.
uk supports over 16 animal and Introduction of eco-cotton shirts for all retail, Awards.
The awards, run by the World Responsible Tourism Day in London child welfare projects across overseas and ight crew colleagues by TUI Nordic World Travel and Tourism Street Child World Cup has been selected as the India.
One project took over 150 We have developed a number of core questions Council, recognise leading travel Specialist & Activity Sectors chosen charity for disadvantaged children on a organisations that have gone the Destination projects relating to Responsible Leadership and sustainable the next three years.
Colleagues will be involved ight from Delhi to Jaipur for a extra mile to demonstrate TUI Travel is involved in hundreds of projects development that businesses and Sectors include 3-day city tour.
in raising as much money as possible for millions sustainable tourism best designed to improve the livelihoods of local people in colleague opinion surveys.
Our 2011 Leadership of vulnerable children living on the streets practices in their philosophy, in destinations and to protect the environment.
Voice survey confirmed that: strategy and operations.
Intrepid around the world, www.
org Travel was recognised for the 88% of leaders agreed that TUI Travel acts Many TUI Travel businesses support the depth of its sustainability responsibly on environmental matters Travel Foundation, a charity which helps practices that span its entire the travel industry understand, manage and 80% of leaders agreed that TUI Travel acts operations.
take effective action on sustainable tourism.
responsibly in the local communities in which To date we have donated more than 2.8m, we operate www.
uk We also gather feedback from colleagues on sustainability issues through focus groups.
