Group at a glance Strategic overview Business and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 50 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 51 Governance Governance Statement of Directors responsibilities Corporate Governance report The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also The Company has complied with the principles set out in Section 1 of Board procedures responsibilities the Directors remuneration report and the financial statements responsible for preparing a Directors report, Directors remuneration the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting The Board meets regularly, including away days, to review the in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
report and Corporate Governance statement that complies with that Council in June 2010 the Code except in the areas detailed in the strategy of the Group and is responsible for the overall leadership and law and those regulations.
report and set out on page 55. control of the Group.
The schedule of matters specifically reserved to Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent it for decision includes: company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of The Board law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in the corporate and financial information included on the Companys Determining the strategy of the Group The Company is controlled through its Board of Directors the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and Amendments to the structure and capital of the Group Directors at the date of this report are: as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation Approval of financial reporting and controls Directors name Title the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK in other jurisdictions.
Oversight of the Groups internal controls Horst Baier Non-Executive Director Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted The Directors in ofce at the date of approval of the Annual Report Dr Volker Bttcher Managing Director, Central Europe Accounting Practice.
Under company law the Directors must not Approval of capital and revenue expenditure of a significant size & Accounts each confirm that to the best of their knowledge: Tony Campbell Independent Non-Executive Director approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they Acquisitions, disposals and share dealings Bill Dalton Independent Non-Executive Director give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the The Group financial statements, which have been prepared in Board membership and appointments Rainer Feuerhake Non-Executive Director Company and of their profit or loss of the Group for that period.
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view Approval of remuneration of Directors and certain senior Dr Michael Frenzel Non-Executive Chairman In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group management Sir Michael Hodgkinson Independent Non-Executive Deputy Chairman statements, the Directors are required to: The Directors report includes a fair review of the development and and Senior Independent Director Corporate governance matters performance of the business and position of the Group, together Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently Peter Long Chief Executive with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces Approval of Group policies and risk management strategies Make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent Johan Lundgren Deputy Chief Executive The Statement of Directors responsibilities was approved by a duly The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Coline McConville Independent Non-Executive Director State whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and authorised Committee of the Board of Directors on 4 December 2011 Executive is clearly established, has been agreed by the Board and Minnow Powell Independent Non-Executive Director applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject and signed on its behalf by William Waggott, Chief Financial officer.
is reviewed by the Company Secretary on a regular basis.
Dr Erhard Schipporeit Independent Non-Executive Director to any material departures disclosed in and explained in the Group Dr Albert Schunk Independent Non-Executive Director and parent company financial statements respectively All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Harold Sher Independent Non-Executive Director Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless Secretary and can take independent professional advice, if necessary, William Waggott Chief Financial officer William Waggott it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent at the Companys expense.
To the Company Secretarys knowledge, Chief Financial officer company will continue in business no such advice was sought by any Director during the year.
All Directors detailed above served throughout the year with the 4 December 2011 exception of Minnow Powell appointed on 4 April 2011 and Coline The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring Board procedures McConville appointed 21 September 2011.
Directors resigning during records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys are followed including the formal minuting of any unresolved concerns the year were Paul Bowtell stepped down 31 December 2010, transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the that any Director may have in connection with the operation of the Jeremy Hicks resigned 31 January 2011 and Giles Thorley resigned financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them Company.
In January 2011, Jeremy Hicks and Giles Thorley resigned 31 January 2011.
Clare Chapman resigned on 19 October 2011.
Johan to ensure that the financial statements and Directors remuneration their positions as Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
Their Lundgren was appointed Deputy Chief Executive with effect from report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and as regards to the letters of resignation were circulated to the Board and discussed and 20 October 2011.
Group financial statements, Article 4 of IAS Regulation.
They are recorded in the Board minutes.
also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and As at 30 September 2011, the Board comprised four Executive The Terms of Reference for the Board and its Committees are the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention Directors and 11 Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman.
available for inspection on the Groups website www.
com and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Biographical details of all the Directors are set out on page 47. and will be available at the AGM.
In accordance with the new UK Corporate Governance Code Directors conicts of interests guidelines, all Directors will be subject to annual re-election by Under the Companies Act 2006, the Directors have a statutory duty shareholders.
To enable shareholders to make an informed decision, to avoid a situation where they have, or could have, a direct or indirect the 2012 Notice of the Annual General Meeting AGM includes interest that conicts, or possibly may conict, with the interests of biographical details and a statement as to why the Company believes the Company.
Directors of public companies may authorise conicts the Directors should be re-elected.
The Chairman intends to confirm and potential conicts where appropriate, if the Articles of Association at the AGM that the performance of each individual continues to be contain a provision to this effect.
effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to authorise The Board recommends to shareholders the re-appointment of actual or potential conicts of interest.
The Company has established all Directors retiring at the meeting on the basis that they are all formal procedures for the disclosure and review of any conicts, or effective Directors of the Company and demonstrate the appropriate potential conicts, of interest which the Directors may have and for level of commitment in their respective roles.
the authorisation of such conict matters by the Board.
In deciding whether to authorise a conict or potential conict the Directors must The terms of the Directors service contracts are disclosed in the have regard to their general duties under the Companies Act 2006.
Remuneration Report commencing on page 56.
Directors interests The authorisation of any conict matter, and the terms of authorisation, in the shares of the Company are disclosed on page 65. may be reviewed at any time and will be reviewed formally by the Directors service contracts and the letters of appointment of the Board on an annual basis.
The Board believes that the procedures Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys established to deal with conicts of interest are operating effectively.
registered ofce and will be available at the AGM which is scheduled to take place on Tuesday 7 February 2012.
Board effectiveness and individual performance of Directors An effectiveness survey of the Board and its Committees Audit, Following the appointment of any new Director, the Chairman, Remuneration and Nomination was undertaken during June July in conjunction with the Company Secretary, ensures that a full, 2011.
This also included a series of questions appraising individual formal and tailored induction to the Company is made available.
The survey was undertaken online The Company Secretary is on hand to answer any questions which and was facilitated by an external provider which has no connection may arise.
All Directors have been given a detailed induction and with the Company.
Each Director was asked to place a score against training manual.
