Group at a glance Strategic overview Business and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 24 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 25 Strategic overview Strategic overview People Our team 1.
Joan Vil Chief Executive Managing Director, Accommodation & Destinations 2.
William Waggott Chief Financial officer 8.
Andrew John Group Legal Director and 3.
Johan Lundgren Company Secretary Deputy Chief Executive 9.
Dr Volker Bttcher Group Human Resources Director Managing Director, Central Europe 4.
Bart Brackx Managing Director, Western Europe 6.
John Wimbleton Managing Director, Specialist & Activity We believe that engaged and happy colleagues 96% are personally motivated to help TUI Travel Group Management Board Involvement and communication are key to both superior customer service and the be successful The strategic direction of the Group is set by the We have engaged colleagues with great ideas at TUI Groups continued success and profitability.
With Group Management Board GMB in conjunction Travel and we always strive to involve our people 95% understand how their contribution people who believe in our products and services, with the Board see page 46.
The GMB consists with matters impacting them.
Over two thirds of inuences TUI Travel and the right approach, we will continue to be our of tour operating and function experts drawn our businesses receive feedback through employee 93% agree that, in their Sector, they have the customers automatic choice for leisure travel.
This highly experienced opinion surveys and we are working towards freedom to constantly nd ways to improve international team manages and executes TUI ensuring this is even more aligned across the Group their customer offering A diverse organisation Travels day-to-day operations and is responsible in the future.
Employee survey findings form an The result of such a large and global workforce At TUI Travel, we value two-way communication for the overall performance of the Group.
important strategic tool for our Board and leaders.
is that, by its very nature, it is incredibly diverse.
and we have a significant number of proactive It ensures that they are provided with honest During the year and post year end, there have We see strength in this.
Only with the input from employee forums in place to ensure we have feedback that can drive business improvements.
Paul Bowtell stepped down from our varied and inspiring people can we continue to an ongoing dialogue and involve colleagues the GMB and Board with effect from 31 December During the first half of 2011, we conducted the innovate and deliver.
We are very clear about the with matters that are important to them.
Post the year end, on 20 October 2011, Johan third Leadership Voice survey since 2008.
Our aim fact that we do not tolerate discrimination on any This is facilitated through elected employee Lundgren, previously Managing Director, Northern was to elicit the views of our core senior managers grounds and our ethos is that opportunities should representatives and directly in team meetings Region was appointed Deputy Chief Executive with and over 300 leaders were invited to participate.
be equally available to everyone.
We have principles and larger briengs.
overall responsibility for the Mainstream Sector.
In doing this we are able to track progress since and guidelines in place, both on a Group-level and previous surveys and benchmark how we are more locally, to actively support this.
People plans key to our strategy The TUI spirit doing compared to other, external organisations.
and success We give full and fair consideration to applications We are one of the worlds leading leisure travel Compared with the results in 2009, we were The breadth of our organisation brings with it for employment from applicants who may be groups and have a large workforce of more than delighted to see a significant improvement in how exciting opportunities for career progression, both disabled and, wherever possible, continue to 53,000 colleagues.
Across the Group we have we collaborate across our businesses.
Most of our nationally and internationally.
Attracting, retaining employ colleagues who have become disabled shared values that are embedded in all aspects leaders believe that the Group structure facilitates and developing talent is vital to our strategy and ensuring they have equal access to development of working life at TUI Travel.
Whilst the Group is sharing of best practice and believe their particular success.
Members of the GMB meet regularly and career opportunities.
varied and consists of brands and businesses of sector provides clear accountabilities.
In six out of to focus on the Groups current capability needs all sizes and from all over the world, our people Our top 250 senior leaders continue to illustrate seven survey categories our results were above, or and to gain an insight into future skills which all share the same core beliefs that help drive the diverse nature of our Group.
Over a quarter on par with, the Global Senior Management Norm will be required within the Group.
This involves our business forward.
Our four values: Customer are female and members are based in 25 different as independently veried by our external supplier.
discussing current senior vacancies and potential Obsessed, Playing to Win, Value Driven and countries around the world.
Of the Groups total candidates as well as undertaking regular reviews Responsible Leadership continue to underpin Some of the highlights from the survey tell us that workforce, 42% of managers are female.
The Board of succession plans.
our strategy and help us achieve the Groups we have a committed and focused leadership team.
has resolved to adopt a policy designed to achieve vision of making travel experiences special.
Some highlights are: As part of this work a leadership framework at least 25% female representation among its specifically highlighting what we are looking for members by 2015 and we are working towards 97% are willing to work over and above what is in our leaders has been produced and this will be making this happen.
normally expected to help TUI Travel succeed used for recruitment and development of all senior 96% fully support TUI Travels values roles in the future.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 26 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 27 Strategic overview Strategic overview People continued Health & Safety TUI Travel attaches great importance to the Health for the development and implementation of the UK Leadership capability development Attracting and nurturing young talent & Safety H&S of its customers and employees at & Ireland Mainstream safety management system.
We have a number of Group-wide initiatives in We continue to invest in attracting young graduates all levels of the business.
Andrew John, the Group place to develop our talent.
Horizons is an internal for both international roles and local source The specialist third party provider undertakes Legal Director & Company Secretary continues to leadership programme aimed to develop potential markets.
The International Management Graduate audits of overseas accommodation, transport be the Group Management Board GMB member future, international leaders at TUI Travel.
The Programme is an 18-month experience which is and excursion suppliers utilising a mix of physical with delegated responsibility on H&S matters, successful programme focuses on developing open to outstanding and multi-lingual graduates visits and self-assessments.
Where high risk areas reporting to the GMB.
leadership skills but also gives participants a from around the world, giving them unique are identied, specialist intervention may be broader understanding of the business areas within exposure within TUI Travel.
Once in the In April 2011, following a review of H&S processes, commissioned such as, for example, the deployment the Group.
The end result is sound leadership skills, programme, they have the choice of a variety of TUI Travel decided to discontinue the Group H&S of specialist food, water or hygiene consultants.
an excellent understanding of our business and an assignments throughout the Group, which will help Department and decentralise responsibility for H&S is a standing agenda item at the monthly ability to influence business strategy at the highest develop their skills and experience.
This year we H&S management, enabling Sectors to focus on UK & Ireland Board meetings.
Many of those attending the programme have have had an intake of eight international graduates.
their specic risks in the context of their bespoke Customer Director reports directly to the UK & been given the chance to further their careers and operating and legal environments.
We also have tailored graduate programmes in Ireland Board in respect of H&S and is responsible we have seen a number of individuals promoted place at a Sector and business level, such as those Sectors, and the divisions and businesses within for implementing all necessary actions on its behalf.
within TUI UK & Ireland, TUI Deutschland and them, continue to liaise, co-operate and share best The Specialist & Activity Sector operates a Another exciting programme is the Global the Specialist & Activity Sector.
All are designed practice, with the overall direction continuing to be Sector-specic H&S function.
The Sectors H&S Responsible Leadership Programme which has to attract and nurture new talent to create TUI founded on the TUI Travel H&S Policy Statement team comprises 14 staff based in the UK and most recently been taking place in Thailand.
The Travels leaders of the future.
issued and signed by the Chief Executive, Peter Long.
Audits of suppliers are undertaken aim is for selected leaders of TUI Travel to gain In addition, within these larger Sectors and utilising a mix of physical inspections and the use of further insight into their leadership styles and build Employee safety businesses, our approach is to support young supplier self-assessments by means of Sure2Care contacts across the Group whilst, at the same time, As the Group continues to expand into new areas, people in gaining valuable work experience through the in-house web-based due diligence system.
making a contribution to a local community.
The the nature of hazards faced by employees changes.
apprenticeships and we support many colleagues in programme is closely aligned to our sustainable The likelihood and impact of these hazards needs Each business within the Sector is risk proled gaining qualications relevant to their role.
These development agenda and during the six-day to be continually assessed and mitigating measures and appropriate safety management systems are are important ways to nurture talent and invest in programme delegates have the opportunity to put in place as appropriate.
Hazards range from devised and implemented according to the risks our people.
explore their leadership styles and work with a relatively low risk ofce to the higher risk airline identied within each business.
The prole of each diverse group of nationalities as well as helping a engineering environments.
business is amalgamated into a Divisional Risk local community with building projects and school Summary the results of which are presented A programme of workplace risk assessment continues activities and providing advice to local businesses.
to the Sector Board on a regular basis.
to be undertaken, highlighting any areas of concern.
The programme not only develops leadership skills Where significant risk exists, the assessments are Additionally, a growing number of businesses also by taking people out of their comfort zone but also used to understand better the various hazards comply with safety management requirements set enables them to appreciate that local businesses involved and identify and implement appropriate by external accreditation bodies, such as Schools may have different views on how success can be mitigating measures.
Safety management systems Travel Forum, Learning Outside the Classroom, achieved.
In this way, leaders develop empathy continue to be developed and improved by British Activity Holiday Association and British and recognition of the need to adapt their style for individual businesses with assistance from the Standard for Adventurous Activities outside the different cultural settings.
It is a great opportunity relevant Sector and divisional H&S professionals.
for colleagues to develop as leaders and is also a The Group H&S induction programme Safety in In the Accommodation & Destinations Sector, chance for us to give something back to a community Your Workplace continues to provide employees H&S is managed by each individual division and in one of the countries where we operate.
with the relevant H&S knowledge for their workplace.
Hotelbeds actively pursues the collection A significant amount of capability development also of H&S data on hotels by means of the Sure2Care Within the UK, any relevant injuries, diseases or takes place locally in our Sectors and businesses due diligence system.
dangerous occurrences are reported under the where initiatives are tailored to meet the needs of Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Intercruises has a dedicated H&S Manager their teams.
This includes the successful Essence Occurrences Regulations RIDDOR.
The incidents who is responsible for the implementation and of leadership programme for senior leaders in statistics for the UK for 2010 11 are given below.
development of Intercruises safety management the Accommodation & Destinations Sector and system.
The operations of suppliers of services significant amounts of training hours delivered Local and national authorities continue to visit which are part of the core Intercruises business, in other Sectors and businesses utilising both various Group premises offering advice and for example accommodation, transport and in-house and external suppliers.
No enforcement excursions, are assessed by physical inspections notices or convictions have occurred within the and, in the case of accommodation, by means of 2010 11 financial year.
the Sure2Care in-house due diligence system.
Customer safety Incident data October 2010 to September 2011 Each of the Sectors has responsibility for ensuring Crawley, that sound H&S practices and robust safety Airline UK & and other management systems are embedded within their UK incident category Airline equivalent Ireland businesses Total businesses.
Number of incidents 493 47 19 559 Number of RIDDOR over 3-day incidents 19 34 6 0 59 In Mainstream, the UK & Ireland business has Number of RIDDOR major incidents 2 1 0 0 3 outsourced certain of its H&S activities to a Number of RIDDOR fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 specialist external third party provider.
The third party provider is instructed and monitored Where an incident occurs outside of the UK it is not reportable under the RIDDOR legislation but, within the Group, incidents are reported as a RIDDOR equivalent.
by a UK-based team which sets the H&S strategy, Where, due to an accident at work, an employee is unable to perform their normal work duties for more than three agrees the audit schedule and takes responsibility consecutive days not including the day of the accident.
