CLE AR VISION SPECIAL FEATURE TO BE THE LEADING GLOBAL INDEPENDENT EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION COMPANY We are at an exciting stage as a company.
We have unique high-impact exploration growth opportunities in frontier basins combined with increasing financial strength from rising production and portfolio management.
We are establishing an unrivalled competitive position which differentiates us from our peers.
EXPLORATIONLED GROWTH STRATEGY Our exploration-led growth strategy is based on building a balanced resource portfolio that includes a diversified mix of high-impact exploration, near-term development projects and material production growth, underpinned by a strong balance sheet that includes a broad range of funding from cash flow, portfolio management and the capital markets.
Our strategy is focused on building sustainable long-term value growth and our objectives are to deliver substantial returns to shareholders as well as fulfil our commitments to make a positive and lasting contribution where we operate.
OUR BUSINESS MODEL We create value in two ways.
We find oil through successful exploration and strategic acquisitions.
We sell oil, by developing to produce or farming down to enhance our portfolio of assets and skills, both of which generate cash flow for reinvestment in the business and support a well funded balance sheet.
How we run our business is equally important in enabling us to successfully deliver our business plans and continue our growth strategy.
Protecting our business, sustaining our good reputation, maintaining our entrepreneurial culture and contributing to social and economic development are the cornerstones of what we are building our business on.
In the following pages we set out how our business model creates long-term value and delivers our strategic priorities in each area of activity.
14 Tullow Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Accounts: Special feature H O E W U W L A E V R E U T N A E OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES 1 Execute selective high-impact exploration and appraisal programmes.
2 Safely manage and deliver all major projects and production operations 2 increasing cash flow and Development & operations commercial reserves.
3 Manage financial and business assets 1 3 to enhance our portfolio, replenish Exploration Finance & portolio upside potential and support & appraisal management funding needs.
4 Ensure safe people, procedures SUSTAINABLE and operations and minimise LONG TERM environmental impacts.
VALUE GROWTH 7 4 5 Achieve strong governance across Shared Risk all Tullow activities and continue prosperity management to build trust and reputation with all stakeholders.
6 Build a strong unified team with 6 5 excellent commercial, technical Organisation Governance and financial skills and & culture & values entrepreneurial flair.
7 Nurture long-term relationships with local governments, communities and key stakeholders.
com O R U C R E B W U S W I N O E H S S F I ND IN G BIG OI L 16 Tullow Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Accounts: Special feature Guyanas Basin EXPLORATION 3 & APPRAISAL 1 2 Strategic priority: Execute selective high-impact Lake Albert exploration and appraisal programmes.
West African Rift Basin Transform Margin We focus on finding high-value oil in material commercial quantities in the regions and geological plays we know best.
Our entrepreneurial approach to high-grading our portfolio has built up a range of world-class exploration assets.
We have broadened our portfolio by acquiring large positions in highly prospective frontier basins.
Three new basins in five years We are seeking transformational growth but have 1 2 3 balanced the associated risks as each new focus area is a logical extension of our past success.
WEST AFRICA EAST AFRICA SOUTH AMERICA The world-class Jubilee Oil was discovered in Across the Equatorial By concentrating on a limited number of geological field offshore Ghana Uganda in the Lake Atlantic from West plays stratigraphic traps, rift and salt basins was discovered in 2007.
Albert Rift Basin in Africa, Tullow pursued where we have proven expertise, we have delivered First Oil was achieved 2005, with the the Jubilee play and an industry-leading exploration and appraisal in December 2010. commercial threshold discovered oil offshore success ratio.
com 18 Tullow Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Accounts: Special feature DELIVERI NG MATERIAL PR ODUCTION GR OWTH DEVELOPMENT & OPERATIONS Strategic priority: Safely manage and deliver all major projects and production operations, increasing cash flow and commercial reserves.
Growing our production profile develops a strong predictable cash flow for the Group and improves our financial flexibility.
In recent years we have enhanced our capability as an Operator to deliver major development projects.
This has allowed us to significantly increase the EHS, technical, project execution and operating expertise within our organisation.
Our teams focus is on safely managing all activities and the early commercialisation of our exploration discoveries to ensure we maximise the value of our exploration success.
The latter is delivered through the sale of the resource in ground or the early development to generate cash flow.
This approach underpins funding for a long-term exploration campaign, selective investment in key development projects and acquisitions and a progressive dividend policy.
com boepd $m BUI LDI NG A WE L L FU N D E D BALANCE SHEET FINANCE & PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT Strategic priority: Manage financial and business assets financial management is to achieve a good balance to enhance our portfolio, replenish upside potential and between high-impact exploration campaigns and support the Groups funding needs.
world-class developments that have strong near-term momentum in growing production.
Our financial strategy is to maintain a well funded balance sheet to enable growth through exploration, development Another key element of our growth is portfolio management, and acquisitions.
We utilise a range of funding sources an area where we have built up a strong track record including debt, equity, operating cash flow and and considerable expertise.
There are opportunities to portfolio management.
reorganise our existing portfolio and consolidate our assets through divestment.
We are also well positioned to continue Tullows appetite for funding is very significant and growing.
to create value through acquisitions.
Opportunities include 2012 capital expenditure is forecast to be approximately adding new big oil plays to our portfolio, increasing an $2 billion.
Over a period of time capital expenditure is split existing equity interest to material levels or enhancing approximately 50:50 between Exploration & Appraisal and our production profile.
In any given year it will depend on our investment priorities, which are based on a rigorous approach to capital allocation.
The key principle of Tullows Capital and acquisition expenditure $m 3,000 2,500 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 07 08 09 10 11 0 Capital expenditure Acquisition expenditure 20 Tullow Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Accounts: Special feature 21 www.
com PR OTECTI NG P EOPLE, THE ENVIRONMENT & THE BUSINESS 22 Tullow Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Accounts: Special feature RISK MANAGEMENT Strategic priority: Ensure safe people, procedures and operations and minimise environmental impacts.
The oil and gas industry is inherently high risk.
It combines a complex set of technical risks in finding resources and monetising them over a long time horizon.
Operations encompass a wide range of non-technical risks such as the environment, health and safety, reputation management, political risk and bribery and corruption.
Activities are capital intensive with no guarantee of success, creating significant financial exposure.
This is counterbalanced with the need to achieve substantial financial returns, both to invest for the future growth of the business and to deliver returns to shareholders.
By its nature oil and gas is a dynamic industry which often operates in a fluid geopolitical and social environment.
Risk management is a critical business function.
Understanding the risks and opportunities we face shapes our decisions.
To enhance our risk management process, Tullow has developed an integrated evergreen portfolio management tool.
com S E U L A V R GOVERNANCE & VALUES Strategic priority: Achieve strong governance across all Tullow activities and continue to build trust and reputation with all stakeholders.
Good governance and being a responsible company is defined by our values and upheld by the standards we apply in how we deal with people and how we manage our business.
Our aim is to be open and transparent in our activities and to demonstrate accountability and strong ethics.
As a growing organisation, we foster these attributes through a robust Code of Business Conduct, compliance training and tools as well as disciplinary action if necessary.
Focus on results Commitment to Tullow and each Integrity other and respect Entrepreneurial spirit and initiative 24 Tullow Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Accounts: Special feature U O G N I V I L SUSTAINING OUR GOOD RE PUTATION 25 www.
com T N E M E G A G N MAINTAINING OUR ENTREPRENEURIAL C HARACTER ORGANISATION & CULTURE Strategic priority: Build a strong unified team with excellent commercial, technical and financial skills and entrepreneurial flair.
Much of our success has been based on the adaptive and entrepreneurial nature of our culture, which is also reflected in our core values.
Our culture is part of our competitive advantage.
It is the DNA of Tullow and reflects the way our people work as well as the way we communicate.
It strongly influences why people join Tullow and why they choose to remain with Tullow.
Our people strategy is fully aligned with achieving our vision by ensuring that all our employees contribute the best they can in all that they do and conduct themselves with respect for each other and for the people they work with and the environments they work in.
Our Human Resources HR strategic objective is very clear.
It is to grow value over the long term for the business as the employer of choice in the industry.
Talent Reward & management recognition Operational effectiveness 26 Tullow Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Accounts: Special feature E & E R U T L U C 27 www.
com SHARED PROSPERITY Strategic priority: Nurture long-term relationships with local governments, communities and key stakeholders.
We have made a commitment that we will work to ensure that the success of the oil and gas industry brings transparent and tangible benefits to local people and national economies where we operate.
We believe that working together profitably and responsibly will help build a more sustainable business and society.
Creating shared prosperity brings together the eight key aspects of our business that support our goal of making a lasting positive contribution.
28 Tullow Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Accounts: Special feature C R EA TI N G SH AR E D PR OSPERITY 29 29 www.
com D ELIVERING SUBSTANTIAL RETURNS Our strategic objective is to deliver 10 year Tullow TSR compared with 10 year FTSE 100 TSR substantial returns to shareholders.
This objective is set within a context 2,500 of achieving sustainable long-term growth and creating shared prosperity.
2,000 We believe that it is important first and 1,500 foremost for Tullow to be a successful and profitable company.
This in turn 1,000 will enable us to create further opportunities for both Tullow and 500 our stakeholders.
0 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 Tullow Oil plc FTSE 100 30 30 Tullow Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Accounts: Special feature
