Operations review continued support being seen across the field.
By the end of 2011, gas WEST & NORTH AFRICA re-injection reached 80 mmscfd and gas flaring was reduced Total production to minimal levels.
57,400 BOEPD In 2011, gross production from the Jubilee field averaged Total reserves and resources 66,000 bopd 2010: 3,200 bopd, reaching 88,000 bopd before declining to approximately 70,000 bopd at the end of the year.
657.8 MMBOE However, production from the field was below expectations due to reduced productivity in a number of wells related to Sales revenue problems with the original well completion design.
The issue $1,944 MILLION is not expected to impact the level of field reserves or resources and a remedial work programme is under way to regain well 2011 investment productivity lost to date.
This work involved the sidetracking of the J-07 production well using a new completion design which $768 MILLION is now on-stream and being closely monitored.
Further Tullows African production comes from Ghana, Equatorial remedial work including acid stimulations and additional Guinea, Gabon, Cte dIvoire, Congo Brazzaville and recompletions are planned for 2012.
Whilst the main development and operating focus is on the Jubilee and TEN projects offshore Ghana, Tullow has The next phase of development for the Jubilee field is Phase 1A.
significant ongoing development activities in the majority of its Following approval gained from the Government of Ghana in operational areas.
The Group also has high-impact exploration early 2012, development started in February 2012, with the acreage across this region in Mauritania, Senegal, Liberia, spudding of the first production well, and will continue over Sierra Leone, Cte dIvoire and Ghana.
The development is anticipated to cost approximately $1.1 billion and will consist of eight new wells, Ghana five producers, three additional water injectors and the Tullow has interests in two licences offshore Ghana, Deepwater expansion of the subsea network.
The first of the Phase 1A Tano and West Cape Three Points.
2011 activity included the wells is expected to come onstream from late in the second ramp-up of production from the Jubilee field, further appraisal quarter of 2012. drilling which confirmed Enyenra as a major light oil field, and additional exploration success in the Ntomme-2A, Teak-1, 2 and The combination of the Phase 1 remedial work and the 3A wells.
Production operations on the FPSO Kwame Nkrumah additional Phase 1A wells coming onstream will enable continued to perform well with a low rate of unplanned production to resume its build-up towards the FPSO design shut-downs and no significant safety or environmental issues.
Production is expected to average Activity in 2012 will include the start of the Jubilee Phase 1A between 70,000 and 90,000 bopd in 2012, depending on the well development and further appraisal and development activities performance achieved from the Phase 1 recovery programme on the TEN project.
and the execution schedule of the Phase 1A wells.
Jubilee field Phase 1 & 1A developments  TEN Cluster Development The start of 2011 saw the first lifting of Jubilee crude oil from During 2011, significant progress was made in the programme the FPSO Kwame Nkrumah, and since then over 30 million of appraisal drilling and flow testing of the Tweneboa, Enyenra barrels of oil have been produced and 30 cargoes have been and Ntomme fields, collectively known as TEN.
Following the strong operating performance anticipates developing the three accumulations in an integrated of the FPSO Kwame Nkrumah, Tullow, on behalf of the Jubilee subsea cluster development scheme using a single FPSO.
Partners, acquired the from Modec on 29 December 2011.
This acquisition will enable the Jubilee Partners to maximise The appraisal programme commenced in January 2011 with the FPSOs commercial value and operational efficiency the drilling of the Tweneboa-3 well comprising two deviated whilst Modec will continue to provide operations and exploratory boreholes drilled into the Ntomme prospect which maintenance services.
was proven to be a material and separate gas-condensate accumulation.
Appraisal of the Ntomme accumulation The Jubilee Phase 1 development was completed in October commenced in early 2012 with the drilling of the Ntomme-2A well, 2011 when the last of the initial 17 wells were drilled, completed located over four kilometres south of Tweneboa-3.
This exploratory and brought on stream.
Also at this time, the water injection appraisal well successfully discovered high-quality oil bearing design capacity for the FPSO was reached, with rates over reservoirs, below the Ntomme gas-condensate accumulation, 235,000 bwpd being injected into the reservoirs and pressure reinforcing the overall TEN resource base potential.
52 Tullow Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Accounts OPERATIONS REVIEW 2 Senior Drilling Supervisor with trainees on board the Sedco Energy during drilling of the Owo-1RA well, offshore Ghana.
Further appraisal drilling on the Enyenra field has continued a thick tally of oil and gas pay, and the Teak-2 well drilled in during 2011 including the re-drill of the Owo-1 discovery well in March 2011 tested the fault block between the Teak-1 discovery December 2011, to allow testing and coring.
To determine the and the Jubilee field, where it penetrated a gas reservoir that level of reservoir connectivity and well deliverability, the well may represent a gas cap to the Jubilee field.
The Teak-3 well was was flow tested.
The lower channel was tested at a rate of drilled in November 2011 and confirmed the northern extension approximately 10,000 bopd, and a commingled rate for the two of the Teak discovery, across a major fault.
Plans are in place for upper channels was approximately 12,000 bopd.
The pressure the Teak-4 appraisal well and flow testing in 2012, the outcome response will be monitored by pressure gauges deployed in the of which will guide future development plans.
Enyenra-2A and Enyenra-3A wells, located to the south and north respectively.
The Enyenra-4A well is currently drilling to The Banda-1 exploration well in the east of the West Cape determine the southern extent of the Enyenra field.
Three Points block was drilled in June 2011 to explore the previously untargeted Cenomanian play.
The well found very The TEN Development Project has made significant progress thick but low porosity Cenomanian sandstones with only three since the Front End Engineering & Design FEED commenced metres of oil pay.
The Makore-1 exploration well was drilled in in August 2011.
A design competition has commenced with July 2011 targeting a discrete Jubilee-type reservoir.
The well three FPSO contractors and a local project office has been set found excellent quality sandstones which were unfortunately up in Singapore to support this activity.
Subsea FEED is nearing water-bearing at this location.
These results have been completion and tenders for this work are being prepared.
integrated into Tullows regional geological model to enable better targeting of these plays elsewhere in Tullows Equatorial Tullow expects to submit the TEN Plan of Development PoD Atlantic acreage.
and a formal declaration of commerciality to the Government of Ghana in the third quarter of 2012.
This will incorporate In August 2011, the Akasa-1 well previously known as Dahoma the information gained from the FEED work and the ongoing up-dip was drilled and made a light oil discovery.
First production from the TEN cluster reservoirs encountered are similar in age to those discovered at development is anticipated to be approximately 30 months after the Jubilee field and the oil samples recovered from the Akasa-1 Government approval of the PoD.
well indicate 38 degrees API gravity.
The West Cape Three Points operator, Kosmos, remains in discussions with the Government Exploration & Appraisal activity of Ghana in relation to further appraisal and development plans In 2011, Tullow continued its exploratory drilling activity in Ghana, for the Mahogany, Teak, Banda and Akasa discoveries.
drilling the Teak-1, Teak-2, Teak-3, Banda-1, Akasa-1 and Makore-1 wells in the West Cape Three Points licence, operated by Kosmos.
The Teak-1 well drilled in February 2011 encountered 53 www.
com Operations review continued In the Deepwater Tano licence operated by Tullow, a set of Liberia & Sierra Leone attractive remaining prospects has been identified and Tullow has four contiguous deepwater licences offshore Liberia exploration activity will be completed before the end of the first and Sierra Leone where the Group is looking to capitalise on quarter of 2013.
Three exploration wells are expected to be the success of the Jubilee play in Ghana.
In May 2011, Tullow drilled on the block and potential prospects include: Wawa-1 increased its equity from 10% to 20% in block SL-07B-10 which will target hydrocarbons that may have moved to a trap originally SL-06 and SL-07 in Sierra Leone by exercising up-dip from the TEN oil and gas-condensate fields: Sapele-1, pre-emptive rights.
In November 2011, the Montserrado immediately south of the Jubilee field, will test a prospective exploration well offshore Liberia was drilled and made a turbidite lobe and Tweneboa Deep-1, a material prospect non-commercial oil discovery.
Further analysis is being carried below the TEN fields.
out following this result which will enable the partners to consider follow-up exploration targets in the play.
Following EO Group Ghanaian interests acquisition the well in Liberia, the rig moved to Sierra Leone to drill the and equity redetermination Jupiter-1 exploration well which finished in February 2012.
On 26 May 2011, Tullow entered into a conditional agreement to The well encountered 30 metres of net pay in multiple zones, acquire the Ghanaian interests of EO Group Limited EO for a thus confirming a working hydrocarbon system in the Liberian combined share and cash consideration of $305 million.
The Mercury-2 exploratory well, a bold step out from acquisition increased Tullows interest in the West Cape Three the Mercury discovery, is currently drilling and is expected to Points licence offshore Ghana by 3.5% to 26.4% and increased complete in April 2012. the Groups interest in the Jubilee field by 1.75% to 36.5%.
The acquisition was completed on 25 July 2011.
Cte dIvoire Net production in 2011 from the East and West Espoir fields In October 2011 the partnership completed the first equity averaged 3,750 boepd 2010: 3,850 boepd.
During the year, redetermination of the Jubilee Unit Area JUA and the net production was impacted by gas compressor issues: however, result is that Tullows working interest in the JUA has reduced all four gas compressors are now operational and gas exports slightly from 36.5% to 35.5% which became effective from 1 have recovered to full capacity.
A drilling campaign of at least December 2011. eight infill wells across West and East Espoir is planned to start in the fourth quarter of 2012.
This campaign will rejuvenate production and extend the life of the field.
Following the lifting of Force Majeure for both deepwater exploration blocks, CI-103 and CI-105, the plan to drill one well in each block was reactivated.
The Eirik Raude rig was released from Ghana and commenced drilling the Kosrou prospect CI-105 in February 2012.
The well is expected to complete in April 2012.
This will be followed by the drilling of the high-impact Paon prospect CI-103.
Rig floor of the RR 600 during drilling operations on the Jobi-2 well in Exploration Area 1, Uganda.
2011 E&A success ratio 74% 54 Tullow Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Accounts
