Other statutory information Results and dividends Shareholders rights The profit on ordinary activities after taxation of the Group for The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys the year ended 31 December 2011 amounted to $689.0 million shares are as follows: 2010: $89.5 million.
Dividend rights holders of the Companys ordinary shares An interim dividend of Stg 4p 2010: Stg 2p per ordinary share may, by ordinary resolution, declare dividends but may not was paid on 3 November 2011.
The Directors recommend a final declare dividends in excess of the amount recommended by dividend of Stg 8p 2010: Stg 4p per ordinary share which, if the Directors.
The Directors may also pay interim dividends.
approved at the 2012 AGM, will be paid on 24 May 2012 to No dividend may be paid other than out of profits available shareholders whose names are on the Register of Members on for distribution.
Subject to shareholder approval, payment 20 April 2012. or satisfaction of a dividend may be made wholly or partly by distribution of specific assets: Subsequent events Voting rights voting at any general meeting is by a show of Since the balance sheet date, Tullow has continued to progress hands unless a poll is duly demanded.
On a show of hands its exploration, development and business growth strategies.
every shareholder who is present in person at a general meeting and every proxy or corporate representative In February 2012, Tullow signed two new Production Sharing appointed by a shareholder and present at a general Agreements PSAs with the Government of Uganda.
The new meeting has one vote regardless of the number of shares PSAs cover the EA-1 and Kanywataba licences in the Lake held by the shareholder or represented by the proxy or Albert Rift Basin.
Tullow has also been awarded the Kingfisher corporate representative.
If a proxy has been appointed by production licence.
more than one shareholder and has been instructed by one or more of those shareholders to vote for the resolution In February 2012, Tullow completed the farm-down of one-third and by one or more of those shareholders to vote against of its Uganda interests to both Total and CNOOC for a total a particular resolution, the proxy shall have one vote for consideration of $2.9 billion paving the new way for full and one vote against that resolution.
On a poll, every development of the Lake Albert Rift Basin oil and gas resources.
shareholder who is present in person has one vote for every share held by that shareholder and a proxy has one vote for In February 2012, the Group announced the Jupiter-1 every share in respect of which he has been appointed as exploration well in Block SL-07B-11 offshore Sierra Leone proxy the deadline for exercising voting rights by proxy is had successfully encountered hydrocarbons.
This has been set out in the form of proxy.
On a poll, a corporate confirmed by the results of drilling, wireline logs and representative may exercise all the powers of the company samples of reservoir fluids.
A poll may be demanded by any of the following: a the Chairman of the meeting: b at least Share capital five shareholders entitled to vote and present in person or As at 13 March 2012, the Company had an allotted and fully by proxy or represented by duly authorised corporate paid up share capital of 905,004,587 ordinary shares of 10 pence representative at the meeting: c any shareholder or each with an aggregate nominal value of 90,500,458.70. shareholders present in person or by proxy or represented by a duly authorised corporate representative and holding Substantial shareholdings shares or being a representative in respect of a holder of As at 13 March 2012, the Company had been notified in shares representing in the aggregate not less than oneaccordance with the requirements of section 5.1.
2 of the UK tenth of the total voting rights of all shareholders entitled to Listing Authoritys Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules attend and vote at the meeting: or d any shareholder or of the following significant holdings being 3% or more in the shareholders present in person or by proxy or represented Companys ordinary share capital.
by a duly authorised corporate representative and holding shares or being a representative in respect of a holder of Shareholder Number of shares % of issued capital shares conferring a right to attend and vote at the meeting BlackRock Inc 106,568,436 11.77% on which there have been paid up sums in the aggregate equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sums paid Prudential plc 63,386,247 7.00% up on all the shares conferring that right: IFG International 38,960,366 4.30% Return of capital in the event of the liquidation of the Trust Company Company, after payment of all liabilities and deductions Limited taking priority, the balance of assets available for distribution will be distributed among the holders of Legal & General 35,414,975 3.91% ordinary shares according to the amounts paid up on the Group plc shares held by them.
A liquidator may, with the authority of a special resolution, divide among the shareholders the whole or any part of the Companys assets: or vest the 106 Tullow Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 4 Companys assets in whole or in part in trustees upon such US$165 million finance contract in respect of a senior trusts for the benefit of shareholders, but no shareholder is secured revolving credit facility agreement between, among compelled to accept any property in respect of which there others, the Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company is a liability: and International Finance Corporation and the lenders specified therein pursuant to which each lender thereunder Control rights under employee share schemes the may demand repayment of all outstanding amounts owed by Company operates a number of employee share schemes.
the Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company to it Under some of these arrangements, shares are held by under the agreement and any connected finance document, trustees on behalf of employees.
The employees are not which amount will become immediately due and payable, in entitled to exercise directly any voting or other control the event that any person or group of persons acting in rights.
The trustees will generally vote in accordance with concert gains control of the Company: and employees instructions and abstain where no instructions are received.
Unallocated shares are generally voted at the US$500 million secured revolving credit facility agreement discretion of the trustees: and between, among others, the Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company, BNP Paribas, Credit Agricole Corporate and Restrictions on holding securities there are no restrictions Investment Bank, Standard Chartered Bank and HSBC Bank under the Companys Articles of Association or under UK plc and the lenders specified therein pursuant to which each law that either restrict the rights of UK resident lender thereunder may demand repayment of all outstanding shareholders to hold shares or limit the rights of nonamounts owed by the Company and certain subsidiaries of the resident or foreign shareholders to hold or vote the Company to it under the agreement and any connected finance Companys ordinary shares.
document, which amount will become immediately due and payable, in the event that any person or group of persons There are no UK foreign exchange control restrictions acting in concert gains control of the Company.
on the payment of dividends to US persons on the Companys ordinary shares.
Under the terms of each of these agreements, a change of control occurs if any person, or group of persons acting in Material agreements containing concert as defined in the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers change of control provisions gains control of the Company.
The following significant agreements will, in the event of a change of control of the Company, be affected as follows: Contractual or other arrangements The Group does not have any contractual or other US$3.235 billion senior secured revolving credit facility arrangements that are essential to the business of the Group agreement between, among others, the Company and as described by section 417 5 c of the Companies Act 2006. certain subsidiaries of the Company, BNP Paribas, Bank of Scotland plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, Standard Directors Chartered Bank, Lloyds TSB Bank plc and Crdit Agricole The biographical details of the Directors of the Company Corporate and Investment Bank and the lenders specified at the date of this report are given on pages 81 to 83. therein pursuant to which each lender thereunder may demand repayment of all outstanding amounts owed by the Details of Directors service agreements and letters of Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company to it appointment are set out on page 95.
Details of the Directors under the agreement and any connected finance document, interests in the ordinary shares of the Company and in which amount will become immediately due and payable the Groups long-term incentive and other share option and, in respect of each letter of credit issued under the schemes are set out on pages 97 to 99 in the Directors agreement, full cash cover will be required immediately, in remuneration report.
the event that any person or group of persons acting in concert gains control of the Company: Directors indemnities and insurance cover US$100 million junior secured revolving credit facility As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under agreement between, among others, the Company and which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors, to certain subsidiaries of the Company, BNP Paribas, Bank of the extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006, against claims Scotland plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and Lloyds TSB from third parties in respect of certain liabilities arising out of, Bank plc and the lenders specified therein pursuant to or in connection with, the execution of their powers, duties and which each lender thereunder may demand repayment of responsibilities as Directors of the Company or any of its all outstanding amounts owed by the Company and certain subsidiaries.
The Directors are also indemnified against the subsidiaries of the Company to it under the agreement and cost of defending a criminal prosecution or a claim by the any connected finance document, which amount will Company, its subsidiaries or a regulator provided that where the become immediately due and payable, in the event that defence is unsuccessful the Director must repay those defence any person or group of persons acting in concert gains costs.
The Company also maintains Directors and Officers control of the Company: Liability insurance cover, the level of which is reviewed annually.
com Other statutory information continued Conflicts of interest Borrowing powers the net external borrowings of the Group A Director has a duty to avoid a situation in which he or she outstanding at any time shall not exceed an amount equal to has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, four times the aggregate of the Groups adjusted capital and or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Group.
The reserves calculated in the manner prescribed in Article 105 Board has satisfied itself that there is no compromise to the of the Companys Articles of Association, unless sanctioned independence of those Directors who have appointments on the by an ordinary resolution of the Companys shareholders.
boards of, or relationships with, companies outside the Group.
The Board requires Directors to declare all appointments and Appointment and replacement of Directors other situations which could result in a possible conflict of The Company shall appoint disregarding Alternate Directors interest and has adopted appropriate procedures to manage no fewer than two nor more than 15 Directors.
The appointment and, if appropriate, approve any such conflicts.
and replacement of Directors may be made as follows: Powers of Directors The shareholders may by ordinary resolution elect any The general powers of the Companys Directors are set out in person who is willing to act to be a Director: Article 104 of the Articles of Association of the Company.
It The Board may elect any person who is willing to act to be a provides that the business of the Company shall be managed by Director.
Any Director so appointed shall hold office only until the Board which may exercise all the powers of the Company the next Annual General Meeting and shall then be eligible whether relating to the management of the business of the for election: Company or not.
This power is subject to any limitations imposed on the Company by applicable legislation.
It is also Each Director is required in terms of the Articles of limited by the provisions of the Memorandum and Articles of Association to retire from office at the third Annual General Association of the Company and any directions given by special Meeting after the Annual General Meeting at which he was resolution of the shareholders of the Company which are last elected or re-elected although he may be re-elected by applicable on the date that any power is exercised.
ordinary resolution if eligible and willing.
However, to comply with the principles of best corporate governance, the Board Please note the following specific provisions relevant to the intends that each Director will submit themselves for exercise of power by the Directors: re-election on an annual basis: The Company may by special resolution remove any Director Pre-emptive rights and new issues of shares the holders of before the expiration of his period of office or may, by ordinary ordinary shares have no pre-emptive rights under the Articles resolution, remove a Director where special notice has been of Association of the Company.
However, the ability of the given and the necessary statutory procedures are complied Directors to cause the Company to issue shares, securities with: and convertible into shares or rights to shares, otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme, is restricted under There are a number of other grounds on which a Directors the Companies Act 2006 which provides that the directors of a office may cease, namely voluntary resignation, where all company are, with certain exceptions, unable to allot any the other Directors being at least three in number request equity securities without express authorisation, which may be his resignation, where he suffers physical or mental contained in a companys articles of association or given by incapacity, where he is absent from meetings of the Board its shareholders in general meeting, but which in either event without permission of the Board for six consecutive months, cannot last for more than five years.
Under the Companies becomes bankrupt or compounds with his creditors Act 2006, the Company may also not allot shares for cash or is prohibited by law from being a Director.
otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme without first making an offer on a pre-emptive basis to Employees with disabilities existing shareholders, unless this requirement is waived by a Tullow is committed to eliminating discrimination and special resolution of the shareholders.
The Company received encouraging diversity amongst its workforce.
Tullows aim is authority at the last Annual General Meeting to allot shares that its workforce will be truly representative of all sections of for cash on a non pre-emptive basis up to a maximum society and each employee feels respected and able to give nominal amount of 4,445,679.
The authority lasts until the their best.
Decisions related to recruitment selection, earlier of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2013 development or promotion are based upon merit and ability or 30 June 2013: to adequately meet the requirements of the job, and are not influenced by factors such as gender, marital status, race, Repurchase of shares subject to authorisation by shareholder ethnic origin, colour, nationality, religion, sexual orientation, resolution, the Company may purchase its own shares in age, or disability.
Tullow commits to provide equal opportunities accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Tullows Code of Business Conduct and Equal have been bought back may be held as treasury shares or Opportunities Policy provides guidelines on fair employment must be cancelled immediately upon completion of the practices and fair treatment.
The Company does not currently have shareholder authority to buy back shares: and 108 Tullow Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 4 All employees are helped and encouraged to develop Annual General Meeting their full potential.
Tullow aims to provide an optimal working Your attention is drawn to the Notice of Meeting accompanying environment to suit the needs of all employees, including the this Annual Report which sets out the resolutions to be needs of employees with disabilities.
For employees who proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
The meeting will be held at become disabled during their time with the Group, Tullow will Haberdashers Hall, 18 West Smithfield, London EC1A 9HQ on provide support to best accommodate continuous employment.
This Directors Report Tullows EHS Function actively seeks to keep people safe, comprising pages 4 to 109 and the information referred to whatever their needs.
therein has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Charitable and political donations The Group made charitable, social and community-related donations during the year totalling $11.6 million 2010: $2.6 million.
In line with Group policy, no donations were made Graham Martin for political purposes.
General Counsel and Company Secretary Corporate responsibility 13 March 2012 The Group is fully committed to high standards of environmental, health and safety management.
A review, Registered office: together with an outline of the Groups involvement in the 9 Chiswick Park community, is set out in the Corporate Responsibility section 566 Chiswick High Road on pages 61 to 73.
In addition, Tullow publishes annually a London W4 5XT separate Corporate Responsibility Report which is available on the Group website: www.
Company registered in England and Wales No.
3919249 Supplier payment policy It is Company and Group policy to settle all debts with creditors on a timely basis and in accordance with the terms of credit agreed with each supplier.
The Company had no trade creditors outstanding at 31 December 2011.
Auditors and disclosure of relevant audit information Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined by section 418 3 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditors are unaware and each Director has taken all steps that ought to have been taken to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys auditors will be proposed at the AGM.
com Members of the HR and Administration staff at work in the Dhaka office in Bangladesh.
FI financial S TATEMENTS As part of our Code of Business Conduct we ensure all documentation, including financial accounts and records, is accurate, complete and truthful.
This is essential to support sound business decisions, to meet our legal and regulatory obligations and our responsibilities to all of our stakeholders.
112 Statement of Directors responsibilities 113 Independent auditors report 114 Group financial statements 118 Accounting policies 124 Notes to the Group financial statements 155 Company financial statements and related information 168 Five year financial summary SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 169 Commercial reserves and contingent resources 170 Licence interests 174 Shareholder information 175 Contacts 176 Index 178 Glossary FOCUS ON RESULTS Strong sense of focus on results, driving tasks and projects through to completion with the flexibility to adapt to changing situations.
Our strong financial and operational track record is a clear demonstration of this value in action.
