OPERATIONS REVIEW 2 periods for Kasamene, Wahrindi, Kigogole, Nsoga, Ngege and Madagascar Ngara for an additional year and well testing will take place Following the completion of a field programme in the first half in the first half of 2012.
Drilling activity in 2012 will focus on of 2011, over 450 km of good quality 2D seismic data was then further appraisal of the Ngege, Nsoga and Waraga discoveries.
acquired in Blocks 3109 and 3111 which is still being processed.
The Kanywataba prospect at the southern end of the basin is The rift basin trend covered by the seismic data has already expected to be drilled in the third quarter of 2012. proven successful for light oil in Block 3133 directly to the south.
Based on encouraging data, Tullows intention is to Kenya and Ethiopia acquire further seismic and use these data to pick potential Tullow farmed into blocks 10A, 10BA, 10BB, 12A & 13T in Kenya wildcat well locations.
A farm-out process is also under way, and the South Omo block in Ethiopia in 2011 and Block 12B in with the intention of reducing Tullows equity to 50%.
Tullow operates and has a 50% interest in all seven blocks.
The acreage covers the Turkana Rift Basin, Tanzania which has similar characteristics to the Lake Albert Rift Basin, Until November 2011, Tullow held a 50% interest in the Lindi and includes a south-east extension of the geologically older and Mtwara Blocks.
In November 2011, Tullow farmed down Sudan rift basin trend.
half its interest to its partners, Ndovu Resources Ltd Aminex and Solo Oil.
The Ntorya-1 well spudded on 22 December 2011 A Full Tensor Gradiometry FTG Gravity Survey acquired across in the Mtwara Block and Tullow elected not to participate in most of the Kenya-Ethiopia licence blocks, covering an area of the final section of the well in March 2012. around 100,000 sq km, has been completed and processed.
The data quality is excellent and there are strong similarities EUROPE, SOUTH AMERICA & ASIA with the successful FTG survey acquired in Uganda in 2009.
Total production A 1,000 km 2D seismic programme in the South Omo Block in Ethiopia completed in early 2012.
In Kenya, a 500 km 2D seismic 20,800 BOEPD programme was started in Block 13T in January 2012.
This will Total reserves and resources be followed by a 1,350 km 2D survey in Block 10BA.
120.8 MMBOE The Ngamia-1 well in Block 10BB, which has an anticipated depth of 2,700 metres, spudded on 25 January 2012.
Once this Sales revenue well is completed, the rig will drill the Paipai-1 well in Block 10A.
It is also planned to drill a well in the South Omo Block in $360 MILLION Ethiopia, in the third quarter of 2012.
2011 investment In 2011, Tullow completed a farm-in to Block L8, offshore $246 MILLION Kenya, and holds a 15% equity position with a 5% additional equity option.
The high-impact Mbawa-1 well will be drilled Tullow has gas production assets, ongoing developments in the third quarter of 2012 where Tullow has identified a and exploration acreage in the UK and the Netherlands which potential oil prone area in this gas rich province.
provide valuable cash flow to the Group.
Tullows experience in the North Sea provides a strong platform for expansion in this Namibia region.
Tullow has qualified as an operator in Norway as a first Tullow acquired an interest in the Kudu gas field through the step in the Groups strategy in the North Atlantic.
acquisition of Energy Africa in 2004.
Numerous initiatives have been pursued over the intervening years and the development In South America, Tullow has significant exploration acreage of the field, as a gas-to-power project, is now making progress.
in French Guiana, Guyana and Suriname where the Group is A new Kudu Petroleum Agreement was signed in October 2011 attempting to replicate the success of the West African Jubilee and a 25-year Production Licence was issued by the Minister play across the Atlantic.
The first test of this was the Zaedyus-1 of Mines & Energy in November 2011.
The Upstream Joint well in French Guiana which successfully discovered oil in Operating Agreement, Project Development Agreement and September 2011.
In 2012, follow-up drilling in French Guiana Gas Sales Agreement Heads of Terms are being progressed and Guyana aims to further establish this area as a new and and when concluded will allow the development to proceed to exciting petroleum province.
An investment decision is targeted for late 2012 which could mean the delivery of gas and power generation by the The Group also produces from the Bangora field in Bangladesh end of 2015. and has an exploration portfolio in Pakistan.
In March 2012, Tullow took the decision to commence a process to sell these Asian assets in order to focus on its core African and Atlantic Margin strategy.
com Operations review continued UK Tullow considers the area to have great potential and purchased Net production from the UK assets in 2011 was in line with 51,174 sq km of PGS MegaMerge 3D seismic data in the Dutch expectations averaging 12,500 boepd 2010: 13,300 boepd.
Southern North Sea to evaluate future regional exploration.
In These mature fields performed well, with high production the Tullow operated E-Block, a risked and ranked prospect efficiency despite their natural decline.
inventory was completed in 2011 and Tullow will drill the Vincent prospect in Block E11 in 2012.
Tullows high success In the Thames Area, net production averaged 1,000 boepd ratio in this Carboniferous play in the UK bodes well for the supported by a combined flow from Wren, Wissey and Horne adjacent Dutch portfolio.
In August 2011, Tullow drilled the 49 30b-10 well on the Foxtrot prospect, the sands were found to be water wet and the French Guiana well has been suspended for later re-entry following evaluation In September 2011, the Zaedyus-1 exploration well made a of the deeper Rotliegendes play.
significant oil discovery offshore French Guiana, encountering 72 metres of net oil pay in two turbidite fans.
This is the first well in In the CMS Area, 2011 net production averaged 11,500 boepd.
Tullows extensive Guyanas Basin acreage and successfully Tullow has well intervention programmes in place to ensure opened a new basin, proving that the Jubilee play is mirrored optimal well performance to maximise reserve recovery.
In across the Atlantic from West Africa to South America.
September 2011, the Katy development project was sanctioned, consisting of a single well tie-back to the CMS facilities.
The Drilling operations, which commenced in March 2011, KA-10 infill well commenced in mid-November 2011 and continued after the discovery until mid-November 2011.
An drilling progress is in line with expectations, with production extensive data gathering programme was conducted including due to commence in March 2012. sidetracking of the well to cut a core through the reservoir and gather essential data.
A liner was run over the main oil bearing Further exploration activity took place in the CMS Area in 2011, reservoir and the well was suspended for future re-entry.
with Tullow operating the Cameron-1 exploration well 44 19aThe rig went off contract on 23 November 2011.
The well commenced drilling in April 2011 and discovered gas within the Carboniferous play.
Since the discovery, the The Joint Venture partners are discussing a comprehensive commerciality of the Cameron field has been assessed and a follow-up exploration and appraisal programme which will decision on development options will be made with partners in include 3D seismic acquisition and a drilling programme, the first half of 2012. scheduled to commence in mid-2012.
The drilling programme is expected to start with an appraisal well on the Zaedyus discovery Looking forward, Tullows strategy for the UK is to ensure and be followed by an exploration well on one of the neighbouring rigorous technical assessment of all opportunities in an effort prospects.
The Ministerial Order granting Tullow, Shell and to offset natural decline and to prolong the life of the fields.
Total approval for both the transfer and renewal of the Guyane Maritime licence was received on 22 December 2011.
Shell took Netherlands over Operatorship of the block on 1 February 2012.
In May 2011, Tullow significantly enhanced its Dutch portfolio though the acquisition of Nuon Exploration & Production from Suriname the Vattenfall Group for a cash consideration of 300 million In Suriname, Tullow finalised the farm-down of a 30% interest $432 million.
This is a non-operated portfolio of gas producing in Block 47 to Statoil in December 2011.
Planning is now well fields, a range of exploration opportunities and an equity advanced to acquire over 2,500 sq km of 3D seismic which will interest in infrastructure.
Net production in the second half of commence in the second quarter of 2012, subject to the 2011 was between 6,000 and 7,000 boepd, an improvement on necessary environmental approvals.
The 3D programme is the rates at the time of the acquisition.
Additional production scheduled to take approximately four months to complete.
came from the GdF Suez L15-FA 107 well which was brought onstream in November 2011.
The well tested around 30 mmscfd On the onshore Coronie licence, drilling operations began and is anticipated to recover around 25 bcf of gas.
at the beginning of December 2011 on the first of five initial exploration wells.
The first well has encountered oil shows In late 2011, a significant well and reservoir campaign which is encouraging for the following four wells in the commenced on the Joint Development Area JDA offshore the programme.
It is anticipated that drilling operations will Netherlands.
Four additional non-operated wells are expected continue until the second quarter of 2012.
Having fulfilled all to be drilled on the acreage in 2012 and 25 JDA wells will be contractual obligations on the Uitkijk Block, Tullow returned worked over by mid-2013.
This will extend the field life by 10 its equity to Paradise Oil in June 2011 and no longer retains years and the combined net incremental production of these any equity in the block.
activities is expected to be over 1,500 boepd.
58 Tullow Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Accounts OPERATIONS REVIEW O c e 2 West African and South American exploration acreage West Africa Sierra Leone a Liberia 4 Cte dIvoire 3 Guyana Ghana French Equatorial Atlantic Suriname Guiana Transform Margins 2 1 Fields Discoveries 1 Mahogany, Teak & Akasa South America Jubilee, Tweneboa, Enyenra & Ntomme 2 3 Venus, Mercury & Jupiter Zaedyus 4 In 2011 Tullow proved the transatlantic nature of the Jubilee play in the Equatorial Atlantic region with the successful Zaedyus-1 well in French Guiana.
Tullow has a major exploration campaign across this region on both sides of the Atlantic in 2012 with high impact wells in Ghana, Cte dIvoire, Liberia, Sierra Leone, French Guiana and Guyana.
Guyana Pakistan The Atwood Beacon jack-up rig, contracted to drill the Late In Pakistan, production from the extended well test at Shekhan Cretaceous Jaguar prospect in the Georgetown block in Guyana, in the Kohat licence was maintained for the full year at low was expected to commence drilling in the fourth quarter of 2011. levels and is providing reservoir data which will be used to plan Operational and weather delays, on wells drilled by other parties additional appraisal or development drilling.
Also in the Kohat in Suriname, meant that the rig did not arrive on location until licence, drilling of the Jabbi-1 well, a second exploration well early December 2011.
Inclement weather conditions meant that located 20 km along the trend west of Shekhan, is ongoing.
the well did not commence drilling until February 2012 and The well is due to complete in early 2012 and, if successful, operations are expected to take 180 days to complete the well.
could quickly be tied into the processing plant already installed at Shekhan.
Plans are in place for a comprehensive 2D and 3D Bangladesh seismic survey over the Shekhan, Jabbi and adjacent prospective Gross production from the Bangora field in 2011 was just over structures which should provide a portfolio of development, 100 mmscfd and 325 bpd of condensate.
This was marginally appraisal and exploration targets for drilling in 2013-4. lower than planned due to well maintenance issues.
Tullow will be installing new compression facilities in 2012 to optimise the Recent successful drilling at Zin, which is near to Tullow production profile for the longer term and ultimately increase interests in Block 28 and the Kohlu and Kalchas licences, recoverable reserves.
Installation and commissioning of these is a positive sign for prospectivity and operational access new facilities will lead to some production downtime, but gross to these areas.
production is still expected to average 100 mmscfd in 2012.
Reprocessing of 3D geophysical data over the entire Bangora For latest news and results visit: www.
com area is expected to lead to the identification of additional prospectivity within the Bangora development lease.
Planning will then commence for development and near-field drilling in 2013.
Negotiations with the Government for the award of offshore exploration block SS-08-05 are pending resolution of an ongoing maritime boundary dispute with India.
com n i O c T r a n s c f f s e o n o r a m a r n m F a u t l t i r l c T u F a Ugandan trainee Production Technicians with the Production Superintendent of the Bangora field facilities in Bangladesh.
C ORPORATE R ESPONSIBILITY 62 Creating shared prosperity Creating shared prosperity brings together the eight key aspects of our business that support our commitment to making a positive and lasting contribution where we operate.
62 Governance The highlight of the year was the launch of the new Tullow Code of Business Conduct.
It is important that everything we do enhances and protects our reputation.
64 Stakeholder engagement Our stakeholders shape our operating environment and can directly influence our commercial success.
66 Environment, Health & Safety EHS A key focus for the year was restructuring EHS to support the business and to enhance the capability of the EHS team across Tullow.
68 Our people The people challenges we face are two-fold.
On an ongoing basis we need to foster our entrepreneurial culture and team spirit.
At the same time we need to develop the rigour and process that a larger organisation needs.
70 Sustainable supply chain We are developing ways of working that will ensure that our contracts comply with our five key criteria, which in turn reflect the UN Principles for developing sustainable supply chains.
71 Local content We believe that we have an obligation to enable local people to participate and share in the success of the emerging industry in their country.
72 Social enterprise We invest in sustainable social enterprise projects that align with the development goals of a host country, and or address certain immediate needs our local communities face.
73 Key corporate responsibility policies and systems Tullow has a full set of management systems and standards and policies and procedures which are designed to ensure we deliver value for shareholders and operate our business responsibly.
COMMITMENT TO TULLOW & EACH OTHER We work in a collaborative manner, empowering ourselves and others, whilst taking responsibility for our own actions.
This value is reflected externally in the role we take in developing the oil and gas industry in host countries.
