CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 3 LOCAL CONTENT Creating real opportunities for local people Developing local suppliers in Ghana and local enterprise development Macro Group is a Ghanaian company that offers a portfolio of services including shipping, logistics and trucking.
The 2011 highlights company started life as Macro Shipping in 2005, and has grown Supplier development programme established to support by recognising further opportunities in the emerging oil and local suppliers and enable them to compete for contracts gas industry and adding additional services including Macro Logistics and Macro Trucking.
Social enterprise working group formed to develop integrated initiatives between Social Enterprise, Supply Chain and The company started with three members of staff in 2005 and Human Resources in support of local content development now employs over 75 people.
Macro Group has worked with Tullow since 2009, providing heavy vehicles and drivers and ports and harbours agency services.
A principal element of shared prosperity in host countries is creating real opportunities for local people and local enterprise Its founder Kwame Macafui talks about the Macro Group and development.
Tullows strategy is to create local opportunities their work with Tullow.
in three interconnected ways: Q: What do you find positive about working with Tullow?
A: Id describe working for Tullow as like being in school, but its Supply Chain local content enabling local companies to fascinating as everyone is prepared to learn, with no complaints.
enter the industrys supply chain, either directly with Tullow Since the start of our relationship we have learned a number of or through Tullows supplier relationships: lessons and have grown in experience as an organisation.
While some lessons are positive and others more challenging, we Localisation to be capable of running each of the Groups believe that as we work together more, our business will country assets with a majority of local managers and staff.
HR has functional responsibility for this area: and Q: In what ways has your business changed since working Strategic Social Enterprise investment investing in with Tullow?
education and enterprise programmes that build capacity for A: Tullow has a remarkable environment, health and safety the oil and gas industry and provide support for Tullows management system and it ensures that we conform to the high localisation and supply chain local content strategies.
This is standards within this industry.
Tullows stance on EHS has made the responsibility of the Social Enterprise working group and us focus in the same direction to keep us ahead of the market and our competitors.
One of our objectives is to build a strong External Affairs.
safety culture and we regularly train our staff in a number of internationally recognised EHS practices.
Each aspect has a significant role to play in fostering social and economic development in emerging oil countries.
However, with Q: Do you feel the skills learnt by working with Tullow are almost $2 billion forecast capital expenditure in 2012, Supply transferable both in-country and internationally?
A: Yes, we do, and we very much appreciate the opportunity and Chain has a leading role to play in the development of local experience we have gained.
Working with Tullow has helped us to content.
In particular, all Supply Chain tenders submitted are raise and set our own standards and we believe we are prepared reviewed for opportunities for local content, which is a key for work around the world.
Each tender process we go through is consideration in host country contracting strategy.
tough and challenging, but we consider them to be learning curves that help prepare us for world-class performance Tullow has a local supplier development programme anywhere, anytime.
designed to provide support to suppliers not only to enable them to respond to tenders but also to help them improve their business processes, allowing them to compete with international suppliers.
A key initiative undertaken in 2011 was to identify a series of activities that would support supply chain local content development.
These include building sustainable and viable supplier networks in host countries and developing sustainable and self-governing training initiatives delivering recognised international qualification.
Specific projects under way include opening enterprise centres in Ghana and Uganda in 2012 and running a pilot vocational training scheme for selected trades as a learning exercise.
Central to the success of any initiative is to ensure that they are aligned with host country development goals and are supported or delivered by strong collaborative partnerships with NGOs, governments, industry bodies and professional providers.
Hanna S. Tetteh, Minister of Trade & Industry, on the Tullow stand nd at the 2 AGI Local Content Oil and Gas Conference in Ghana.
