Corporate governance The UK Corporate Governance Code Outside the scheduled meetings of the Board, the Chairman The UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 the Code took and Chief Executive Officer maintain frequent contact with the effect from June 2010, replacing the Combined Code on other Directors to discuss any issues of concern they may Corporate Governance.
The Code is publicly available on have relating to the Group or their areas of responsibility, the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
and to keep them fully briefed on the Groups operations.
As a UK company with a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange, Tullow Oil plc is required to state how it has applied Matters reserved the principles contained in the Code and to disclose whether it The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved that has complied with the provisions of the Code during the year.
can only be decided by the Board.
This schedule is reviewed The main principles of the Code focus on Leadership, by the Board each year.
The key matters reserved are the Effectiveness, Accountability, Remuneration and Relations with consideration and approval of: Shareholders.
Details of how Tullow has applied these main principles are set out below.
It is the Boards view that the The Groups overall strategy: Company has fully complied with the Code provisions during Financial statements and dividend policy: the year ended 31 December 2011.
Borrowings and treasury policy: Leadership Material acquisitions and disposals, material contracts, The Company is headed by an effective Board which is collectively major capital expenditure projects and budgets: responsible for the long-term success of the Company.
Risk management and internal controls supported The Role of the Board by the Audit Committee : The Board sets the Groups strategy, ensuring that the necessary Succession planning and appointments supported resources are in place to achieve the agreed strategic aims and by the Nominations Committee : objectives, determines the Companys key policies and reviews management and financial performance.
It is accountable to The Groups corporate governance and compliance shareholders for the creation and delivery of strong, sustainable arrangements: and financial performance and long-term shareholder value.
achieve this, the Board directs and monitors the Groups affairs within a framework of controls which enable risk to be assessed Summary of the Boards work in the year and managed effectively through clear procedures, lines of During 2011, the Board considered all relevant matters within responsibility and delegated authorities.
The Board also has its remit, but focused in particular on the following key issues: responsibility for setting the Groups core values and standards of business conduct and for ensuring that these, together with Strategy and management with a particular focus on the Groups obligations to its stakeholders, are widely the farm-down of its interests in Uganda: understood throughout the Group.
Environment, Health and Safety: Board meetings Financial management: The core activities of the Board are carried out in scheduled meetings of the Board and its Committees.
These meetings are Regulatory Compliance including implications of the timed to link to key events in the Companys corporate calendar UK Bribery Act: and regular reviews conducted of specific business areas.
Appointments and succession planning this is dealt Additional meetings and conference calls are arranged to with more fully in the Nominations Committee report consider matters which require decisions outside the scheduled on pages 86 and 87: and meetings.
In addition to the scheduled meetings of the Board, two strategy meetings are held annually with Senior Stakeholder relations.
During 2011, the Board met on 10 occasions of which 9 were scheduled meetings.
In order that the Board has the opportunity to see the Companys operations overseas, the Board holds at least one Board meeting each year at one of the principal overseas offices of the Group.
This provides senior managers from across the Group with the opportunity to present to the Board and to meet the Board members informally.
It also provides the Board with an opportunity to meet a broad cross-section of staff and to assess senior managers at first hand.
In 2011, the overseas Board meeting was held at our Dublin office.
100 Tullow Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 4 Attendance at meetings Chairman and Chief Executive Officer hold informal meetings The attendance of Directors at the nine scheduled meetings with the non-executive Directors to discuss current issues of the Board during 2011 was as follows: affecting the Group.
1 As Senior Independent Director, Steven McTiernan is available to Meetings attended meet shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be resolved 2 Pat Plunkett 9 through discussion with the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or 3 Chief Financial Officer or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Simon Thompson 5 Aidan Heavey 9 Efforts are made to ensure that the non-executive Directors are briefed on the more technical and operational aspects of our Tutu Agyare 9 activities, such as the Jubilee offshore development and our extensive exploration programme.
Those non-executive Directors David Bamford 9 with particular expertise in these areas meet regularly with the Ann Grant 9 Chief Operating Officer and the Exploration Director when they are able to contribute more fully at in-depth discussions.
Graham Martin 8 Angus McCoss 9 Non-executive Directors are initially appointed for a term of three years, which may, subject to satisfactory performance and Paul McDade 9 re-election by shareholders, be extended by mutual agreement.
Steven McTiernan 9 Delegated authorities 4 Clare Spottiswoode 4 Board Committees The Board has delegated matters to three Committees, Ian Springett 9 namely the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
David Williams 9 The memberships, roles and activities of these are detailed in separate reports: the Audit Committee on pages 84 to 85 1 This table shows attendance at scheduled Board meetings.
In addition, the Nominations Committee on pages 86 to 87 and the one ad hoc meeting was held during the year to approve the appointment Remuneration Committee on pages 88 to 99.
Each Committee of Simon Thompson as Chairman with effect from 1 January 2012. reports to, and has its terms of reference reviewed and 2 Pat Plunkett retired as a Director on 31 December 2011 approved annually, by the Board.
Reports of the issues 3 Simon Thompson was appointed as a Director on 16 May 2011 and has attended every scheduled Board meeting since his appointment.
considered at meetings of the Committees are made to the 4 Clare Spottiswoode retired as a Director on 12 May 2011 Board by the respective Committee Chairmen.
Individual Delegations Division of Responsibilities In addition to delegating certain matters to Board Committees, There is a defined separation of the responsibilities between the Board has also delegated certain operational and Simon Thompson, the non-executive Chairman and Aidan management matters to individual Executive Directors.
Heavey, the Chief Executive Officer, which has been set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman is primarily Executive Committee responsible for the effective working of the Board, whilst The Board delegates authority for the management of the the Chief Executive Officer, is responsible for the operational day-to-day business and operational matters to the Chief management of the business, for developing strategy in Executive Officer and the other Executive Directors who form consultation with the Board and for implementation of the Executive Committee.
This Committee meets weekly and is the strategy.
responsible for implementing Group strategy and monitoring the detailed performance of all aspects of the business.
The Chairman On appointment as Chairman on 1 January 2012, Simon Effectiveness Thompson met the independence criteria set out in the Code.
Composition of the Board The Board currently comprises a Chairman, Chief Executive Non-executive Directors Officer, four other Executive Directors and five independent The non-executive Directors bring a broad range of business non-executive Directors.
Biographical details of the Board and commercial experience to the Company and have a members are set out on pages 81 to 83. particular responsibility to challenge independently and constructively the performance of the Executive management The Directors are of the view that the Board and its Committees and to monitor the performance of the management team in consist of Directors with an appropriate balance of skills, the delivery of the agreed objectives and targets.
As part of this experience, independence and diverse backgrounds to enable responsibility, the non-executive Directors meet at least twice them to discharge their duties and responsibilities effectively.
a year without the Executive Directors present.
com Corporate governance continued The following changes in Board composition were made Training and development needs during the year.
On 12 May 2011, Clare Spottiswoode retired Induction as a non-executive Director having been on the Board for more All new Directors receive an induction as soon as practicable than nine years.
On 16 May 2011, Simon Thompson joined on joining the Board.
This includes one-to-one meetings with as a non-executive Director and, on 31 December 2011, Senior Management, functional and business unit heads and, Pat Plunkett retired as a non-executive Director.
where appropriate, visits to the Groups principal offices and operations.
The Company Secretary also provides new In May 2011, the Board renewed the contract of Ann Grant Directors with an overview of their duties as Directors, who had served three years as a non-executive Director for corporate governance policies and Board processes as part a further three-year term.
In December 2011, following the of the induction process.
A tailored induction programme was announcement of the appointment of Simon Thompson as established for Simon Thompson on his joining the Board in Chairman from 1 January 2012, the Board approved a new May 2011.
In addition to one-to-one meetings described above three-year term of office for Simon Thompson until 31 he has visited our main offices in Ghana, Cape Town and Dublin December 2014.
The Board has also approved an extension and has also met with a number of the Groups key investors.
to the term of office for Steven McTiernan until 31 December 2012 on expiry of his existing term on 28 February 2012.
Familiarisation and development All members of the Board have access to appropriate In March 2012, the Board approved the appointment of Steve professional development courses in respect of their obligations Lucas as an additional non-executive Director with effect from and duties as Directors, and during the year Directors attended 14 March 2012.
David Williams is to step down from the Board external seminars on relevant topics relating to the business.
In addition to business updates, the Board and Committees receive ongoing briefings including updates on governance Independence and regulatory issues to ensure Board members remain The Board considers each of the non-executive Directors to be up to date with current regulations and developments.
independent in character and judgement.
Notwithstanding that the Senior Independent Director, Steven McTiernan, has served Information and support on the Board for more than 10 years, the Board is fully satisfied Independent advice that he demonstrates complete independence, robustness of Directors have access to independent professional advice at the character and judgement both in his designated role and as a Companys expense on any matter relating to their responsibilities.
The Board is of the view that no individual or group of individuals dominates decision taking.
The Company Secretary The Company Secretary is Graham Martin who is also an Appointments to the Board Executive Director and General Counsel.
He is available to The Nominations Committee is responsible for reviewing Directors to provide advice and is responsible for ensuring the structure, size and composition of the Board and that all Board procedures are complied with.
As with all making recommendations to the Board with regard to Board positions, this combined role is regularly reviewed.
The Company Secretary is supported by a Deputy Company Secretary in the provision of company secretarial services to the Commitment Group.
The Deputy Company Secretary acts as secretary to the All Directors have disclosed any significant commitments Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees and has to the Board and confirmed that they have sufficient time direct access to the Chairmen of these Committees.
102 Tullow Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 4 BOARD PERFORMANCE EVALUATION Interviews conducted by Simon Thompson Board Directors Committee Chairman Performance reports feedback Issues identified Action plan agreed by Board Board evaluation The principal recommendations were as follows: As an external evaluation of the Board, its Committees and 1.
More of the Boards time should be devoted to the major individual Directors was conducted in 2010, the Board decided strategic opportunities and challenges facing the Company.
that the 2011 evaluation should be conducted internally.
Risk management processes are generally robust and well In November 2011, the Board appointed Simon Thompson, embedded in the corporate culture, but some improvements a non-executive Director, to undertake the evaluation.
He to the quality of Board reporting were identified in relation conducted a review of the Board, each of its Committees and to political risk analysis, the competitive landscape and individual Directors.
This was done via structured interviews industry benchmarking.
following an agreed comprehensive questionnaire.
In order to ensure that Tullow has the resources to meet its change in Chairman that had been announced, no Chairmans growth objectives the Board needs to allocate more time to performance assessment was conducted.
The individual discussing: talent management: organisational design: Chairmen of each Committee received a report on the succession planning: portfolio management: and medium performance of their respective Committees.
Simon Thompson term cash flow forecasting.
also presented the Boards performance report and those of each Committee to the Board as a whole and an action plan Re-Election has been agreed.
The Board has agreed that all Directors shall seek re-election on an annual basis.
In 2012, all Directors will stand for In summary, it was felt that the Board was functioning well and re-election, other than David Williams who will retire at the that all the Directors feel proud to be part of the Tullow team.
The Board has set out in the Notice There was a remarkably high degree of alignment on the of Annual General Meeting its reasons for supporting the principal challenges facing the Company and the steps that re-election of those Directors seeking re-election at the needed to be taken collectively in order to lead the Company forthcoming AGM.
through the next phase of its development.
com Corporate governance continued Accountability The Board has ultimate responsibility for the effectiveness of The Board is committed to providing shareholders with a the Groups risk management activities and internal control clear assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
Any system of internal control can provide only This is achieved through this report and as required in other reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that material financial periodic financial and trading statements.
irregularities will be detected or that the risk of failure to achieve business objectives is eliminated.
The Boards The arrangements established by the Board for the application objective is to ensure Tullow has appropriate systems in of risk management and internal control principles are detailed place for the identification and management of risks.
on pages 40 to 45 and page 104 respectively.
The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee oversight of the relationship The Board receives reports from business unit and corporate with the Groups auditors as outlined in the Audit Committee teams throughout the year to enable it to assess on an ongoing report on page 84. basis the effectiveness of the system of internal controls and risk management.
Going concern The Group closely monitors and manages its liquidity risk.
During the year, the Group Internal Audit Manager reviewed a Cash forecasts are regularly produced and sensitivities run number of areas of risk and his findings were reported to the for different scenarios including, but not limited to, changes in Audit Committee.
No significant weaknesses were identified.
commodity prices, different production rates from the Groups The Board has confirmed that through its Audit Committee portfolio of producing fields and delays in development projects.
it has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal In addition to the Groups operating cash flows, portfolio financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management opportunities are reviewed to potentially enhance management, and considers that the system of internal the financial capacity and flexibility of the Group.
The Groups controls operated effectively throughout the financial year and forecasts, taking into account reasonably possible changes as up to the date on which the financial statements were signed.
described above, show that the Group will be able to operate within its current debt facilities and have significant financial Remuneration headroom for the 12 months from the date of approval of the The Board has delegated to the Remuneration Committee 2011 Annual Report and Accounts.
responsibility for agreeing the remuneration policy for the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Directors and Internal controls senior executives.
The Directors remuneration report on The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Groups pages 88 to 99 contains full details of the role and activities and the Companys systems of internal control, which are of the Remuneration Committee.
designed to safeguard the assets of the Group and to ensure the reliability of financial information for both internal use and Relations with Shareholders external publication and to comply with the Turnbull Committee Communication and dialogue guidance.
The Groups internal control procedures require Communication with all our shareholders is given a technical, financial and Board approval for all projects.
There is regular dialogue through meetings, major expenditures require Senior Management approval at presentations, conferences and ad hoc events with institutional the appropriate stages of each transaction.
Overall control is investors and sell-side analysts.
Throughout 2011, Executive ensured by a regular detailed reporting system covering both Directors and Senior Management met with institutional technical progress of projects and the state of the Groups investors in the UK, Ireland, Germany, France, Switzerland, financial affairs.
The Board has put in place procedures for Scandinavia, Benelux and North America.
In total, over 370 identifying, evaluating and managing any significant risks that institutions met with Senior Management and the Investor face the Group.
Risk assessment and evaluation is an integral Relations team during the year and the Group also participated part of the annual planning cycle.
Each business unit in 15 investor conferences.
documents its strategic objectives and the significant risks in achieving them and regularly reports on progress against these Following a successful Capital Markets Day event hosted in objectives.
Key risks are also reported monthly to the Board.
Ghana during 2010, a similar event was arranged for nine There is a comprehensive budgeting and planning system for global institutional investors in September 2011.
The investors all items of expenditure with an annual budget approved by the toured the onshore logistics base, were flown offshore to view Board.
Actual results are reported against budget on a monthly the FPSO and drilling rigs and met with the in-country basis.
Revised financial forecasts for the year and financial management team, local Ghanaian investors and several of the projections for future years are regularly prepared.
104 Tullow Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 4 Executive team.
In 2012, Tullow plans to host a Capital Markets and operational matters.
The 2010 Corporate Responsibility Day in the second half of the year to increase the understanding Report was issued in June 2011 and was also made available and knowledge of certain parts of the Groups business.
in full HTML format on the corporate website.
In December 2011, the Group commenced a review of its Constructive use of the AGM corporate brokers.
Following submissions from eight banks, At the AGM, a business presentation is provided for the Barclays Capital and Morgan Stanley in London were appointed benefit of shareholders and individual shareholders are given as joint corporate brokers with Davy retaining their role as the opportunity to put questions to the Chairman, the chairmen corporate brokers in Dublin.
of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees and to other members of the Board.
In addition, the Board is On the 27 July 2011, Tullow shares commenced trading on the committed to maintaining strong links with its significant Irish Ghana Stock Exchange GSE.
The Group placed over 3.5 million shareholder base and holds a business presentation in Dublin shares on the GSE following the announcement of the Groups following the AGM, to allow these shareholders similar access intention to list on the GSE in June and a successful marketing to the Company.
All resolutions at the 2011 AGM were voted on trip by the Groups CEO who meet with a number of large by way of a poll with the final results, which included all votes Ghanaian institutional investors.
Tullow now has over 10,000 cast for against and those withheld, announced via the London Ghanaian shareholders and in early May 2012, it is planned to Stock Exchange as soon as practicable after the meeting.
hold the first Investor Forum in Accra.
The announcement is also made on the Companys corporate website.
Notice of the AGM is sent to shareholders at least The Group issues its results and other news releases via the 20 working days before the meeting.
London Stock Exchanges Regulatory News Service.
These are published on the Media and Investor Relations sections of the On behalf of the Board Groups website: www.
Regular updates in relation to the Group and the status of exploration and development programmes are also included on the website and via social media service Twitter: www.
Simon R Thompson Shareholders and other interested parties can subscribe to Chairman receive these news updates by email by registering online on the website.
The corporate website has additional functionality 13 March 2012 routinely rolled out across the site to enhance the Groups communication with all stakeholders.
Over 500,000 visits and 2.5 million page views were made during 2011 along with significant followers on the Groups corporate Twitter, Facebook, YouTube and LinkedIn accounts.
The Chairman is available to meet institutional shareholders to discuss any issues and address any concerns in relation to the Groups governance and strategy.
The new Chairman has already held meetings with a number of UK-based investors.
Non-executive Directors have the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders and are available to attend if requested to do so.
Meetings are also held with the corporate governance representatives of institutional investors when requested.
Tullow met several Socially Responsible Investing SRI fund managers upon request in 2011 and completed a four-day SRI roadshow in London, Edinburgh, Paris, Geneva and Basle in November 2011.
The Group Environmental, Health and Safety, External Relations and Investor Relations Managers met 16 institutional investors to discuss a number of topics including health and safety, the environment, corporate governance, bribery and corruption, country and political risk 105 www.
