Section 1: 2011 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements Explanation of UBMs business measures Financial measure How we define it Why we use it Underlying revenue and underlying Underlying measures are adjusted for the estimated effects The Group believes underlying revenue and underlying operating profit ofacquisitions, discontinued products, foreign exchange operating profit assists investors intheir assessment and andbiennial events.
understanding of our underlying business trends, without distortion from the effect of acquisitions, discontinued products, biennial events and foreign currency movements during the period.
Adjusted operating profit Operating profit excluding amortisation of intangible The Group believes adjusted operating profit, adjusted and EBITDA assetsarising on acquisitions, exceptional items and share operating margin and adjusted EBITDA assists investors in oftaxation on joint ventures and associates.
EBITDA their assessment and understanding of our earnings and is isadjusted operating profit before depreciation.
also a measure commonly used by shareholders to measure our performance.
Adjusted margin Margin relates to our adjusted operating margin.
It is adjusted operating profit expressed as a percentage of totalrevenues.
Adjusted profit before tax Before amortisation of intangible assets arising on The Group believes adjusted profit before tax and adjusted and adjusted EPS acquisitions, exceptional items, share of taxation on profit EPS assists investors in their assessment and understanding from joint ventures and associates, net financing income of our earnings and is also a measure commonly used by expense other.
EPS also excludes deferred tax on the shareholders to measure our performance.
Diluted EPS includes theimpact of shareoptions.
Net debt Net debt is current and non-current borrowings less cash Provides a measure of indebtedness in excess of the current andcash equivalents.
cash available to pay down debt.
Net debt to EBITDA Net debt divided by adjusted EBITDA.
Provides a measure of financial leverage.
Net debt to LTM EBITDA EBITDA adjusted to include a full year of pro forma operating profit from acquisitions made during 2011.
Free cash flow Net cash provided by operating activities after meeting Helps assess our ability, over the long term, to create value obligations for interest, tax, dividends paid to nonfor our shareholders as it represents cash available to repay controlling interests, capital expenditures and other debt, pay dividends and fund future acquisitions.
Adjusted operating cash flow Adjusted to exclude non-operating movements in The Group believes adjusted operating cash flow assists working-capital, such as expenditure against reorganisation investors in their assessment and understanding of our and restructuring provisions.
Cash conversion Cash conversion is the ratio of adjusted cash generated fromoperations to adjusted operating profit.
Pre-tax return on investment Attributable adjusted operating profit divided by the cost Helps us assess the performance of our acquisitions relative ofacquisitions.
Calculated on a pro forma basis, as if to our target pre-tax cost of capital threshold of 10%.
theacquired business were owned throughout the year.
Estimated total consideration Estimated total consideration includes initial consideration Provides a measure of total consideration for businesses net of cash acquired, the latest estimate of expected acquired.
Return on average capital employed ROACE is operating profit before exceptional items Provides a measure of the efficiency of profitability of our ROACE dividedby average capital employed.
employed istheaverage of opening and closing total assetsless current liabilities for each period.
Effective tax rate The effective tax rate on adjusted profit before tax reflects Provides a more comparable basis to analyse our tax rate.
thetax rate excluding movements on deferred tax balances on the amortisation of intangible assets.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 51
