Section 2: Governance Board of Directors John Botts David Levin Robert Gray Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial officer Age: 71 Age: 50 Age: 55 Appointed: July 1997 Appointed: April 2005 Appointed: September 2009 Independent: No Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience John has been a director of UBM for 14 years, and David has been involved in the information, Robert joined UBMs Board as Chief Financial has been Chairman since December 2007.
He will technology and media sectors since 1994, holding Officer in September 2009 from Codere S. A. in be retiring from the Board at the 2012 AGM.
senior positions at the international businessSpain where he was Chief Financial Officer from publishing group Euromoney Institutional Investor February 2004.
He has over 30 years experience John has a wealth of experience in investment PLC, as Group COO, Group CFO, and as President infinance and banking.
He began his career at banking and international corporate finance, with of Institutional Investor magazine group in New J. P. Morgan and subsequently worked at Deutsche global experience encompassing the US, Europe, York.
Between February 1999 to April 2002 he Bank where he served in a number of senior The Middle East and South Africa.
He held various wasCEO of Psion plc, the handheld computing positions, including Managing Director, worldwide positions within Citibank between 1974 company, and between April 2002 andApril 2005 LatinAmerican Investment Banking.
and 1986 and was appointed chairman and chief he was CEO of Symbian, amobile phone software executive officer of Citibanks investment banking Robert has extensive experience in mergers and licensing company.
He is Senior Advisor of acquisitions, capital-raising across a broad range Allen & Company in London and Chairman of Prior to that David also worked for the private ofmarkets, industries and geographies, building Botts & Company.
equity group Apax Partners, based in the UK, as businesses in international markets, notably in MD of a number of engineering companies, and LatinAmerica, and in transforming corporate Committee membership with the consultancy firm Bain and Company, financial functions to support growth and access Chairman of the Nomination Committee mostly in Asia and the USA.
External appointments Committee membership Committee membership Chairman of Botts & Company.
None None Senior Advisor of Allen & Company UK Non-Executive Director of Euromoney Institutional External appointments External appointments Investor plc UK Trustee, Leaders Quest Foundation UK Advisory Board Member, Codere S. A. Spain Non-Executive Chairman of Glyndebourne Arts Trust UK Non-Executive Director of Songbird Estates plc UK Trustee of Tate Foundation UK 52 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Section 1: 2011 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements Jonathan Newcomb Pradeep Kar Karen Thomson Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Age: 65 Age: 53 Age: 50 Appointed: September 2001 Appointed: August 2006 Appointed: August 2006 Independent: Yes Independent: Yes Independent: Yes Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Jonathan has wide ranging experience of the Pradeep has extensive experience in Information Karen brings to the Board a wealth of experience of publishing and data industries.
He was Chairman Technology and internet services, particularly in the online world.
She launched AOL in the UK in and CEO of Simon & Schuster, one of the worlds India.
He is the Founder, Chairman and Managing 1995 and served as CEO of AOL UK from 1999 largest book publishers and providers of educational Director of Microland, Indias leading provider of to2006 and President of AOL Europe in 2006, and training materials, from 1994 until 2002, outsourced IT infrastructure management services.
developing both the telecoms and advertising lines having been President and Chief Operating Officer A serial entrepreneur, Pradeep Kar founded of business.
As Online Business Director of from 1991.
Prior to joining Simon & Schuster, Planetasia.
com Indias leading internet professional Vodafone UK, between April 2007 and June 2008, Jonathan was president of the McGraw-Hill services company, Indya.
com Indias leading portal, Karen was responsible for developing Vodafone financial information group, where he was acquired by News Corporation and Net Brahma UKs Internet operations and fixed line telecoms responsible for Standard & Poors and Data atelecom software company.
She has a particular interest in developing Resources.
From 2002 to 2004 he was a principal female talent in organisations and the building of Pradeeps deep understanding of the Asian market is with Leeds Equity Partners, a New York-based strong organisational cultures.
crucial to the Boards strategy in Emerging Markets.
private equity firm that invests primarily in Since 2009 she has been an active investor in early information, education and training businesses, Committee membership stage Internet-focused businesses such as MT andin 2006 and 2007 he was President and CEO Member of the Remuneration Committee Mobility Ltd and Return to Glory, addressing the ofCambium Learning, aneducational services External appointments mobility and beauty health industries respectively.
Founder, Chairman and Managing Director Committee membership Jonathan is currently the Chairman of Swets, one ofMicroland Limited India Member of the Audit Committee ofthe worlds leading information services company Advisory Board Member of Leaders Quest UK Member of the Nomination Committee for academic, corporate, government and medical Board Member of Trinity College Dublins South institutions, and managing director of the New Asia Initiative Ireland External appointments York-based investment firm Coady Diemar.
Board Member of Telstra Telecommunications Pvt Director of MT Mobility Ltd UK Limited India Chairman of Outplay Entertainment Ltd UK Committee membership Chairman of the Audit Committee Member of the Nomination Committee External appointments Managing Director of Coady Diemar US Board member of Journal Communications US Chairman of Swets The Netherlands Board member of the Columbia Graduate School ofBusiness US UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 53 Section 2: Governance Board of Directors continued Alan Gillespie Terry Neill Greg Lock Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Age: 61 Age: 66 Age: 64 Appointed: April 2008 Appointed: September 2009 Appointed: February 2010 Independent: Yes Independent: Yes Independent: Yes Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Alan has extensive experience in both the private Terry spent over 30 years working at Accenture Greg has more than 38 years experience in the and the public sector, with a background in Andersen Worldwide, between 1970 and 2001 and technology, software and computer services investment banking and financial services.
He has vast experience of working on large-scale design industry.
In a 30-year career at IBM Greg held a wide spentten years at Citibank, followed by 13 years and delivery projects, and managing change in a range of senior roles including a member of IBMs atGoldman Sachs as a partner, with responsibility global business.
Working in London, Dublin and Worldwide Management Council and Governor for corporate finance and mergers and acquisitions Chicago, he was the worldwide Managing Partner ofthe IBM Academy of Technology.
As Global inthe UK and Ireland.
He jointly led the firms ofAndersen Accentures Change Management General Manager, Industrial sector, he had financial services practice in Europe and in 1996 Practice and a senior partner in Accenture until worldwide responsibility for IBMs business established Goldman Sachs presence in South August 2001, when he was part of the team that withcompanies in the Automotive, Aerospace, Africa.
Alan has worked in the UK, USA, Europe successfully developed and executed the strategy Electronics, Chemical, Petroleum and other and South Africa.
From 2001 to 2008 he was fortransforming Accenture into a public company.
During his career at Chairman of The Ulster Bank Group.
He is Terry was also Chairman of Andersen Worldwide IBMhe lived and worked in the United States, currently the Senior Independent Director from 1996 to 2000.
France, Germany and the UK.
Between 2004 and 2010 Terry was a Greg is Chairman of Computacenter plc, the Within the public sector, Alan is Chairman of the  of Bank of Ireland ITservices business, and Chairman of Kofax plc, Economic and Social Research Council ESRC, Groupand a non-executive director of CRH plc.
theleading provider of document-driven business and Chairman of the International Finance Facility Heis based in Ireland, where UBM has its process automation solutions.
He also spent for Immunization IFFIm, an intergovernmental .
fouryears as Chairman of technology company organisation established to fund vaccination SurfControl Plc.
Committee membership programs for children in many of the worlds poorest Member of the Audit Committee Committee membership countries.
He has been Chief Executive ofthe Member of the Nomination Committee Member of the Audit Committee Commonwealth Development Corporation and the Member of the Remuneration Committee Chair of The Northern Ireland Industrial External appointments Development Board.
Chairman of the Camerata Ireland Orchestra External appointments Ireland Chairman of Computacenter plc UK Committee membership Governor of the London Business School and Chairman of Kofax plc UK Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Finance Committee Chairman UK Non-executive Director of Target Group UK Member of the Nomination Committee Member Trinity College Dublin Foundation Board External appointments and Chair of Humanities Advisory Board Chairman of the Economic and Social Research Council UK Chairman of the International Finance Facility for Immunization UK Senior Independent Director of Old Mutual plc UK 54 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011
