Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Strategic review Ultras objective Rakesh Sharma, Chief Executive The prime objective the platform to which they contribute.
In turn, this missionThe Boards prime objective continues to be to outperform criticality secures Ultras positions for the long term which the market in terms of annual increases in shareholder underpins the superior financial performance of the Group and value by delivering above average increases in earnings and drives the sustainability of Ultras business model see pages 2 by communicating effectively with shareholders and the to 5 for more details.
An anticipated outcome of Continuity of management meeting this objective is that Ultras ranking in the FTSE Working to attain the goals of these growth strategies also index on the London Stock Exchange should improve.
Ultra requires consistency of management focus and drive.
The seeks to extend its long track record of delivering above continuity of Ultras management team ensures that the average shareholder returns.
In order to outperform the expertise is retained to maintain the growth momentum in market, Ultra must add shareholder value and increase its the Group and to address and resolve issues posed by its market capitalisation more rapidly than other companies.
In April, I became the Groups Chief Executive and Ultras strategy is constantly to increase its share of the Douglas Caster became Chairman.
Ultra has a strong markets in which it has positioned itself.
The Group focuses Executive Team that includes the Executive Directors, the on those specialist sectors within the markets where Divisional Managing Directors and Presidents, the HR and customers preferentially focus their expenditure.
M&A Directors and the Company Secretary General The four main strategies for growth are: Counsel.
The members of the Executive Team understand what makes Ultra different and how to focus the Groups businesses on maintaining competitive advantage in the 1 Increase the Groups portfolio of specialist various specialist market sectors in which Ultra operates.
capability areas Ultras strategic framework 2 Augment the number of long-term platforms The hierarchical nature of Ultras objective, strategies for and programmes on which Ultras specialist growth, strategic tenets and culture are shown on this capabilities are specified graphic.
The Boards prime objective of outperforming the market in terms of delivering shareholder value is detailed 3 Broaden the Groups customer base above.
The Groups four strategies for growth are outlined on pages 14 and 15.
Underpinning these growth strategies 4 Widen Ultras geographic footprint are the eight strategic tenets described on pages 16 and 17.
These strategic tenets help shape the culture, denedas values and behaviours, that drives Group results, thereby Competitive and corporate strategies driving the achievement of the Groups prime objective.
Achieving success in these four areas requires the successful Ultras culture, values and behaviours are described on execution of both competitive and corporate strategies.
The pages 18, 19 and 20. first element, the competitive strategies, is implemented by each of Ultras businesses and focuses on winning new business in the niche market sectors in which the Group has positioned Objective itself.
The second element, corporate strategy, adds value by focusing on Ultras investments in acquisitions and in significant internally-funded development programmes.
Successful pursuit of these growth strategies drives the resilience of the Groups Strategies for growth financial performance.
Ultras growth momentum is derived from the Groups broad mix of specialist activities in its 28 businesses, within which the Group has about 180 specialist capability areas.
The diversity of specialist capabilities enables Strategic tenets Ultra to contribute to a large number of defence, security, transport and energy platforms and programmes.
Ultra has Culture world-leading positions in many of its specialities and, as an values, behaviours, results independent, non-threatening partner, is able to support all of the main prime contractors with its capabilities and solutions.
Through such positioning, Ultras systems, equipment or services are often mission-critical to the successful operation of 10 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc see footnote on inside front cover page 18 page 16 page 14 page 10 Strategic review Ultras objective One indicator of the success of Ultras growth strategies is the acquisitions that the Group makes.
Since the start of 2011, Ultra has bought four specialist businesses.
Acquisitions One indicator of the success of Ultras growth strategies is the acquisitions that the Group makes.
In early 2011 the Group acquired 3eTI, a business in Maryland USA that designs, develops, markets and supports military grade wireless local area network access points, mesh networks, security software, and encryption technologies for military, government and commercial markets.
It is part of Ultras Tactical & Sonar Systems division.
In September, Ultra acquired AEP Networks, a leading supplier of secure network communication solutions.
AEPs proprietary products are accredited by CESG GCHQ, the UK governments national technical authority for secure electronic communications.
AEPs security solutions include secure network gateways, remote access hardware encryption products and a security as a service offering known as Cloud Protect.
AEP is also part of Ultras Tactical 129.4m & Sonar Systems division.
In December, the Group made two further acquisitions in the the amount spent on four acquisitions security and cyber eld, SOTECH and Zu Industries.
SOTECH offers turnkey communications surveillance systems, in 2011 integrating proprietary and  data analytic tools to manage large volumes of data from mobile, xed line and broadband networks.
Customers are government agencies that support and perform global 1 counter-terrorism and counter-narcotic missions.
SOTECH is 1 3eTI 19.4m part of the Groups Information & Power Systems division.
2 AEP Networks 36.1m 4 Zu specialises in the provision of equipment for cyber 3 SOTECH 24.7m surveillance systems, built primarily from two proprietary 2 software products that operate on  4 Zu Industries 49.2m hardware.
Zu is now part of ProLogic in Ultras Information & Power Systems division.
3 Rakesh Sharma Chief Executive 45th Zu Industries Inc was Ultras 45th acquisition Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 11 7.
