Strategic review Market sectors and opportunities Strategic review Positioning in market areas of preferential customer spend Ultras focus is on developing differentiated solutions within a large number of niche markets in high growth sectors where it can maintain sustainable competitive advantage and can win business worldwide.
This specialism and diversity gives some protection from budget variations and provides resilience to its financial performance.
The Group operates in a number of different distinct areas of capability, reducing the potential impact of a risk posed by a decline in any one market sector.
350 Ultras specialist capabilities are specified on over 350 international platforms and programmes In the UK, defence budgets will be reduced, though, for Ultra, Defence UK defence, directly and indirectly, represents only about 12% About 65% of Ultras revenue is from the defence sector.
In the short term, the imperative for change level of international tension remains high, driven by the and reorganisation within the MoD is likely to continue actions of rogue states, terrorist groups and the potential for restricting or delaying the authorisation of new contracts.
This underpins continuing Elsewhere, in areas where Ultra has achieved market presence, expenditure worldwide on defence.
The focus of expenditure such as Australia, Turkey and the Middle East, the upward has been in recent years and continues to be on improving trend of defence spending is being maintained.
Modern armed information superiority, command & control, unmanned forces around the world rely on many forms of sophisticated sensors & systems and secure communications.
These are all electronic systems to achieve smart capability for precision areas where Ultra has strong market positions.
The scaling targeting, information superiority, as well as interoperability back of allied operations in Afghanistan and Iraq is not between coalition forces.
As a result, an increasing proportion expected to harm the Groups trading position, since Ultra did of defence and security budgets is being spent on electronics not benefit materially from the start of the operations.
It may and Ultra should benefit from this trend.
even provide benefit as it may alleviate some of the current pressures on defence budgets.
Whilst the level of international tension remains high, defence budgets are coming under pressure from governments seeking to rein in public spending.
As a consequence of the squeeze, it is likely that upgrades of existing military platforms will take precedence over new platforms, which typically drives demand for the advanced electronic solutions in which Ultra specialises.
Furthermore, Ultras strategic positioning means that it has a broad customer base, supplying all elements of the armed forces, i. e. the army, navy, air force and marines.
This provides an element of risk mitigation.
In the US, Ultras largest single market, the deficit reduction process will reduce expenditure on the investment accounts of procurement and research, development, testing and evaluation.
The impact will be felt across many programmes.
16% Ultra is represented on a significant range of programmes and platforms so the cancellation or curtailment of any single Growth in order book value in 2011 programme is unlikely to have a significant adverse impact on the Group.
Areas in which US defence expenditure is rising is in underwater battlespace generally and in anti-submarine 950m 2010: 818m warfare specifically both areas of Ultra expertise.
Introduction Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Strategic review Positioning in market areas continued Cyber security is now embedded in the national security policies of governments worldwide.
17% Security and cyber accounted for 17% of Group revenue in 2011 The global intelligence market is also still being driven by the Security and cyber high threat levels caused by terrorists, organised criminals Ultras cyber, security and intelligence markets continue to and narcotics cartels.
Often, these three groups are grow, again driven by global terrorist activity, organised interlinked making intelligence an area of high customer crime and state-sponsored cyber activity.
By their nature, preferential spend.
Covert surveillance and legal intercept of budgets in these areas are difficult to define and quantify.
electronic communications continue to be effective ways of Any published estimate of expenditure is almost certainly a identifying and negating the threat.
The current high levels substantial underestimate of the true total.
These budgets of political, social and economic instability that have certainly support growth for Ultra in these market sectors.
emerged in many regions since the onset of the global Cyber security is now embedded in the national security recession are catalysing many governments to maintain or policies of governments worldwide.
In the UK, the accelerate acquisition plans so as to improve their government estimates that many billions of pounds are intelligence capabilities.
being lost in government, industry and civilian assets each The need for homeland security is continuing to drive year to cyber crime.
GCHQ, the UK government agency expenditure in the security area.
Demand continues to grow responsible for cyber security, has reported that the UK for the intelligence and surveillance gathering capabilities government gets 20,000 attacks each month.
Following needed to secure borders and protect critical national publication of the 2010 National Security Strategy and the infrastructure from physical attack.
Assurance is also sought Strategic Defence & Security Reviews, funding for tackling that information and online systems will retain their integrity cyber crime was increased.
At a time of government when confronted with cyber-attacks.
austerity, this is an indication of the seriousness with which Ultra has highly specialised capabilities in secure governments take the cyber threat and the opportunities in communications, networks and high grade cryptographic cyber security that are available.
equipment, key management systems and surveillance and In the US, cyber warfare is an area where budgets are intelligence gathering systems.
The Group is well positioned expected to increase over the coming budget cycle.
At the to benefit from demand for enhanced cyber defences, beginning of 2012, President Obama outlined a new intelligence gathering requirements and infrastructure defence strategy for the US that will focus on investments in protection around the world.
The four acquisitions that Ultra cyber as well as the broad area of intelligence, surveillance completed in 2011 all have significant capabilities in the and reconnaissance.
FY2012 departmental budgets cyber, security and intelligence markets, boosting the submitted for Congressional approval also point to increased Groups exposure to these high growth areas of the cyber funding being made available for cyber security efforts.
this is a global problem, many countries are facing similar challenges, making this a worldwide growth market.
22 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc see footnote on inside front cover Strategic review Ultras objective Population growth is driving demand for increased travel and energy resources around the world.
$150,000 the value of Ultras equipment on each Boeing 787 aircraft, which entered service in 2011 Around the world there is a strategic need to have secure Transport and energy access to an increasing amount of energy with a low carbon Population growth is driving demand for travel and energy.
This is driving a steady For transport, this drives demand for civil aircraft and increase in the level of investment in civil nuclear power infrastructure investment in mass passenger transport generation and in the search for new reserves of oil and gas.
In the short term, these investment decisions may, Investment is being channelled into extending the life of however, be slowed by overall concerns about the state of existing plant as well as building new reactors.
The number some national economies as deficit reduction plans are of power stations being built in China for which nuclear implemented.
Demand will remain strong, however, in other, reactors are the heat source is rising in order to satisfy the high-growth economies.
Increases have been announced in demand for electricity as the economy grows.
Ultras production rates at both Boeing and Airbus, reecting their specialist sensors are fully qualied and well proven in long order books.
Sales of equipment for the Boeing 787, as service with all the reactor designs being manufactured.
the build rate increases and the size of the fleet in airline Increasing efforts are being made to nd oil and gas service grows, will be additive to the Groups performance.
resources in areas of the world where access has to date The long-term, worldwide increase in air travel drives been considered too difficult to make extraction economically investment in infrastructure including airport IT systems viable.
Ultra has energy sources and specialist sensors, where Ultra has a portfolio of different specialist system derived from defence applications, which are highly effective solutions.
Modern airports have many different systems that in the underwater environment at hydrocarbon mapping.
must all work in harmony for the airport to run efficiently.
Demand is increasing for fuel cells that can generate Ultra has a proven capability to undertake such large-scale electrical power in remote areas.
The Group continues to win new distributed long-life sensor systems and other uses of small business around the world and the two airports in Oman will portable power sources.
Ultra has a range of innovative, augment Ultras already impressive list of reference sites for propane-powered fuel cells that outperform batteries by a this broad capability.
The worlds population tends to cluster around major conurbations that then require efficient internal transport mechanisms to minimise congestion and pollution.
Light rail-based passenger transport systems are increasingly a key element of integrated transport solutions.
Ultra has a broad range of trackside power equipment, suitable for use in these ground transport systems.
