More than 350 platforms and programme Annual Report and Accounts 2011 the Ultra business model Why were different a look at our DNA What Ultra does Ultra Electronics is a group of 180 specialist businesses designing, specialist capabilities manufacturing and supporting electronic, electro-mechanical and 350 software systems, sub-systems platforms & programmes and products for defence, none of which typically security, transport and energy contributes more than 5% of applications worldwide.
Ultras annual revenue Ultra focuses on developing specialist capabilities that provide differentiated solutions to customers requirements.
A representation of Ultras capabilities mapped onto Across the Groups businesses there are more than 180 of their corresponding programmes these specialist capability areas.
These are categorised into three broad market areas see revenue by capability pie adjacent and are illustrated as the columns in the matrix shown in the graphic.
Ultra provides these specialist capabilities on a long list of Over 180 international, multi-year platforms and programmes.
These specialist capabilities are shown as the rows in the matrix on the graphic.
The WIN-T US Army Group is positioned on more than 350 such platforms and USN anti-s submarine warfar are systems programmes.
None typically contributes more than 5% of MRC142 U USMC Ultras revenue in any year.
F A-18 E F The Group constantly seeks to increase the number of Eurofighter columns in the matrix by adding new specialist capabilities in UAE Systems Ap pproa ach to Training narrow market niches, to add more rows to the matrix by British Army base ep protection winning positions on more programmes and to maximise the US Army magneto inductive blasting value at each intersect in the matrix.
Revenue by capability The broad spread of specialist capability areas mapped onto so many platforms and programmes provides resilience to Ultras financial performance and reduces the 3 Groups risk profile.
1 Defence 65% Ultra ensures that all of its businesses are well managed, 2 Security and cyber 17% profitable and cash generative see the comments on Ultras 3 Transport and energy 18% 1 structure on page 5.
This allows the Group to fund 2 acquisitions that augment Ultras position in its market areas.
Since the Groups formation, Ultra has maintained a balance between organic and acquisition growth, having successfully integrated 45 acquisitions since 1993.
The Group pursues four parallel strategies for growth that are explained more fully on pages 14 and 15.
The broad spread of specialist capability areas mapped onto so many platforms and programmes provides great resilience to Ultras financial performance and reduces the Groups risk profile.
02 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Line of sight radios Sonobuoys Network access equipment HiPPAG compressors Ice protection Landing gear control Cockpit equipment Training & consultancy Surveillance systems Magneto inductive Nuclear control systems the Ultra business model Why were different Ultras position in the supply chain Where Ultra operates Within the definition of the supply chain shown in the graphic Ultras markets below, Ultras specialist capabilities are mainly at tiers 3 and 4, Ultra has consistently and continuously positioned and supplying equipment and components to support tier 1 and 2 repositioned itself in areas of preferential customer spend sub-systems and programmes.
The Group does undertake tier 2 within its main defence, security, transport and energy sub-system integration but does this mainly when integrating markets.
The Group has demonstrated a long track record of its own tier 3 offerings.
Ultra therefore understands the tier 3 identifying such market sectors and then investing to create detailed interfaces and so is therefore able to manage the risk differentiated positions in them.
Ultras ever broadening inherent in tier 2 sub-system integration activities.
range of specialist market positions continues to underpin Ultra has no strategic aim to be a tier 1, top level platform the Groups growth momentum.
The Group is therefore non-threatening to the tier 1 Ultra has pursued a strategic focus on gaining access to the prime contractors such as BAE Systems or Rolls-Royce and two largest addressable defence budgets in the world, the US counts them amongst its largest customers.
They can rely on and the UK.
The Group has expanded and developed a Ultra to provide the specialist capabilities at which the Group is transatlantic capability and derives around half its revenue expert.
Concentrating on tiers 3 and 4, rather than aiming to from North America.
The Middle East and Asia Pacific be a tier 1 platform provider, means that no single platform or regions are capable of being larger markets for Ultra and the programme typically accounts for more than 5% of Group Group is focused on broadening its geographic reach.
revenue for the year, so the cancellation or curtailment of any single programme is unlikely to have a significant adverse Revenue by region impact on the Group.
4 1 1 United Kingdom 29% 3 2 North America 49% Supply chain 3 Mainland Europe 9% 4 Rest of the world 13% Platform provider Tier 1 2 Sub-system integrator Tier 2 Equipment supplier Tier 3 Ultras customers Ultras independence allows it to work with the worlds Component supplier Tier 4 major prime contractors in its markets and to sell its wide portfolio of specialist capabilities to a broad range of Typical tier offerings customers around the world.
The graphic below shows the major customers for the Groups 2011 revenue.
Within the Tier 1 Platform provider Groups top customers, such as the US Department of Responsible for being the prime contractor of the platform Defense DoD, the UK Ministry of Defence MoD and in question, examples being a naval vessel or a terminal at BAE Systems, the Group actually supplies to a wide range of an airport.
different project offices, integrated project teams and Tier 2 Sub-system integrator platform teams.
Therefore, Ultra deals with a larger number Responsible for integrating equipment or components that of different customers than the graphic might first suggest.
will make up a functional element of the platform.
Examples of sub-system integration that Ultra has completed include integrated sonar systems and wing ice protection systems.
Tier 3 Equipment supplier 35% Ultra has a large presence at this level of the supply chain, supplying equipment such as data links, cryptographic 30% equipment and large electrical transformers.
25% Tier 4 Component supplier 20% Ultra also provides a broad range of smaller components onto many programmes worldwide, including sensors for 15% measuring the performance of a nuclear reactor and 10% joysticks to control UAVs.
5% 0% Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 03 US DoD UK MoD ROLLS-ROYCE BAE SYSTEMS MOTC OMAN GENERAL DYNAMICS RAYTHEON EADS AUSTRALIAN DND LOCKHEED MARTIN BOEING THALES ACMA GmBH UTC BOMBARDIER 7.
Introduction Annual Report and Accounts 2011 the Ultra business model Why were different a look at our DNA continued One example is reaching up the supply chain to supply an Innovative solutions integrated torpedo defence system, with twelve businesses, inside and outside Ultra, providing elements of the solution.
delivered in partnership The Group has also teamed to transfer technology across In its specialist capability areas, Ultras understanding of the international borders to deliver to the customer nation the customer environment and the projected capability gaps sovereign operational capability it needs.
The fact that Ultra is that the customer would like addressed in short, its technology-agnostic makes it an ideal teaming partner for understanding of the customer problem statement is such technology transfer.
Similarly, the Group shares the a key differentiator.
benefits of such teaming arrangements with its partners in an Ultra businesses constantly innovate to create solutions to equitable fashion so that all teaming partners should want to customer requirements that are different from and better work together on the next opportunity, resulting in long-term than those of the Groups competitors in a way that the relationships that benefit all parties.
In identifying differentiated solutions, prime Ultra reinvests over 5% of revenue in new product and consideration is given not to what Ultra would like to sell but business development.
In addition, over 10% of Group to what the customer wants to buy.
This flexibility covers not revenue is customer-funded product development.
In total just the technical attributes of the product or system but also therefore over 15% of revenue spend is focused on the commercial package, the training and the support in augmenting the portfolio of capabilities and programme which the customer is interested.
positions that underpin further growth.
The Group is agnostic as to the source of the technology that is required to deliver the solution.
When proven technology that meets the customers requirements exists outside the Group, Ultra is happy to form teaming partnerships to access it.
Ultra sees these teaming arrangements as a source of competitive advantage, allowing Ultra to deliver Over 15% of revenue spend is differentiated solutions that meet customer needs efficiently.
It is important that these teaming arrangements are of focused on product and business benefit to all parties by working together, the team development, of which over 10% members are able to achieve something that would not be possible without teaming.
Customer problem statement Innovation at Ultra is driven by great people working in an environment that encourages innovation and audacity within a structure that allows individuals to make a real difference.
Further comment on Ultras culture can be found on page 18.
Ultras 3rd party solution technology 04 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc the Ultra business model Why were different Ultras agile Organising the Group management structure to deliver results Structure A key differentiator for Ultra is the agility that businesses in the Group exhibit in their dealings with customers.
This agility is underpinned by Ultras structure and its Board management and governance processes.
In turn, these maintain a strong focus on operational autonomy, whilst RESPONSIBLE FOR: Leadership ensuring that the appropriate levels of control and guidance doing the right thing are in place to support growth.
Growth in shareholder value Group strategy The Board provides effective leadership and direction in Risk management delivering the key corporate objective of reliable and Standards of ethics and behaviour consistent growth in shareholder value.
The Board retains full responsibility for the Group strategy and receives a detailed annual presentation from the Executive Team on the proposed strategy for the following five years.
It also ensures Executive Team that internal controls and risk management are strong in all RESPONSIBLE FOR: of Ultras operations and ensures that appropriate standards Management doing things right of ethics and behaviour are in place across the Group and Delivering the strategy that the culture is positive and constructive.
At the Financial performance operational level, the Executive Team has responsibility for Team development running the Group and for guiding the delivery of strategy, financial performance and team development.
28 autonomous With around 4,500 employees in its 28 businesses, the businesses number of staff at Ultras head office is fewer than 30.
This organised into gives a clear signal about how it wants the Group to run.
three divisions Across the Group, there are no more than seven levels of seniority from shop-floor operator or newly qualified engineer up to the Chief Executive.
Flat management structures within the 28 businesses are encouraged to facilitate agile behaviour at all levels.
This balance of giving the businesses autonomy and responsibility for their success and regular Group-level review gives the businesses the agility needed to succeed in their markets whilst maintaining an appropriate level of central control.
Focus on autonomy As much authority and responsibility as possible is devolved to the Managing Directors and Presidents and their management teams.
Ultra wants these teams to maintain the agility and sharp focus externally on customer requirements that are typical of owner-managed businesses.
Ultras central management processes therefore focus on just three topics.
These are: strategy agreeing and then delivering a five-year plan focused on positioning for growth in target markets through innovation that generates differentiated solutions to customer requirements for each of Ultras specialist capability areas.
financial performance managing the main processes for example, winning new business, execution of contracts, production and support so that the business meets or beats the agreed financial budget.
Across all Ultra businesses the focus is mainly on cash generation as an indicator of the high quality of earnings growth.
developing people developing the team and the individuals within the team so that they grow with the business and do not become a constraint on the development of the Group.
Ultras right people are its most important asset and great focus is placed on ensuring that the right people are in the right roles.
