Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Performance Tactical & Sonar Systems Revenue in Tactical & Sonar Systems reduced by 1% to 308.6m 2010: 311.9m and underlying operating profit rose by 2% to 60.5m 2010: 59.4m.
These results include part-year contributions from 3eTI, acquired early in 2011 and AEP Networks, acquired later in the year.
This division was most affected in the year by defence Revenue procurement delays in the US.
These impacted order intake and sales of tactical radios and network access equipment, 308.6m leading to a reduced closing order book and lower revenue 42% 2010 311.9m overall for the division.
The reduction in sales was partially of Group offset by higher activity levels on sonar system developments in Australia and the Netherlands and anti-submarine warfare -1% activity in the US.
Operating profit generally tracked sales volume and one-off redundancy costs were recognised in some businesses.
The overall increase in operating margin to 19.6% 2010: 19.0% reected profit recognition at the end Underlying operating profit of some development contracts.
In addition, the Canadian government has committed to making multi-year contributions 60.5m to the costs of new product development for which there was 50% a catch up in the year relating to earlier activity.
2010 59.4m of Group Performance in future years will be underpinned by the following developments in 2011: 2% selection in Turkey to supply the torpedo countermeasure system for a new submarine programme passing critical design reviews relating to the Groups new Order book UK cryptographic equipment contracts to install Ultras secure wireless monitoring 330.7m systems at a number of US Navy bases 35% 2010 402.3m of Group Teaming internally to -18% deliver success Ultras Maritime Systems, based in Canada and EMS, based Number of employees in the US, have teamed to deliver an on-board 38% demagnetising system to the Royal Canadian Navys new of Group Halifax Class frigates.
It was important that Maritime 1,715 Systems, as a Canadian business, was able to establish a strong relationship with a customer with whom they had not previously dealt so as to influence the downstream procurement.
This required EMS to educate Maritime Systems about its technology so that Maritime Systems had the correct knowledge in addition to the right accent.
Thanks to the preparation work undertaken by the two businesses, the customer made it clear that their preference was for Ultras technology.
Nonetheless, the competition was conducted as a lowest cost, technically compliant bid that would result in a rm xed priced contract.
Ultra won because it was able to offer proven technology, at a competitive price, from a Canadian entity.
The two Ultra businesses, working closely together, were able to fide-risk the project by agreeing a work-share that played to the strengths of each organisation.
30 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc see footnote on inside front cover Performance Tactical & Sonar Systems In 2011 the Anti-Submarine Warfare ASW team within Ultras USSI business maintained its world-class sonobuoy production capability while capturing innovative, new engineering development programmes that will lead to future production.
One example is the HAASW High Altitude ASW programme where all US sonobuoys are being upgraded for improved performance with the new P-8 ASW aircraft that will operate at a greater altitude than the P-3 aircraft it replaced.
In addition, the ASW team is using its acoustic source capabilities to pursue new customers in wider markets including systems for acoustic mine-sweeping and oil exploration.
Pictured above, front row from L to R: Darrel Massman, Production Engineer: Chuck Logar, Business Development Manager: Ollie Kelley, Production Associate.
Centre row L to R: Ed Chase, Acoustic Engineer: Paul Sell, Production Team Leader: Sue Drohan, Production Sonobuoy Program Manager.
Back row L to R: Aaron Winteregg, Production Engineer: Kyle Pattison, Electrical RF Engineer: Mike Driver, Electrical Technician.
see footnote on inside front cover Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 31 7.
