Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Performance Aircraft & Vehicle Systems Revenue in this division reduced by 5% to 166.1m 2010: 174.1m while underlying operating profit increased by 33% to 31.1m 2010: 23.4m.
The Groups main activities in the UAE were accounted for as an associated undertaking in 2011, reducing revenue by 14.4m, equivalent to 8% of divisional revenue.
There were full-year contributions from Extec and AMI, both acquired in 2010.
The divisions order book reduced to 177.4m 2010: 210.9m, the major cause being the cancellation, for the convenience of the customer, of a contract to supply systems for a European military aircraft currently in development.
There was solid demand in the US for Ultras HiPPAG airborne Revenue compressors used in stores ejection applications, offset by reductions in the period in the rate of production of hand 166.1m controls for remote weapon systems.
International sales of 23% Magicard ID card printers increased as did demand in the UK 2010 174.1m of Group for specialist high integrity manufacturing services.
The level of investment in the development of aircraft equipment was -5% lower in 2011 than in the prior year as major aircraft programmes moved into a production phase.
The operating margin improved to 18.7% 2010: 13.4% reecting, as anticipated, the lower level of reinvestment, the improved US Underlying operating profit dollar hedged rate and accounting for activities in the UAE as an associated undertaking.
31.1m Highlights of activities in the year that will underpin 25% 2010 23.4m the divisions future performance included: of Group selection by Embraer to supply landing gear, steering and door control systems on its new KC-390 military 33% transport aircraft successful trials of Ultras innovative propane-powered fuel cells, both in UAVs and as ground power sources.
These Order book fuel cells outperform batteries by a significant margin selection to provide various computers, displays and 177.4m controls on the new Scout and Warrior armoured vehicles 19% for the British Army 2010 210.9m of Group Enhancing capability -16% through teaming Ultras Controls business and GKN Aerospace teamed in Number of employees 2004 to explore offering Boeing an electro-thermal ice 24% protection system for a possible all-electric aircraft, then of Group called the B7E7 eventually named the B787.
Ultra had 1,042 been developing a power generation and switching technology for propeller aircraft, whilst GKN had an established heater mat capability used on engine inlets and helicopter blades and experience in embedding these in composite structures.
The combined Ultra GKN team was able to offer Boeing a wider capability than it could nd elsewhere.
As part of the normal, complex development process of a new aircraft, Boeing rened the system requirements of the wing ice protection system, increasing the complexity and the level of safety-criticality.
The combined resources of GKN and Ultra were required to respond to the challenge, working in close collaboration with Boeing.
Having now succeeded, Ultra and GKN have developed and certied a unique, highly complex and effective system that would take any other company or companies many years and substantial non-recurring effort to replicate.
26 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc see footnote on inside front cover Performance Aircraft & Vehicle Systems In November 2011, Ultras Precision Air & Land Systems business was selected by Lockheed Martin to deliver a wide range of equipment for the Warrior armoured vehicle capability sustainment programme.
Ultras offering includes vetronics computing, re control, power-management and the drivers crew station.
The overall value to Ultra is anticipated to be in excess of 40m, depending on the number of vehicles the UK MoD chooses to upgrade.
There is potential export value if the architecture is adopted for other programmes around the world.
Pictured above, front row from L to R: Samantha Smith, Contracts Manager: Alan Needham, Programme Manager.
Centre row L to R: Debbie Massey, Head of Commercial: Adrian Butterworth, Chief Engineer: Naomi Dukes, Sales & Marketing Manager: Tony White, Director of Advanced Technology.
Back row L to R: Gavin Armstrong, Engineering Director: Mark Greenwood, Quality Engineer.
see footnote on inside front cover Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 27 7.
