Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Board of Directors For the year ended 31 December 2011 Douglas Caster CBE BSc MIET Chairman Rakesh Sharma BSc MBA CPhys MInstP Chief Executive Douglas Caster is a highly experienced engineer and manager of Rakesh Sharma has unmatched experience of running different Ultra electronics businesses.
He has a long track record of driving growth businesses and divisions and his focus always has been on driving growth and superior financial performance in the companies for which he in the Group.
He ensures Ultra businesses concentrate on maintaining is responsible.
competitive advantage in the various specialist market sectors in which Ultra operates and delivering superior financial performance.
Biographical details Douglas Caster started his career as an electronics design engineer Biographical details with the Racal Electronics Group in 1975, before moving to Rakesh Sharma started his career as an electronic design engineer Schlumberger in 1986 and then to Dowty as Engineering Director of at Marconi in 1983 before moving to Dowty as Chief Engineer of Sonar & Communication Systems in 1988.
In 1992, he became Sonar & Communication Systems in 1989.
He was appointed Managing Director of that business and, after participating in the Marketing Director of that business in 1993 when Ultra Electronics management buy-out that formed Ultra Electronics, joined the board was formed.
From 1997 to 1999 he worked in the US as Ultras in October 1993.
In April 2000, he was promoted to the position of Operations Director, North America.
After returning to the UK he Managing Director of Ultras Information & Power Systems division.
was Managing Director of PMES and then of Sonar & In April 2004 he was appointed Chief Operating officer and became Communication Systems before taking his first divisional role in Chief Executive in April 2005.
He was appointed deputy Chairman 2005 as Managing Director, Tactical & Sonar Systems.
In 2008 he in April 2010 and became Chairman of Ultra in April 2011. moved to run the Groups Information & Power Systems Division before being appointed Chief Operating Officer in January 2010.
He was appointed to the board in April 2010 and became Chief Executive in April 2011.
Christopher Bailey FCA MCT Non-Executive Director Paul Dean MA FCMA Finance Director Chris Bailey is an experienced plc Finance Director who brings valuable Paul Dean is an experienced plc Finance Director whose experience, specialist and general management expertise to Ultras board.
With including participating in the buyout from Burmah Castrol and Aggregate Industries, Chris gained experience of an organisation subsequent otation, is an excellent match for Ultra.
with operations in all of Ultras main geographic markets.
Biographical details Biographical details Paul Dean joined Ultra in January 2009 having been Finance Director Chris Bailey was appointed to the board in January 2005.
He was of Foseco from 2001 until its acquisition by Cookson plc in April Group Finance Director of Aggregate Industries plc until 2004.
He was a key part of the team that led the 2001 management was the Finance Director of the precursor companies of Aggregate buy-out from Burmah Castrol of five specialty chemicals businesses Industries from 1984 until its formation in 1997.
He is a Fellow of the to form Foseco Jersey Ltd which was oated as Foseco plc in Institute of Chartered Accountants of England & Wales and is also a May 2005.
From 1989 to 2001, Paul held a number of senior Member of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
finance roles in Burmah Castrol plc, including Finance Director of Castrol UK Limited, Chief Financial officer of the Fosroc Division, Group Financial Controller and then Corporate Treasurer for Burmah Castrol plc.
He was appointed to the board in April 2009.
36 42 Ultra Ultra Electr Electronics onics Holdings Holdings plc plc Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committee member Board of Directors Ian Grifths BSc Non-Executive Director Sir Robert Walmsley KCB, FREng Non-Executive Director Ian Grifths brings to the Ultra board his substantial experience of Sir Robert Walmsley brings to Ultras board solid experience in the running complex engineering organisations around the world and defence, security, energy and transport sectors, markets in which has demonstrated his skill at driving programmes of reinvestment to the Group is investing for further growth.
He has substantial underpin business growth.
knowledge of all of Ultras main geographic markets.
Biographical details Biographical details Ian Grifths was appointed to the board in April 2003.
From Sir Robert Walmsley was most recently Chief of Defence Procurement February 2006 until May 2007 he was Managing Director, Royal Mail at the UK Ministry of Defence MoD, a post which he held from Letters.
Previously, he was a main board Executive Director of GKN 1996 until his retirement from public service in 2003.
Prior to his plc, where he was Group Managing Director GKN Automotive, MoD appointment, Sir Robert had a distinguished career in the Royal having been a member of the GKN Driveline senior management Navy, where he rose to the rank of Vice Admiral in 1994 and served team since 1990.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of Renold plc.
for two years as Controller of the Navy.
Sir Robert Walmsley is Chairman of the Board of the Major Projects Association, a Non-Executive Director of Cohort plc and of the General Dynamics Corporation.
He is also a senior advisor at Morgan Stanley International plc.
He was appointed to the board in January 2009.
Andy Hamment BA FRAeS Group Marketing Director Andy Hamment has worked in the aerospace and defence industry for most of his career, mainly in business development and management roles.
He focuses on ensuring that there is a robust strategic review process in each of the Group businesses.
Biographical details Andy Hamment started his career with Hawker Siddeley before moving to Schlumberger in 1980, working in procurement and then marketing at Weston Aerospace before transferring to Solartron to become its Aerospace Business Manager.
He joined Dowty in 1988 as Managing Director of the Controls business and participated in the management buy-out that created Ultra Electronics.
He was appointed Group Marketing Director in July 2000 and joined the board at that time.
He will retire from Ultra on 30 March 2012.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of Senior plc.
Note: All details correct as at 31st December 2011 Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committee member Ultra UltraElectr Electronics onicsHoldings Holdings plc plc 37 43 7.
