Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Performance Information & Power Systems Revenue in Information & Power Systems grew by 15% to 257.0m compared to 224.0m in the previous year.
Underlying operating profit increased by 11% to 30.5m 2010: 27.5m.
These results included a full-year contribution from Transmag, acquired in 2010, and a part-year contribution from SOTECH and Zu, acquired late in 2011.
The order book at the end of the year was 442.2m 2010: 204.7m, the increase mainly driven by the multi-year systems integration contract for two airports in Oman.
There was strong demand in the period for specialist sensors Revenue and control systems for military and civil nuclear reactors.
In addition, sales increased of the Groups specialist electrical 257.0m power controls for Royal Navy submarines and for passenger 35% 2010 224.0m transit systems.
These increases were partially offset by of Group reduced demand, both in the US and internationally, for Ultras traditional ADSI command and control systems.
15% Features of the divisions performance in the year that will underpin future performance included: being selected to act as the master systems integrator at Underlying operating profit two airports in Oman production contracts to supply reactor control systems and 30.5m equipment for Royal Navy submarines 25% 2010 27.5m completing qualication testing of an enhanced range of of Group specialist sensors for use in nuclear power stations around the world 11% Order book 442.2m 46% 2010 204.7m of Group Minimising risk through 116% teaming in Oman To supply the entire IT infrastructure in the new terminals Number of employees at Muscat and Salalah airports in Oman, Ultra will be 38% deploying much of its own in-house systems and of Group software, product that has been proven in many of the 1,714 worlds other airports.
In addition, a world-class supply chain has been assembled beneath Ultra including NCR and Cisco for networks, Tyco for security systems and the Spanish group Indra for control room and training facilities: Cap Gemini, Ernst & Young, Smiths Detection and iD1 are also adding their weight to the Ultra solution.
The delivery team is strongly supported by a project management ofce headed by Turner & Townsend and the design interface and stakeholder management is led by FirstCo.
The experience of Ultras world-class team was fully recognised by the Omani Government, their Ministry and their consultant engineers.
As well as expanding the scope of work and providing credibility to Ultras bid, teaming with world-class partners also minimises the amount of risk that the Group will face on such a large project as it allows specialists to take care of parts of the scope where Ultra has limited expertise.
28 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc see footnote on inside front cover Performance Information & Power Systems In July, Ultras Airport Systems business won a contract to supply all of the electronic infrastructure, including installing Ultras airport IT systems, IT networks, communications and security equipment to the new terminals being built at Omans Muscat and Salalah airports.
With a value of over 200 million, this was by some distance the largest contract awarded to Ultra in the Groups history and represents the successful culmination of a three year bid process.
Pictured above, clockwise from bottom left: Daryll Battersby, Senior Project Manager: Dave Ogden, Solutions Architect: Graham Kenyon, Principal Engineer and Project Manager: Aidan Douglas, Managing Director: Tim Walshaw, Operations Director: Jim Bethell, Managing Director, Ultra Electronics Oman Airport Programme and Project Director for the MC6 Project: Carol Marchbank, Programme Manager Oman.
see footnote on inside front cover Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 29 7.
