Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Strategic review Strategies for growth In order to outperform the market, and thereby improve the Groups ranking in the FTSE index, Ultra must add shareholder value and increase its market capitalisation more rapidly than other companies.
This is facilitated if an above-average rate of revenue growth is achieved.
Ultra constantly strives to increase its share of the high growth sectors of the markets in which it has positioned itself.
The four main strategies for growth are: 1 2 Increase the Groups portfolio of Augment the number of long-term specialist capability areas platforms and programmes on Ultra concentrates on providing its customers with which Ultras specialist capabilities capabilities and systems using the Groups electronic and are specified software solutions for niche markets in defence, security, transport and energy.
Within these market sectors Ultra Ultra positions these specialist capabilities on a long list of focuses on developing specialist capabilities that provide international platforms and programmes.
This breadth of differentiated solutions to customers requirements.
Across platform and programme coverage creates a flywheel Ultras businesses there are about 180 of these specialist effect that drives Ultras performance year after year, capability areas.
Ultra is positioned on more than 350 such platforms and programmes of which none typically contributes more than 5% of Ultras revenue in any year.
In 2011 In 2011 Ultra added 14 new specialist the Groups specialist capabilities capability areas to its portfolio.
were specified on 16 new platforms and programmes.
Strategies in action... Strategies in action...
The acquisition of AEP Networks brings to Ultras In separate programmes, Ultra is supplying acoustic portfolio of specialist capabilities: energy sources and electric field sensors for oil and gas exploration through advanced hydrocarbon mapping network gateways that provide secure access to techniques.
business applications via web browsers Ultra has been selected to supply landing gear, a security as a service offering known as steering and cargo door control systems on Embraers Cloud Protect.
This is a secure, subscriber-based, thin new KC-390 military transport aircraft.
client virtualisation service: essentially a secure PC over the internet remote access hardware encryption products hardware security modules for the protection and distribution of cryptographic keys 14 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Strategic review Strategies for growth 54% 22% opening rm order cover increase in sales to countries compared to analysts consensus outside Europe and North America forecast for 2012 revenue 2010: 57% 93.2m 2010: 76.5m 3 4 Broaden the Groups customer base Widen Ultras geographic footprint Ultras independence allows it to sell its wide portfolio of Ultra has pursued a strategy of gaining access to the two specialist capabilities to a broad range of customers around largest addressable defence budgets in the world.
Amongst Ultras top customers, such as the US spends more on defence each year than the rest of NATO DoD, UK MoD and BAE Systems, Ultra actually supplies to a nations added together.
The majority of Ultras acquisitions wide range of different project ofces, integrated project have been in North America and the point has now been teams and platform teams.
reached where the Group has a transatlantic capability and derives more of its revenue from the US and Canada than it does from the UK.
Revenue from the Middle East and Asia Pacific regions are also capable of expansion.
The Groups growing presence in Australia and its enlarged joint venture with Emirates Advanced Investments in the UAE indicates Ultras intent in this regard.
In 2011 In 2011 Ultra won business with the Group was successful in 31 new customers.
Strategies in action... Strategies in action... Ultra is now approved by EDF as a vendor for specialist Ultra has supplied many radar warning systems for use sensors for use in nuclear reactors.
This approval and on oil rigs in the North Sea.
In 2011 the Group was the subsequent qualification of the sensors to the selected to supply similar systems to the rebuilt off-shore appropriate standards opens up the aftermarket for the oil loading facility in Iraq.
SOTECHs turnkey communications surveillance systems Gippsland Aeronautics in Australia now specifies are used by government agencies that support and Ultras range of advanced cockpit and engine perform global counter-terrorism and counter-narcotic instrumentation for both new build aircraft and the missions, the geographic spread of which is rapidly upgrade of earlier versions.
