Report of the Directors Governance BIOGRAPHIES Board of Directors Vice-Chairman & Senior Chairman Independent Director Executive Directors Michael Treschow Kees J Storm Paul Polman Jean-Marc Hut Nationality: Swedish.
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Appointed Chairman May 2007.
Chairman, Supervisory Board, Appointed Chief Executive Officer Appointed Director May 2010.
Board member, Knut and Alice andmember of the Audit Committee, January 2009.
Appointed Chief Financial Officer Wallenberg Foundation.
Member KLM Royal Dutch Airlines N. V. Appointed Director October 2008.
February 2010. ofthe European Advisory, Eli Lilly Member, Supervisory Board, AEGON Non-Executive Director, The Dow Executive Vice President and Chief andCompany.
Chairman, N. V. Vice-Chairman and Chairman Chemical Company.
President, Financial Officer, Bristol-Myers Telefonaktiebolaget L M Ericsson ofAudit Committee, Anheuser-Busch Kilimanjaro Blind Trust.
Chairman, AB Electrolux InBev S. A.
Board member and Audit &Gamble Co. 1979-2001, Group Non-Executive Director, Mead 2004-2007 and Confederation of Committee member, Baxter President Europe and Officer, Procter Johnson Nutrition 2009.
Chief Swedish Enterprise 2004-2007. International, Inc.. Vice-Chairman, & Gamble Co. 2001-2006.
Chief Financial Officer, Royal Numico NV Supervisory Board, Pon Holdings B. V. Financial Officer, Nestl S. A.
Executive Vice President and Goldman Sachs International 1993- Zone Director for the Americas 2008.
Non-Executive Directors Louise Fresco Ann Fudge Charles E Golden Byron E Grote Nationality: Dutch.
Professor of International Non-Executive Director, Infosys, Non-Executive Director Indiana Appointed May 2006.
Development and Sustainability Novartis AG, General Electric Co. University Health, Hill-Rom Holdings, Executive Vice President, Corporate at the University of Amsterdam.
and Buzzient Inc. Chairman, US Eaton Corporation and the Lilly Business Activities, BP p. l. c. Member, Supervisory Director, RABO Bank.
Programs Advisory Panel of Gates Endowment.
Member of Finance UK Business Government Forum Member, Social and Economic Foundation.
Honorary director of Committee, Indianapolis Museum onTax and Globalisation 2008-2010.
Council of the Netherlands SER.
Executive Vice-President, Vice-Chairman, UK Governments Policy Board, U. S. State Department.
Chief Financial Officer and Director, Public Services Productivity Panel Member, Finance Committee of Eli Lilly and Company 1996-2006.
Sunil B Mittal Hixonia Nyasulu Sir Malcolm Rifkind Paul Walsh Nationality: Indian.
Founder, Chairman and Group CEO, Chairman, Sasol Ltd. Non-Executive A Queens Counsel.
Served in Chief Executive Officer and Director, Bharti Enterprises.
Awarded Global Director, Barloworld Ltd.
Member, Cabinets of Margaret Thatcher Diageo PLC.
Non-Executive Director, Economy Prize by the Kiel Institute in Advisory Board of JP Morgan S. A. andJohn Major, last position FedEx Corporation Inc. and Avanti Germany and Global Vision Award by Beneficiary, Sequel Property beingthat of Foreign Secretary.
Non-Executive Director, Adam Smith Member, Business Advisory Group, President, Confederation of Indian International and Continental Advisor to the Department of Industry.
Co-chairman, World Farmers Group plc.
Economic Forum at Davos and Member, International Business member of its International Business Leaders Forum.
34 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Report of the Directors Governance Unilever Leadership Executive ULE For Paul Polman and Jean-Marc Hut see page 34 Doug Baillie Professor Genevive Berger Kevin Havelock Alan Jope Chief HR Officer Chief Research & Development Refreshment North Asia Nationality: British.
Appointed Chief HR Officer in Nationality: French.
Appointed to ULE as Appointed to ULE July 2008.
Previous President of Western Europe in May Previous posts include: Chairman Unilever posts include: Chairman in Unilever posts include: Chairman 2008.
Previous ofthe Health Advisory Board for Arabia and President Unilever USA.
ofUnilever Greater China: Global Unilever posts include: CEO theEuropean Commission: Professor Previous external posts include: Vice Category Leader for SCC and Hindustan Unilever Limited: Groupat the University of Paris and La PitiPresident UK Advertising Association Dressings: Chief Operating Officer Vice President South Asia 2006: Salptrire Teaching Hospital: and and Executive Committee of and subsequently President of Group Vice-President Africa, Middle Director General of the French American Personal Care Council.
Unilevers combined Home and East & Turkey 2005: President Africa Centre National fide la Recherche Personal Care business in North Regional Group 2004: National Scientifique.
Appointed NonAmerica: and Vice President, Manager Unilever South Africa 2000.
Executive Director of Smith Personal Care Thailand.
Kees Kruythoff Dave Lewis Harish Manwani Antoine fide Saint-Affrique North America Personal Care Chief Operating Officer Foods Nationality: Dutch.
Appointed Chief Operating Officer Appointed to ULE November 2011.
First joined Unilever 1989 until 1997: Unilever posts include: Executive Vice include: President, Americas: Appointed to ULE April 2005 as re-joined Unilever 2000.
Previous President Brazil 2008: Chairman of Chairman, Unilever UK and Ireland: President Asia Africa.
Joined Unilever Unilever posts include: Executive Unilever Foods South Africa 2004: Managing Director, UK home and 1976.
Non-Executive Chairman, VicePresident Skin category: and a member of the board of personal care business: Senior Vice Hindustan Unilever.
Previous Unilever andExecutive Vice President Unilever Bestfoods Asia 2002.
President for Home and Personal posts include: President Asia, Africa, UnileverCentral & Eastern Europe.
Care, Central and Eastern Europe: Central & Eastern Europe 2008: and Vice President Marketing for Liebig Managing Director, Indonesia: Group President, Home and Personal Maille Amora, Danone Group PAI Marketing Director, South America.
Non-Executive Director and member of the Audit Committee at Essilor International.
Pier Luigi Sigismondi Keith Weed Jan Zijderveld Chief Supply Chain Officer Chief Marketing and Europe Nationality: Italian.
Prior to joining Unilever, he joined Appointed to ULE April 2010.
Moved to Nestl Joined Unilever 1983.
Previous Unilever posts include: Executive Mexico in 2005 as Vice President of Unilever posts include: Executive Vice President South East Asia and Operations and R&D.
Prior to Nestl Vice President for Global Home Care Australasia: Chairman of Unilever S. A. he was Vice President of & Hygiene: Chairman of Lever Middle East North Africa: Chairman Operations for A T Kearney.
Faberg: SVP Hair and Oral Care.
of Nordic ice cream business: Non-Executive Director of Sun Marketing Director Italy: European Products Corporation.
Olive Oil Category Director: and General Manager Sauces and Dressings Europe.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 35
