Report of the Directors About Unilever WINNING THROUGH CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT Small actions can make a big difference.
Our focus on operational excellence doing everything better, every day is bringing consumers better quality and service, while substantial savings and better environmental performance are ensuring that growth is truly sustainable.
Lean, responsive, consumer-led In 2011, stores in our OSA programme objective to increase the speed of factory reduced empty shelves by 27%.
We are building, saving up to 25% of build time Consumer needs are changing and expanding this programme to other on large factories see picture story on developing rapidly.
To continue to meet customer channels and geographies.
Meanwhile, we never lose sight them, we must take things we already of the importance of reducing costs and do well like high quality products Better service conserving cash.
and excellent service and do them Our supply chain combines the even better, faster and more efficiently.
advantages of global scale with local Better margins agility.
Our reach, particularly in We look for improvements at every link Better quality emerging markets, is a significant in the value chain.
Wherever we find Almost a century ago, Lever Brothers competitive advantage, and we are savings, we aim to replicate them.
offered consumers a 1,000 reward if constantly seeking ways to differentiate This philosophy helped us to deliver they could show that their soap was our supply chain.
In 2011, for example, in record savings of 1.3 billion in 2011. anything less than perfectly pure, Indonesia we created a dedicated supply genuine and unadulterated.
Consumerchain for a selection of beauty products Managing cash perceived quality driving sustainable that more than doubled our sales for We continued to have negative working growth remains at the heart of Unilever these products.
capital in 2011 and aim to bring stocks today.
We are systematically improving down further in the future through the quality of our products.
In 2011, And when floods hit Thailand, our teams continuous improvement of our business consumer complaints per million units moved quickly to protect our people, planning processes.
fell by 19% and product quality incidents factories and stocks carrying our more than halved.
products directly to customers shops.
Partnerships with suppliers Unilever Thailand was ranked number We spent well over 30 billion on goods For example, we listened to feedback one in the Advantage 2011 Customer and services in 2011, and our suppliers from consumers about Lifebuoy soap, Satisfaction Survey.
are vital partners in our sustainable and improved its fragrance and bar growth ambitions.
We work with them to structure, resulting in a 0.8% market create better, faster innovations and our share growth in the global skin suppliers are investing up to 1.3 billion to cleansing market in 2011.
Agile and cost-competitive guarantee capacity for our future growth.
Better choice We are making our operations more In line with our commitments in the Through our on-shelf availability OSA responsive to changes in demand, Unilever Sustainable Living Plan, we programme, we work with retailers to enabling us to optimise our capital increased the amount of agricultural improve our service to them, and their investment, launch products more raw materials obtained from sustainable service to the shopper making our quickly and win market share.
products available more of the time.
for example, we delivered on our 6.1 billion DRIVING DOWN COSTS, IMPROVING MARGINS spent on advertising Our market-leading washing powder, Wheel, has and promotion in 2011 seen margins improve in India through our low cost business model LCBM approach, which optimises margins at every link in the value chain.
For Wheel, LCBM included improvements in trade terms and advertising budgets as well as in the manufacturing No1.
and distribution network upgrading the range of in customer satisfaction our existing factories.
survey in Thailand 16 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Report of the Directors About Unilever Driving return on brand support We spent 6.1 billion on advertising and promotion in 2011 with every brand, in every category, inevery market focusing on the best possible returns.
Global scale, local agility By evaluating the effectiveness of our marketing better, and rapidly adopting new cost-effective models that make us more competitive, we have been able to drive down advertising production and fees globally, reducing our overall spending in this area by more than 128million.
And we see equal potential for savings inlocal markets.
In Russia, Ukraine and Belarus alone, we released 19 million for investment through an operational excellence drive that included improving customer management, using handheld computers to track in-store performance and order sizes, and improving the tracking of our point-of-sale materials.
GROWING FAST, AND SUSTAINABLY The Indonsa factory in Durban, South THROUGH THE UNILEVER Africa, which opened in December, turned a flat-level site into an SUSTAINABLE LIVING PLAN operational plant producing savoury WE HAVE SET NEW STANDARDS brands like Knorr within 12 months.
An investment of around 70 million, FOR SUSTAINABILITY IN THE Indonsa aims to produce half the DESIGN AND BUILD OF OUR greenhouse gas emissions of the previous site and achieve zero waste NEW FACTORIES.
Critical in water-stressed Durban, it is water neutral as it uses rainwater harvesting and recycling techniques to avoid taking water from the local community.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 1 17 7
