Report of the Directors About Unilever WINNING IN THE MARKET PLACE By 2020, the worlds population is expected to reach 7.6 billion, and we aim to reach a significant number of these consumers with our brands.
Our biggest opportunity lies in addressing all consumer needs across all markets and were already finding new ways to do so.
Driving growth through and helping them find new ways to use development of savoury, laundry and market development our products.
skin cleansing with great brands such as Knorr, Sunlight detergent and Lifebuoy.
Growth through market development For example, in 2011 we grew the Magnum means reaching more users, creating Mini range by 8.8% in the UK by offering more usage and delivering more consumers an ice cream in a smaller benefits to consumers everywhere.
version of a standard Magnum, more Growing sustainably suitable for eating at home.
And in South with customers Already, 2 billion consumers worldwide East Asia, laundry liquids grew by 9.3% use our products on any given day.
We as consumers traded up from powder.
All over the world we are helping our want to increase this substantially by retail partners to grow sustainably, 2020 and we will do this by: In 2012, we will continue to target new combining scale with local knowledge.
reaching up offering premium consumers in new ways.
Reaching up, In Mexico for example, in 2011 we worked brands to more affluent consumers : we will compete for share in the alongside Walmart to improve the supply reaching down making our products fast-growing beauty segment by rolling chain for their Superama retail chain.
more affordable and accessible for out premium offerings such as Toni consumers on lower incomes : and & Guy, Axe Hair, Dove Men Care and We also worked closely with drug store reaching wide taking our brands to Ponds Anti Aging premium range to customers, resulting in our highest new geographies like Central Africa, more markets.
recorded underlying sales growth of to new consumer segments like male 9.2% in 2011 in this channel.
grooming and to new channels like We will reach down in developed markets e-commerce.
In Working with global retailers is essential 2011, our highly successful launch of new for growth, but some markets require a This approach is reaping rewards.
pack sizes across many brands in the UK different approach India, for example, In 2011 we continued rolling out our allowed retailers to sell our products at where reaching consumers is still about market development model to ensure 1.
In emerging markets, we will continue the local small shop.
Through the a consistent approach across our to offer small, affordable product sizes Shaktiprogramme, we have expanded markets.
Weproved this approach first of our brands.
adirect distribution network of microin Asia and then in Latin America: now entrepreneurs who sell our products, we are using it elsewhere to grow our We will reach wide through our doubling their household income in the markets by changing peoples habits expansion inAfrica, leading the market process see picture story on page 15.
3 million shops signed up to our Perfect Store programme PREMIUM ACROSS PONDS We have installed new premium counters for Ponds skin care, making the product more appealing and upmarket in a competitive environment.
Innovations included LED counter 9.3% lighting to reduce environmental impact and a handheld skin growth in laundry diagnosis iPhone tool for beauty advisers.
These initiatives liquids in South have resulted in significantly improved customer sales.
East Asia 14 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Report of the Directors About Unilever Focusing on shoppers We are now focusing much more closely on marketing to shoppers inthe store.
We continue to concentrate on sales fundamentals standards which measure our in-store performance inan increasing number of markets.
Meanwhile, our Perfect Store programme is creating optimal merchandising layouts for retailers, regardless of geography or space.
By the end of 2011 more than 3 million shops had already signed up to our Perfect Store programme.
We know the strategy is working in the Philippines, for example, our audit of 3,800 stores showed that the Perfect Store format is growing faster than those outside the programme.
And in Germany, the Perfect Store programme boosted the entire savoury category, with sales of Knorr products significantly outpacing category and competitor growth.
GROWING BUSINESS, GROWING LIVELIHOODS Project Shakti meaning strength in Sanskrit is our distribution programme in India, creating opportunities for micro-entrepreneurs to sell our products in rural areas, enabling them to bring in extra money to support their families and earn respect within society.
We employ around 45,000 female entrepreneurs, helping our brands reach over 100,000 villages.
In addition, more than 30,000 OUR DOOR-TO-DOOR male members of Shakti families are now SELLING OPERATION IN involved, cycling to surrounding villages to sell Unilever products.
As well as INDIA PROVIDES supporting the Unilever Sustainable OPPORTUNITIES FOR Living Plans goal to enhance livelihoods, local distribution programmes such as BETTER LIVELIHOODS, this have added around 80million in incremental turnover.
HELPING COMMUNITIES AND OUR BUSINESS.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 1 15 5
