Report of the Directors About Unilever WINNING WITH BRANDS AND INNOVATION Unilever owns some of the worlds best known and best loved brands.
But ensuring they maintain their place in peoples lives requires us to innovate, improve and expand our brands every day.
Superior products, design, We conduct a careful analysis of what it Another example is Rexona for Women branding and marketing is about a product that consumers are with Motionsense technology.
has long been one of the worlds biggest At heart, our strategy with brands and deodorant brands.
We know from our marketing is simple: discover what consumer understanding that people consumers want and give it to them.
love its performance and, most Butconsumer needs are complex, Bigger, better, faster innovation importantly, its fragrance.
and people are increasingly concerned about sustainability as well as Science is one of the key drivers of However, as with all deodorants, the functionality.
The improvements we Unilevers continuing success.
We invest fragrance slowly faded over the course make to our products and the in research and development R&D of the day.
The conventional wisdom developments in our portfolio must to make sure we are first with the was that there was nothing that could be be led by these needs if we are to beat innovations that will make our brands done about that, but we developed a new our competitors at the point of sale.
bigger, better and more profitable.
technology to combat the problem.
We Central to innovation is our Genesis introduced Motionsense technology in For us, the product is the hero, and we programme, an R&D process set up 2011 with Rexona deodorant products.
Its focus on whats important: striving in 2009 which fuels our longer-term a new way of wrapping the fragrance up in towards sustainable products that pipeline, applying breakthrough tiny bundles that open slowly throughout consumers prefer.
The the day when the body moves, releasing programme is delivering results and it when its most needed.
Subsequent We operate a rigorous system of testing we are already seeing some of these testing showed that this gives Rexona our products against their main rivals innovations in the market.
a clear win over its key competitors.
in every key market to ensure we deliver the attributes that consumers want.
Forexample, weve discovered how to No matter how confident we are that our Whether its toothpaste in India, tea extract and preserve the essence of products deliver on what we claim, we bags in Russia, laundry liquids in Turkey freshly picked tea leaves, a complicated need to give consumers and regulators or bouillon in South Africa, we want to piece of science which is already being strong proof to underscore this.
This is find out what consumers desire from used in our PG Tips and Lipton Yellow just as important when trying to get a our products, whether they prefer Label ranges to give a unique fresh taste.
government to back a handwashing them and why.
Is it the taste, the In PG Tips that innovation is coupled with programme as it is when advertising fragrance, the cleaning properties or our unique pyramid-shaped bags to a face cream.
We have a clinicals the packaging?
make an even better cup of tea.
organisation in place with leading-edge Commitment to source all agricultural raw materials sustainably by MAGNUM HEADS EAST AND WEST Following its highly successful launch in Indonesia in 2010, the Magnum ice 2020 cream range was rolled out in North America in 2011.
Thanks to agreat product along with extremely effective advertising and marketing, Magnum achieved early success in these two highly competitive markets delivering No1.
more than 80 million in turnover.
hair care supplier Its US advertisement was one of the in South Africa mostsuccessful in Unilever food history.
10 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Report of the Directors About Unilever expertise in clinical protocols, trials, analysis and data management that allows us to substantiate the claims we make for our products.
Getting the best ideas wherever they are Our world-class R&D facilities are constantly making breakthroughs that keep Unilever at the forefront of product development.
Integral to the way we work are partnerships with universities, scientists, large and small companies and entrepreneurs.
This open innovation approach allows us to source the best ideas from across the world and contributes towards more than half the value of our innovation pipeline, allowing us to grow together with our partners.
In 2011, around 500 partners had one or more of our projects under development.
KNORR GROWS GREEN Knorr is one of our biggest brands and uses ingredients that are sourced from all over the world.
We made the decision to source all Knorrs ingredients sustainably to reduce the impact on the environment while enhancing the taste of our products.
We aim to have all our top 13 vegetables and herbs grown UNILEVER BUYS sustainably by 2015 one step in the AROUND 3% OF THE Unilever Sustainable Living Plans commitment to source all Unilevers WORLDS TOMATOES agricultural raw materials sustainably FOR PROCESSING.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 1 11 1 PNEUMONIA AND DIARRHOEA LIFEBUOY HELPS SAVE LIVES To help achieve a core commitment of ARE TWO OF THE BIGGEST the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan, CAUSES OF DEATHS AMONG the Lifebuoy brand has launched a programme to bring hygiene education CHILDREN UNDER FIVE YEARS to a billion people.
Its called the School OLD, ACCOUNTING FOR ONE of Five and its already been launched in seven countries where were working with THIRD OF CHILD DEATHS.
governments and NGOs to get across our vital message of developing a habit of HANDWASHING WITH SOAP IS washing hands on five occasions a day.
ONE OF THE MOST EFFECTIVE In Vietnam its even become part of the school curriculum.
The results are AND INEXPENSIVE WAYS TO healthier children and 4.1% volume PREVENT THIS.
Source: UN 12 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Report of the Directors About Unilever WINNING WITH BRANDS AND INNOVATION continued In addition, we have been working with Simple.
TRESemm already had a strong Growing in developed markets ourstrategic suppliers to develop presence as a premium shampoo in Our aim is to grow in developed markets too.
For example, we re-launched co-innovation programmes and to ensure North America and Western Europe, Domestos in Western Europe in 2011 on that they bring great ideas to Unilever first.
but it was unknown in the worlds second the back of new technology that allows biggest hair care market: Brazil.
the product to cling to the toilet, for Applying knowledge across the business longer lasting germ kill.
In Personal One of our key strengths is how we Within days of completion, Unilever Care, we accelerated the launch of quickly leverage ideas across our began work on an ambitious plan to take Mentadent Total oral care range inItaly geographies, categories and brands, the TRESemm brand to Brazil.
As a to take on the fierce local market, ahead which allows us to focus investment and business we have wide experience of of the global re-launch.
resources more wisely and efficiently rolling out brands into new markets for example, taking the fragrance across the world and, coupled with our technology expertise we used to improve new agile structure, this ensured a swift, Rexona and applying it to Skip detergent.
TRESemm was launched in Brazil less than six months Looking ahead after theacquisition completed.
Were alreadyseeing considerable success Our Dove brand is a great example Reaching more consumers inthat market.
ofUnilevers ability to get it right with brands and innovation.
In 2011 Dove To grow, we need to reach more And the same is happening all over became our first 3 billion Personal consumers with our products and we the world.
With brands including Care brand.
This success has been are well placed to do so.
For example, TRESemm, Dove and Suave, in 2011 made possible by focusing on three key we can take brands into markets that we reinforced our position as a leading objectives: better marketing making many companies do not have the hair care supplier in the US, and Dove a premium brand: better innovation resources andexperience to develop.
achieved similar success on the other for example, applying our leading-edge In 2011, consistent with our strategy side of the Atlantic by taking the number expertise to Dove hair care: and of making bolt-on acquisitions to one position in South Africa.
expansion into new markets, as with the strengthen our portfolio in key countries DoveMen Care range.
and categories, Unilever acquired Were continuing with our acquisition Alberto Culver, helping accelerate our strategy and bought a controlling stake Already Unilever has new innovations, transition to becoming one of the worlds in Concern Kalina, one of the leading new patents, new brands and new leading personal care businesses.
local personal care companies in Russia.
markets in the pipeline for 2012.
And Success here would establish Unilever as every day were working on ways New markets, new opportunities a key player in a big emerging market, as tomake our brands the best, most The Alberto Culver acquisition gave us well as giving us invaluable knowledge of innovative and most agile in the world.
brands such as TRESemm, VO5 and local supply and distribution.
Dove our first 3 billion Personal Care brand CLEANING UP IN SOUTH EAST ASIA Less than Between 2009 and 2011 the liquids market for fabric cleaning in South East Asia almost tripled in size and Unilever was on the spot, ready to capitalise on that growth.
We got there first, 6 put our sales people on the ground talking to consumers, months to launch learned the market, and today were the market leaders in TRESemm Vietnam, Thailand, the Philippines and Indonesia.
in Brazil Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 13
