20 AvevA Group plc Annual report 2011 Directors report www.
com Business review Chief Financial Officers review continued AVEVA helps Iberese bring solar power to Spain with Lebrija Engineering Contractors, Spain With an average of 340 days of sunshine a year, Spain is today the worlds largest producer of solar thermal energy the generation of energy from the heat of the sun.
Southern Spain is seeing a boom in solar power, with numerous Concentrating Solar Power CSP plants being built on sites throughout Andalusia.
Improving data management capabilities Lebrija 1, located in the province of Seville, is a turnkey project in which Iberese is responsible for all the engineering except for the civil work for the foundations.
Lebrija 1 will generate an output of 50MW supporting 50,000 households.
The solar field includes nearly 6,000 parabolic collectors, approximately 18,000 solar receivers, and more than 150,000 parabolic reflectors.
Using AVEVA Plant has helped to make the Lebrija 1 project very successful for Iberese, a company specialising in the engineering and erection of Revenue continued Services revenue grew 51% during 2010 11 power plants.
We needed a system which would to 15.8 million 2010 10.5 million, but continues to be a relatively small part of the allow concurrent working between different business, representing only 9% of total disciplines on the same 3D model, and which could revenue 2010 7%.
This strong growth in services was driven by Enterprise Solutions manage large quantities of data.
With this experience with the new acquisitions in the year and gained in handling more complex projects and AVEVA NET as more projects were executed.
bigger teams, we are now ready to take on other Enterprise Solutions major projects in Spain and abroad, not only in During the year, we have seen some encouraging customer wins for Enterprise the solar energy sector but also for biomass and Solutions, which includes AVEVA NET, and cogeneration projects.
the pipeline continues to grow.
As a result of the investment of 5.0 million that was Alejandro Lpez Aznar, Project Manager, Iberese planned and delivered in the Enterprise Solutions business during the year we are now better placed to exploit opportunities in the growing lifecycle management market which AVEVA NET serves.
We will need to continue to invest in business development skills, project management and solution delivery in 2011 12 as the Enterprise Solutions business continues to grow.
We further increased our Enterprise Solutions offerings through the acquisitions of Logimatic, a Danish company which provides material control and production planning software to the Marine industry, and the trade and assets of ADB Systemer AS, a Norwegian business which specialises in information integrity solutions to owneroperators in the Oil & Gas industry.
We suffered slightly higher losses than we initially anticipated 0.9 million for the year, but by the year end both business were successfully integrated and a strong pipeline of projects and opportunities exists.
Iberese is leading the way for renewable energy production with the design of the Lebrija 1 CSP plant.
