Overview Business review Corporate Governance Financial statements Other information www.
com Directors report AvevA Group plc Annual report 2011 17 Recurring revenue Sedef Shipyard improves 117.2m competitiveness with 14% AVEVA solution Shipyards and Contractors, Turkey Adjusted profit before tax Sedef Shipyard, situated on the Bay of Tuzla, near Istanbul, is today among 54.7m Turkeys leading and most innovative shipyards, building practically all types of ships for both naval and commercial clients.
8% A proven costsaving solution Sedef invested in the AVEVA Marine and AVEVA MARS systems over the past 15 years to improve its efficiency in a highly competitive market.
In the case of AVEVA MARS, Sedef were among the very first shipyards in Turkey to invest in an IT solution for shipyard materials and production planning.
In AVEVA MARS and AVEVA Marine, Sedef has a dedicated and integrated IT environment which, combined with the skills of its employees, has helped Sedef to become a modern and competitive shipyard by reducing project cycles and bringing down Sedefs total costs.
Before implementing the AVEVA solutions, we Outlook calculated that it took some 600,000 man hours to The strengths of AVEVA are its long established position as a trusted supplier build a container ship.
When using AVEVA, building to many of the worlds leading companies an identical ship took only 450,000 man hours.
in the Oil & Gas, Power and Marine industries, its exposure to high growth markets, good This reduction in production time has considerably visibility of future revenue and healthy financial improved our financial results.
Our prudent management approach has positioned us well to take advantage of Cumhur Kuter, General Manager, Sedef Shipyard improving market dynamics by leveraging the continued investment we have been making in technology, coupled with ongoing expansion of our sales channel and delivery capability.
We are entering 2011 12 with confidence that the momentum which has been building in the latter part of 2010 11 will continue and that our organisational improvements will help deliver strong organic revenue growth in the coming year.
Our plans to expand further this year into Latin America, China and India are on track along with the rollout of further enhancements to our current product portfolio and new products later in the year.
AVEVAs financial strength and strong management team give us the capability and structure to seek further acquisitions, both bolton and strategic, to extend and strengthen our product lines and market presence as well as investing in our existing business to enhance our organic growth.
Richard Longdon Chief Executive 25 May 2011 Sedef has created a highly diversified and efficient shipyard that delivers vessels to clients around the world.
