14 AvevA Group plc Annual report 2011 Directors report www.
com Business review Chief Executives review continued Americas Promon Engenharia's invests 30.8m in AVEVA NET for Latin American growth 14% Engineering Contractors, Brazil Research and Development expenditure Latin America is now leading the world in economic growth, fuelled by vast 28.1m natural resources.
While other countries have been struggling with the global recession for just two successive quarters.
Annual GDP growth is currently 34% forecast at 56%.
The benchmark of information management Promon Engenharia selected AVEVA NET as its information management solution after running a comprehensive benchmark programme.
The threemonth programme compared AVEVA NET with other competing systems.
AVEVA completed the programme in just one month, outperforming the competition on technology and time of implementation.
Promon Engenharia is a Brazilian organisation whose core business is the design, integration and implementation of complete infrastructure solutions EPC and turnkey contracts for key economic sectors such as power, Oil & Gas, mining, metallurgy, chemicals, petrochemicals, process industries, infrastructure, logistics, transportation, telecommunications, and information technology.
Sustained investment in technology AVEVA creates and supplies one of the most Promon has a complex scenario, where we use powerful technologies available for the design, software from different vendors, and with AVEVA construction and lifecycle support of assets in our target market verticals.
Our longstanding mantra NET we are now able to integrate all of these of Continual Progression has been a thread applications faster.
Having accurate and rapid in many of the innovations that have come to market during the last year.
Research and access to information, we are reducing our overall Development spend in 2010 2011 has increased by 34%.
As a result we have developed many engineering manhours.
AVEVA NET offers business new product enhancements which are easy to benefits of defining and maintaining information upgrade for existing customers but also offer the latest technology that will attract new customers.
integrity in an EPC environment.
AVEVA NET is There have been major new releases of the deployed for the new COMPERJ refinery project Plant and Marine products with a number of for Petrobras.
new features and greatly improved ease of use.
Marine customers in particular are now taking Rogerio Pinto, Systems Manager for Promon advantage of the enhanced functionality and performance which the AVEVA proprietary database technology brings.
Customers upgrading to AVEVA Marine have found the transition straightforward and the new functionality, such as global work sharing, a major advantage.
There have been new products released to enable customers to make the best use of new technologies such as laser scanning including new features which enable customers to work with the wide variety of scanning systems already on the market.
As the price point for laser data capture hardware continues to fall we expect software sales in this area to increase.
Two years ago AVEVA purchased a small software business in Australia which added the ability to design instrumentation systems and store these in the 3D database.
This technology has now been considerably enhanced and market feedback suggests this is now a class leading product with increased Promon delivers complex infrastructure solutions for the rapidly expanding revenue demonstrating its strong potential.
