30 AvevA Group plc Annual report 2011 Directors report www.
com Corporate Governance Board of Directors Nick Prest CBE appointed 11 January 2006 Chairman Nick Prest joined the Board of AVEVA in January 2006.
Following a spell at the Ministry of Defence at the outset of his career Nick joined Alvis, the defence contractor, in 1982, becoming Chief Executive in 1989 and Chairman and Chief Executive in 1996.
Nick left Alvis following its acquisition by BAE Systems in 2004, by which time the company had become a leading international business in military land systems.
In addition to his position at Alvis, Nick had a prominent role in defence industry representation, serving as Chairman of the Defence Manufacturers Association and Vice Chairman of the National Defence Industries Council.
In addition to being Chairman of AVEVA, Nick is also Chairman of Cohort plc, the AIM quoted defence technical services Group, and Chairman of Shephard Group, a privately owned media business.
Richard Longdon appointed 16 August 1994 Chief Executive Richard Longdon received an engineering training in the defence industry then gained experience in the project management of high value engineering projects.
He moved into sales and held a series of international sales and marketing positions.
He joined AVEVA in 1984 and shortly afterwards was made marketing manager for the process products.
In January 1992, he relocated to Frankfurt where he was responsible for setting up and running the Groups German office.
He returned to the UK as part of the management buyout team in 1994, taking responsibility for the Groups worldwide sales and marketing activities, before being appointed Managing Director in May 1999.
He took over as Group Chief Executive in December 1999.
James Kidd appointed 1 January 2011 Chief Financial Officer James Kidd is a Chartered Accountant and joined AVEVA in 2004.
Prior to his appointment to the Board, James held several senior finance roles within the Group and was Head of Finance from 2006.
He joined the Group at the time of the Tribon acquisition and played a significant part in the completion of this transaction and the subsequent integration of the acquired business.
His responsibilities have included investor relations, the development of the Groups overseas subsidiaries, standardisation of financial processes and procedures as well as being heavily involved in the Groups recent acquisitions.
Prior to joining AVEVA James worked for both Arthur Andersen and Deloitte, serving technology clients in both transactional and audit engagements.
Overview Business review Corporate Governance Financial statements Other information www.
com Directors report AvevA Group plc Annual report 2011 31 Jonathan Brooks appointed 12 July 2007 NonExecutive Director Jonathan Brooks joined AVEVA in July 2007.
He currently holds a number of Directorships with technology based companies.
He is a NonExecutive Director of Xyratex Limited, a Nasdaqlisted provider of enterprise class data storage sub systems and network technology, Skrill Holdings Ltd, a provider of online payment systems and e2v technologies plc, an LSE listed manufacturer of specialised components and sub systems.
He is also Chairman of Picochip Inc. a venture capitalbacked company developing wireless processors.
Between 1995 and 2002, he was Chief Financial Officer and a Director of ARM Holdings plc.
Philip Dayer appointed 7 January 2008 NonExecutive Director Philip Dayer qualified as a chartered accountant and pursued a corporate finance career in investment banking, specialising in advising small and mid market UK companies.
He was first appointed an Advisory Director in 1983 of Barclays Merchant Bank Limited and since then has held the position of Corporate Finance Director with a number of banks.
He retired from Hoare Govett Limited in 2004.
Philip was a financial consultant to OJSC Rosneft Oil Company, the Russian state-owned Oil & Gas company, on their flotation in 2006.
Philip is a NonExecutive Director of Hurricane Exploration plc, The Parkmead Group plc, JSC Kazmunaigas Exploration Production and Navigators Underwriting Agency Limited, Senior Independent Director of Cadogan plc and Chairman of IP PLUS plc.
Herv Couturier appointed 1 April 2010 NonExecutive Director Herv Couturier joined the AVEVA Board in April 2010.
Since 2008 he has been Executive Vice President of SAP AGs Technology Group and Head of Research.
He also serves as a board member for SimCorp A S, a public Danish software company, and has held management positions at a number of IT companies including Business Objects, the worldwide leader of business intelligence solutions, now part of SAP, S1 Corporation, a provider of software for financial and payment services, and XRT, a leading European treasury management software company, now part of the Sage Group PLC.
Herv holds both an engineering degree and a Master of Science degree from the cole Centrale Paris in France.
He began his career at IBM in 1982, where he held various engineering and business positions through until 1997.
