12 AvevA Group plc Annual report 2011 Directors report www.
com Business review Chief Executives review Richard Longdon Chief Executive Integrity Solution.
The acquisition of Overview AVEVA performed well the MARS business of Logimatic further Strong growth across many strengthens our ability to automate material over the year delivering of our markets.
control and resource planning for shipbuilders Sustained investment in technology.
strong revenue and profit with its MARS application.
MARS is widely used by European shipyards but as part of Delivered significant growth from growth.
This reflected the AVEVA portfolio will be marketed globally BRIC economies.
and will also be combined with AVEVA NET improving market Deepening customer relationships.
to provide a more comprehensive solution to shipbuilders and our plant customers.
conditions, our global Step change in AVEVA NET investment.
We have implemented a significant leadership in engineering Acquisitions completed and now integrated.
reorganisation across the Group to place AVEVA performed well over the year design, construction and greater emphasis and focus on AVEVA NET delivering strong revenue and profit growth.
From 1 April 2011, lifecycle support technology This reflected improving market conditions, AVEVA NET, ADBs Workmate and Logimatics our global leadership in engineering design, MARS have come together to form Enterprise and the continuing construction and lifecycle support technology Solutions.
Our design specific solutions are and the continuing execution of our proven now part of the Engineering Design Systems execution of our proven development strategy.
Having prepared to meet the challenges of the global downturn in 2009 2010, we have Strong growth across many been in a strong position throughout the year of our markets to deliver growth in the majority of our end AVEVAs main end user markets are Oil & Gas, user markets around the world.
We continued which represents approximately 45% of revenue, to invest in both our technology base and with Power at 15%, Marine at 25% and Other delivery capability for Enterprise Solutions at 15%.
which includes AVEVA NET and in our direct During 2010 11 we have seen a strong sales office network, most significantly in the recovery in Oil & Gas related activity.
AVEVA growth territories of China and Latin America, provides the system of choice for the design where we continue to increase our presence of complex Oil & Gas projects to many of the in Brazil.
As a result overall revenue was up worlds leading Engineering, Procurement and 17% to 174 million 2010 148.3 million.
As a result We completed two acquisitions in the first AVEVA is very well positioned to exploit the half, both in Scandinavia.
The acquisition of necessity for ever more complex oil recovery, the Oil & Gas related business from ADB is including deep water exploration and production.
a natural extension of the AVEVA Enterprise Population and GDP growth are the drivers for Solutions offering and adds the Workmate energy demand and as the highly populated product which provides plant owner operators Asian countries grow, their demand for energy with maintenance management and other will increase substantially.
China spent $40 billion functionality which, when combined with on energy assets in 2010 with demand set to Read this review online at AVEVA NET, creates a superb Operational surge by 75% by 2035. ar.
com 2011 ceo Overview Business review Corporate Governance Financial statements Other information www.
com Directors report AvevA Group plc Annual report 2011 13 Asia Pacific Shanxi Electric Power 66.3m Exploration & Design Institute 31% deploys AVEVA NET Owner Operators, China Europe, Middle East and Africa Design corporations in China are facing a more complicated market place 76.9m as competition within the power generation design industry is getting stiffer.
This is compounded by the increasing demands of Owner Operators for greater 8% and more comprehensive digitalisation of design.
Handling complex design and information requirements As improvements in computer technology drive design to higher levels, AVEVA NET, AVEVAs Information Management solution, has been implemented by Shanxi Electric Power Exploration & Design Institute.
It uses range from connecting all project data and documents, whatever their format or data type, and including the 3D model, to linking the entire projects construction processes and laying a strong foundation for handover to Owner Operators.
The Company received a contract for 2330MW flue gas desulphurisation engineering projects at the Liupanshan power plant.
Using AVEVA NET, simulation of the construction could be demonstrated, as well as simulation of the maintenance process.
The Deepwater Horizon incident in the Gulf of Mexico had a very minimal impact on business overall but it did cause some Gulf projects to AVEVA NET has provided Shanxi with a powerful slow down or be delayed.
We anticipate that platform for managing information throughout in the longer term there will be an increased demand for a greater level of engineering the entire design process.
It has also been used in design to ensure improved safety and systems modelling, to simulate maintenance works, which is redundancy similar to that which has been a part of North Sea design for many years.
particularly useful for Owner Operators, enabling As expected, recovery in the Marine business new employees to understand the construction has been slow.
We have noted a rise in the number of Oil & Gas related projects in many and operations processes of the plants.
Most of the larger Asian shipbuilders still have significant order backlog and have been supplementing this with new Navy and Oil & Gas orders.
The complexity of naval and offshore projects drives a higher engineering content and greater use of our design products.
In the Power sector we have seen a mixed performance across the geographies but with new opportunities opening up in the renewable energy sector.
The bulk of AVEVAs revenue in Power is from the fossil fuel power station builders around the globe.
During the year we also installed our design tools at Iberese for use on a solar thermal energy plant in Spain.
Nuclear makes up approximately 5% of total revenue and we see this increasing in the longer term as it remains the one sustainable source that can meet global energy demand for the foreseeable future.
However, recent events in Japan have caused disruption to the markets and will lead to a diversification in energy generation in the short term to meet demand.
AVEVA expects to benefit from all conventional forms of electricity generation based on our broad spread across the industry globally.
Shanxi is helping China to meet its increasingly demanding requirements for commercial and residential power.
