Overview Business review Corporate Governance Financial statements Other information www.
com Directors report AvevA Group plc Annual report 2011 15 AVEVA has very strong and enduring relationships with its customers which have been built on the foundation of providing best in class products.
Promon uses AVEVA NET on the COMPERJ refinery project for Petrobras in Brazil.
This year we will again show that Continual and universities will help us expand our Oil & Gas We have developed a very Progression can be coupled with the ability business further and extend our presence in to introduce market leading technology.
the Power and Marine markets.
successful network of Through our customer workshops and user An important success has been our rapid meetings we have trialled new innovations sales and customer service development in Latin America, particularly and concepts such as AVEVA NET on tablet Brazil where we have built a strong and highly offices globally with over computers and novel 3D holograms to enable effective organisation.
With close links to us to assess how customers want their data 37 offices in 24 countries.
Petrobras and the engineering community delivered on new technology platforms.
working on the presalt discovery we are As well as providing sales securing a significant share of the new projects Delivering significant growth from for AVEVA design tools.
We are using our and support we have BRIC economies growing organisation in Brazil as our hub for We have developed a very successful network further expansion in Latin America and have now increasingly globalised our of sales and customer service offices globally opened an office in Bogota, Colombia which will Research and Development with over 37 offices in 24 countries.
As well focus primarily on the Oil & Gas sector.
We have as providing sales and support we have plans for additional expansion this year in Brazil, resources to maximise the increasingly globalised our Research and Colombia and a new office in Peru.
Development resources to maximise the access to talented staff and We have an extensive customer base across access to talented staff and provide solutions India as many engineering companies locate provide solutions specifically specifically suited to regional demands.
their high value engineering centres in the In addition we operate Centres of Excellence country.
We also have a very large developer suited to regional demands.
for specific industry segments to work closely contingent working within our outsource with customers in providing customised partners.
India has significant engineering products and services.
resources and the end user market is strong We have developed a strong presence in in Oil & Gas, Power and Marine.
Our investment most of the BRIC countries.
In China we have plan will see us strengthen our presence in three offices and are looking to expand these India during 2011 12 as we invest in sales further in the coming year.
China offers a and customer service resource.
tremendous opportunity in all of our major end user markets and we already have a very Deepening customer relationships strong presence in Marine and Power.
With the AVEVA has very strong and enduring relationships we have built with CNOOC and relationships with its customers which have CNPC we are expanding our footprint in the been built on the foundation of providing best Chinese Oil & Gas market.
This is particularly in class products.
By delivering these products important as Chinese companies are starting to with first-class product support local to the expand their engineering operations overseas.
customer, we have developed strong technical links and longterm commercial relationships Russia has been a steadily growing business with many of the world leaders in all of our for AVEVA with a strong emphasis on Oil & Gas.
Through our ongoing support We have an excellent team in Russia with strong programmes, worldwide user meetings and and determined leadership.
Our excellent senior level customer meetings, we maintain customer relationships with leading companies
