16 AvevA Group plc Annual report 2011 Directors report www.
com Business review Chief executives review continued AVEVA NET is a key growth driver for the Group that takes our offering beyond the design and construction phase of an assets lifecycle into operations and beyond.
Sedef uses AVEVA Marine and AVEVA MARS for the design and construction of commercial and navel vessels.
As well as adding Deepening customer Organisation and people asset projects with existing customers, we During the year we hired over 90 people across relationships continued also sold AVEVA NET to several new customers the Group with the largest number of new hires a dialogue with the leading owner operators last year, which we expect to significantly in Asia.
This was in addition to the 89 staff and EPC firms globally.
Recurring revenue grow in future.
Part of the success of the that joined as part of the acquisition of ADB grew by 14% in the year to 117.2 million, AVEVA NET solution is the very open and 23 and Logimatic 66.
Across the Group our now representing 67% of total revenue and flexible structure of the product and the fact Human Resources team has worked hard to we have seen this strengthen continuously that it can be quickly implemented with make AVEVA an attractive employer in a very even during the difficult years.
Many of the competitive employment marketplace.
We we were pleased to bring on board over 100 sales we have made are to customers wishing also enjoy a very low staff turnover of 8.9%, new customers and continue to expand our to integrate data which does not involve any much lower than the average for our industry.
We have also enjoyed In the last quarter we have effected a AVEVA has benefited from strong customer considerable success in brownfield projects significant reorganisation across the Group relationships in codeveloping technology where data is old and requires a degree of to place greater emphasis and focus on with customers such as AREVA, EDF, cleansing as part of our implementation service.
AVEVA NET and associated products.
From Hyundai, DSME, Shell, BP, Mitsubishi We estimate there are over 4,000 major plants 1 April 2011, AVEVA NET, ADBs Workmate and many more.
globally which could benefit from having AVEVA and Logimatics MARS will all come together NETs solutions.
After the period end we have to form Enterprise Solutions.
This new group signed a strategic alliance agreement with Step change in AVEVA NET investment will be led by Derek Middlemas, our COO.
Logica to assist us with service delivery on The newly formed Enterprise Solutions team, Our design-specific solutions are now part AVEVA NET engagement globally.
comprising AVEVA NET, ADBs Workmate and of the Engineering Design Systems Group Logimatics MARS, will be responsible for all Typical Enterprise Solutions engagements have EDS.
This group still makes up the largest aspects of product development, marketing, a larger initial service content and therefore proportion of revenue and contains our highest strategy as well as delivery and implementation attract a lower margin which will slightly margin product lines.
The EDS group will be of our information management products.
dampen overall profit margin growth through led by David Wheeldon, our CTO.
AVEVA NET is a key growth driver for the Group the implementation phase as we grow these that takes our offering beyond the design and The Chairman has already commented on the complex, highvalue and longterm engagements construction phase of an assets lifecycle into dedication of our staff and I would like to echo at a faster rate than our design products.
AVEVA NET is an that and I would also like to pay a special tribute In the medium term there will be a positive enterpriselevel software application with to all the AVEVA staff in Japan who have been impact on our recurring revenue stream as unique and powerful information management very supportive of our customers in their time of Enterprise Solutions projects have a much capabilities that addresses this growing need need following the earthquake on 11 March greater longevity than the traditional three in our key end user markets.
Our office in Yokohama was undamaged to five year cycle for design products.
and our staff there not only maintained a full The full effect of a focused team working During the year ahead we expect to be making support service to the customers but also on Enterprise Solutions is expected to bring further investment in Enterprise Solutions, delivered a very good full year result even about accelerated growth in the coming year.
primarily around business development, closing business during the last few weeks Last year we increased our pipeline across service delivery and project management.
AVEVA has worked closely with the board and are working on many important its Japanese customers over many years and prospects and projects, including all five we hold them in high regard.
We have made independent Oil & Gas super majors, and many a donation to the earthquake relief effort and are National Oil Companies and independent confident that the Japanese market will respond operators, as well as the top tier chemical very positively with its rebuilding efforts.
