04 AvevA Group plc Annual report 2011 Directors report www.
com Overview Our business Informationcentric solutions The AVEVA Digital Information Hub provides a powerful management strategy that puts information at the centre of all business operations.
Whether for Engineering Contractors, Owner Operators or Shipyards, the Digital Information Hub integrates, controls and exploits all types of information not only engineering data throughout every stage of a project and across the lifecycle of an asset.
Connecting key audiences and products Operations integrity Integrated project management execution Owner Operators OOs engineering Contractors ePCs AVEVAs response to the complex management needs of EPCs are constantly under pressure to reduce the timescale Owner Operators is an operations integrity strategy built and cost of the projects they deliver to their customers.
around the AVEVA Digital Information Hub.
Our products Using AVEVAs marketleading engineering and design and services offer a powerful and trusted information applications in combination with the Digital Information management resource that addresses the Key Performance Hub, gives them the quality and efficiency they need to Indicators KPIs for both the Project Performance and meet their Service Level Agreements SLAs and offer a Asset Performance phases of their business.
valuable competitive advantage in a challenging market.
Featured products: Featured products: AVEVA NET AVEVA TIM AVEVA NET The AVEVA Plant Portfolio AVEVA WorkMate The AVEVA Plant Portfolio Digital Information Hub Joined up thinking Integrated shipbuilding Shipyards and contractors AVEVAs Digital Information Hub creates Marine projects demand sophisticated design capabilities, staggering amounts of data and documents, complex an environment to effectively access and schedules, and huge quantities of materials and share critical business information resources.
An Integrated Shipbuilding Strategy using AVEVAs Digital Information Hub offers shipyards the right across the entire enterprise.
information to manage the right resources together with the right materials.
Featured products: AVEVA NET The AVEVA Marine Portfolio Learn more about our products and solutions online at www.
com Products and Services AVEVA MARS Overview Business review Corporate Governance Financial statements Other information www.
com Directors report AvevA Group plc Annual report 2011 05 AVEVAs informationcentric technology delivers The AVEVA Digital Information Hub provides AVEVAs integrated shipbuilding solutions enable powerful design and management solutions for enhanced project and asset performance for a wide range of disciplines to be addressed the process plant, power and marine industries.
both EPCs and Owner Operators.
Sharing industry expertise Delivering clear benefits AVEVA is helping customers to Enterprise Solutions reduce risk, compress project schedules and lower their costs.
AVEVAs Enterprise Solutions team offers consulting, integration and lifecycle support services for the Digital Read about AVEVA Information Hub and the AVEVA Plant customers in action and Marine product portfolios.
With proven industry expertise, the mission of Enterprise Solutions is to deliver solutions Shanxi Electrical Power and consulting services that support the complex China business processes of AVEVAs customers, while Owner Operator increasing their profitability and competitiveness.
P13 PROMON Brazil Engineering Contractor P14 The benefits of an informationcentric solution Sedef Shipyard Turkey Quality R educe rework caused by inaccurate or incomplete information.
Shipyard P17 validation Resolve information inconsistencies and gaps.
Risk Mitigate operational and safety risks through improved decision support.
Iberese Time Shorten project schedules and time to production startup.
Spain Cost Cut the cost of design, construction, operations, Engineering Contractor and unplanned downtime.
