Overview Business review Corporate Governance Financial statements Other information www.
com Directors report AvevA Group plc Annual report 2011 33 Corporate Governance Other statutory information Principal activities The principal activities of the Group are the marketing and development of computer software and services for engineering and related solutions.
The Company is a holding company.
Results and dividends The Group made a profit for the year after taxation of 34.5 million 2010 33.4 million.
Revenue was 174.0 million 2010 148.3 million and comprised software licences, software maintenance and services.
The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 14.89 pence per ordinary share 2010 13.9 pence.
If approved at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 29 July 2011 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 24 June 2011. Business review and future developments A review of the Groups operations during the year and its plans for the future is given in the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review and the Chief Financial Officers review.
The Key Performance Indicators KPIs used by AVEVA to measure its own performance at the Group level are total revenue, recurring revenue, adjusted profit before tax, adjusted earnings per share and headcount.
The figures for the year ended 31 March 2011 are set out in the Chief Financial Officers review on pages 18 to 23, together with figures for the previous year and a discussion of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group is included on pages 24 and 25.
Suppliers payment practice It is the Groups policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with those terms and conditions agreed between the Company and its suppliers, provided that all trading terms and conditions have been complied with by the other party.
The Company has nil trade creditors 2010 nil.
At 31 March 2011, the Group had an average of 18 days purchases owed to trade creditors 2010 18 days.
Research and development The Group continues an active programme of Research and Development which covers updating of and extension to the Groups range of products.
Intellectual property The Group owns intellectual property both in its software tools and the products derived from them.
The Directors consider such properties to be of significant value to the business and has a comprehensive programme to protect it.
Financial instruments The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies are discussed in note 25 to the Consolidated financial statements.
Going concern The Group has significant financial resources, is profitable and has a strong position in the markets it serves.
At 31 March 2011 the Group had bank and cash and treasury deposit balances of 153.2 million 2010 149.7 million and no debt.
As a result, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage business risks successfully.
Therefore after making enquiries and considering the cash flow forecasts for the Group, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue its operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Directors and their interests The Directors who served during the year under review are shown below: Nick Prest Chairman Philip Dayer Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director Jonathan Brooks Non-Executive Director Herv Couturier Non-Executive Director, appointed 1 April 2010 Richard Longdon Chief Executive James Kidd Chief Financial Officer, appointed 1 January 2011 Paul Taylor Finance Director, resigned 1 January 2011 David Mann Non-Executive Director, retired 7 July 2010 34 AvevA Group plc Annual report 2011 Directors report www.
com Corporate Governance Other statutory information continued Directors and their interests continued The interests all of which are beneficial in the shares of the Company of Directors who held office at 31 March 2011 in respect of transactions notifiable under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 3.1.
2 that have been disclosed to the Company are as follows: At 31 March 2010 or At subsequent 31 March date of 2011 appointment ordinary ordinary shares shares Nick Prest 16,690 16,690 Philip Dayer 7,000 7,000 Jonathan Brooks Herv Couturier Richard Longdon 378,024 364,970 James Kidd 3,226 3,226 No changes took place in the interests of Directors in the shares of the Company between 31 March 2011 and 25 May 2011.
Directors share options are disclosed in the Directors remuneration report on pages 42 to 47.
No Director had a material interest in any significant contract, other than a service contract or contract for services, with the Company or any of its subsidiaries at any time during the year.
Resolutions will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting for the election of James Kidd and the re-election of all other current Directors.
Brief biographical details of all Directors, including those who are proposed for re-election, appear on pages 30 and 31.
Conflict of interest Throughout the year the Company has operated effective procedures to deal with potential or actual conflicts of interest.
During the year no conflict arose requiring the Board to exercise its authority or discretion.
Share capital Details of the issued share capital can be found in note 29 to the Consolidated financial statements.
The rights attaching to the Companys shares are set out in its Articles of Association.
Subject to any restrictions referred to in the next section, members may attend any general meeting of the Company.
There are no restrictions on transfer of the ordinary shares in the Company other than: certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority whereby Directors and certain employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the ordinary shares.
There are no special control rights in relation to the Companys shares: pursuant to the Articles of Association where there is default in supplying the Company with information concerning interests in the Companys shares.
Voting rights Subject to any restrictions below, on a show of hands every member who is present in person or by proxy at a general meeting has one vote on each resolution and, on a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy has one vote on each resolution for every share of which he she is the registered member.
A proxy will have one vote for and one vote against a resolution on a show of hands in certain circumstances specified in the Articles of Association.
A resolution put to the vote of a general meeting is decided on a show of hands, unless before or on the declaration of the result of the show of hands, a poll is demanded by the Chairman of the meeting.
The Articles of the Company also allow members, in certain circumstances, to demand that a resolution is decided by a poll.
A member may vote personally or by proxy at a general meeting.
Any form of proxy must be delivered to the Company not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting at which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote for this purpose, the Directors may specify that no account shall be taken of any part of a day that is not a working day.
A corporation which is a member of the Company may authorise such persons as it thinks fit to act as its representatives at any general meeting of the Company.
No member shall be entitled to attend or vote, either personally or by proxy, at a general meeting in respect of any share if any call or other sum presently payable to the Company in respect of such share remains unpaid or in certain other circumstances specified in the Articles of Association where there is default in supplying the Company with information concerning interests in the Companys shares.
Dividends, distributions and liquidation Members can declare final dividends by passing an ordinary resolution but the amount of the dividends cannot exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board can pay interim dividends provided the distributable profits of the Company justify such payment.
The Board may, if authorised by an ordinary resolution of the members, offer any member the right to elect to receive new shares, which will be credited as fully paid, instead of their cash dividend.
Any dividend which has not been claimed for twelve years after it became due for payment will be forfeited and will then revert to the Company.
Members may share in surplus assets on a liquidation.
If the Company is wound up, the liquidator can, with the sanction of the members by special resolution and any other sanction required by law, divide among the members all or any part of the assets of the Company and he she can value any assets and determine how the divisions shall be carried out as between the members or different classes of members.
The liquidator can also transfer the whole or any part of the assets to trustees upon any trusts for the benefit of the members.
No members can be compelled to accept any asset which would give them any liability.
There are no agreements between holders of securities that are known to the Company which may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights, save as described below in relation to the Employee Benefit Trust.
com Directors report AvevA Group plc Annual report 2011 35 Change of control All of the Companys share-based plans contain provisions relating to change of control.
Outstanding awards and options normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any relevant performance conditions at that time.
There are no other significant agreements to which the Company is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Substantial shareholdings On 25 May 2011, the Company had been notified, in accordance with Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5, of the following interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company: Percentage held Name of holder Number % Black Rock Investment Management 8,596,784 12.65 Capital Group 4,007,745 5.90 Standard Life Investments 2,803,684 4.12 NewSmith Capital Partners 2,620,809 3.86 Legal and General Investment Management 2,446,053 3.60 William Blair LLC 2,434,281 3.58 Articles of Association Any amendments to the Articles of Association of the Company may be made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act by way of special resolution.
Powers of the Directors The business of the Company is managed by the Directors, who may exercise all powers of the Company, subject to the Companys Articles of Association, relevant statutory law and to any direction that may be given by the Company in general meeting by special resolution.
Subject to the Companies Act, shares may be issued by Board resolution.
At the Companys last Annual General Meeting, powers were granted to the Directors subject to limits set out in the resolutions to issue and to buy back its own shares: similar powers are proposed to be granted at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
The buy-back authority was limited to 10% of the Companys issued share capital.
No shares have been bought back under this authority.
Appointment of Directors The Articles of Association limit the number of Directors to not less than two and not more than ten save where members decide otherwise.
Members may appoint Directors by ordinary resolution and may remove any Director subject to the giving of special notice and, if desired, replace such removed Director by ordinary resolution.
New Directors may be appointed by the Board but are subject to election by members at the first annual general meeting after their appointment.
A Director may be removed from office if requested by all other Directors.
The Companys Articles of Association require that at each Annual General Meeting of the Company one third of the Directors shall retire from office and be subject to re-election by members.
However, the Company intends for all Directors who held office at 31 March 2011 to stand for re-election together with James Kidd, being the first Annual General Meeting since his appointment.
This practice established by the Company in 2010 is compliant with the new UK Corporate Governance Code which requires all directors of companies who form part of the FTSE 350 be subject to re-election at each Annual General Meeting.
Charitable and political donations During the year the Group made charitable donations totalling 49,618 2010 35,590 of which 10,000 was paid to Macmillan Cancer Support, 15,000 to The Outward Bound Trust and 10,000 to the Japanese Tsunami appeal.
The remainder was donated to local and national charities.
No political donations were made in the year 2010 nil.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held on 7 July 2011 at The Trinity Centre, 24 Cambridge Science Park, Milton Road, Cambridge CB4 0FN.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting is being sent to shareholders along with this Annual report which contains details of the resolutions proposed.
Employee benefit trust The AVEVA Group Employee Benefit Trust 2008 was established in 2008 to facilitate satisfying the transfer of shares to employees within the Group on exercise of vested options under the various share option and deferred bonus share plans of the Company.
The Trust holds a total of 127,947 ordinary shares in AVEVA Group plc representing 0.18% of the issued share capital at the date of this report.
Under the terms of the Trust deed governing the Trust, the trustees of the Trust are required unless the Company directs otherwise to waive all dividends, and abstain from voting in respect of ordinary shares in AVEVA Group plc held by the Trust except where beneficial ownership of any such ordinary shares was passed to a beneficiary of the Trust.
In the same way as other employees, the Executive Directors of the Company are potential beneficiaries under the Trust.
36 AvevA Group plc Annual report 2011 Directors report www.
com Corporate Governance Other statutory information continued Disabled employees The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons where the candidates particular aptitudes and abilities are consistent with adequately meeting the requirements of the job.
Opportunities are available to disabled employees for training, career development and promotion.
Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Groups policy to provide continuing employment wherever practicable in the same or an alternative position and to provide appropriate training to achieve this aim as well as reasonable adjustments to the workplace and other support mechanisms.
Employee involvement The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and has continued to keep them informed of matters affecting them as employees and on the various factors affecting the performance of the Group.
This is achieved through formal and informal meetings, the Group intranet and presentations from senior management.
There is an employee representative committee which meets on a regular basis to discuss a wide range of matters affecting their current and future interests.
All employees are entitled to receive an annual discretionary award related to the overall profitability of the Group subject to the performance of the individual and the Group.
The Group conducts employee wide surveys from time to time to gauge the success or otherwise of its policies and uses this information to improve matters as appropriate.
Directors indemnity The Company has granted an indemnity to its Directors against liability in respect of proceedings brought by third parties, subject to the conditions set out in the Companies Act.
Such qualifying third party indemnity provision remains in force as at the date of approving the Directors report.
Auditors A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors for the ensuing year will be put to the members at the Annual General Meeting.
Disclosure of information to auditors The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving the Directors report are listed on page 32.
Having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the Companys auditors, each of these Directors confirms that: so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined by Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and he has taken all the steps he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any such relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Responsibility statement pursuant to FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4 DTR 4 Each Director of the Company whose names and functions appear on page 32 confirms that solely for the purpose of DTR 4 to the best of his knowledge: the financial statements in this document, prepared in accordance with the applicable UK law and applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company and of the Group taken as a whole: and the Chairmans statement and Business review include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and Group taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
On behalf of the Board James Kidd Richard Longdon High Cross Chief Financial Officer Chief Executive Madingley Road 25 May 2011 Cambridge CB3 0HB
