18 AvevA Group plc Annual report 2011 Directors report www.
com Business review Chief Financial Officers review James Kidd appointed 1 January 2011 Chief Financial Officer Business model Revenue In 2010 11, AVEVA At the core of AVEVAs business is the In 2010 11, AVEVA saw strong growth saw strong growth intellectual property generated in its software with total revenue of 174.0 million, a record products.
The Group sells its proprietary level for the Group.
Total revenue consisted with total revenue of software products by licensing rights to use of 168.4 million 2010 148.3 million the software directly to customers through of organic revenue and revenue from the 174.0 million, a record our network of global sales offices rather than two acquisitions made during the year of through resellers or distributors.
Organic revenue increased level for the Group.
provides customers with local sales and support by 20.1 million or 14%.
and helps AVEVA to work closely with the The main driver behind this strong performance leading companies principally in the Oil & Gas, was Asia Pacific with organic revenue growing Power and Marine markets.
30% year on year to 65.8 million, driven by We operate a right to use licensing model the Oil & Gas and Power sectors.
There were for both Enterprise Solutions software and also signs of improvement in Marine from Engineering and Design products.
Customers Offshore Oil & Gas projects, particularly an license our software for a specified number important deal signed with Hyundai Heavy of users by paying an initial licence fee followed Industries in Korea to expand the usage of by an obligatory annual fee or by paying a our 3D products.
There has to date been no rental fee over a fixed period of time.
In both impact on the business from the events in cases, the customer has to continue to pay a Japan but we remain watchful as to how this fee in order to use the software.
This model may affect our customers investment plans.
continues to provide a strong recurring In Asia Pacific, we did see a trend away from revenue base for AVEVA which allows us to initial licence fees to rental fees during the invest in the future roadmap of our products.
year mainly in Japan, Korea and South East Our Enterprise Solutions software involves Asian countries as customers opted for the a higher degree of services compared to our more flexible model.
These services In EMEA, Central Europe was impacted by consist of implementation and customisation the slower economic recovery across the of these solutions and are provided either region in the year which resulted in lower on a time and materials basis or under fixed overall growth rates.
Despite this, organic price contracts.
revenue increased by 4% to 73.7 million 2010 70.9 million and the region had Key performance indicators a much stronger second half to the year.
The Groups key financial and non-financial In the Americas, North American sales were performance indicators are total revenue, affected by the economic conditions and the recurring revenue, adjusted profit before competitive environment.
Latin America has tax, headcount and adjusted earnings continued to grow strongly, contributing per share.
These are discussed on the approximately 50% of the Americas revenue, following page: Read this review online at ar.
