12 AvevA Group plc Annual report 2011 Directors report www.
com Business review Chief Executives review Richard Longdon Chief Executive Integrity Solution.
The acquisition of Overview AVEVA performed well the MARS business of Logimatic further Strong growth across many strengthens our ability to automate material over the year delivering of our markets.
control and resource planning for shipbuilders Sustained investment in technology.
strong revenue and profit with its MARS application.
MARS is widely used by European shipyards but as part of Delivered significant growth from growth.
This reflected the AVEVA portfolio will be marketed globally BRIC economies.
and will also be combined with AVEVA NET improving market Deepening customer relationships.
to provide a more comprehensive solution to shipbuilders and our plant customers.
conditions, our global Step change in AVEVA NET investment.
We have implemented a significant leadership in engineering Acquisitions completed and now integrated.
reorganisation across the Group to place AVEVA performed well over the year design, construction and greater emphasis and focus on AVEVA NET delivering strong revenue and profit growth.
From 1 April 2011, lifecycle support technology This reflected improving market conditions, AVEVA NET, ADBs Workmate and Logimatics our global leadership in engineering design, MARS have come together to form Enterprise and the continuing construction and lifecycle support technology Solutions.
Our design specific solutions are and the continuing execution of our proven now part of the Engineering Design Systems execution of our proven development strategy.
Having prepared to meet the challenges of the global downturn in 2009 2010, we have Strong growth across many been in a strong position throughout the year of our markets to deliver growth in the majority of our end AVEVAs main end user markets are Oil & Gas, user markets around the world.
We continued which represents approximately 45% of revenue, to invest in both our technology base and with Power at 15%, Marine at 25% and Other delivery capability for Enterprise Solutions at 15%.
which includes AVEVA NET and in our direct During 2010 11 we have seen a strong sales office network, most significantly in the recovery in Oil & Gas related activity.
AVEVA growth territories of China and Latin America, provides the system of choice for the design where we continue to increase our presence of complex Oil & Gas projects to many of the in Brazil.
As a result overall revenue was up worlds leading Engineering, Procurement and 17% to 174 million 2010 148.3 million.
As a result We completed two acquisitions in the first AVEVA is very well positioned to exploit the half, both in Scandinavia.
The acquisition of necessity for ever more complex oil recovery, the Oil & Gas related business from ADB is including deep water exploration and production.
a natural extension of the AVEVA Enterprise Population and GDP growth are the drivers for Solutions offering and adds the Workmate energy demand and as the highly populated product which provides plant owner operators Asian countries grow, their demand for energy with maintenance management and other will increase substantially.
China spent $40 billion functionality which, when combined with on energy assets in 2010 with demand set to Read this review online at AVEVA NET, creates a superb Operational surge by 75% by 2035. ar.
