42 AvevA Group plc Annual report 2011 Directors report www.
com Corporate Governance Directors remuneration report This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 5 and 8 of the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and the Combined Code on Corporate Governance together the Regulations.
The report also describes how the Board has applied the Principles of Good Governance relating to Directors remuneration.
As required by the Regulations, a resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company at which the financial statements of the Company will be approved.
The Regulations require the auditors to report on the auditable part of the Directors remuneration report and to state whether, in their opinion, that part of the report has been properly prepared in accordance with the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
The report has therefore been divided into separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
UnAUDITED InFORMATIOn Role of the Remuneration Committee The Board sets the remuneration policy for the Group.
The Remuneration Committee makes recommendations to the Board within its agreed terms of reference, details of which are available at www.
The Remuneration Committees principal responsibility is to determine the remuneration package of both the Companys Executive Directors and its senior management within broad policies agreed with the Board.
When reviewing and setting remuneration policy the Committee considered a range of factors including the prevailing economic environment and the evolving landscape in best practice guidelines to ensure that it remains appropriate.
In addition, it reviews the remuneration policy for the Company as a whole and administers the Companys share incentive plans for all participants.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is determined by the Executive Directors and the Chairman, rather than the Committee.
The conclusions and recommendations of the Remuneration Committee were finalised in three formal meetings during the year, but these were preceded by several informal discussions, including some with advisers none of whom had any other connection with the Company.
The members of the Committee were Philip Dayer Chairman, Nick Prest and Jonathan Brooks.
David Mann was the Chairman of the Committee for the one meeting that was held prior to his retirement from the Board in July 2010.
The Chief Executive Richard Longdon is invited to submit recommendations to the Remuneration Committee and both he and the members of the Committee take into consideration relevant external market data, which was collated by independent remuneration consultants as well as the reviews of remuneration for employees of the Group generally.
The Chief Executive was not present at the meetings.
Remuneration policy The Remuneration Committee aims to ensure that members of the Executive management are provided with appropriate incentives to encourage enhanced performance and are, in a fair and responsible manner, rewarded for their individual contributions to the success of the Group.
It also aims for a combination of fixed and variable payments, benefits and share-based awards that will achieve a balance in incentives to deliver short and long term goals.
The Companys policy is that a substantial proportion of remuneration of Executive Directors should be performance-related and should be delivered in shares to create alignment with shareholders interests.
For maximum levels of performance 69% of the CEOs and 67% of the CFOs total remuneration would be performance related.
The payment of bonuses and the vesting of share incentives are subject to meeting performance conditions established by the Committee at the beginning of each performance period reflecting what, at that time, the Committee considers demanding targets.
These targets are set taking account of the market in which the Group operates and the expectations of the investment community on the Groups future potential performance.
In 2008 the Board introduced the AVEVA Group Management Bonus Deferred Share Scheme 2008 the Deferred Share Scheme for Executive Directors and selected employees.
The Committee considers that it is appropriate to have a deferred component to the bonus scheme in order to retain key individuals and to create enhanced alignment with shareholders.
Subject to the achievement of performance conditions relating to a single financial year, these incentive arrangements are intended to reward the recipient partly in cash, payable on announcement of interim and or final results, and partly in ordinary shares in the Company to be delivered on a deferred basis under the Deferred Share Scheme.
The Remuneration Committee has access to detailed external research from independent consultants.
During the year, the Committee, supported by Deloitte LLP, undertook a comprehensive review of executive remuneration arrangements.
This review considered whether the Groups current remuneration arrangements are aligned with the future business strategy and the long-term creation of shareholder value, as well as considering whether pay levels were fair and appropriate for a company of the size and complexity of AVEVA.
The Committee concluded that the overall structure of remuneration arrangements remains appropriate and effectively incentivises executives to deliver on-going earnings growth as well as incentivising them to build a strong foundation for the AVEVA NET business.
The successful delivery of the AVEVA NET strategy is considered to be crucial to the building of long-term shareholder value and therefore it is intended to continue to incentivise the delivery of this through the executive incentive arrangements.
Outside appointments The Board believes that accepting non-executive appointments with other companies enhances the experience of Executive Directors and therefore they are entitled to accept appointments outside of the Company provided that Board approval is sought prior to accepting the appointment.
Whether or not the Director concerned is permitted to retain their fees is considered on a case by case basis.
Paul Taylor serves as a Non-Executive Director of Anite plc.
As Mr Taylor performed these services independently of his duties to the Company, he was thus entitled to receive such compensation.
Paul Taylor resigned from the Board on 1 January 2011.
The individual components of the remuneration packages offered are: Basic salaries It is the policy of the Committee to pay base salaries to the Executive Directors taking account of the nature and scale of the business of the Group, the performance of the individual in achieving financial and non-financial goals within his areas of responsibility and comparable market data.
Overview Business review Corporate Governance Financial statements Other information www.
com Directors report AvevA Group plc Annual report 2011 43 UnAUDITED InFORMATIOn continued Remuneration policy continued Basic salaries continued In 2010 11, the Remuneration Committee, having duly considered the results of the benchmark review conducted by Deloitte LLP, concluded that given the experience and tenure of the Chief Executive and his strategic importance to the business, the remuneration opportunity for the Group Chief Executive was significantly behind market practice compared to other companies of a similar size and complexity.
In light of this the Committee feel that it is reasonable and appropriate to bring his pay more in line with the market.
The Committee is, therefore, intending to increase his basic salary to 390,000.
The Committee plans to make this increase in two phases to avoid a significant one off increase.
His salary, therefore, will be increased from 335,000 to 365,000 with effect from 1 April 2011 an 8.9% increase and then, subject to continued performance, to 390,000 a 6.8% increase to be effective from 1 April 2012.
In keeping with a general review of salaries for the Group as a whole, the Chief Financial Officer received a salary increase of 3% in line with the average increase across the Group.
Details of the current salaries with effect from 1 April 2011 are as follows: Richard Longdon 365,000 James Kidd 175,100 Benefits Executive Directors are provided with a Company car or a mobility allowance and a fuel allowance.
Non-Executive Directors do not receive any benefits.
Bonus payments The Executive Directors participate in annual performance-related bonus arrangements determined by the Committee.
As noted above, these arrangements include a component using the Deferred Share Scheme.
Under these incentive arrangements, depending on the extent to which performance conditions are achieved, an overall bonus amount is determined.
60% of this overall bonus amount is payable in cash, and the balance, 40%, is used to calculate the number of ordinary shares which the bonus recipient is eligible to receive on a deferred basis.
This is calculated by identifying the number of ordinary shares which could be purchased with the balance at the mid-market closing price of an ordinary share on the dealing day immediately preceding the preliminary announcement of the Companys results for the financial year in which the bonus was earned.
Deferred awards, which take the form of nil-cost options, will normally deliver the shares to participants in three equal tranches, one in each of the three years following the year in which an award is granted.
These awards are made solely in respect of performance in the financial year immediately prior to their grant.
Delivery of the deferred shares is not subject to further financial performance conditions provided that the participant remains an employee or Director of the Group.
If the participant ceases to be an employee or Director, entitlement to all outstanding tranches would fall away unless the cessation occurs by reason of his or her death.
Following the death of a bonus participant, or on a takeover, reconstruction or amalgamation, or voluntary winding up of the Company, the period for which the participant must remain an employee or Director would be reduced below the normal three years and entitlement to delivery of the shares would be accelerated.
There are no arrangements for the delivery of additional matching shares to a participant in any circumstances.
2010 11 bonus For the annual performance bonus arrangements for 2010 11, the bonus was primarily based on achieving stretching Group adjusted profit before tax PBT targets.
In addition, 10% of the bonus was based on performance against strategic objectives for AVEVA NET.
The agreed targets were considered to be appropriate and stretching against the budgeted profit for 2010 11 and market conditions prevailing at that time.
10% of the bonus is based on achievement for the six months to 30 September and 90% based on the full year results.
For 2010 11, the maximum bonus amount which an Executive Director could earn was 100% of basic salary.
Performance targets were achieved in full, with the Group delivering 7.9% adjusted PBT growth and with continued strong performance in building a strong foundation for the AVEVA NET business resulting in a cash bonus equal to 60% 2010 60% of basic salary with the remaining 40% 2010 40% of the bonus amount being used to calculate the number of deferred shares for which each Executive Director was eligible.
The Committee considered that this level of payout is appropriate both in the context of performance against targets as well as the underlying performance of the business in what continues to be challenging economic conditions.
Paul Taylors entitlement to a bonus payment in respect of the year 2010 11 was pro-rated in line with the date of his resignation from the Board and 100% of the bonus will be settled in cash.
2011 12 bonus Given the importance of AVEVA NET to the long-term creation of shareholder value it was agreed that the 2011 12 bonus annual bonus will be based on a combination of the delivery of stretching Group adjusted profit before tax growth performance and the growth in AVEVA NET revenues.
In addition, 10% of bonus payments to Executive Directors will be contingent on the achievement of personal objectives which are required to be agreed in advance on an individual basis by the Remuneration Committee.
These individual objectives are linked to the delivery of the business strategy.
Pensions During the year, the two Executive Directors Richard Longdon and Paul Taylor were members of AVEVA Solutions Limiteds defined benefit pension scheme.
It is a contributory, funded, occupational pension scheme registered with HM Revenue and Customs HMRC and, since 1 October 2004, Career Average Revalued Earnings benefits apply.
Under this scheme they are entitled to a pension on normal retirement, or on retirement due to ill health, equivalent to two-thirds of their pensionable salary provided they have completed or would have completed in the case of ill health 25 years service.
A pension earnings cap in line with historic HMRCs earning cap applies to Paul Taylor when calculating pensionable salary.
Similarly, a scheme-specific earnings limit applies to the benefits earned by Richard Longdon.
A lower pension is payable on earlier retirement after the age of 50 by agreement with the Company and subject to HMRC guidelines.
Pensions are payable to dependants on the Directors death in retirement and a lump sum is payable if death occurs in service.
44 AvevA Group plc Annual report 2011 Directors report www.
com Corporate Governance Directors remuneration report continued UnAUDITED InFORMATIOn continued Remuneration policy continued Pensions continued Richard Longdon has now accrued the maximum benefits that he is entitled to under the rules of the pension scheme and as a result he is no longer accruing any further benefit.
In 2009 10, Richard Longdon was paid a one-off sum of 25,000 in lieu of any further pension benefit.
James Kidd is a member of the AVEVA Group Personal Pension Plan a defined contribution scheme and each year the Company contributes 10% of salary to the plan.
No other Directors were members of a pension scheme during the year 2010 nil.
Share awards The Remuneration Committee considers that periodic grants of share-related incentives should constitute an important element of the remuneration of the Companys senior Executives, in line with common practice in comparable companies.
The Remuneration Committee will consult with major shareholders as appropriate.
The Companys share schemes have been used to provide long term incentives to assist in creating and sustaining growth in share value.
There are three schemes in existence, the AVEVA Group Management Bonus Deferred Share Scheme 2008, the AVEVA Group plc Long Term Incentive Plan and the AVEVA Group plc Executive Share Option Scheme 2007.
No awards have been made under the AVEVA Group plc Executive Share Option Scheme 2007 and the performance conditions that would apply to them remain to be determined.
The number of shares which may be allocated on exercise of any options granted under any of the Companys share option schemes including employee schemes shall not, when aggregated with the number of shares which have been allocated in the previous ten years under these schemes, exceed 10% of the ordinary share capital of the Company in issue immediately prior to that date.
The share schemes are used to provide incentives to Senior Managers as well as Executive Directors.
As recipients of these awards, Executive Directors and Executive Board members are required to hold or use the schemes to build share ownership with a value of at least 100% of their then current salary.
Details of the awards made under these schemes are as follows: Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Under the LTIP, options are granted to selected individuals to acquire ordinary shares at an exercise price equal to the nominal value of the shares 3.33 pence : these options will be exercisable only if stretching performance criteria are met.
There are no rules under the LTIP scheme which govern the maximum awards that can be made to participants.
However in 2010 11 the market value of awards under the LTIP awarded to Richard Longdon and Paul Taylor amounted to 100% and 80% of basic salary respectively 2010 50%.
As noted above, during the year the Committee reviewed the level of remuneration arrangements to ensure that they remain appropriate compared to companies of a similar size.
This review concluded that the CEOs total remuneration was behind that of similar sized companies, particularly in the context of the length of his tenure and performance during this time.
The Committee, therefore, intends to increase the maximum LTIP grant from 100% to 120% of base salary for 2011 12.
The Committee believes that the increased LTIP opportunity will not only further align the Group CEOs personal reward with the future performance of the Company and shareholder value creation, but will also act as a strong retention tool for such a valuable member of the management team.
The LTIP award for James Kidd the CFO will be set at 100% of base salary.
The Committee continues to believe that Earnings Per Share growth is an appropriate performance measure for awards under the LTIP, as growing earnings is strongly aligned with our long-term business strategy and the creation of shareholder value.
In determining each of the awards under the LTIP, the Remuneration Committee considered and concluded that the performance conditions set were challenging in the context of internal and external expectations at the time of the awards.
Details of the outstanding awards under the LTIP are as follows: 2007 08 awards In 2007 08, a total of 18,234 nominal value share options were conditionally awarded to the Executive Directors under the LTIP.
The performance conditions were based on average growth in EPS over the years from 2007 08 to 2009 10.
If average EPS growth was greater than 11.5% per annum then all of the shares would vest.
If average EPS was less than 9% per annum then none of the shares would vest.
If average EPS growth was between 9% and 11.5% per annum then the number of shares that would vest would be determined by linear interpolation.
Performance against these targets was tested during the year and awards vested in full.
2008 09 awards In 2008 09, a total of 17,929 nominal value share options were conditionally awarded to the Executive Directors under the LTIP.
The performance conditions are based on average growth in EPS over the years from 2009 10 to 2010 11.
If average EPS growth is greater than 14% per annum then all of the shares shall vest.
If average EPS is less than 10% per annum then none of the shares shall vest.
If average EPS growth is between 10% and 14% per annum then the number of shares that shall vest shall be determined by linear interpolation.
Although the vesting date has not yet been reached, it is anticipated that the performance conditions attached to this award will not be met and therefore these awards shall lapse.
2009 10 awards In 2009 10, a total of 36,628 nominal value share options were conditionally awarded to the Executive Directors under the LTIP.
In view of the general economic background, the Remuneration Committee gave especially careful consideration to what performance conditions would be appropriate and finally agreed that they should be based on average diluted EPS over the three years from 2009 10 to 2011 12.
All shares under this option shall vest if average diluted EPS for the three years ending 31 March 2012 is equal to or above 52.14 pence.
Should average diluted EPS for the period be below 52.14 pence, then no shares will vest and the option will lapse.
2010 11 awards In 2010 11, a total of 37,961 nominal value share options were awarded to Executive Directors under the LTIP.
The performance conditions are based on average EPS growth over the three years from 2010 11 to 2012 13.
If average diluted EPS growth is more than 12% above RPI for the same period then all of the shares under this option will vest.
If average diluted EPS growth is less than 4% above RPI then none of the shares will vest.
If average EPS growth is between 4% and 12% per annum then the number of shares that shall vest shall be determined by linear interpolation.
com Directors report AvevA Group plc Annual report 2011 45 UnAUDITED InFORMATIOn continued Remuneration policy continued Share awards continued Deferred annual bonus share plan As described above, part of the annual bonus earned by Executive Directors in the year is used to determine eligibility for an award of deferred shares under the Deferred Share Scheme.
In order to deliver shares under the Deferred Share Scheme, an Employee Benefit Trust EBT was established following shareholder approval at the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
Awards of deferred shares are made by the trustee of EBT using shares purchased in the market.
On 15 June 2010 the EBT awarded 12,471 and 8,046 deferred shares to Richard Longdon and Paul Taylor respectively in respect of the bonus arrangements for the year ended 31 March 2010.
Following the achievement of the objectives for 2010 11, it is anticipated that 8,536 and 1,082 deferred shares will be awarded to Richard Longdon and James Kidd respectively in respect of the bonus arrangements for the year ended 31 March 2011.
Total shareholder return performance graph The Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 require the presentation of a performance graph of total shareholder return compared with a broad equity market index for a period of five years.
The following graph shows the Companys performance, measured by total shareholder return, compared with the performance of the techMARK All-Share Index.
Total shareholder return is the share price plus dividends reinvested compared against the techMARK All-Share Index, rebased to the start of the period.
Total shareholder return v techMARK All-Share Index 20062011  The Directors consider the techMARK All-Share Index to be an appropriate choice as the Index includes AVEVA Group plc.
Service contracts The service contracts and letters of appointment of the Directors include the following terms: Expiry review date of Notice period Date of contract Date of appointment current contract Months Nick Prest 10 January 2006 11 January 2006 11 January 2012 3 Philip Dayer 2 January 2011 7 January 2008 2 January 2014 3 Jonathan Brooks 12 July 2010 12 July 2007 12 July 2013 3 Herv Couturier 18 March 2010 1 April 2010 1 April 2013 3 Richard Longdon 28 November 1996 28 November 1996 Rolling 12 James Kidd 1 January 2011 1 January 2011 Rolling 9 The Committee considers that the notice periods of the Executive Directors are in line with those in other companies of a similar size and nature and are in the best interests of the Group to ensure stability in senior management.
There are no predetermined special provisions for Executive or Non-Executive Directors with regard to compensation in the event of loss of office.
The Remuneration Committee would be responsible for considering the circumstances of the early termination of an Executive Directors contract and determining whether in exceptional circumstances there should be compensation payments in excess of the Companys contractual obligations.
non-Executive Director fees Fees for the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are determined taking account of the individuals responsibilities: time devoted to the role and prevalent market rates.
The fees for the Non-Executive Directors have been reviewed during the year and were brought in line with comparable companies.
Non-executive fee policy was therefore increased to a basis fee of 39,000 with an additional fee of 5,000 for chairmanship of the Remuneration and Audit Committees.
The Chairman of the Company receives an all inclusive fee of 110,000.
Total fees for Non-Executive Directors are summarised below: Nick Prest Chairman 110,000 Jonathan Brooks Chair of the Audit Committee 44,000 Philip Dayer Chair of the Remuneration Committee 44,000 Herv Couturier 39,000
