Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 www.
com 78 The Directors Report Purpose of the Directors Report The Directors are pleased to present their Annual Report on the business of the Group, together with the financial statements and auditors report, for the year ended 31 March 2011.
The purpose of the Directors Report is to provide shareholders with certain statutory information about the Company, its Directors and operations.
The Business Review, which forms part of the Directors Report, informs shareholders and helps them assess how the Directors have performed their duty to promote the success of the Company.
In addition, as a company listed on the London Stock Exchange, it is required to provide information which includes amongst other things, details of the Companys share capital, voting rights, rules on directors appointments and significant agreements that alter on change of control.
Principal Activities Vedanta Resources plc is the UK parent company of a diversified metals and mining group.
The Groups principal operations are in India, Zambia, Australia, Namibia, South Africa and Ireland.
The major metals produced are aluminium, copper, zinc, lead, silver and iron ore.
The Group is also developing a commercial power generation business.
Analysis of revenue, operating profit, principal activities and geographical origins appears in Note 3 of the financial statements and a list of the principal subsidiaries and of the Group may be found in Note 39 to the financial statements.
Business Review The Business Review has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 which requires the Company to set out a fair review of the business of the Group during the financial year, including an analysis of the position of the Group at the end of the financial year and the trends and factors likely to affect the future development, performance and position of the business.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business Review, including principal risks and uncertainties and key performance indicators, can be found within the following sections, which are incorporated in this report by reference: Information Location in the Annual Report Page Key Performance Indicators Business Review 12 Description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group Financial Review 50 Strategy Chairmans Statement and Business Review 10 Future developments Business Review 10 Review of operations Business Review 28 Financial Review Financial Review 46 Environmental matters Sustainable Development Report 22 Health and safety matters Sustainable Development Report 22 Community issues Sustainable Development Report 22 The Business Review and other sections of this Annual Report contain forward looking statements.
By their nature, forwardlooking statements involve risks and uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future and may be beyond the Companys ability to control or predict.
Forward looking statements and past performance are therefore not guarantees of future performance.
The information contained in the Business Review has been prepared on the basis of information and knowledge available to Directors at the date of preparation and the Company does not undertake to update or revise the content during the year ahead.
Corporate Governance In accordance with the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 7.2.
7 may be found in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 58 to 68.
6 is located in this Directors Report.
Important Events Subsequent to the Year End Events since the balance sheet date are summarised in Note 38 on page 139 of the financial statements.
Dividends The Directors recommend a final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2011 of 32.5 US cents per ordinary share 2010: 27.5 US cents per ordinary share.
Subject to shareholders approving this recommendation at the Annual General Meeting on 27 July 2011, the final dividend will be paid on 3 August 2011 to shareholders on the register of members as at 8 July 2011.
Taken together with the interim dividend of 20.0 US cents per ordinary share paid to shareholders on 6 January 2011, the total dividend for the year is 52.5 US cents per ordinary share 2010: 45 US cents per ordinary share.
Directors The names, specific responsibilities and biographical details of the current Board of Directors are shown on page 24.
Details of the remuneration of the Directors, their interests in the shares of the Company and service contracts are contained in the Remuneration Report on pages 69 to 75. Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 79 The following Directors held office during the year ended 31 March 2011: Appointed Designation Executive Directors AK Agarwal 16 May 2003 Executive Chairman N Agarwal 24 November 2004 Deputy Executive Chairman MS Mehta 1 October 2008 Chief Executive Non-Executive Directors N Chandra 18 May 2004 Non-Executive Director A Mehta 24 November 2004 Non-Executive Director ER Macdonald 23 March 2005 Non-Executive Director Appointment and Replacement of Directors The Companys Articles of Association specify that the minimum number of Directors of the Company, unless determined by ordinary resolution, shall be two.
There is no limit on the maximum number of Directors.
The Company or the Board may appoint any person to be a Director.
Any Director appointed by the Board shall hold office only until the next general meeting and is then eligible for election by the shareholders.
At every Annual General Meeting the Articles specify that one-third of the Directors, or if their number is not three or multiple of three, the number nearest to one-third, shall retire from office.
The Directors to retire by rotation are those who have been longest in office since appointment or re-appointment.
Accordingly Mr Navin Agarwal, Mr Naresh Chandra and Mr Aman Mehta will retire by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and being eligible will offer themselves for re-election.
Powers of the Directors Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts and the Articles of Association and to any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company is to be managed by the Board which may exercise all the powers of the Company.
Directors and Officers Liability Insurance and Indemnities The Company purchases and maintains liability insurance for its Directors and officers and those of the subsidiaries of the Group, as permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
The insurance policy does not provide cover where the Director has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
The Company believes that it is appropriate to provide such cover to protect Directors from innocent error as the Directors carry significant liability under criminal and civil law and under the UK Listing, Prospectus and Disclosure and Transparency Rules, and face a range of penalties.
In addition the Articles of Association of the Company contain an indemnity provision in favour of the Directors of the Company against proceedings brought by third parties, subject to the Companies Act 2006, to allow the Company to pay defence costs for the Director where the Director is exonerated.
Employees Information on the Groups employees and its policies with respect to employees can be found in the Sustainable Development Report on pages 22 to 23.
Charitable Donations During the year, the Group made charitable donations of US$1.68 million paid to the Vedanta Foundation 2010: US$1.1 million and other charitable donations of US$1.35 million 2010: US$0.63 million.
Further details about the Groups involvement with local communities during the year can be found in the Sustainable Development Report.
Political Donations It is the Boards policy that neither Vedanta nor any of its subsidiary companies may, under any circumstances, make donations or contributions to political organisations within the United Kingdom or European Union.
In exceptional circumstances, where such political donations or contributions are to be paid in the United Kingdom and European Union, and if deemed necessary for legitimate business reasons, they will not be made without the approval of the Board and the shareholders in the general meeting.
During the year, the Group made political donations in India of US$0.02 million 2010: US$3.66 million either through a trust or directly in respect of the Indian general election.
The Board believes this will encourage and strengthen the democratic process in India.
Supplier Payment Policy Responsibility for determining payment terms is delegated to individual businesses within the Group, which take into consideration the commercial circumstances, local market and industry practice.
The Groups policy is either to settle terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction or to ensure that the supplier is aware of the individual businesss usual payment terms.
Payment is made in accordance with contractual and other legal obligations and reflects local market practices.
Trade creditor days of the Company at 31 March 2011 were 42 days 2010: 62 days.
com 80 The Directors Report continued Value of Land Land is carried in the Balance Sheet at historic cost.
It is not practical to estimate the market value of land at each balance sheet date.
Research and Development The Groups business units carry out research and development activities necessary to further their operations.
Material Shareholdings As at 1 June 2011, the Company had been notified under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following significant voting rights in its shares: Number of Percentage of ordinary shares total ordinary Name of holder of US$0.10 each share capital Volcan Investments Ltd 165,310,000 62% 1 The voting rights at 31 March 2011 were 265,733,940 ordinary shares net of treasury shares.
Articles of Association, Share Capital and Voting Rights The following description summarises certain provisions in the Companys Articles of Association the Articles and applicable English law concerning companies the Companies Act 2006, the Act.
This is a summary only and the relevant provisions of the Act or the Articles should be consulted if further information is required.
Copies of the Companys current Articles are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Amendments to the Articles of Association The Articles may be amended only by special resolution passed by the Companys shareholders.
Share Capital As at 31 March 2011 the issued share capital of the Company was comprised of 296,845,751 ordinary shares of US$0.10 each and 50,000 deferred shares of 1 each.
Rights and Obligations Attaching to Shares The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary and deferred shares are set out in the Articles of Association.
Details of the authorised and issued share capital together with movements in the Companys issued share capital during the year are shown in Note 33 of the financial statements.
Each ordinary share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
Holders of deferred shares are not entitled to attend, speak or vote at any general meeting of the Company, nor are they entitled to the payment of any dividend or to receive notice of general meetings.
Further details of the rights attaching to the deferred shares are set out in the Articles and summarised in Note 33 of the financial statements.
Variation of Rights Subject to the provisions of the Act, the rights attached to any class may be varied with the consent of the holders of threequarters in nominal value of the issued shares of the class or with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of the shares of the class.
Deadlines for Exercising Voting Rights Votes may be exercised at general meetings in relation to the business being transacted either in person, by proxy or, in relation to corporate members, by corporate representative.
The Articles provide that forms of proxy shall be submitted not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Restrictions on Voting and the Transfer of Shares No member shall be entitled to vote at a general meeting or at a separate meeting of the holders of any class of shares in the capital of the Company, either in person or by proxy, in respect of any share held by him unless all moneys payable by him in respect of that share have been fully paid.
Furthermore, no shareholder shall be entitled to attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting or at a separate meeting of the holders of that class of shares or on a poll if he has been served with a notice after failing to provide the Company with information concerning interests in his shares that is required to be provided under the Act.
Issue of Shares Under the Articles of Association, the Company has authority to allot new shares in the Company.
Such authority would be exercised having regard to the Statement of Principles published by the Pre-emption Group.
Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 81 Shares Held in Uncertificated Form Subject to the provisions of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the Board may permit the holding of shares in any class of shares in uncertificated form and the transfer of title to shares in that class by means of a relevant system and may determine that any class of shares shall cease to be a participating security.
Dividends and Distributions Subject to the provisions of the Act, the Company may by ordinary resolution declare dividends in accordance with the respective rights of the members, but no dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board may pay interim dividends if it appears to the Board that they are justified by the profits of the Company available for distribution.
The treasury shares directly held by the Company are not entitled to receive a dividend.
Dividends may be declared and paid in any currency or currencies that the Board shall determine.
The Board may also determine the exchange rate and the relevant date for determining the value of the dividend in any currency.
Purchase of the Companys Own Shares At the end of the year, the Directors had authority, under a shareholders resolution dated 28 July 2010, to make market purchases of up to approximately 10% of the Companys ordinary shares.
The authority expires at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2011 or on 1 October 2011, whichever is the earlier.
A resolution to obtain a further authority will be proposed at the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
During the year the Company continued to make purchases under its previously announced share buyback programme.
The Board believed the buyback programme was value accretive to shareholders and will be funded from the Groups substantial cash and liquid investments balances of over US$7.8 billion.
Up until April 2010 all shares purchased were held in treasury for subsequent cancellation or sale.
From April 2010 purchases were made either by the Company or by an independent company Gorey Investments Limited Gorey, funded by a wholly owned subsidiary of Vedanta, Vedanta Jersey Investment Limited.
Shares purchased by Gorey are treated in the consolidated accounts as treasury shares and the shares are available for purchase by Vedanta itself subject to any required approvals, as consideration for future acquisitions or sale to third parties to raise additional capital if and when desirable.
During the financial year ended 31 March 2011 the Company made the following purchases of its ordinary shares: Percentage of Average Number of shares issued share capital Nominal value purchase price Shares purchased and put into treasury 1,421,800 0.5% 142,180.0 28.3 Shares purchased through Gorey 1,704,333 0.6% 170,433.3 25.7 As at 31 March 2011 the Company held a total of 24,206,816 ordinary shares in treasury equal to 8.15% of the issued share capital.
Significant Agreements: Change of Control There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company such as commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, and capital market borrowing.
Some of these are considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
All of the Companys share plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions.
Under the terms of the US$1.25 billion 5.50% Guaranteed Convertible Bonds issued in July 2009 and the US$883 million 4.0% Guaranteed Convertible Bonds issued in March 2010, following a change of control of the Company investors have the option to require the issuer to redeem their Bonds at the principal amount, together with any accrued and unpaid interest, or convert their bonds at an adjusted exchange price for a certain period following the relevant event.
Under the terms of the US$500 million 8.75% Bonds due 2014 and US$750 million 9.5% Bonds due 2018 the Company is required to make an offer to purchase all of the outstanding bonds at 101% of the principal amount together with any accrued and unpaid interest if a change of control event has occurred together with a rating decline.
Under the terms of the US$1 billion and US$373 million Syndicated loan and US$200 million loan from ICICI Bank UK plc, the majority lenders may declare the loan immediately payable upon the occurrence of a change of control event.
This change of control clause is also attached to Cairn Financing.
There is no contract between the Company and its Directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
com 82 The Directors Report continued Disclosure of Information to Auditors In accordance with section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, each Director who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirms that: so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and they have taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Re-appointment of Auditors A resolution to re-appoint the auditors, Deloitte LLP, will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The re-appointment of Deloitte LLP has been approved by the Audit Committee, which will also be responsible for determining the auditors remuneration on behalf of the Board, subject to the approval of shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Policy on Derivatives and Financial Instruments An explanation of the Groups financial management objectives and policies together with details of the Groups exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and foreign currency risk appears in Note 28 to the financial statements.
Going Concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business Review on pages 28 to 45.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Finance Review on pages 46 to 49.
In addition Note 28 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group requires funds both for short-term operational needs as well as for long-term investment programmes mainly in growth projects.
The Group generates sufficient cash flows from its current operations which, together with the available cash and cash equivalents and liquid financial asset investments, provide liquidity both in the short term as well as in the long term.
Anticipated future cash flows and undrawn committed facilities of US$9,407.6 million, together with cash and liquid investments of US$7,777.0 million as at 31 March 2011, are expected to be sufficient to meet the ongoing capital investment programme and liquidity requirement of the Group in the foreseeable future.
The Group has a strong Balance Sheet that gives sufficient headroom to raise further debt should the need arise.
The Groups current ratings from Standard & Poors, Moodys and Fitch are BB, Ba1 and BB respectively.
These ratings support the necessary financial leverage and access to debt or equity markets at competitive terms, taking into consideration current market conditions.
The Group generally maintains a healthy net debt-equity ratio and retains flexibility in the financing structure to alter the ratio when the need arises.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
The Group remains confident that it will obtain the necessary approvals in order to complete the proposed acquisition of Cairn India Limited and has sufficient cash reserves and committed credit facilities in order to fund the acquisition.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Annual General Meeting The eighth Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at on 27 July 2011 at 3pm.
The Notice convening the Annual General Meeting accompanies this Annual Report and sets out details of the business to be considered.
Signed on behalf of the Board Deepak Kumar Company Secretary 4 May 2011 Vedanta Resources plc 2nd Floor, Vintners Place 68 Upper Thames Street London EC4V 3BJ Registered in England Number 4740415
