Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 www.
com 26 Senior Management Company, CEAT Ltd, Goodyear South The Executive Committee supports the Board and essentially Asia Tyres & JK Tyres Pvt Ltd. supervises the operational performance of the Group.
The Executive Committee is chaired by Mr Navin Agarwal and He has done his M. S Science from the comprises of Mr Anil Agarwal, Mr M. S. Mehta and the following Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi.
members: P K Mukherjee Managing Director, Iron Ore Business Mr Mukherjee is the Managing Director Tarun Jain School of Mines, Paris.
He also has a of our iron ore business since April 2006.
Director of Finance, Sterlite first class Mine Managers Certificate Mr Mukherjee holds a Bachelor of Mr Jain is also a director of Bharat of Competency.
He is the recipient of Commerce Honors from Calcutta Aluminium Co Ltd, Vedanta Aluminium National Mineral Award in 2006 for his University and has around 31 years Ltd, Sterlite Infra Ltd, Sterlite Shipping & outstanding contribution in the field of of experience in finance, accounts, Ventures Pvt Ltd, Sterlite USA Inc and Mining Technology.
He is also the costing, taxation, legal and general Twinstar Holdings Ltd.
He is responsible Director of Madanpur South Coal management.
Mr Mukherjee joined for strategic financial matters at Group Company Limited.
Sesa Goa in April 1987 and held various level.
Mr Jain has been with Sterlite since positions before taking up the position 1984 and is a graduate of the Institute of M Siddiqi of Director Finance from July 2000.
Cost and Works Accountants of India, a Group Director, Projects He was elevated to the position of member of the Institute of Chartered Mr Siddiqi is the Director of Projects at Managing Director in April, 2006.
Accountants of India and the Institute of Vedanta.
He joined Vedanta in 1991 and Mr Mukherjee is a fellow member of Company Secretaries of India.
was responsible for Vedantas Copper Rod the Institute of Chartered Accountants plant.
He then moved to the Copper of India and an associate member DD Jalan smelter and refinery at Tuticorin and of the Institute of Cost and Works Chief Financial Officer subsequently to the Aluminium business Accountants of India.
Mr Mukherjee Mr D. D. Jalan is the Chief Financial at Korba where he was responsible for the has been rated as one of Indias Best Officer of Vedanta Resources Plc.
Mr overall commissioning of the Korba plant Chief Financial Officers CFOs in Jalan joined Sterlite in January 2001 as as Project Director.
Prior to joining the the year 2005 by Business Today President of Australian operation Group, Mr Siddiqi held senior positions in magazine and in Business World responsible for its mining operation and Hindustan Copper Limited.
He has over magazine declared Mr Mukherjee moved to the position of Chief Financial 32 years of industry experience, including as Indias most Valuable CEO in the Officer of Sterlite Industries Ltd. and then more than 15 years at senior level project year 2009. to Chief Financial Officer of Vedanta management positions within Vedanta.
Mr Jalan is a Chartered Siddiqi received his Bachelors degree in Rajagopal Kishore Kumar Accountant and has over 32 years of Mechanical Engineering from the Indian Chief Executive Officer, experience in leadership position of Institute of Technology, New Delhi.
Zinc International Business companies in engineering, mining and Mr Kumar joined the Group in April non-ferrous sector.
Pramod Suri 2003 as Vice President Marketing for Chief Executive Officer, Vedanta Hindustan Zinc Limited.
He was Senior Akhilesh Joshi Aluminium Limited VAL and Whole Vice President Marketing for our Chief Operating Officer and Whole Time Time Director, Sterlite Energy Limited copper India division from June 2004 Director, Hindustan Zinc Limited HZL SEL to December 2006 and thereafter Mr Akhilesh Joshi is the Chief Operating Mr Suri is the Chief Executive Officer, VAL anchored the role of the CEO of Sterlite Officer and Whole time Director of and Whole Time Director of SEL.
He was Industries India Ltd and Konkola Copper Hindustan Zinc Limited and was the CEO of Aluminium Operations from Mines Plc in Zambia.
He moved to Zinc appointed on the Board with effect from February 2008 till April 2011.
He has been International Business in early 2011 with October 2008.
He joined the Company responsible for Vedantas Aluminium the acquisition of Anglo Americans Zinc in 1976.
Prior to becoming the Chief business at BALCO as President & Whole assets.
He has 26 years of experience and Operating Officer of Hindustan Zinc, he Time Director since December 2006. expertise in accountancy, commercial, was Senior Vice President Mines, Prior to this role, he was the Senior Vice marketing, supply chain management, responsible for the overall operations at President Operations and Head of the mergers and acquisitions and human all mining units.
Mr Joshi has a Mining new Korba Smelter from September capital development.
Prior to joining the Engineering degree from MBM 2004 to December 2006.
Group, Mr Kumar was employed by Engineering College, Jodhpur and a Hindustan Lever Ltd for 12 years.
Post Graduate Diploma in Economic He has held various positions in Mr Kumar is a member of the Institute Evaluation of Mining Projects from companies like Indian Aluminium of Chartered Accountants of India.
Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 27 Jeykumar Janakaraj Gunjan Gupta Chief Executive Officer and Whole Time Chief Executive Officer and Whole Director, Konkola Copper Mines Time Director, Balco Mr Janakaraj joined the Group in Mr Gupta joined the Group in September September 1995 at Sterlite Copper and 1999 and handled various Marketing moved to HZL in July 2002 to head the positions at Sterlite Industries India expansion projects.
He has a Mechanical Limited and BALCO.
He took over as the engineering degree from PSG college Head of Smelter at Balco in February of Technology, Coimbatore.
He has his 2007 and later became the Chief expertise in operations, maintenance Executive Officer and Whole Time and projects.
Mr Janakaraj was with Director of BALCO in 2008.
ESSAR steel between from 1992 to 1995.
He is the Gold medalist from Indian Prior to joining the Group, Mr Gupta has Institute of metals in 2006 and 2008 for worked in the sales and marketing his contribution and leadership in the division at Tata Steel in various capacities.
He is He has also worked with the Arcelor also distinguished and listed by the Mittal Group and was the Director of International Whos Professionals Global Sales of long steel products for in 2009. the Central European Steel operations of the group.
Dilip Golani President, Management He is a chemical engineer from IIT Assurance Function Roorkee and an MBA, with specialisation Management Assurance function in the in Marketing and Finance, from FMS Delhi.
Group is currently headed by Dilip Golani.
He headed Management A Thirunavukkarasu Assurance function of the Group earlier President, Group Human Resources as well during the period April 2000 to Mr Thirunavukkarasu joined the Group in July 2004.
Dilip headed Sales & April 2004 as General Manager HR.
He Marketing for Hindustan Zinc Limited and became Senior Vice President HR for Group Performance Management our Copper Division heading the human function during the period August 2004 resources, total quality management, to November 2005. corporate social responsibility and public relation functions, prior to becoming the Prior to joining the Group in April 2000, Head of Group Human Resources in July Dilip was working with Unilever.
He held positions in English Electric, member of the Unilever Corporate Audit Hindustan Lever and TVS Electronics Team responsible for auditing Unilever before joining our Group.
He holds a group companies in Central Asia, Middle Bachelor degree in Literature and Masters East and Africa Region.
In his earlier stint degree in Social Work with Personnel there, Dilip was responsible for managing Management and Organisational Operations & Marketing functions for behaviour as his specialisation.
one of the exports businesses of Unilever India Hindustan Unilever Limited.
Dilip has over 20 years experience and has earlier worked with organisations like Ranbaxy Laboratories Limited and Union Carbide India Limited.
Dilip is a Mechanical Engineering graduate and has done his postgraduation from NITIE, Mumbai in Industrial Engineering & Management.
