Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 www.
com 10 Creating Shareholder Value We are a world-class, diversified resources company, committed to providing superior returns and sustainable development.
Strategic aims 1 Organic growth Growth We continue to deliver on our industry leading growth programme spearheaded by multiple brownfield expansion projects and debottlenecking initiatives at well-established operations.
We remain focused on exploiting the opportunities presented by the vast mineral resources and growing domestic demand in various markets.
Selective and value accretive M&A Our track record of successful acquisitions has contributed substantially to our growth and we intend to pursue value-enhancing opportunities where we can leverage our skills and experience.
2 Optimise returns Long-term We have a culture of continuous improvement value and are focused on maintaining a low cost position at all our businesses.
Group structure Our priority is to create value for all our shareholders and we seek to rationalise our group structure.
We continue to buyback Vedanta shares and purchase shares of our subsidiaries.
3 Our stakeholders and communities Sustainability We aim to build long-term relationships with our stakeholder groups, maintaining a dialogue around our responsibilities towards society and the planet and contributing further to our local communities.
Health, safety and the environment Our priority is to improve our health and safety performance providing safer conditions for every employee and contractor and to manage and minimise our environmental impact.
1 Aerial view of Tailings Leach Plant, KCM.
2 Pot room based on pre-baked technology, BALCO.
3 Womens self help group making agarbatti incense sticks, BALCO.
Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 11 Achievements KPIs Strategic priorities Revenue Record volumes at Zinc-India, Deliver significant total US$ million Copper-Zambia and Aluminium volume growth Strong iron ore and power sales Integrate Anglo American EBITDA zinc assets 1.5mtpa mill commissioned at US$ million silver-rich SK mine Seek further organic growth opportunities Two 600MW units at the 2,400MW Free cash flow Jharsuguda IPP operational US$ million Acquisition of zinc assets of Anglo American completed Capex spent US$ million ROCE % ROCE up at 21% Grow reserves and resources by exploration Continued growth of reserves Underlying EPS and resources Re-invest strong free cash US cents flow and maintain strong Underlying EPS up 32% to US$2.63 balance sheet Final dividend up 18% to US cents 32.5 Dividends Focus on cost optimisation per share US cents share Rationalise Group structure LTIFR Sustainability Committee with increased remit Comply with Scott Wilson and new Chief Sustainability Officer appointed report and develop a comprehensive Women LTIFR reduced by 28% sustainability model workforce Percentage of women workforce up at 8.5% Continue to focus on Significant reduction in water and energy Community health and safety consumption at operations Engagement improvement targeting Community programmes covered 2.7 million zero fatalities people, living in 552 villages close to our Manage our plants more operations efficiently to reduce our environmental footprint Extend our outreach to help the communities where we operate
