Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 www.
com 24 Board of Directors Anil Agarwal, aged 57 Navin Agarwal, aged 50 MS Mehta, aged 55 Executive Chairman Deputy Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Mr Agarwal, who founded the Group in Mr Agarwal is responsible for directing the Mr Mehta joined the Board as the 1976, is also Chairman of Sterlite and is Groups business strategy and managing Chief Executive Officer in October 2008 a Director of BALCO, HZL, and Vedanta its overall growth, and chairs the Groups and is also a member of the Executive Aluminium Ltd.
Since 1976 the Group Executive Committee.
In this role, he Committee and the Sustainability has grown under his leadership, vision oversees the planning and completion of Committee.
Prior to becoming the CEO and strategy.
Mr Agarwal has over 30 the pipeline of strategic growth projects.
of Vedanta Resources, he was the CEO years experience as an industrialist.
Mr Agarwal also oversees inorganic of Hindustan Zinc Limited.
Since joining growth, strategic treasury and capitalthe Group in 2000, he has held various raising initiatives and global investor positions including the Head of Copper relations, as well as developing and Business and as Group Commercial managing the leadership talent of Director Base Metals.
Prior to joining the Group, he has worked for about 20 years in the steel sector.
Mr Mehta is a BE Mechanical and an MBA from the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad.
Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 25 Naresh Chandra, aged 76 Aman Mehta, aged 64 Euan Macdonald, aged 71 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Mr Chandra joined the Board in May Mr Mehta, a senior banker, joined the Mr Macdonald spent over 20 years with 2004.
Mr Chandra was Home Secretary Board in November 2004, following his S. G. Warburg, specialising in emerging in India in 1990, Cabinet Secretary from retirement from HSBC where he had market finance.
From 1995 to 1999, 1990 to 1992, Senior Adviser to the a career spanning 36 years.
He held Mr Macdonald was the Chairman of Prime Minister of India from 1992 to numerous positions, including that of SBC Warburg India, responsible for all 1995 and the Indian Ambassador to Chairman and Chief Executive Officer the banks activities in India, and then United States of America from 1996 to of HSBC USA Inc. the New York based from 1999 to 2001, he was the Executive 2001.
He was Chairman of the Indian arm of HSBC Holdings plc, and as Vice Chairman of HSBC Securities and Government Committee on Corporate Deputy Chairman of HSBC Bank Middle Capital Markets, India.
Mr Macdonald Governance from 2002 to 2003.
East, based in Dubai with responsibility has a Bachelors degree in economics for the HSBC Groups operations in the from the Cambridge University and He is chairman of National Security Middle East.
a Masters degree in finance and Advisory Board.
He was given the international business from Columbia In 1999, Mr Mehta was appointed the prestigious civilian award of Padma Business School.
Chief Executive Officer of the Hong Kong Vibhushan by the President of India.
and Shanghai Banking Corporation, a Mr Chandra has a Masters degree in position he held until his retirement.
Mr Mehta has a Bachelors degree in Economics from Delhi University.
In addition, he is also a member of the Board of Governors of the Indian School of Business in Hyderabad, India.
He now resides in Delhi and is a member of a number of Corporate and Institutional Boards in India as well as overseas.
