co. uk 21 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Jeff Harris c, d Nick Salmon c, d Chairman Chief Executive Joined the Cookson Board in April 2010 and Appointed Chief Executive in July 2004.
Prior to assumed the role of Chairman at the close of the joining Cookson, Nick was Executive ViceCompanys Annual General Meeting on 13 May President at Alstom SA.
Jeff was senior independent director and of Babcock International Group plc and held interim chairman of Bunzl plc until he retired in senior management positions at GEC and China 2010.
Prior to that, he was chairman of Alliance Light & Power Company Limited.
Nick is the UniChem plc from 2001 until 2005.
He has been senior independent non-executive director of chairman of Filtrona plc since 2005 and serves United Utilities Group plc.
as a non-executive director of WH Smith PLC.
Franois Wanecq Mike Butterworth d Dr Emma FitzGerald a, b Group Finance Director Executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed to the Cookson Board in June 2005 Appointed to the Cookson Board in February Appointed to the Cookson Board on 1 August 2011. and assumed the role of Group Finance Director 2010.
Franois has been the Chief Executive Emma is Vice President, Global Retail Network for in August 2005.
Prior to joining Cookson, Mike Officer of Cooksons Engineered Ceramics Shell International, a company she joined in 1992. was group finance director of Incepta Group plc.
Prior to joining During her career with Shell, Emma has worked in a He previously spent five years as group financial Cookson he held a series of senior management variety of technical, strategic and general controller of BBA Group plc.
Mike is a nonroles at ArjoWiggins Group and from 1985 to management roles based in Asia and Europe.
These executive director and chairman of the audit 1995 he was managing director of the technical included the position of Managing Director of Shell committee of St Ives plc.
Mike is a chartered ceramics division of Saint-Gobain SA.
China Hong Kong Lubricants based in Beijing.
is a Trustee of The Windsor Leadership Trust.
Jeff Hewitt a, b Peter Hill CBE a, b Jan Oosterveld a, b Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed to the Cookson Board in June 2005 Appointed to the Cookson Board in February Appointed to the Cookson Board in June 2004. and is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Peter served as chief executive of Laird Jan spent the majority of his career at Royal was previously deputy chairman and group PLC from 2002 until he stepped down from Philips Electronics, latterly serving as a member finance director of Electrocomponents plc.
He previously of the group management committee.
He is a He is a non-executive director and chairman held senior management positions with BTR non-executive director and chairman of the of the audit committees of Cenkos Securities plc subsequently Invensys plc and was an remuneration committee of Candover plc: Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust plc executive director of Costain Group plc.
He was Investments plc and a non-executive corporate and Sweett Group plc.
He is also the external a non-executive director of Meggitt plc until director of Barco N. V. He served as chairman of chairman of the audit committee of the John March 2010. the supervisory board of Crucell N. V. until Lewis Partnership and the chairman of Electro December 2011.
Jan is also a professor at IESE Components Pension Trustees Limited.
Jeff is a Business School in Barcelona.
John Sussens a, b, e Richard Malthouse f Non-executive Director Group Secretary a Member of the Audit Committee b Member of the Remuneration Committee Appointed to the Cookson Board in May 2004 Appointed Group Secretary in 1993.
Richard was c Member of the Nominations Committee: the membership also includes any three and is Senior Independent Director and previously the group secretary of Del Monte Non-executive Directors Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
He has held senior company d Member of the Finance Committee e Senior Independent Director John was previously managing director of Misys secretarial positions in pharmaceutical, f Not a Member of the Board plc.
He is currently senior independent engineering and automobile manufacturing non-executive director and chairman of the companies.
remuneration committee of Admiral Group plc.
He served until March 2011 as a non-executive director of Anglo & Overseas plc.
com 20769-04 13 01 2012 Skeleton 2 Our F Our F Our Financials inancials inancials Our G Our G Our Go o ov v ver er ernanc nanc finance e e Our Business Our Business Our Business
