Cookson Group plc 32 Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2011 DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors submit their Annual Report together with the audited GOING CONCERN accounts of the Group and of the Company, Cookson Group plc, registered Information on the business environment in which the Group operates, in England and Wales No.
251977, for the year ended 31 December 2011. including the factors that are likely to impact the future prospects of the The Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Statement, the Operating Group, is included in the Chief Executives Statement and the Operating Review, the Financial Review, the Directors Remuneration Report, the Review.
The principal risks and uncertainties that the Group faces Corporate Governance Report, and the Principal Risks and Uncertainties, the throughout its global operations are shown on pages 29 to 31.
The financial Corporate Social Responsibility, the Business Model and Strategy, the Key position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and debt facilities are Performance Indicators and Board of Directors sections of the Annual described in the Financial Review.
In addition, note 27 to the consolidated Report, together with the information on financial risk management financial statements sets out the Groups objectives, policies and processes objectives and policies contained in notes 21 and 27 of the consolidated for managing its capital: financial risks: financial instruments and hedging financial statements, are each incorporated by reference into, and form part activities: and its exposures to credit, market both currency and interest of, this Directors Report.
This Directors Report also represents the rate-related and liquidity risk.
Further details of the Groups cash balances management report for the purpose of compliance with DTR 4.1.
8R of the and borrowings are included in notes 14, 15 and 27 to the consolidated UK Listing Authority disclosure rules.
The Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with The Directors have prepared cash flow forecasts for the Group for a period respect to the operations, performance and financial condition of the in excess of 12 months from the date of approval of the 2011 financial Group.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future statements.
These forecasts reflect an assessment of current and future events and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ end-market conditions and their impact on the Groups future trading materially from those anticipated.
The forward-looking statements reflect performance.
The forecasts completed on this basis show that the Group knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this will be able to operate within the current committed debt facilities and Annual Report and the Company undertakes no obligation to update show continued compliance with the Companys financial covenants.
Nothing in this Annual Report should the basis of the exercise described above and the Groups available be construed as a profit forecast.
committed debt facilities, the Directors consider that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES for the forseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt a going Cookson Group plc is a leading materials science company which provides concern basis in preparing the financial statements of the Group and the materials, processes and services to customers worldwide.
operations are formed into three divisions Engineered Ceramics, Performance Materials and Precious Metals Processing.
Trading under the DIVIDENDS Vesuvius and Foseco brand names, Cooksons Engineered Ceramics The Board is recommending a final dividend in respect of 2011 of division is the world leader in the supply of advanced consumable 14.50p 2010: 11.50p per ordinary share which, if approved, will be paid refractory products and systems to the global steel and foundry industries on 11 June 2012 to shareholders on the register at 4 May 2012.
An interim and a leading supplier of speciality products to the glass and solar dividend of 7.25p per ordinary shares was paid on 17 October 2011 to industries.
The Performance Materials division is a world leading supplier shareholders on the register at 16 September 2011, making total dividends of advanced surface chemistries and joining technologies to the of 21.75p per ordinary share for the year 2010: 11.50p.
No interim electronics, automotive and electroplating industries.
The Precious Metals dividend was declared for 2010.
Processing division is a leading supplier of fabricated precious metals to ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT the jewellery industry in the UK, France and Spain, and also has significant A responsibility statement of the Directors and a statement by the Auditor precious metal recycling operations.
about its reporting responsibilities can be found on pages 50 and 51 BUSINESS REVIEW respectively.
The Directors fulfil the responsibilities set out in their As required by the Companies Act 2006, the Company must provide a fair statement within the context of an overall control environment of central review of the development and performance of the Group during 2011, its strategic direction and decentralised operating responsibility.
financial position at the end of the year and likely future developments in DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO THE AUDITOR the Groups business, together with information on environmental matters As at the date of this report, so far as each Director of the Company is and employees and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys facing the Group.
The information which satisfies these requirements is to Auditor is unaware and each Director hereby confirms that they have be found in the Chief Executives Statement on pages 5 to 7: the Operating taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order to Review on pages 11 to 16: the Financial Review on pages 17 to 20: the make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 8 to 10: the Business that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
Model and Strategy on page 2: the Key Performance Indicators on page 3: this Directors Report on pages 32 to 36: the Corporate Governance Report on pages 22 to 28: and the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section on pages 29 to 31.
co. uk 33 AUDITOR DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST Resolutions for the reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as Auditor of the Provisions in the Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to Company and to authorise the Directors to determine its remuneration are consider and, if thought fit, to authorise situations where a Director has an to be proposed at the AGM.
interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the Company Situational Conflicts.
The Board has established a formal REMUNERATION MATTERS system for Directors to declare Situational Conflicts so that they can be The Directors Remuneration Report appears on pages 37 to 49.
None of considered for authorisation by the remaining members of the Board.
In the executive Directors contracts contains any change of control deciding whether to authorise a Situational Conflict, the non-conflicted provisions.
Directors are required to act in the way they consider would be most likely REMUNERATION OF THE CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE to promote the success of the Company, and they may impose limits or DIRECTORS conditions when giving authorisation or subsequently if they think this is The Board considers the remuneration policy for the Non-executive appropriate.
The Group Secretary minutes the consideration of any conflict Directors.
Non-executive Directors fees have not been increased during and records any authorisations granted.
The Board believes that the the year and remain at 40,000 per annum.
A supplementary fee is systems it has in place for reporting Situational Conflicts continue to payable to the Chairman of the Audit Committee of 15,000 per annum operate effectively.
and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee receives a EMPLOYMENT POLICIES supplementary fee of 10,000 per annum.
A supplementary fee of 5,000 A fundamental concept embodied in the Companys Code of Conduct is per annum is also payable to the Senior Independent Director.
No changes that Cooksons goals can only be met through the efforts of its employees.
were made in 2011 to the supplementary fees payable.
Cookson recognises that job satisfaction requires working environments The Chairman is paid a fee of 164,000 per annum.
The Chairmans that motivate employees to be productive and innovative and provide remuneration, which is subject to periodic review, is determined by the opportunities for employee training and development to maximise Remuneration Committee.
There has been no change to the Chairmans personal potential and develop careers within the Group.
Cookson is remuneration since his appointment to the role in May 2010.
Neither the managed on a decentralised basis and within each division it is the Chairman, who is not an executive Director, nor the other Non-executive responsibility of the relevant divisional Chief Executive to adopt Directors are members of the Groups pension plans, nor do they employment policies and practices that best suit the size, style and participate in the Groups incentive schemes.
geographical location of their operations.
This management structure allows the Groups operations to respond competitively to changes in the DIRECTORS marketplace and to develop and retain a strong sense of identity, whilst Dr FitzGerald and Messrs Butterworth, Harris, Hewitt, Hill, Oosterveld, benefiting from being a part of a major international group.
Perry, Salmon, Sussens and Wanecq all served as Directors of the Company during the year.
Mr Perry retired from the Board at the close of the AGM on Cookson values the involvement of its employees and keeps them 12 May 2011 and Dr FitzGerald was appointed as a Director on 1 August informed on matters affecting them as employees and factors relevant to 2011.
Biographical information for all the current Directors of the Group performance.
It is established policy throughout Cookson that Company is given on page 21.
All the Directors will retire at the AGM and decisions on recruitment, career development, training, promotion and offer themselves for election.
Further information on the contractual other employment-related issues are made solely on the grounds of arrangements of the executive Directors is given on page 46.
The individual ability, achievement, expertise and conduct.
These principles Non-executive Directors do not have service agreements.
are operated on a non-discriminatory basis.
Cookson gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons.
LEGAL MATTERS Should an employee become disabled during their employment with All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Secretary.
Cookson, every effort is made to enable them to continue their service There is also an agreed procedure in place for Directors, in the furtherance with the Group.
of their duties, to take independent legal advice if necessary, at the Companys expense.
DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES To the extent permitted by section 236 of the Companies Act 2006, the Directors have been granted Qualifying Third Party Indemnity Provisions by the Company and the directors of the Groups UK Pension Plan Trustee Board none of whom are Directors of Cookson Group plc have been granted Qualifying Pension Scheme Indemnity Provisions by Cookson Pension Plans Trustees Ltd.
These indemnities were in force throughout the last financial year and remain in force.
com 20769-04 13 01 2012 Skeleton 2 Our F Our F Our Financials inancials inancials Our G Our G Our Go o ov v ver er ernanc nanc finance e e Our Business Our Business Our Business Cookson Group plc 34 Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2011 DIRECTORS REPORT PENSIONS CREDITOR PAYMENT POLICY In each country in which the Group operates, the pension arrangements in Each operating company in the Group is responsible for agreeing the place are considered to be consistent with good employment practice in terms and conditions under which business transactions with their that particular area.
Independent advisers are used to ensure that the suppliers are conducted.
It is Group policy that payments to suppliers are plans are operated in accordance with local legislation and the rules of made in accordance with these terms, provided that the supplier is also each plan.
Group policy prohibits direct investment of pension fund assets complying with all relevant terms and conditions.
Outside the UK, the US, Germany and Belgium, In the accounts of the Company as at 31 December 2011, the number of the majority of pension plans in the Group are of a defined contribution days purchases outstanding was 21 2010: 18 days.
ESSENTIAL CONTRACTS OR ARRANGEMENTS WITH CUSTOMERS, The Groups UK defined benefits plan the UK Plan and the main US CONTRACTORS AND SUPPLIERS defined benefits plan are closed to new entrants and have ceased The Company is required to disclose any contractual or other providing future benefits accrual, with all eligible employees instead being arrangements with customers, contractors and suppliers which it provided with benefits through defined contribution arrangements.
considers are essential to its business.
The Company has a number of For the Groups closed UK Plan a Trustee Board exists comprising contractual arrangements in support of its business activities.
Whilst the employees, former employees and an independent trustee.
The Board loss of some of these arrangements may cause temporary disruption, none currently comprises seven trustee directors, of whom three are member is considered to be essential in the context of Cooksons business as a nominated.
The administration of the plan is outsourced.
mindful of its obligations under the Pensions Act 2004 and of the need to CHANGE OF CONTROL PROVISIONS comply with the guidance issued by the Pensions Regulator.
Regular The terms of the Groups committed bank facility and US Private dialogue is maintained between the Company and the Trustee Board of Placement Loan Notes contain provisions entitling the counterparties to the UK Plan to ensure that both Company and Trustee are apprised of the exercise termination or other rights in the event of a change of control on same financial and other information about the Group and the UK Plan.
A number of other arrangements to which the This is pertinent to each being able to contribute to the effective Company and its subsidiaries are party, such as other debt arrangements functioning of the UK Plan.
The Company currently has in place a schedule and share incentive plans, may alter or terminate on a change of control in of contributions, agreed with the Trustee Board, which aims to reduce to the event of a takeover.
In the context of the Group as a whole, these other zero the deficit existing on the UK Plan as at 31 December 2009 by arrangements are not considered to be significant.
The adequacy of this schedule of contributions will be SHARE CAPITAL monitored over time, so as to assess the need for it to be modified in the As at the date of this report, the Company had an issued share capital of light of changes in the deficit position.
276,438,067 ordinary shares of 1 each, being the total number of Current active employees in the UK are offered membership of a defined Cookson Group plc shares with voting rights.
The Company currently has contribution plan, which is operated on a contract basis, with oversight by only one class of shares.
Further information relating to the Companys issued share capital can be All US retirement plan assets are held in trust for the exclusive benefit of found in note 9 to the Company financial statements.
plan participants and their beneficiaries.
An independent financial institution acts as the Trustee.
The trust assets are protected by law and by The Company operates a number of share-based incentive plans further Federal Government Regulation and are subject to annual audit by an details about these are given in the Directors Remuneration Report.
For independent accountant, the Internal Revenue Service and the the majority of these plans the Company can satisfy entitlements either by Department of Labor.
Further details of pension arrangements are given in the acquisition of existing shares or by the issue of new shares.
Existing note 28. shares are held in an employee share ownership trust ESOP.
The trustee of the ESOP purchases shares in the open market as required, to enable DONATIONS the Company to meet liabilities for the provision of existing shares to Donations of the Company in the UK for charitable purposes each totalled satisfy awards that vest.
The trustee does not register votes in respect of nil 2010: nil.
In accordance with Company policy, no political donations these shares and has waived the right to receive any dividends.
In 2011 the Trustee purchased 1.2m 1 ordinary shares in the Company with a nominal value of 1.2m at a cash cost of 7.8m to satisfy the actual and potential vesting of awards under the Groups share-based payment plans see note 10 to the Company financial statements.
co. uk 35 Adjustments were made to outstanding share-based incentives as TRANSFER OF SHARES appropriate following the rights issue in 2009, including to the number of All transfers of shares which are in certificated form may be effected by shares granted under options and awards and to the exercise price, if any, transfer in writing in any usual or common form or in any other form of those options and awards, and any relevant performance conditions.
acceptable to the Directors and may be under hand only.
The instrument Such adjustments were made in accordance with the rules of the relevant of transfer shall be signed by or on behalf of the transferor and except in plan and, where required by the relevant plan rules, adjustments were the case of fully paid shares by or on behalf of the transferee.
The made with the prior approval of HM Revenue & Customs and or the transferor will remain the holder of the shares concerned until the name of Companys Auditor.
No ordinary shares have been issued since the the transferee is entered in the share register.
All instruments of transfer year-end in relation to the exercise of options granted under the which are registered may be retained by the Company.
The Directors may Companys share option schemes.
Resolutions giving the Directors the dispense with the execution of the instrument of transfer by the transferee authority to allot further shares and make allotments of shares to persons in any case in which they think fit in their discretion to do so.
All transfers other than existing shareholders in certain circumstances will again be of shares which are in uncertificated form may be effected by means of the proposed at the AGM.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS The Directors may decline to recognise any instrument of transfer relating Set out below is a summary of certain provisions of the Companys current to shares in certificated form unless it is in respect of only one class of Articles of Association Articles and applicable English law concerning share and is lodged duly stamped if required at the place where the companies the Companies Act 2006, the Companies Act.
This is a Companys share register is located accompanied by the relevant share summary only and the relevant provisions of the Articles or the Companies certificate s and such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably Act should be consulted if further information is required.
require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer and, if the instrument of transfer is executed by some other person on his behalf, the AUTHORITY FOR PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES authority of that person so to do.
In the case of a transfer by a recognised Subject to the provisions of Company law and any other applicable clearing house, or by a nominee of a recognised clearing house or of a regulations, the Company may purchase its own shares.
At the 2011 AGM, recognised investment exchange, the lodgement of share certificates will shareholders gave the Company renewed authority to make market only be necessary if and to the extent that certificates have been issued in purchases of up to a maximum of 10% at that time of the Companys respect of the shares in question.
The Directors may, in the case of shares issued ordinary share capital.
As at the date of this report, the Company in certificated form, in their absolute discretion refuse to register any has made no such purchases under this authority.
The Directors believe it transfer of shares not being fully paid shares provided that such advisable to seek renewal of this authority at each AGM.
The Companys discretion may not be exercised in such a way as to prevent dealings in the Articles specify that, subject to the authorisation of an appropriate shares of that class from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The resolution passed by a general meeting of the Company, Directors can Directors may also refuse to register an allotment or transfer of shares allot relevant securities under Section 551 of the Companies Act, up to the whether fully paid or not in favour of more than four persons jointly.
If aggregate nominal amount specified by that Act.
In addition, the Articles the Directors refuse to register an allotment or transfer of shares they shall state that the Directors can seek the authority of shareholders in general within two months after the date on which the letter of allotment or meeting to allot equity securities for cash without first being required to instrument of transfer was lodged with the Company or the operator offer such shares to existing ordinary shareholders in proportion to their instruction was received by the Company in the case of shares held in existing holdings in connection with a rights issue and in other uncertificated form send to the allottee or transferee notice of the refusal.
circumstances up to an aggregate nominal amount as specified in Section 561 of the Companies Act.
A shareholder does not generally need to obtain the approval of the Company, or of other shareholders of shares in the Company, for a transfer to take place.
The Articles contain certain restrictions on the number of US persons who hold shares in the Company so as to have enabled the Company to suspend its obligations under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and to prevent any such obligations from arising again in the future.
com 20769-04 13 01 2012 Skeleton 2 Our F Our F Our Financials inancials inancials Our G Our G Our Go o ov v ver er ernanc nanc finance e e Our Business Our Business Our Business Cookson Group plc 36 Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2011 DIRECTORS REPORT VOTING RIGHTS APPOINTMENT AND REPLACEMENT OF DIRECTORS Subject to the Articles generally and to any special rights or restrictions The Company shall have no fewer than five and no more than fifteen attached to any class of shares, at a shareholders meeting, every Directors.
The Company may by ordinary resolution from time to time vary shareholder who is present in person and every duly appointed proxy shall the minimum number and or maximum number of Directors.
At each have one vote on a show of hands, and on a poll every shareholder who is AGM all those Directors who were elected or last re-elected at or before present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every ordinary share the AGM held in the third calendar year before the current year shall retire of which he or she is the holder.
In the case of joint holders of a share the from office by rotation.
vote of the senior holder who tenders a vote, whether in person or by The Board may appoint any person to be a Director so long as the total proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint number of Directors does not exceed the limit prescribed in the Articles.
holders and for this purpose seniority shall be determined by the order in Any such Director shall only hold office until the next AGM and shall then which the names stand in the share register.
A shareholder entitled to be eligible for election.
attend and vote at a shareholders meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy or AMENDMENT OF ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION proxies to exercise all or any of his or her rights to attend and speak and The Company may make amendments to the Articles of the Company by vote in his or her place.
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy way of special resolution in accordance with the Companies Act.
in relation to a general meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by the INTERESTS IN THE COMPANYS SHARES shareholder.
Proxies need not be shareholders of the Company.
For the The Company has been notified in accordance with DTR 5 of the purposes of determining which persons are entitled to attend or vote at a Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following interests in its issued meeting and how many votes such person may cast, the Company may ordinary shares: specify in the notice of the meeting a time, not more than 48 hours before 31 Dec 2011 Current the time fixed for the meeting, by which a person must be entered on the % % share register in order to have the right to attend or vote at the meeting.
Cevian Capital II G. P. Ltd 10.76 14.07 Restrictions on shares Standard Life Investments Ltd 10.80 10.80 AXA S. A.
5.34 5.34 The Board may withhold payment of all or any part of dividends or other Pelham Capital Management LLP 5.22 5.22 monies payable in respect of the Companys shares from a person with Morgan Stanley Securities Ltd 5.12 0.25% interest or more if such person has been served with a notice after Ignis Investment Services Limited 5.20 3.99 failure to provide the Company with information concerning interest in Lloyds Banking Group plc 4.78 4.78 those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act.
BlackRock, Inc 4.46 4.46 Variation of rights Fidelity Investments Limited 4.20 4.20 Subject to statute, the Articles specify that rights attached to any class of Governance for Owners LLP 3.41 4.05 shares may be varied with the written consent of the holders of not less Legal & General Group Plc 3.94 3.94 than three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that class, or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general The interests of Directors and their connected persons in the ordinary meeting of the holders of those shares.
At every such separate general shares of the Company, all of which are beneficial, as disclosed in meeting the quorum shall be two persons holding or representing by accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority are as set out proxy at least one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class.
on page 49 and details of the Directors long-term incentive awards and, The rights conferred upon the holders of any shares shall not, unless where appropriate their deferred share bonus awards, are set out on pages otherwise expressly provided in the rights attaching to those shares, be 47 and 48. deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking By Order of the Board pari passu with them.
Restrictions on voting No shareholder shall, unless the Directors otherwise determine, be entitled in respect of any share held by him or her to vote either personally or by proxy at a shareholders meeting or to exercise any other right conferred Richard M H Malthouse by membership in relation to shareholders meetings if any call or other Group Secretary sum presently payable by him or her to the Company in respect of that 27 February 2012 share remains unpaid.
In addition, if any shareholder, or any other person appearing to be interested in shares held by such shareholder, has been duly served with a notice to provide the Company with information under Section 793 of the Companies Act and has failed to do so within 14 days, then unless the Directors otherwise determine the shareholder shall not for so long as the default continues be entitled to attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a shareholders meeting or to exercise any other right conferred by membership in relation to shareholders meetings.
