Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business Review Invibio Biomaterial Solutions Michael Callahan Managing Director Michael joined Victrex plc in 1998 and has led Invibio since its launch in 2001.
He continues to drive Invibios strategy for growth through increasing our value to the medical device market.
Michael was formerly with DSM Engineering Plastic Products and General Electric.
Our business Spotlight Invibio was formed in 2001 to address the unmet needs of the long-term implantable device market.
Invibios biomaterials are specified in a range of medical device applications and our flagship PEEK-OPTIMA brand demonstrates the essential attributes required for long-term implantable medical devices.
This includes biocompatibility, consistent properties following sterilisation and the ability to manufacture devices from a range of techniques.
In addition, MOTIS and ENDOLIGN materials have been introduced to enhance wear and strength requirements in new application fields.
LDR ROI-C Cervical Cage Stand Alone Cervical Interbody Fusion These essential attributes have been consistently demonstrated Studies suggest that cervical fusion rates are higher if the over a 10 year clinical history with over 3 million PEEK-OPTIMA cervical interbody device is supplemented with a plate.
devices being implanted during this time.
However the use of a plate may be associated with an increase in operating time, higher post-operative morbidity Invibios aim is to maintain and grow the success we have had and increased difficulties in swallowing.
in spine and arthroscopy applications, accelerate the adoption in developing areas such as trauma and dental applications and These considerations have led to the introduction of stand determine the long-term clinical advantages in future market alone devices with integrated fixation features.
These areas such as orthopaedics.
devices are implanted within the confines of the vertebral body and therefore do not lead to soft tissue irritation Continued commitment to Quality, Focus and Innovation but provide similar rigidity to cage and plate systems.
Quality Our priority is the delivery of safe, consistent and high quality These stand alone cervical interbody devices cannot be biomaterials and components and our business continues to manufactured from bone and therefore these innovations invest in these areas to meet our customers fundamental are increasing the PEEK-OPTIMA share of the cervical needs.
Invibios commitment to continuous improvement in fusion market.
areas of quality, control and risk management has once again been acknowledged by customers, regulators and auditors across the globe.
For more information please go to www.
com Overview p15 Business Review p621 Governance p2243 Financial Statements p4476 Shareholder Information p7785 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Strategy Percentage of Group revenue Invibios strategy is to: Invibio Maintain and expand our global leadership in the medical device 23% market through the exceptional provision of: High performance biomaterials and capabilities.
Advanced technical research and services.
Proven market expertise across a wide range of device applications.
Focus The minimally invasive approach to spine surgery has also been Invibio is focused on growing the geographical access achieved by the introduction of expandable PEEK-OPTIMA cages.
and accelerating the global adoption of PEEK based medical This provides surgeons with an implant which optimises cage devices.
In recent years we have invested in understanding placement, height selection, segmental stability and bone grafting and generating the data that regulatory agencies around the during the procedure.
world require to approve new products.
As our customers place increasing importance on these markets, Invibio is uniquely New product introductions within the arthroscopy market have also positioned to help them meet their objectives of delivering clinical been a feature of PEEK-OPTIMA growth where companies continue and economic value to these regions.
to innovate with our materials.
Our share of this market continues to expand due to imaging limitations with titanium and literature Innovation data concerning the level of revisions with resorbable materials.
Invibio has invested in both facilities and talent aimed at improving our success in innovations in biomaterials and device applications.
The introduction of ENDOLIGN based devices has been a In the last year we have recruited specialist skill sets in spine and highlight in the trauma market where intramedullary nail and orthopaedics to improve the collaborations with our customers fracture plate products have been introduced to cover the and to better understand surgeons needs.
Our Custom Solutions four main long bone fractures.
These products have regulatory services are assisting device companies with component process approval in the US and Europe offering the potential for fast development, material evaluation and processing guidance, market access.
Invibio is focused on developing this area saving valuable time and resources.
We also continued to grow further and has recently completed studies showing the vastly our scientific network through close partnerships with world improved fatigue life possible compared with metal devices.
class research groups and key opinion leaders.
In addition to growing our application penetration we have Key markets had multiple successes in working with customers to gain PEEK-OPTIMA continues to be the surgeons material of choice device approvals in markets such as Japan and China and in interbody spine fusion procedures.
Our growth in this area has we continue to invest in data generation and regulatory continued as companies introduce new devices to complement authority education to facilitate growth in these markets.
spinal surgery approached from the side of the patient rather than from the front or back.
This approach is aimed at reducing Invibio continues to see opportunities to grow the use post-operative pain and hospital stays following an operation, of our materials in our existing markets and to establish resulting in a quicker return to normal activities and reducing new applications and geographies for our materials and overall healthcare costs.
components based on the clinical benefits they provide.
