Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Responsibility Statement of the Directors The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Responsibility of Directors for the preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts Responsibility statement of Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and the Directors in respect of the Parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
Annual Report and Accounts Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting The Directors confirm that to the best Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and of their knowledge: applicable law and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements on the same basis.
the Group and Parent Companys financial Under company law the Directors must not approve the statements, prepared in accordance with financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give applicable UK law and in conformity with a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial position and profit or loss of the Company statements, the Directors are required to: and the undertakings included in the select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: consolidation taken as a whole: and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: the management report, which comprises the Directors Report and the Business Review, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: and includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and position of prepare the financial statements on the going concern the Company and the undertakings included basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Parent Company will continue in business.
in the consolidation as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and the The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent uncertainties they face.
Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and The Directors of Victrex plc are detailed enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with on pages 22 and 23. the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard By order of the Board the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors Steve Barrow are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate Finance Director and financial information included on the Companys website.
5 December 2011 Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of accounts may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
