Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Board of Directors Anita Frew David Hummel Steve Barrow 54 BA MPhil 53 BSc 43 BSc ACA Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Appointed in 2000 and Appointed in 1993.
Formerly Appointed in October 2011 became Chairman in 2008. with Diamond Shamrock, from his previous position Currently Senior Independent GE Plastics and ICI, assuming as Finance Director for the Director of Aberdeen Asset responsibility for VICTREX VPS business.
Formerly led Management plc and a PEEK worldwide in 1992. the Group finance team most non-executive Director of recently as Deputy Group IMI plc and Lloyds Banking Finance Director.
She was formerly as a Chartered Accountant executive Director of Abbot with KPMG.
Mead Vickers PLC and Director of Corporate Development at WPP Group.
Nominations Committee Audit Committee # Remuneration Committee Risk Management Committee 22 www.
com Overview p15 Business Review p621 Governance p2243 Financial Statements p4476 Shareholder Information p7785 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Giles Kerr Patrick fide Smedt Lawrence Pentz Pamela Kirby 52 BA ACA 56 BCEng MSc 56 BS ChE MBA 58 BSc PhD Non-executive Director # Non-executive Director # Non-executive Director # Non-executive Director # Appointed in 2006.
Appointed in February 2011. of the Audit Committee and Chairman of the Chairman of Risk Management Currently non-executive Senior Independent Director.
Currently an Chairman of Scynexis Inc.
Currently Finance Director Currently a non-executive executive Director of Johnson and a non-executive Director of Oxford University and Director of Morgan Sindall plc Matthey Plc responsible of Smith & Nephew plc, non-executive Director of and CPPGroup plc as well as for their Environmental Informa plc and Simmons Elan Corporation plc and a non-executive Director of a Technologies division.
He was formerly number of private companies.
formerly executive Director previously non-executive Finance Director of Amersham He is also on the advisory responsible for Emission Chairman of Oxford plc and was previously a board to a division of Control Technologies of Immunotec Limited, partner in Arthur Andersen.
ING Bank N. V. He was Johnson Matthey.
non-executive Director previously Chairman of Novo Nordisk A S and of Microsoft Europe, CEO of US based Quintiles Middle East and Africa.
