Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business Review Victrex Polymer Solutions Tim Cooper Managing Director Tim was appointed to the position of Managing Director of the Victrex Polymer Solutions VPS business unit in January 2010.
He joined VPS from Umeco Plc where he was Group Managing Director for their Composites Process Materials businesses.
Tim has previously worked for GEC, BP and Land Rover.
Our business Spotlight VPS is the worlds leading manufacturer of high performance polyaryletherketones, including VICTREX PEEK polymer.
VPS provides a wide range of products and technical and marketing support to our customers and end users to help them deliver innovative, cost effective solutions in our major markets of industrial, transport and electronics.
The trends from customers and end users toward higher performance, more efficient and more cost effective products are driving innovation in product design and the materials of construction.
Our high performance products with their unique combination of properties and physical forms help achieve these In response to growing market demand for superior objectives such as weight reduction, enhanced energy efficiency, performing pipes in harsh and demanding environments, miniaturisation without loss of performance, increased application VPS has launched its VICTREX Pipes product family.
lifetime, enhanced performance in challenging conditions and operating environments, compliance with environmental and The launch of VICTREX Pipes is the culmination of six years safety standards and lower overall system costs.
of intensive research, development, market assessment and customer liaison and represents the latest in a long Customers and end users are supported by our dedicated market line of material and technical innovation from Victrex.
development, sales and technical teams located across all of our major regional markets and by our regional offices in Germany, The new product line of extruded pipes and tubing USA, Japan and China.
made from VICTREX PEEK polymer makes full use of the materials performance capabilities, including the ability Technical leadership underpins the value we bring to customers to withstand extreme temperatures and corrosive and end users and is critical for our future growth.
We have recently conditions and reduce weight.
invested in a new Victrex Japan Technical Center in Tokyo to strengthen our local customer support capability and are in the process of investing to expand our core and applied technical capability at our UK Hillhouse site.
These investments complement our existing capability in the UK and China together with a team of highly knowledgeable professionals, who provide continual assistance and support in process troubleshooting, moulds For more information please go to www.
com validation and prototyping, on-site customer trials and technical seminars.
Our team includes organic and polymer chemists, physicists and material scientists, as well as process, mechanical and design engineers.
com Overview p15 Business Review p621 Governance p2243 Financial Statements p4476 Shareholder Information p7785 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Strategy Percentage of Group revenue VPSs strategy is to: VPS Maximise growth by working closely with our customers to fulfil their 77% needs and leverage our focused global organisation and infrastructure to build awareness and develop the market for our products.
Provide market, product and technical leadership to the industries we serve helping end users and customers to innovate and gain competitive advantage by enhancing their products and processes with the use of Victrex products.
Offer security of supply by optimising production capacity, key supplier relationships and inventory policy whilst continuously improving efficiency and product cost.
Provide a safe and rewarding environment for our employees and operate our assets to appropriate environmental standards.
Our manufacturing expertise resides in the UK where we Key markets operate three manufacturing sites.
We are the only vertically Industrial integrated aromatic polyketone supplier in the world.
This Oil and gas, textile machinery, food processing, alternative affords us control over key raw materials and the ability to energy and other industrial sectors demand materials that offer security of supply and product quality for our customers.
can withstand increasingly harsh temperatures and extreme operating conditions.
Parts and systems made from Victrex Continued commitment to Quality, Focus and Innovation materials can help to improve operating performance and reduce Quality the risk of downtime associated with component failure.
Providing Our products are often used in critical applications and require high temperature performance and a unique combination of processing to tight tolerances.
We recognise that product benefits such as lighter weight, better processability, decreased quality and consistency is of significant value to our customers reliance on lubricants and reduced noise levels, our products are and therefore operate to high standards of quality control and being used in a growing range of applications such as compressors, assurance.
We are also committed to providing high quality bearings, bushings, hydraulic couplings and hoses.
customer service at every interaction we have with our customers and end users to ensure VPS remain the supplier of choice.
Transport This industry is demanding solutions that provide weight reduction, Focus energy efficiency, improved safety performance, increased part Our commercial and technical focus on polyketones enables performance and lower manufacturing cost.
Our products offer us to maximise the range of services we offer to our customers a unique combination of performance properties, the ability to and end users aimed at optimising their processing techniques withstand extreme temperature conditions and harsh environments and overcoming their design challenges to provide competitive as well as processing advantages and are increasingly displacing advantage.
Increasingly we are focusing resources to specific metals, traditional composites and other plastics in automotive, industries and markets to ensure we understand the trends aerospace and mass transit applications.
which are driving innovation and where our products provide solutions with a sustainable value proposition.
Electronics Demands for higher performance, portability, wireless high Innovation frequency and longer life, as well as concerns about the environment, Innovation by our customers, end users and research institutions are all shaping the way electronic parts are designed.
Our products will continue to drive growth in our markets.
We strive to offer a unique combination of properties including wear resistance, understand their current and future needs so that we can commit processing flexibility, dimensional stability, low out gassing, low resources to providing support and innovative solutions through moisture absorption and high temperature resistance.
Designers and activities such as data generation, processing advice and support, manufacturers of electrical components within devices such as product development and downstream investment.
mobile phones, circuit boards, printers, connectors, LEDs, switches and batteries are specifying Victrex materials to improve process efficiency, enhance part performance, exploit greater design freedom and reduce system cost to achieve product differentiation.
