Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors Report Principal activity Shares acquired by employees under employee share schemes rank The Groups principal activity is the manufacture and sale equally with the other shares in issue and have no special rights.
Own shares held Annual business review Details of own shares held are given in note 19 to the The Company is required to set out in this report a fair review financialstatements.
 At the 2011 Annual General Meeting AGM, shareholders 30 September 2011, the position of the Group at the end renewed the Companys authority to make market purchases  of up to 8,361,408 of its own ordinary shares representing and uncertainties facing the Group known as a Business Review.
10% of the issued share capital of the Company as at  3 December 2010.
No market purchases of the Companys Review can be found on pages 6 to 21. own shares were made during the year.
At the forthcoming AGM the Board will again seek shareholders approval to Results and dividends renew the annual authority for the Company to make  2010:54.0m.
purchases of its own shares through the market.
 AGM 24.5p per ordinary share on 24 February 2012 to all shareholders The notice of the 2012 AGM of the Company is given on the register on 10 February 2012.
This makes a total dividend on page 78. of 32.5p per ordinary share for the year 2010: 75.0p per ordinary share, which included a special dividend of 50.0p Directors per ordinary share.
Details of the Directors of the Company are given on pages 22 and 23.
Details of Directors interests in shares are provided Share capital in the Report on Directors Remuneration on pages 34 to 41.
Details of the Companys share capital and reserve for own shares are given in note 19.
During the year 429,375 shares were As previously announced, on 7 October 2010 Michael Peacock issued in respect of options exercised under employee share retired as Finance Director and Peter Bream was appointed schemes.
Details of these schemes are summarised in note 18. to the Board as the new Finance Director on 8 October 2010.
On 6 October 2011, Peter Bream stepped down from the Board Rights and obligations attaching to shares and was succeeded as Finance Director by Steve Barrow.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends In addition, Pamela Kirby joined the Board as a non-executive when declared, the Companys report and accounts, to attend Director of the Company with effect from 9 February 2011. and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint At the forthcoming AGM, resolutions will be proposed for proxies and to exercise voting rights.
the re-election of all members of the Board in compliance There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
of ordinary shares and no requirements to obtain prior approval to any transfer except where the Company has exercised its right Appointment and replacement of Directors to suspend their voting rights, withhold a dividend or prohibit The Articles of Association of the Company provide that the their transfer following failure by the member or any other person number of Directors shall be not more than ten and not less appearing to be interested in the shares to provide the Company than two, unless otherwise determined by the Company by with information requested under section 793 of the Companies Ordinary Resolution.
Directors may be appointed by an Ordinary Act 2006.
The Directors may, in certain circumstances, also refuse Resolution of the members or by a resolution of the Directors.
 A Director appointed either by the Directors, or at the previous paid up, where the instrument of transfer does not comply with AGM, must retire at the next AGM and offer himself for re-election.
the requirements of the Articles of Association, or if entitled to do  .
In addition, a Director must automatically cease to be a carry any special rights with regard to control of the Company and Director if i he ceases to be a Director by virtue of any provision of there are no restrictions on voting rights except that a shareholder the Companies Act or he becomes prohibited by law from being a has no right to vote in respect of a share unless all sums due in Director, or ii he becomes bankrupt or makes any arrangement or respect of that share are fully paid.
There are no known agreements composition with his creditors generally, or iii he is suffering from between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on amentaldisorder, or iv  the transfer of securities or on voting rights and no known writing to the Company, or in the case of an executive Director,  his appointment is terminated or expires and the Directors resolve other than the holder of the shares.
com Overview p15 Business Review p621 Governance p2243 Financial Statements p4476 Shareholder Information p7785 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 consecutive months without permission of the Directors from Employment policies  The Groups employment policies, including its policy regarding be vacated or vi he is requested in writing, or by electronic form, the employment of disabled people, are set out on page 20. by all the other Directors to resign.
UK Corporate Governance Code A statement on corporate governance is set out on Major interests in shares pages 24 to 31.
 3% or more of its issued share capital as at 2 December 2011: Financial instruments .
Number of Percentage ordinary shares held BlackRock Investment Donations Management UK Limited 10,935,053 13.01% Details of charitable donations made in the year are set out Schroders plc 8,115,152 9.66% onpage21.
F&C Asset Management plc 4,228,620 5.03% Kames Capital 4,204,686 5.00% Creditor payment policy Old Mutual Asset Managers The Group does not follow any standard code on payment UK Ltd 4,151,130 4.94% practice.
Terms and conditions are agreed with each supplier Standard Life Investments Ltd 4,101,202 4.88% as appropriate.
The Group had trade creditors outstanding AXA S. A.
3,729,607 4.44% at the year end representing 30 days 2010: 25 days of Legal and General Group Plc 3,347,680 3.98% purchases.
 Norges Bank 2,531,600 3.01% external trade creditors.
Management report Powers of the Directors The Directors Report and Business Review comprises the The powers of the Directors are determined by the Companys management report for the purposes of the Financial Services Articles of Association, the Companies Act 2006 and any directions Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 4.1.
given by the Company in general meeting.
The Directors have been authorised by the Articles of Association to issue and allot ordinary Going concern shares and to make market purchases of shares.
These powers  are referred to shareholders at the AGM for renewal.
Any shares adequate resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable purchased may be cancelled or held as treasury shares.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going .
Conflict of interest duties Procedures are in place to ensure compliance with the Disclosure of information to auditor   Act 2006.
The Company has complied with these procedures , , during the year and the Board believes that these procedures there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys operateeffectively.
Duringtheyear,  auditor is unaware and each Director has taken all the steps  that he she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself consideration and, where appropriate, these were approved.
herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish  that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
to be reviewed by the Board on an annual basis.
Auditor Directors indemnities A resolution proposing the reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc The Company has granted indemnities in favour of Directors under as auditor of the Company will be put to the AGM.
These Deeds were in force during the year ended 30 September 2011 and remain in force as at the date of By order of the Board this report.
The Deeds and the Companys Articles of Association are available for inspection during normal business hours at the .
Change of control Gary Hulme None of the Directors or employees service contracts contain Company Secretary  5 December 2011 employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
