T e c h n o l o g i e s a n d r e s o u r c e s n o i t u b i r t s i D 2 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 About us A business intent on meeting all our customers communication needs Technologies and resources Licences and spectrum Customers Licences and spectrum enable us to deliver fixed The latest technologies International customer and mobile communications services in certain offering our best customer markets.
During the year we acquired additional base with diverse needs licences and spectrum in several markets, experience including India for third generation 3G We have an international customer services and Germany for the provision of base in both developed and Network infrastructure fourth generation 4G or LTE services, to emerging markets with over We have one of the largest mobile footprints in enhance the speed, coverage and quality 370 million mobile customers in the world with more than 224,000 base station of voice and data services in those markets.
During the year our networks carried the year we added over 40 million around 850 billion minutes of voice traffic Strategic agreements customers, mostly in India.
We serve equivalent to 208 minutes per month, per We work closely with some of the worlds customer and 161 petabytes of data equivalent leading companies to deliver innovative to downloading over 1,400 three minute video products and services to our customers.
Customers by markets % clips every second.
Our agreements with Samsung, Google, Microsoft, HTC and others have enabled us India 17 Network performance to be first to market with cutting-edge smart Vodacom 5 36 We continue to invest around 6 billion a year devices.
We now distribute the Apple iPad in the 5 Germany 6 to maintain leadership of our networks.
Tests UK and to our enterprise customers in Europe.
Egypt 9 show that in the Europe region, Vodacom and For enterprise customers, in partnership with 12 Italy 10 Egypt, Vodafone offers peak user data downlink Microsoft we provide the Microsoft Online suite UK speeds which are on average 40% faster than which provides hosted email, conferencing Spain our best competitors.
In conjunction with Other RIM and Nokia, Vodafone customers using Research and development R&D smartphones will be able to securely pay for We drive innovation through new technologies applications via their Vodafone bill.
and enhancements to existing capabilities.
This year R&D expenditure amounted to Brand 287 million.
According to Brand Finance plc, the Vodafone brand has risen to become the fifth most Customer support technologies valuable brand in the world.
In the 2010 calendar Our billing and customer relationship year we renewed our title partnership with the management systems are being enhanced Vodafone McLaren Mercedes Formula One team.
to enable our customers to manage a single It has been a strong year for the sponsorship account, with a single bill, for multiple devices with increased television viewing figures and or for several people.
People Employees by activity % Customer service We employed approximately 83,900 people We are redesigning and worldwide during the year, compared to 85,000 Customer care and administration 17 improving our customer the previous year.
Operations care, retail presence and Selling and distribution 49 online service to ensure 34 that customers get the best data experience with Vodafone.
D e v i c e s S e r v i c e s T e c h n o l o g i e s a n d r e s o u r c e s n o i t u b i r t s i D Business review Business Review Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 3 Distribution Indirect channels The level of indirect distribution varies between A broad range of channels markets and may include using third party through which customers can service providers, independent dealers, distributors and retailers.
access our services and products Online Direct channels The internet has also become an increasingly We directly own and manage about 2,200 stores powerful and cost-effective distribution channel.
around the world and we also have around 51% of our European contract customers receive 10,300 Vodafone-branded stores run through their bills online.
franchise and exclusive dealer arrangements.
In most of our local markets sales forces also sell direct to enterprise customers.
Services Fixed line a broad range of customers from Over six million customers use our fixed Services to meet all our individuals on either prepaid or broadband services in 13 markets to meet contract price plans to enterprise customers needs their total communications needs.
In addition, customers ranging from small and through Gateway, we provide wholesale carrier medium sized businesses to larger Voice services to more than 40 African countries.
We are one of the largest carriers of mobile Our customers needs are evolving with voice traffic in the world providing domestic, Other service revenue increasing demand for multi-product international and roaming voice services to more This includes business managed services, such offers which combine mobile and fixed than 370 million customers.
as secure remote network access, and revenue broadband solutions with traditional from mobile virtual network operators generated voice and SMS services.
Messaging from selling access to our network at the Our networks sent and received over 292 billion wholesale level.
text, picture, music and video messages this year.
Customers segments % Data Service revenue by type % 9 12 Consumer More than 75 million customers buy our mobile contract 12 data services which allow access to the internet, Voice Consumer email and applications on their phones, tablets, Messaging 12 prepaid 64 laptops and netbooks.
Data 8 Enterprise Fixed Line 79 4 Other Devices Vodafone branded handsets 4G LTE mobile We are making Vodafone designed handsets broadband USB stick Ensuring that our services available to mass market audiences while The Samsung GT-B3740, are available through multiple offering differentiated experiences.
During the is our first ever 4G LTE year 14 new handsets were released under our network device which enables platforms own brand and we shipped 5.8 million.
customers to experience super-fast mobile broadband.
Smartphones and tablets Other connected devices These have advanced capabilities including In addition to handsets, we supply a range of access to email, the internet and mobile innovative connected smart devices.
During the applications such as Google Maps and year we launched our first ever USB stick based Facebook.
Smartphones now account for on 4G LTE technology and Vodafone WebBox 19% of the total number of phones used by which enables customers to connect to the our customers in Europe.
We now supply internet using existing television sets by simply the iPhone in 19 markets.
plugging in a keyboard with an embedded mobile SIM.
