Business review Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 19 Focus on key areas of growth potential: Mobile datacustomer experience, pricing and connected devices Mobile Wi-Fi R201 A mobile Wi-Fi hotspot device that lets customers share their 3G mobile connection with up to five users at the press of a button.
Customer experience Smart connected devices To accelerate the opportunities of mobile data we are investing Our handset portfolio is key to our strategy as it helps in providing a better data experience to our customers differentiate us from the competition, acquire customers and through all channels.
They interact with us through retail increase data usage.
stores, online, through our call centres and by our mobile phones.
We place great importance on multi-channel Smartphones and tablets capabilities to make it convenient and easy for people to We aim to have the most attractive portfolio in the market.
We have developed the online self service and Smartphones now account for 19% of the total number of sales function, and website visits have grown to approximately phones used by our customers in Europe and this is expected 133 million a month.
We are also driving down the cost of smartphones in order to make the data experience available Most of our markets are able to propose individually relevant for lower income segments in both European and emerging offers, specific to a particular customer based on their usage markets.
Examples of this are the Android-powered Vodafone patterns, and we are seeing as many as 50% of customers 845 and 945 devices launched during the year.
We are enhancing our billing and customer management platforms to make it easier for We also aim to lead the tablet segment, which is growing people to have several Vodafone SIMs, subscriptions and rapidly.
We were the first operator to launch an Android bundles, using different devices.
We are also developing a Honeycomb tablet with the Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.1v and we single view of all our customers which will allow multiple have started to distribute the Apple iPad 2. services used by a customer to be managed and presented on a single bill.
Vodafone branded handsets We have developed a broad range of Vodafone branded To better understand our customers satisfaction, we started handsets focused on mobile internet experience and to use net promoter score NPS this year to measure to what design differentiation.
The Android-powered Vodafone 845 extent customers would recommend us to others.
We are in and 945 are competitively driving mobile internet further a NPS leadership position in either consumer or enterprise into the prepaid segment.
The Vodafone 553 accelerated in over 60% of our markets.
We are also implementing the widespread use of qwerty devices and related programmes in all our controlled markets to get direct messaging and social network trends.
Additionally, devices feedback from customers to help us improve service.
such as the Vodafone 543 powered with Opera Mini, enhance mobile internet browsing experiences even on low Pricing bandwidth connections.
Tiered data pricing in Europe We have introduced tiered data pricing to give customers more Other devices control over their mobile data spend and therefore encourage During the year we introduced the Vodafone K4605 USB stick mobile data use.
Customers are charged for the amount of which provides theoretical peak data download speeds of data they use rather than a flat fee for a high level or unlimited 42.2 Mbps using 3G HSDPA technology and a 4G LTE USB use.
The benefits include providing smaller and less expensive stick which has the potential for faster download speeds.
allowances for people who do not use much data and better We also launched Vodafone WebBox see page 21 for further cost management for higher users as well as optimising the information and Vodafone TV services see page 23 for capacity of the data network.
Data roaming Smartphone yield management This year we launched a market leading smartphone roaming Evidence from our main markets shows that smartphones are data plan that allows our European customers to use their driving incremental ARPU uplift and longer customer life home data plan abroad for only 2 a day to access the internet, times relative to non-smartphones.
emails and applications, making data roaming easier and more affordable.
Across our markets we are working to optimise the smartphone migration path by carefully managing how we allocate acquisition and retention subsidies, managing our smartphone portfolio, and maximising data attachment on smartphones and the penetration of integrated tariffs.
As data penetration and usage amongst existing customers grows, we are introducing tiered data allowances.
