B Bu us si in ne es ss s R re e v viie ew w Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 17 Focus on key areas of growth potential: Mobile datatechnology Vodafone 3G station Branded as Vodafone Sure Signal in the UK a femtocell that guarantees a 3G signal and super-fast mobile data transfer where installed in homes: also available for enterprise customers.
Network trials As part of a strategy to implement scalable and cost-effective We always aim to deliver a market-leading customer self-build solutions we have deployed high capacity ethernet experience and we use a third party to compare our networks microwave technology and high bandwidth optical fibre with those of our major competitors.
During the year we transmission solutions.
In Europe about 80% of our radio base benchmarked our 16 main 3G markets.
The results showed stations are served by self-built transmission where we have that we are the leading data services provider in 13 markets.
On physically installed and own the infrastructure and over 20% average across the networks measured we were almost 40% are currently connected using high capacity technologies.
faster on data downlink than our best competitor and 40% faster on data uplink, a result achieved through our investment New services and capabilities engineering in extensive network upgrades and optimisation.
We have consolidated the national IP networks in all our major markets into a single IP network giving us the ability to deliver Investing to increase coverage high quality IP connectivity to our customers.
Continued site deployment At 31 March 2011 we had over 66,000 3G sites in Europe, Investing to improve cost efficiency providing 83% 3G coverage across our major European Yield management capability markets.
This represents an increase of over 8,500 sites during We have been supporting the improvement of 3G data the year.
service quality by managing the operational effectiveness of our network capacity.
This enables us to optimise content Vodafone 3G station and services as well as manage our costs.
We have improved We have continued to introduce Vodafone 3G stations, also 3G data service quality in this way in 18 markets.
known as femtocells in our markets.
These innovative devices deliver a personal 3G mobile phone signal to customers Network sharing through a fixed line broadband connection, giving coverage To reduce the cost of mobile network infrastructure, we to customers where mobile operators are unable to provide a have continued to use network sharing agreements with strong enough signal.
At 31 March 2011 Vodafone 3G stations other operators in all of our controlled markets, with 70% of were in service in seven of our markets serving almost the new radio sites throughout the Group being shared with 400,000 customers.
Investing to improve customer experience Single radio access network RAN High speed packet access HSPA upgrades and green technology We have continued to upgrade our HSPA networks with 65% of By 31 March 2011 we had installed over 9,000 of these new our European 3G network equipped with 14.4 Mbps theoretical single RAN base stations.
We are also working hard to reduce peak downlink speeds or above and 90% providing 7.2 Mbps or our carbon impact through the wide-scale adoption of leading above theoretical downlink speeds.
Peak download speeds of edge green technology solutions.
Across our markets we are up to 43.2 Mbps downlink and 5.8 Mbps uplink are now equipping our radio sites with advanced carbon-efficient supported in several key traffic areas.
These figures are solutions such as wind, solar and fuel cell technologies.
theoretical peak rates deliverable in ideal radio conditions with no customer contention for resources.
Research and development R&D Our R&D ambition is to pioneer innovative services and Long-term evolution LTE technology in order to connect anyone and any device to one During the year we commercially launched our 4G LTE another and to the internet.
We have introduced six key technology in Germany and Verizon Wireless launched in programmes to achieve these ambitions: networks of the the US.
4G LTE can offer better performance than our current future: smart charging: mobile location analysis: consumer 3G HSPA technology while increasing network capacity.
High capacity backhaul upgrades Our focus over the next year will be on data and smart To support the high speed data capabilities introduced across communication.
We are also launching an innovation centre our access networks we have upgraded our backhaul and in the US and have strengthened our patent portfolio backbone transmission networks, which connect our base through strategic patent filing activity in areas relevant to our stations together, to the latest high bandwidth IP technologies.
18 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 Mobile data: customer experience, pricing and connected devices We are enhancing our customer care, retail presence and online service to ensure that customers get the best data experience.
We are introducing data centric store formats and we now have 5,000 specialised data customer care representatives in Europe.
