8 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 Mobile telecommunications industry An industry with 5.6 billion customers with growth driven by increasing global demand for data services and rising mobile penetration in emerging markets Where the industry is now Revenue and customers Competition and regulation The mobile industry generates around There are typically between three to five mobile US$900 billion of annual revenue and accounts network operators per market, although in for around 1.5% of world GDP.
some markets, such as India, there are There are 5.6 billion mobile customers which is considerably more.
equivalent to around 80% of the world population.
Regulators continue to seek to impose policies Approximately 75% of mobile customers are in to lower the cost of access to mobile networks.
emerging markets such as India and China.
Mobile services account for around 60% of The telecommunications industry is competitive with telecommunications revenue with the remainder coming consumers having a large choice of mobile and fixed line from fixed.
Within mobile the majority of income comes operators from which to select services.
Newer competitors, from voice calls in mature markets such as Europe.
However, including handset manufacturers, internet companies and the fastest growing revenue segment is data services software providers, are also entering the market offering such as access to the internet through laptops, tablets integrated communication services.
Industry regulators continue to impose lower mobile The number of mobile customers far exceeds other forms of termination rates the fees mobile companies charge for electronic communication.
Only 1.3 billion people have calls received from other companies networks and lower fixed line telephones, 2.1 billion have access to the internet roaming prices.
The combination of competition and regulatory pressures The mobile proportion of voice calls has increased over the contributed to a 10% decline in the global average price per last five years and now accounts for 82% of all calls made, minute in the 2010 calendar year.
However, price pressures are with the remainder over fixed lines, reflecting the benefits being partly offset by increased mobile usage leading to a 6% of mobility, lower cost handsets and cheaper calling plans.
increase in mobile service revenue over the same period.
Mobile customers Mobile penetration March 2011: 5.6 billion % March 2011 % 16 19 130 10 6 103 15 18 69 16 65 58 Europe Other Asia Pacific US Canada Africa India Other Europe US Canada India China Africa China The industry data on pages 8 and 9 has been sourced from Wireless Intelligence, Strategy Analytics, Merrill Lynch, Informa WCIS and CISCO.
B Bu us si in ne es ss s re rev vi ie ew w Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 9 A growing industry Data traffic has more than doubled yearA multiplicity of connected on-year due to usage devices of smart connected devices and significant progress in mobile network technology.
Where the industry is going Mobile data and networks Emerging markets Mobile data traffic is driving revenue growth.
Mobile phone usage continues to grow rapidly.
Network speeds are increasing dramatically Data represents a significant growth opportunity.
The pace of product innovation remains high.
In 2006 data accounted for 3% of industry revenue, in 2010 The number of customers using mobile services in emerging it reached 13% and by 2014 it is expected to be 21%.
Demand markets such as India and Africa has grown rapidly over is being driven by the widening range of smart connected the last ten years, increasing by over 17 times, compared devices, such as mobile broadband sticks, smartphones and to nearly 130% in more mature markets such as Europe.
tablets, greater network speeds and an increased range of The key driver of growth has been a fundamental need applications with greater functionality.
Smartphone sales for communication services against a background of often grew by 66% in the 2010 calendar year, compared to a 16% low quality alternative fixed line infrastructure and strong increase in the 2009 calendar year, and are expected to economic growth.
continue to grow due to lower entry prices, device innovation and attractive applications.
Most of the future growth in mobile customers is expected to continue to be in emerging markets where Todays 3G networks offer typically achieved data download mobile penetration is only around 70% compared to speeds of up to 4 Mbps which is around 100 times faster than approximately 130% in mature markets such as Europe, that delivered by 2G networks ten years ago.
The industry has supported by the expectation of continued strong recently begun to deploy 4G LTE networks which will provide economic growth.
typically achieved rates of up to 12 Mbps, depending on the capability of the devices and the network.
Data also represents a substantial growth opportunity in emerging markets both in terms of mobile broadband and Device innovation is a key feature of our industry.
It is being driven partly by the lack developments include femtocells which enhance customers of fixed line broadband infrastructure but also by locally indoor 3G signals via a fixed line broadband connection and relevant content and services in local languages, and mobile Wi-Fi devices which allow customers to share their software innovations that give customers a high-quality mobile broadband connection with others.
mobile internet experience on affordable handsets.
Mobile penetration Mobile data demand is being accelerated by devices Emerging market customer growth will be driven by March 2011 % and network improvements rising mobile penetration and GDP growth Market customers growth 2006 2010 2010 2014 estimated cumulative annual growth rate % Smartphone share of industry handset 18% shipments % 8 21 Typically achieved data download speeds Mbps 2.2 4 7% 6% South Africa Egypt India The industry data on pages 8 and 9 has been sourced from Wireless Intelligence, Strategy Analytics, Merrill Lynch, Informa WCIS and CISCO.
