52 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 Board of directors and Group management 1 2 3 4 5 Directors and senior management GlobeCast from 1995 to 1999.
He was Executive Vice President of Nouvelles Our business is managed by our Board of directors the Board.
Biographical Frontieres Group from December 1999 until the end of 2001 when he details of the directors and senior management at 17 May 2011 are as follows: moved to the position of Chief Executive Officer of Assystem-Brime, a company specialising in industrial engineering.
He returned to France Board of directors Telecom Group in 2003 as Senior Vice President of Group Finance and Chief Chairman Financial Officer.
Until January 2006 he was Senior Executive Vice President, 1.
Sir John Bond, aged 69, became Chairman of Vodafone Group Plc in July in charge of NExT Financial Balance & Value Creation and a member of the 2006, having previously served as a non-executive director of the Board, and France Telecom Group Strategic Committee.
From 2006 to 2008 he was is Chairman of the Nominations and Governance Committee.
He is Chairman Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of TDF Group.
He is President of the of Xstrata plc and a non-executive director of A. P. Mller Mrsk A S and Supervisory Board of Assystem SA in France and serves as a non-executive Shui On Land Limited Hong Kong SAR.
He retired from the position of director on the boards of ISS Equity A S, ISS Holding A S and ISS A S. Group Chairman of HSBC Holdings plc in May 2006.
Previous non-executive directorships include the London Stock Exchange plc, Orange plc, British 5.
Stephen Pusey, aged 49, Group Chief Technology Officer, joined Steel plc, the Court of the Bank of England and Ford Motor Company, US.
He Vodafone in September 2006 and was appointed to the Board in June 2009. is also an advisor to Northern Trust in Chicago.
Sir John will retire from the He is responsible for all aspects of Vodafones networks, IT capability and Board at the conclusion of the Companys AGM on 26 July 2011. research and development.
Prior to joining Vodafone he held the positions of Executive Vice President and President, Nortel EMEA, having joined Executive directors Nortel in 1982 where he gained a wealth of international experience across 2.
Vittorio Colao, Chief Executive, aged 49, was appointed Chief Executive both the wireline and wireless industries and in business applications and of Vodafone Group Plc after the AGM in July 2008.
He joined the Board in solutions.
Prior to Nortel, he spent several years with British Telecom.
October 2006 as Chief Executive, Europe and Deputy Chief Executive.
The early part of his career was spent in the Milan office of McKinsey & Co Deputy Chairman and senior independent director working on media, telecommunications and industrial goods, with additional 6.
John Buchanan, aged 67, became Deputy Chairman and senior responsibility for recruitment.
In 1996 he joined Omnitel Pronto Italia, which independent director in July 2006 and has been a member of the Board since subsequently became Vodafone Italy, and was appointed Chief Executive in April 2003.
He retired from the board of directors of BP p. l. c. in 2002 after six 1999.
He was then appointed Regional Chief Executive Officer, Southern years as Group Chief Financial Officer and executive director following a wideEurope for Vodafone Group Plc in 2001, became a member of the Board in ranging career with the company.
He was a member of the United Kingdom 2002 and was appointed to the role of Regional Chief Executive Officer for Accounting Standards Board from 1997 to 2001.
He is Chairman of Smith & Southern Europe, Middle East and Africa for Vodafone in 2003.
In 2004 he Nephew plc, Senior Independent Director of BHP Billiton Plc, Chairman of The left Vodafone to join RCS MediaGroup, the leading Italian publishing International Chamber of Commerce UK and is Chairman of the trustees for company, where he was Chief Executive until he rejoined Vodafone as Chief the UK Christchurch Earthquake Appeal.
Previous non-executive directorships Executive Officer, Europe.
He sits on the International Advisory Board of include AstraZeneca plc and Boots plc.
Andy Halford, Chief Financial Officer, aged 52, joined the Board in July 7.
Alan Jebson, aged 61, joined the Board in December 2006.
He joined Vodafone in 1999 as Financial Director for Vodafone Limited, he retired from his role as Group Chief Operating Officer of HSBC Holdings the UK operating company, and in 2001 he became Financial Director for plc, a position which included responsibility for IT and Global Resourcing.
Vodafones Northern Europe, Middle East and Africa region.
In 2002 he was During a long career with HSBC he held various positions in IT including the appointed Chief Financial Officer of Verizon Wireless in the US and is position of Group Chief Information Officer.
His roles included responsibility currently a member of the Board of Representatives of the Verizon Wireless for the Groups international systems including the consolidation of HSBC partnership.
Prior to joining Vodafone he was Group Finance Director at East and Midland systems following the acquisition of Midland Bank in 1993.
In December 2010 he was appointed as Chairman originally joined HSBC as Head of IT Audit in 1978 where, building upon his of The Hundred Group of Finance Directors in the UK.
He holds a bachelors qualification as a chartered accountant, he built an international audit team degree in Industrial Economics from Nottingham University and is a Fellow and implemented controls in the groups application systems.
He is also a of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
non-executive director of Experian Group plc and MacDonald Dettwiler and Associates Ltd. in Canada.
Michel Combes, aged 49, Chief Executive Officer, Europe Region, was appointed to the Board in June 2009, having joined the Company in October 8.
Samuel Jonah, aged 61, was appointed to the Board in April 2009.
He began his career at France Telecom in 1986 in the External Executive Chairman of Jonah Capital Pty Limited, an investment holding Networks Division and then moved to the Industrial and International Affairs company in South Africa and serves on the boards of various public and private Division.
After being technical advisor to the Minister of Transportation from companies including The Standard Bank Group.
He previously worked for 1991 to 1995, he served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Ashanti Goldfields Company Limited, becoming Chief Executive Officer in Governance Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 53 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 1986, and was formerly Executive President of AngloGold Ashanti Limited, a he was Chief Executive of Hermes Pensions Management Limited, a position director of Lonmin Plc and a member of the Advisory Council of the President he had held since 2002.
Previously he was Hermes Chief Investment Officer of the African Development Bank.
He is an advisor to the Presidents of Nigeria having been Managing Director of AMP Asset Management plc and the and Togo and previously served as an advisor to the Presidents of South Africa Chief International Investment Officer of Citicorp Investment Management and Ghana.
An Honorary Knighthood was conferred on him by Her Majesty the from 1991 until joining Hermes in 1998.
He was Chairman of The Strategic Queen in 2003 and in 2006 he was awarded Ghanas highest national award, Investment Board in Northern Ireland until he retired in March 2009.
In the Companion of the Order of the Star.
January 2009 he was awarded a CBE for his services to the economic redevelopment of Northern Ireland.
Nick Land, aged 63, joined the Board in December 2006 and is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Solely for the purposes of relevant legislation he is 13.
Philip Yea, aged 56, became a member of the Board in September 2005. the Boards appointed financial expert on the Audit Committee.
In June He has held a number of roles in the private equity industry, most notably at 2006 he retired as Chairman of Ernst & Young LLP after a distinguished 3i Group plc where he was Chief Executive from 2004 until January 2009, and career spanning 36 years with the firm.
He became an audit partner in 1978 prior to 3i at Investcorp, where his main focus was on the turnaround and and held a number of management appointments before becoming performance of portfolio investments.
He is a former Finance Director of Managing Partner in 1992.
He was appointed Chairman and joined the Diageo plc, the global drinks group, where as Finance Director of Guinness Global Executive Board of Ernst & Young Global LLP in 1995.
He serves as a plc he was closely involved in the creation of Diageo through Guinesss non-executive director of Alliance Boots GmbH, BBA Aviation plc and the merger with Grand Metropolitan P. L. C. in 1997.
Philip holds a number of Ashmore Group plc and was appointed as a non-executive director of the advisory positions including to HRH The Duke of York in his role as the UKs Financial Reporting Council on 1 April 2011.
He is an advisor to the board of Special Representative for International Trade & Investment, as well as to SNR Denton LLP, a member of the Advisory Board of Alsbridge plc, Chairman  in the UK and Bridges Ventures.
He is also Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Farnham Castle, and is a member of the Finance of the trustees of the British Heart Foundation.
He has previously held and Audit Committees of the National Gallery.
He is also Chairman of the non-executive roles at HBOS plc and Manchester United plc.
board of trustees of the Vodafone Foundation.
Anne Lauvergeon, aged 51, joined the Board in November 2005.
Renee James, aged 46, joined the Board in January 2011.
She is Senior Chief Executive Officer of AREVA Group, the leading French energy company, Vice President and General Manager of the software and services group for having been appointed to that role in July 2001.
She started her professional Intel Corporation with responsibility for delivering software products and career in 1983 in the steel industry and in 1990 she was named Advisor for support across Intels entire product line by building and distributing Economic International Affairs at the French Presidency and Deputy Chief software and services products and partnering with independent software of its Staff in 1991.
In 1995 she became a Partner of Lazard Frres & Cie, partners in the industry.
In addition, she is the Chairman of the software subsequently joining Alcatel Telecom as Senior Executive Vice President in subsidiaries of Intel, Havok, WIndRiver Systems and McAfee, and also serves March 1997.
She was responsible for international activities and the Groups as an independent director on the VMware Inc. Board of Directors and is a industrial shareholdings in the energy and nuclear fields.
In 1999 she was member of its Audit Committee.
She holds bachelors and masters degrees appointed Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of AREVA NC.
She is currently from the University of Oregon.
also a member of the Advisory Board of the Global Business Coalition on HIV AIDS and a non-executive director of Total S. A. and GDF SUEZ.
Gerard Kleisterlee, aged 64, was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2011.
He retired as President Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of 11.
Luc Vandevelde, aged 60, joined the Board in September 2003 and is Management and the Group Management Committee of Koninklijke Philips Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
He is a director of Socit Electronics N. V. Philips on 31 March 2011 after a career with Philips spanning Gnrale and the Founder and Managing Director of Change Capital over more than three decades.
He has been a member of the Daimler AG Partners LLP, a private equity fund.
He was formerly Chairman of the Supervisory Board since April 2009, a non-executive director of the Supervisory Supervisory Board of Carrefour SA, Chairman of Marks & Spencer Group plc Board and member of the Audit Committee of Royal Dutch Shell since and Chief Executive Officer of Promods, and has held senior European and November 2010, and a member of the Board of Directors of Dell since international roles with Kraft General Foods.
He will succeed Sir John Bond as Chairman of the Company on conclusion of the AGM on 26 July 2011.
Anthony Watson CBE, aged 66, was appointed to the Board in May 2006.
He is currently Chairman of Marks & Spencer Pension Trust Ltd and is the Senior Independent Director of Hammerson plc and Witan Investment Trust.
He is a non-executive director of Lloyds Banking Group plc and sits on the Advisory Board of Norges Bank Investment Management.
He joined the Audit Committee Board of the Shareholder Executive in October 2009, having been a member Nominations and Governance Committee of its Advisory Group since April 2008.
Prior to joining the Vodafone Board Remuneration Committee 54 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 Board of directors and Group management continued Executive Committee Rosemary Martin, aged 51, was appointed Group General Counsel and Chaired by Vittorio Colao, this committee focuses on the Groups strategy, Company Secretary in March 2010.
She previously served as Chief Executive financial structure and planning, succession planning, organisational Officer of the Practical Law Group prior to which she previously spent development and Group-wide policies.
The Executive Committee 11 years with Reuters Group Plc.
in various company secretary and legal membership comprises the executive directors, details of whom are shown roles, with the last five years as Group General Counsel and Company on page 52 above, and the senior managers who are listed below.
Before joining Reuters she was a partner with Mayer, Brown, Rowe & Maw.
She is a non-executive director of HSBC Bank Plc the European arm Senior management of HSBC Group and a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Members of the Executive Committee who are not also executive directors England and Wales Corporate Governance Committee.
are regarded as senior managers of the Company.
Nick Read, aged 46, Chief Executive Officer, Africa, Middle East and Asia Warren Finegold, aged 54, Group Strategy and Business Development Pacific region, was appointed to this position in October 2010.
He became a Director, joined the Executive Committee in April 2006 as Chief Executive, member of the Executive Committee in November 2008 at the time serving Global Business Development with responsibility for mergers and as Chief Executive Officer for the Asia Pacific and Middle East region.
He acquisitions and business development.
He assumed his current position in joined Vodafone in 2002 and has held a variety of senior roles including Chief August 2009 when his role was expanded to include Group Strategy.
He Financial Officer and Chief Commercial Officer of Vodafone Limited, the UK started his career with Hill Samuel & Co. Limited as an Executive in the operating company, and was appointed Chief Executive Officer of Vodafone Corporate Finance department, advising clients on mergers and Limited in early 2006.
Prior to joining Vodafone he held senior global finance acquisitions.
He then moved to Goldman Sachs International in 1986 where positions with United Business Media plc and Federal Express Worldwide.
he held positions in New York and London.
Prior to joining Vodafone he was a Managing Director of UBS Investment Bank where he held a number of Ronald Schellekens, aged 47, Group Human Resources Director, joined senior positions, most recently as head of its technology team in Europe.
Vodafone and the Executive Committee in January 2009.
Ronald is responsible for the Vodafone human resources management function as Matthew Kirk, aged 50, Group External Affairs Director, was appointed to well as health and safety, and Vodafones property and real estate.
Prior to his current position and joined the Executive Committee in March 2009. joining Vodafone he was Executive Vice President Human Resources for Matthew joined Vodafone in 2006 as Group Director of External Royal Dutch Shell plcs global downstream business.
Prior to working for Relationships.
Prior to that he was a member of the British Diplomatic Shell he worked for nine years at PepsiCo in various international senior Service for more than 20 years and before joining Vodafone served as British human resources roles including assignments in Switzerland, Spain, South Ambassador to Finland.
In his last role he was responsible for the Europe, Middle East and Africa region for PepsiCo Foods International.
Prior to Morten Lundal, aged 46, Group Chief Commercial Officer, was appointed PepsiCo he worked for nine years for AT&T in human resources roles in the to his current position in October 2010, having joined the Executive Netherlands and Poland.
Committee in November 2008, and previously served as Chief Executive Officer for the Africa and Central Europe region.
He joined Nordic mobile Other Board and Executive Committee members operator, Telenor, in 1997 and held several Chief Executive Officer positions The following members also served on the Board or the Executive including for the Internet Division and Telenor Business Solutions as well as Committee during the year: the position of Executive Vice President for Corporate Strategy before becoming the Chief Executive Officer of Telenors Malaysian subsidiary, Simon Murray was a non-executive director until his retirement on 27 July DiGi Telecommunications.
Terry Kramer was Regional President Vodafone Americas and a member of the Executive Committee until 31 July 2010.
Wendy Becker was Group Chief Marketing Officer and a member of the Executive Committee until January 2011.
