58 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance continued candidates and those shortlisted were met by members of the Board.
is responsible for ensuring that the correct Board procedures are followed Following an interview process, Gerard Kleisterlee was invited to join the and advises the Board on corporate governance matters: and Board and to become Vodafones chairman in succession to Sir John Bond.
administers the procedure under which directors can, where appropriate, In accordance with the Combined Code, Sir John Bond did not chair the obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Nominations and Governance Committee when dealing with the appointment of Mr Kleisterlee.
The Deputy Chairman took the chair.
The appointment or removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Mr Kleisterlees deep knowledge of the commercial sector, his international Board as a whole.
experience and familiarity with business in emerging markets were factors in the Boards decision.
Relations with shareholders We are committed to communicating our strategy and activities clearly to The Nominations and Governance Committee meets periodically when our shareholders and, to that end, we maintain an active dialogue with required.
In addition to scheduled meetings, there are a number of ad hoc investors through a planned programme of investor relations activities.
The meetings to address specific matters.
No one other than a member of the investor relations programme includes: Nominations and Governance Committee is entitled to be present at its meetings.
The Chief Executive, other non-executive directors and external formal presentations of full year and half-year results, and interim advisors may be invited to attend.
management statements: briefing meetings with major institutional shareholders in the UK, the US Remuneration Committee and in Continental Europe after the half-year results and preliminary The members of the Remuneration Committee during the year, together announcement, to ensure that the investor community receives a with a record of their attendance at scheduled meetings which they were balanced and complete view of our performance and the issues we face: eligible to attend, are set out below: regular meetings between institutional investors and analysts and the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer to discuss business performance: Meetings attended hosting investors and analysts sessions at which senior management Luc Vandevelde, Chairman 5 5 from relevant operating companies deliver presentations which provide Samuel Jonah from 1 June 2010 3 3 an overview of each of the individual businesses and operations: Simon Murray until 27 July 2010 1 2 attendance by senior executives across the business at relevant meetings Anthony Watson 5 5 and conferences throughout the year: Philip Yea 5 5 responding to enquiries from shareholders and analysts through our Investor Relations team: and In addition to scheduled meetings, there were a number of ad hoc meetings www.
com investor which is a section dedicated to shareholders to deal with specific matters.
The responsibilities of the Remuneration on our website.
Committee include: Overall responsibility for ensuring that there is effective communication determining, on behalf of the Board, the policy on the remuneration of with investors and that the Board understands the views of major the Chairman, the executive directors and the senior management team: shareholders on matters such as governance and strategy rests with determining the total remuneration packages for these individuals the Chairman, who makes himself available to meet shareholders for including any compensation on termination of office: and this purpose.
appointing any consultants in respect of executive directors remuneration.
The Senior Independent Director and other members of the Board are also The Chairman and Chief Executive may attend the Remuneration available to meet major investors on request.
The Senior Independent Committees meetings by invitation.
They do not attend when their Director has a specific responsibility to be available to shareholders who individual remuneration is discussed.
No director is involved in deciding his have concerns, for whom contact with the Chairman, Chief Executive or or her own remuneration.
Chief Financial Officer has either failed to resolve their concerns or for whom such contact is inappropriate.
Further information on the Remuneration Committees activities is contained in Directors remuneration on pages 62 to 73.
At the 2007 AGM the shareholders approved amendments to the articles of association which enabled us to take advantage of the provisions in the Companies Act 2006 to communicate with our shareholders electronically.
Executive Committee Following that approval, unless a shareholder has specifically asked to The executive directors, together with certain other Group functional heads receive a hard copy, they will receive notification of the availability of the and regional chief executives, meet 11 times a year as the Executive annual report on our website www.
For this year Committee under the chairmanship of the Chief Executive.
The Executive shareholders will receive the notice of meeting and form of proxy in paper Committee is responsible for our competitive and financial performance, through the post unless they have previously opted to receive email reviewing strategy and new business opportunities including major communications.
We do not intend to send the notice of meeting and form acquisitions and disposals, the management of our capital structure and of proxy to shareholders in paper through the post for the 2012 financial funding, and key organisational and policy decisions.
The members of the year unless shareholders have specifically asked to receive communications Executive Committee and their biographical details are set out on pages 52 in hard copy.
Shareholders continue to have the option to appoint proxies and 54. and to give voting instructions electronically.
The Executive Committee members and the chief executive officers of the The principal communication with private investors is via the annual report major operating companies and other selected individuals, depending on and through the AGM, an occasion which is attended by all our directors and topics discussed, met twice during the year to discuss strategy.
at which all shareholders present are given the opportunity to question the Chairman, the Chairmen of the Audit, Nominations and Governance, and Company Secretary Remuneration Committees and the rest of the Board.
After the AGM The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Board and to the shareholders can meet informally with directors.
committees of the Board and, with the consent of the Board, may delegate responsibility for the administration of the committees to other suitably A summary presentation of results and development plans is also given at qualified staff.
The Company Secretary: the AGM before the Chairman deals with the formal business of the meeting.
The AGM is broadcast live on our website www.
com agm and a assists the Chairman in ensuring that all directors have full and timely recording of the webcast can subsequently be viewed on our website.
All access to all relevant information:
