20 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 Focus on key areas of growth potential: Emerging markets Customer growth will be driven by rising mobile Development impact of products and services penetration and GDP growth Mobile services are a key driver of economic development in The number of customers using mobile services in emerging emerging markets by increasing access to communications markets such as India and Africa has grown rapidly over the and mobile-enabled services.
We continued to market last ten years, increasing by over 17 times compared to nearly Vodafone-branded competitively priced handsets, selling 2 130% in more mature markets such as Europe.
In the 2010 1.7 million devices during the year in our emerging markets.
calendar year the Indian mobile market increased by more than 225 million customers, nearly four times the size of The uptake of Vodafone M-Pesa, which brings financial the UK population.
The key driver of growth has been a services to people without bank accounts, continued to grow, fundamental need for communication services against a making an increasing contribution to economic development background of low quality fixed infrastructure and strong in communities that lack conventional banking services.
now has over 20 million customers globally 11 million in 2010, who transferred around US$500 million a month during Most of the future growth in mobile phone users is expected to the year up from US$300 million a month in the previous continue to be in emerging markets where mobile penetration financial year.
We launched Vodafone M-Pesa in South Africa, is still only approximately 70% compared with around Qatar and Fiji during the year, bringing the total to six markets, 130% in Europe, supported by the expectation of continued and began pilots in India with ICICI Bank and HDFC Bank.
We expect to see between 20 to 40 percentage points of additional penetration by 2014 in The Vodafone WebBox see opposite was launched in 1 emerging markets.
South Africa in February 2011 and other markets will follow in the 2012 financial year.
Data is the next major opportunity Data represents a substantial growth opportunity as only 19% Strong performance of our active customers in emerging markets use data services We are either number one or two in six of our seven which is about half the rate in Europe.
There are two significant emerging markets based on revenue.
One is mobile broadband, helped by the lack of highlights include: a comprehensive fixed broadband infrastructure in emerging markets.
Already in South Africa mobile broadband accounts increased revenue market share in India and Turkey: for around 90% of all broadband.
The other is mobile internet data revenue growth of 43.8% in Vodacom and 37.7% which we are driving by: in Egypt: and surpassing the 134 million customer mark in India, an enhancing the mobile internet experience through increase of 34 million over the year.
our Opera Mini browser software which provides faster page downloads: We launched 3G services in India in February 2011 and driving down the cost of internet enabled handsets anticipate that this will provide further revenue growth powered by Opera Mini, with prices starting at US$45: opportunities going forward.
low day-to-day micro pricing which allows the purchase of individual data services, for example the download Notes: of a single ring tone: and 1 Source: Informa WCIS.
locally relevant content and services in local languages.
2 India, Vodacom, Egypt, Turkey, Ghana, Qatar and Fiji.
Vodafone 252 In April 2011 we launched one of our most affordable devices which now comes pre-loaded with Vodafone M-Pesa for mobile payment services and a prepaid balance indicator that helps customers to keep track of their phone credit to avoid overspending.
B Bu us si in ne es ss s re rev vi ie ew w Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 21 2 7% Group revenue from Vodafone WebBox 2 emerging markets A Vodafone innovation bringing internet access to 2010: 23% a customers existing television set just by plugging in a keyboard with a built-in mobile SIM card.
It was developed specifically for customers in emerging 6 2% markets where technology and cost barriers often Group customers from emerging exclude people from enjoying readily available 2 markets internet access.
2010: 57% 22 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 Machine-to-machine M2M services Machine-to-machine communications, commonly known as M2M or telemetry, enables devices to communicate with one another via built-in mobile SIM cards.
This allows key information to be automatically exchanged without human intervention making it possible to reduce costs, and improve efficiency and services to customers, for example, enabling drivers to upload and download real-time information to their sat nav devices on traffic jams which can help reduce journey times and save fuel.
Focus on key areas of growth potential: Enterprise Enterprise customers Multinational companies Our enterprise customers range from  Global Enterprise manages the communication office SoHo businesses and small to medium-sized needs of over 560 of our largest multinational corporate enterprises SMEs, through to large domestic and customers.
It provides a range of managed services multinational companies.
Across the Group we have which bring together every aspect of a customers 34 million enterprise customers accounting for around 9% telecommunications infrastructure, both fixed and mobile, of all customers and around 23% of service revenue.
providing greater visibility and control of expenditure.
During the year Vodafone Global Enterprise achieved organic Selected expansion in growth markets revenue growth of around 8%.
New customers and renewed SoHo and SME contracts this year included Unilever, Luxottica and Bosch.
In Vodafone One Net Our focus for SoHos and SMEs is to provide customers with March 2011 Vodafone Global Enterprise received the HP Enables small and integrated fixed and mobile communications solutions Supplier of the Year Award for its role in delivering globally medium size business where we host and maintain the entire service in the cloud to consistent managed mobility services to Hewlett Packard.
customers to combine help customers reduce costs and simplify administration.
their fixed and mobile Vodafone One Net for example, brings together fixed and In October 2010 we acquired Quickcomm and TnT communications into mobile communications in one system and now has around Expense Management, which are specialist providers of a single service with 1.4 million end users in six markets.
Through our partnership telecommunications expense management services.
The one number, one voice with Microsoft we provide our customers with hosted acquisitions will strengthen our ability to provide our mailbox and one bill.
email, conferencing and collaboration services in a single enterprise customers with greater visibility and control over package called Microsoft Online suite, which is now available their combined fixed line and mobile expenditure.
In the area of health, Vodafone Global Enterprise is working Domestic companies with partners such as Novartis on innovative health projects.
For larger domestic companies we provide unified Further information is contained in Sustainable business communications solutions delivering integrated mobile and on page 30. fixed services, fixed voice and data services, IP virtual private networks and network integration services.
B Bu us si in ne es ss s re rev vi ie ew w Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 23 Vodafone TV This is a new service, launched in four markets, that provides a wide range of content over the airwaves through a fixed line broadband connection.
In Germany it is supplied through an innovative hybrid set-top box which delivers free and pay TV channels transmitted by satellite, cable or broadband.
It also provides on-demand films and TV programmes, and other premium content.
Focus on key areas of growth potential: Total communications To meet customers total communications needs beyond immediately after purchase via the USB broadband modem just mobile we have developed our fixed line capabilities and then later with fixed broadband when this has been including voice calls and broadband data, to provide a full provisioned.
During the year we have enriched this product in suite of services.
We can integrate customers mobile and fixed our largest fixed markets Germany, Italy and Spain through line communications into one service and provide related the integration of digital living network alliance DLNA services such as Vodafone TV.
Enterprise customers in capabilities which facilitates the sharing of digital media particular have shown an increasing demand for receiving all between different electronic devices.
For example, a DLNA their communication products from one company.
compliant TV can operate with a DLNA compliant PC to play music or videos, or display photos.
Approach Vodafone DSL Router Our European strategy is to obtain long-term access to fast We have been offering triple play services fixed broadband, The DSL Router fixed broadband to service high value customers in a capital voice and TV in Portugal since 2009.
This year we increased comes complete with efficient manner.
Access is obtained through wholesale our presence in the home TV market by launching services in a Vodafone Mobile agreements, partnerships or acquisitions.
Broadband USB stick so customers can have Fixed services Application services instant access to the Fixed broadband and voice account for around 8% of We offer a range of total communications applications as well internet while their fixed our service revenue.
We have fixed services in 13 countries with as services for enterprise and consumer customers.
6.1 million fixed broadband customers at 31 March 2011, example Vodafone Always Best Connected software enables a 9.5% increase over the previous year.
In addition, through customers to stay connected to the internet on the best Gateway, we provide wholesale carrier services in over 40 available connection wherever they are by automatically African countries.
managing the switching between connection types including mobile broadband, Wi-Fi and LAN.
Vodafone PC Backup is an Combining fixed and mobile services online back-up and restore service that enables users to The Vodafone DSL Router, now available in 11 markets, up remotely store data securely and automatically via their from six markets the previous year, combines mobile and fixed internet connection.
This means customers can connect 24 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 Mobile payments an application of NFC Vodafone, ABN AMRO, ING, KPN, Rabobank and T-Mobile signed a letter of intent this year to create a joint venture company and introduce simple and secure mobile payments at checkouts in the Netherlands.
It is an early example of how Vodafone is leading the market for mobile payments in partnership with other mobile network operators and major banks.
Focus on key areas of growth potential: New services We have strategically chosen to expand into a number of new Financial services growth segments to create additional revenue and enhanced Vodafone M-Pesa is now live in six markets.
Further information customer experience that complement our core voice and is contained in Focus on key areas of growth potential: data products.
Machine-to-machine M2M Near field communication NFC M2M connections allow devices to communicate with one NFC allows communication between devices when they are another via built-in mobile SIM cards.
This allows us to offer touched together or brought within a few centimetres of each services such as fleet tracking and asset management, remote other.
We aim to make mobile phones the preferred device for monitoring of, for example, vending machines, cash machines most personal transactions including payments, tickets, Vodafone Ad Plus and building management, as well as security and surveillance.
coupons, identification and the provision of information.
We in Romania allows We are now serving around 5.3 million M2M connections have been developing mobile NFC standards since 2006, have companies to access around the world.
Further information is contained in Focus conducted trials in several markets and are now developing by SMS an opted in on key areas of growth potential: Enterprise on page 22 and services and partnerships in preparation for commercial customer base of up to Sustainable business on page 30. launch in key markets.
Research in Romania Third party billing Mobile advertising shows almost 58% We work with third party content and service providers to We have an established mobile advertising business in 18 of our customers like simplify our customers experience when they purchase countries with a wide range of capabilities.
The fast adoption of to receive relevant applications and content by letting our customers charge smartphone devices is promoting mobile as an alternative adverts on their mobile.
these services direct to their mobile account charge to bill.
channel to reach consumers and we are collaborating We provide a single technical interface to these providers to with other mobile network operators to make the most of the reach all our European customers and we plan to expand this potential of mobile advertising.
reach to other parts of the world over the 2012 financial year.
B Bu us si in ne es ss s re rev vi ie ew w Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 25 Delivering cost efficiency from sharing resources This year we established two shared service centres in India to provide quick, simple and cost effective customer contact points for our technology and business operations and data services for our finance and administration functions in seven European markets and across India.
We expect to gain significant benefits to help consolidate, standardise and optimise the way we run our operations.
Deliver value and efficiency from scale Against a background of continual price pressures due to Our achievements to date competition and regulation we continually seek to improve We have been taking advantage of the large scale of our 70% our cost efficiency.
During the year we reduced our European networks.
We are sharing base station sites where this New radio sites operating costs by 4% on an organic basis, equivalent to makes commercial sense in order to reduce site rental and deployed this year saving over 140 million.
We have used the savings to fund maintenance costs.
We have also renegotiated leases on most built as shared investment in customer facing activities and growth areas of our sites, are standardising the technology we deploy, and sites to reduce such as data and enterprise services.
have reduced the energy consumption of our sites and operating costs switching centres.
We are reducing costs in maintenance and Our cost advantage field activities in particular through outsourcing.
Based on external independent benchmarking we have Over favourable comparative cost positions in many markets.
This We use the Vodafone Procurement Company, the central reflects both our scale as one of the worlds largest mobile Group procurement function based in Luxembourg, to 140m communications companies by revenue and our ongoing leverage our scale to achieve better prices, more value and Reduction in organic cost focus.
drive standardisation across the business.
We have further European operating reduced costs by centralising the purchasing of handsets.
Our costs due to our Cost position vs competitors large size also allows us to drive ethical, health and safety, cost saving 1 Network: cost to carry a unit of data Top quartile position labour and environmental standards with our suppliers and also to get the best rates on warehousing, inbound and Terminals: cost to purchase outbound logistics, and repair costs.
1 a handset Top quartile position 2 General supplies 4% better than Our shared service centres in Hungary, India and Egypt have global benchmark allowed us to reduce costs as well as deliver better service.
Notes: Additionally, we have outsourced application development 1 AT Kearney Executive Summary Report.
and maintenance to third party providers on multi-year 2 The Hackett Groups world class benchmarking.
26 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 Verizon Wireless In the US, our associate Verizon Wireless has continued to perform strongly.
Organic service revenue increased by 5.8% led by a 3.1% increase in the customer base to 88.4 million and strong data revenue growth driven by increased smartphone penetration.
Verizon Wireless launched 4G LTE services in December 2010 and began distribution of the iPhone on its network in February 2011.
Generate liquidity or free cash flow from non-controlled interests Non-controlled interests constitute around 40% based on third Polkomtel party estimates of the value of the Groups assets.
We aim to Polkomtel trades as Plus in Poland and is a leading operator in 39% maximise the value of these interests either by generating Poland.
Along with the four other owners we are exploring Group adjusted liquidity or increasing free cash flow in order to fund profitable options for a sale of the business.
operating profit from investment and enhance shareholder returns.
Verizon Wireless Bharti Airtel 2010: 36% Verizon Wireless Bharti is the market leader in India.
Following the purchase of Verizon Wireless is our largest non-controlled interest, in which our controlling interest in Vodafone Essar in India in 2007, we we have an equity interest of 45%.
It is the revenue market leader sold 5.6% of our stake in Bharti in 2008 and retained a 4.4% in the US and performed strongly this year with service revenue indirect interest.
To create additional value we are working closely with Verizon Wireless on several initiatives that leverage Sale of interests our combined scale and scope including purchasing of network In September 2010 we sold our 3.2% interest in China Mobile equipment, IT and services, technology enhancements and Limited for 4.3 billion.
In November 2010 we sold our interests propositions for multinational companies.
We received around in SoftBank of Japan for 3.1 billion and approximately half of 1.0 billion in dividends this year, in relation to tax related the proceeds have been received to date and used to reduce dividend receipts see Dividends from associates and to nonthe Groups net debt.
The remaining proceeds are expected to controlling shareholders on page 48 for further information, be received in April 2012.
In April 2011 we announced the sale which was substantially less than our proportionate share of of our 44% interest in SFR, the second largest mobile operator Verizon Wireless free cash flow which shows the material in France, for 6.8 billion.
The transaction, which is subject to opportunity for incremental returns.
competition authority and regulatory approvals, is expected to complete during the second calendar quarter of 2011.
Proceeds from the sale of all of these interests are being used to reduce net debt and committed to a 6.8 billion buyback of our shares of which 2.6 billion has been completed to date.
B Bu us si in ne es ss s re rev vi ie ew w Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 27 Creating value for shareholders We aim to increase shareholder returns through regular dividends and one-off returns.
In 2009 we established a target to grow total dividends per share by at least 7% per annum until the financial year ending 31 March 2013, and consistent with this, total dividends per share increased by 7.1% in 2011 to 8.90 pence per share.
In addition, we have committed 6.8 billion to buying back our shares, of which 2.6 billion has been returned to date.
Apply rigorous capital discipline to investment decisions Discipline of regular business reviews Selective acquisitions We are focused on enhancing returns to our shareholders and When managing capital we also consider whether to 7% are therefore careful how we invest shareholders money.
We strengthen the Group by acquiring other companies to Target annual regularly review the cash needs of each of our businesses increase our operations in a particular market.
All potential increase in total across the globe, taking into account their performance and acquisitions are judged on strict financial and commercial dividends per share competitive position.
criteria, especially whether they would provide meaningful until March 2013 scale in a particular segment, the cost of the acquisition and How we invest your money the ability to enhance the Groups free cash flow.
For example, Organic investment in March 2011 we announced our intention to acquire Low We make capital investments, such as for new equipment BelCompany BV, the Netherlands largest independent or spectrum, in our existing businesses to improve their telecom retailer, which will expand our Dutch stores from single A performance and drive organic growth.
Target long-term credit rating Returns to shareholders Investment principles We thoroughly review the best ways to provide returns to our All of our investments, whether in existing businesses shareholders.
We have a target of increasing total dividends or acquisitions, are subject to rigorous commercial analysis per share by at least 7% a year until the financial year ending and demanding hurdle rates the minimum rate of return on an 31 March 2013.
When we have surplus funds we consider investment to ensure they enhance shareholder returns.
We additional returns to shareholders through special dividends remain committed to our target credit rating of low single A for or share buyback programmes.
long-term debt as this provides us with a low cost of debt and good access to liquidity from financial institutions.
