4 Vodafone Group Plc 2011 Review of the Year and Notice of Annual General Meeting Strategy in action Review of the year We have performed well this year, combining a better operational performance with good strategic progress.
Organic service revenue growth improved during the year, with a strong result from emerging markets and signs of renewed growth in some parts of Europe.
In November 2010 we announced an updated strategy, designed to build on the progress made during my first two years as CEO.
I am pleased to say that we are making good progress in each area.
We enter the new financial year in a strong position.
We are gaining or holding market share in most of our major markets, and are leading our competitors in the drive to migrate customers to smartphones and data packages.
We will continue to focus on our key growth areas of data, enterprise and emerging markets, while maintaining investment in network quality and the development of new services.
Vittorio Colao Chief Executive Our strategic goals Focus on key areas We aim to deliver organic service revenue growth of 1-4% per year until the year ending 31 March 2014.
We see five key areas of growth potential of growth potential: mobile data: accelerate mobile data growth opportunity: emerging markets: increase mobile penetration and data adoption: enterprise: selectively expand growth segments: total communications: continue to develop the adoption of converged fixed and mobile services: and new services: expand into new growth areas including machine-to-machine and financial services.
Deliver value and We will continue to drive benefit from the Groups scale advantage and maintain our focus on cost.
We have favourable efficiency from scale cost positions in many markets and intend to generate further significant savings from technology standardisation, off-shoring, outsourcing and platform sharing.
Generate liquidity or We will seek to maximise the value of non-controlled interests either through generating liquidity or increasing free cash free cash flow from flow in order to fund profitable investment and enhance non-controlled shareholder returns.
interests Apply rigorous We will continue to apply capital discipline to our investment decisions through rigorous commercial analysis and capital discipline to demanding investment criteria to ensure any investment investment decisions in existing businesses or acquisitions will enhance value for shareholders.
We aim to maintain our low single A long-term credit rating.
Notes: 1 See Principal risk factors and uncertainties on pages 45 to 46 of the Annual Report for more 2 Organic growth which presents performance on a comparable basis, both in terms details on the risks facing our business and Corporate governance Risk management and of merger and acquisition activity and foreign exchange rates.
Risk mitigation on page 59 of the Annual Report for detail on how we manage and mitigate risk.
3 India, Vodacom, Egypt, Turkey, Ghana, Qatar, and Fiji.
Vodafone Group Plc 2011 Review of the Year and Notice of Annual General Meeting 5 Our business in India has grown from 28 million customers at the time of acquisition in May 2007 to become our largest market with over 134 million customers at 31 March 2011. Business drivers How we measure our progress The following are some of our principal business 1 drivers which may influence our performance 2 A number of factors may impact the prices Key revenue performance indicators we charge and therefore the revenue we 2009 2010 2011 receive including: Service revenue growth 0.3 % 1.6 % 2.1% competition: Data revenue growth 25.9% 19.3% 26.4% regulatory decisions and legislation on 3 4 Emerging markets service revenue growth 6.4% 7.9% 11.8% mobile termination rates, international 5 roaming charges and the availability Europe enterprise service revenue growth 4.8 % 0.5% and cost of spectrum: and Fixed line revenue growth 2.1% 7.9% 5.2% changes in macroeconomic conditions.
The net savings from our cost efficiency Organic European operating expenses 4.1 programmes may be impacted by inflationary bn 3.9 pressures and the volume of traffic on our 3.7 networks which can affect our operating costs.
Net savings will be used either to invest in commercial activities or respond to competitor activity or retained for margin enhancement.
2009 2010 2011 In those businesses in which we have a Dividends and sale proceeds from 5.9 non-controlling interest, matters such as the non-controlled interests bn 6 timing and amount of cash distribution may Dividend income from non-controlled interests require the consent of our partners which can Cash received from the sale of non-controlled 7 influence the level of free cash flow we receive interests from that business.
0.5 0.5 0.4 2009 2010 2011 The returns we make on investments may be Return to shareholders bn impacted by competitor activity, regulatory Dividends paid decisions and macroeconomic conditions Share buybacks 2.1 that affect our commercial position, financial performance and the market environment in 1.0 4.5 which we operate.
4.1 4.0 The cost of financing investment and hence 15.7bn the return on investment may be influenced by Total returns to shareholders changes in credit markets or our credit ratings.
over the last three years.
2009 2010 2011 Notes: 4 Excludes India, Ghana and Qatar as these were not owned for the full financial year.
7 A further 1.5 billion is expected be received in April 2012 from the sale of the Groups 5 Information not available.
6 Excludes tax related dividend receipts from Verizon Wireless.
