Vodafone Group Plc 2011 Review of the Year and Notice of Annual General Meeting 1 Chairmans statement I leave Vodafone with huge optimism for its future Dividend per share pence 8.90 8.31 7.77 2009 2010 2011 Improving operational performance Corporation.
She joined the Board in January 2011 and it is After the macroeconomic shocks of the previous financial year clear that her industry knowledge and expertise will make and the business challenges that accompanied them, our a strong contribution to the Group through another period overall operating environment did not deteriorate further of rapid technological change.
The Board welcomed the during the year.
Most markets saw economic growth recover, publication in February of the Davies Review on Women on although southern Europe remained weaker.
Within this Boards and in line with its recommendations, it is our context, the Group has performed well.
We achieved organic aspiration to have a minimum of 25% female representation service revenue growth of 2.1%, a significant change in on the Board by 2015. momentum from last years 1.6% decline.
Our adjusted operating profit was up 3.1% at 11.8 billion, reflecting a stable After five years as Chairman I am retiring from the Board at performance in our controlled operations and strong growth the AGM in July.
It has been a privilege to chair a Board of such Instant Network in the contribution from Verizon Wireless, our US associate.
diverse and rich experience, and to help steer the Group Our Mobiles for Good through the challenges of a dynamic industry and an programme, combining our Delivering value from non-controlled interests uncertain economic environment.
As a Board, our goal has technology with our giving, During the year, we successfully disposed of our holdings in always been to make the right decisions based on the longsaw the launch of Instant China Mobile Limited and SoftBank, generating proceeds of term opportunities for the business.
Our approach has led to Network, a partnership 7.4 billion.
Just after the year end, we were pleased to strong returns to shareholders over the last five years.
with Telecoms Sans announce the sale of our 44% interest in SFR, the number two Total shareholder return since July 2006 has been 85%, Frontieres which enables mobile operator in France.
compared to 22% for the FTSE 100. a network to be deployed from three suitcases, Increasing shareholder returns I am delighted to welcome Gerard Kleisterlee as Vodafones covering 10 sq km for This time last year the Board put in place a target to grow total new Chairman.
As CEO of Philips, Gerard spent ten successful usage of up to 12,000 dividends per share by at least 7% per annum over the years at the helm of an international consumer technology people.
Field trials are following three years, and I am pleased to announce a 7.1% business, and the Group is certain to make continued good currently underway.
increase in the final dividend for the March 2011 year, giving progress under his stewardship.
I wish him, and the Group, all a total payout for the year of 8.90 pence.
In addition, from the best for the future.
the proceeds from our portfolio rationalisation, we have committed 6.8 billion to share buyback programmes.
Annual General Meeting Total shareholder return Combined with the dividend, this takes total committed The Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity for the 2011 financial year shareholder returns during the year to 15.7 billion, or 17% Companys shareholders to communicate with the directors 23% of our market capitalisation at 31 March 2011.
Including share and I sincerely hope that you will take the opportunity to do so.
price appreciation, our total shareholder return for the year Your directors consider that the Resolutions on pages 7 and 8 was 23%, compared to 8% for the FTSE 100. are in the best interests of shareholders and they recommend that shareholders vote FOR the Resolutions.
8% Tax policy During the year, the Group has been involved in two high I would strongly encourage you, regardless of the number of profile tax cases in the UK and India.
Our tax policy is shares you own, to vote and details on how to do this are straightforward: we pay taxes that are due in the countries set out on page 12.
The results of voting on all the Resolutions Vodafone FTSE 100 where we make profits or record capital gains in line with the will be announced via the Regulatory News Service and prevailing legislation of those jurisdictions.
published on the Companys website as soon as possible after the end of the meeting.
The Vodafone Foundation Through the Vodafone Foundation and our network of national Your Board appreciates your continuing support.
affiliate foundations we support communities and societies in the countries in which we operate.
In this financial year we invested a total of 50 million in foundation programmes and social causes.
The Board During the year the Board appointed Renee James as a Sir John Bond non-executive director.
Renee is Senior Vice President and Chairman General Manager of the Software and Services Group for Intel
