Governance Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 59 substantive resolutions at our AGMs are decided on a poll.
The poll is incidence and impact on the business of risks that do materialise and in conducted by our registrars and scrutinised by Electoral Reform Services.
ensuring that the costs of operating particular controls are proportionate to The proxy votes cast in relation to all resolutions, including details of votes the benefit.
withheld, are disclosed to those in attendance at the meeting and the results of the poll are published on our website and announced via the Regulatory Risk management News Service.
Financial and other information is made available on our We have a Risk Council to manage the process of identifying, evaluating, website www.
com investor which is regularly updated.
The Risk Council is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, facilitated by the Group Audit Director and attended by A summary of our share and control structures is set out on pages 135 and representatives from the two geographic regions, finance and a cross 136 in the shareholder information section of this report.
Meeting twice a year, the Risk Council discusses and reviews the risks identified by the senior management of the regions and functions in their area of business.
The risks are plotted on a risk matrix on Political donations the basis of the likelihood of those risks occurring and the impact if they do The directors consider that it is in the best interest of shareholders that we occur taking into consideration the action being taken to manage and participate in public debate and opinion forming on matters which affect our mitigate them.
Those risk assessments are presented to the Executive business.
In order not to inhibit these activities and to avoid inadvertent Committee and the Audit Committee which in turn report to the Board for infringement of the Companies Act 2006, at the 2008 AGM the directors review and confirmation.
The Group risks identified through this process are sought and received shareholders approval for the Company and its included in Principal risk factors and uncertainties on pages 45 and 46.
The subsidiaries to be authorised, for the purposes of part 14 of the Companies Risk Council ensures the ongoing review of risks to the business, the controls Act 2006, to make political donations and to incur political expenditure in place to mitigate risks and identifies any further action required.
during the period from the AGM to the conclusion of the AGM for the 2012 financial year or 29 July 2012, whichever is earlier, up to a maximum Risk mitigation aggregate amount of 100,000 per year.
Neither the Company nor any of its Although many risks remain outside of our direct control, a range of activities subsidiaries have made any such political donations during the year.
It is our are in place to mitigate the primary risks identified including those set out Group policy not to make political donations or incur political expenditure on pages 45 to 46.
A significant number of risks faced relate to the wider as those expressions are normally understood.
operational and commercial affairs of the Group including those in relation to competitor and regulator activity, the impact of technological Internal control developments, the development of new products and services, the success The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal control.
of cost reduction initiatives, the realisation of benefits from investments and A sound system of internal control is designed to manage rather than the potential reliance on certain suppliers.
The responsibility for the Groups eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only actions to address and mitigate these risks is either allocated to personnel provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material with direct functional responsibility for the matter or to operating company misstatement or loss.
The process of managing the risks associated with and regional management with appropriate reporting and monitoring by the social, environmental and ethical impacts is also discussed under Risk Council and Executive Committee.
The size of the Groups operations, Sustainable business on pages 30 to 31. its geographical spread and its large and diverse customer base assist in mitigating these risks.
The Board has established procedures that implement in full the Turnbull Guidance Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined A range of mitigations for other risks faced by the Group are also in place: Code for the year under review and to the date of approval of the annual report.
These procedures, which are subject to regular review, provide an Macroeconomic, political and legal risks are considered by the Groups ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant strategic planning process and as part of the Groups processes for risks we face.
See page 75 for managements report on internal control over capital allocation.
The Group has in place formal treasury policies that seek to ensure the Groups financing plans place appropriate weight on the risks arising from volatile capital markets.
Monitoring and review activities Where we do not have controlling interests in certain of our investments, There are clear processes for monitoring the system of internal control and we work with our partners to maximise alignment of interests through the reporting any significant control failings or weaknesses together with details development of mutually beneficial commercial outcomes and actively of corrective action.
These include: involve ourselves in the governance of the company concerned.
The potential for health risks is comprehensively addressed through a a formal annual confirmation provided by the Chief Executive and Chief wide range of activities including the close monitoring of developments Financial Officer of each Group company certifying the operation of their in areas of science and technology and ensuring the devices sold meet all control systems and highlighting any weaknesses, the results of which necessary regulatory requirements including specific absorption rate are reviewed by regional management, the Audit Committee and SAR limits in relation to radio frequency emission and absorption.
the Board: We have invested significantly to minimise the risk of disruption of our a review of the appropriateness of disclosures undertaken by the Chief telecommunications services and have extensive business continuity Executive and the Chief Financial Officer which includes formal annual arrangements to mitigate the risks arising from a critical system failure.
meetings with the Groups Disclosure Committee: and periodic examination of business processes on a risk basis including Activity and progress on these matters are reported both into the Risk reports on controls throughout the Group undertaken by the Group Council and the Executive Committee.
internal audit department which reports directly to the Audit Committee.
In addition, we review any reports from the external auditor presented to the Review of effectiveness Audit Committee and management relating to internal financial controls.
The Board and the Audit Committee have reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control system including financial, operational and compliance Any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, controls and risk management, in accordance with the Combined Code for can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance of achieving the the period from 1 April 2010 to 17 May 2011 the date of approval of our desired control objectives.
Management is required to apply judgement in annual report.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified during evaluating the risks we face in achieving our objectives, in determining the this review.
However, had there been any such failings or weaknesses, risks that are considered acceptable to bear, in assessing the likelihood of the Board confirms that necessary actions would have been taken to the risks concerned materialising, in identifying our ability to reduce the remedy them.
