Governance Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 57 Consequently, some changes in Board practice are being implemented, requirements of Rule 10A-3 of the US Securities Exchange Act 1934 the including extending the duration of Audit Committee meetings and Exchange Act, as its financial expert on the Audit Committee.
Further details allocating more time in the Board schedule for strategy discussions.
The on Nick Land can be found in Board of directors and Group management Board will continue to review its procedures, its effectiveness and on page 53. development in the financial year ahead.
The Audit Committees responsibilities include: Re-election of directors overseeing the relationship with the external auditor: Although not required by the articles of association, in the interests of good reviewing our preliminary results announcement, half-year results and corporate governance the directors have resolved that, subject to the annual financial statements: recommendation of the Nominations and Governance Committee, they will monitoring compliance with statutory and listing requirements for any all submit themselves for re-election at each AGM.
Accordingly, at the AGM exchange on which our shares and debt instruments are quoted: to be held on 26 July 2011, all the directors will offer themselves for reviewing the scope, extent and effectiveness of the activity of the Group re-election with the exception of Sir John Bond who is retiring from the internal audit department: Board.
New directors seek election for the first time in accordance with the engaging independent advisors as it determines is necessary and to articles of association.
perform investigations: reporting to the Board on the quality and acceptability of our accounting Independent advice policies and practices including, without limitation, critical accounting The Board recognises that there may be occasions when one or more of the policies and practices: and directors feels it is necessary to take independent legal and or financial playing an active role in monitoring our compliance efforts in respect of advice at the Companys expense.
There is an agreed procedure to enable Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
At least twice a year the Audit Committee meets separately with the external Indemnification of directors auditor, the Chief Financial Officer and the Group Audit Director without In accordance with our articles of association and to the extent permitted by other management being present.
Further details on the work of the Audit the laws of England and Wales, directors are granted an indemnity from the Committee and its oversight of the relationships with the external auditor Company in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
In respect can be found under Auditor and the Report from the Audit Committee of those matters for which the directors may not be indemnified, we which are set out on pages 60 and 61. maintained a directors and officers liability insurance policy throughout the financial year.
Neither our indemnity nor the insurance provides cover in the Nominations and Governance Committee event that a director is proven to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
The members of the Nominations and Governance Committee during the year, together with a record of their attendance at meetings which they were Board committees eligible to attend, are set out below: The Board has established an Audit Committee, a Nominations and Meetings attended Governance Committee and a Remuneration Committee, each of which has Sir John Bond, Chairman 7 7 formal terms of reference approved by the Board.
The Board reviews the John Buchanan 7 7 terms of reference for each of the committees on an ongoing basis and is Luc Vandevelde 7 7 satisfied that they comply with the requirements of the Combined Code.
Anthony Watson from 26 July 2010 5 5 The terms of reference for all Board committees can be found on our website at www.
com governance or a copy can be obtained by application The Nominations and Governance Committees key objective is to ensure to the Company Secretary at our registered office.
that the Board comprises individuals with the requisite skills, knowledge and experience to ensure that it is effective in discharging its responsibilities.
The The committees are provided with all necessary resources to enable them Nominations and Governance Committee: to undertake their duties in an effective manner.
The Company Secretary or her delegate acts as secretary to the committees.
The minutes of committee leads the process for identifying and making recommendations to the meetings are circulated to all directors.
Board of candidates for appointment as directors giving full consideration to succession planning and the leadership needs of the Group: Each committee has access to such information and advice, both from makes recommendations to the Board on the composition of the within the Group and externally, at the Companys cost as it deems Nominations and Governance Committee and the composition and necessary.
This may include the appointment of external consultants where chairmanship of the Audit and Remuneration Committees: appropriate.
Each committee undertakes an annual review of the regularly reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board effectiveness of its terms of reference and makes recommendations to the including the balance of skills, knowledge and experience and the Board for changes where appropriate.
independence of the non-executive directors, and makes recommendations to the Board with regard to any change: and Audit Committee is responsible for the oversight of all matters relating to corporate The members of the Audit Committee during the year, together with a governance, bringing any issues to the attention of the Board.
record of their attendance at meetings which they were eligible to attend, are set out below: During the financial year an external search was commissioned, using an independent consulting firm which actively searches for female as well as Meetings attended male candidates, for a non-executive director with relevant international Nick Land, Chairman and financial expert 4 4 experience in the high-tech sector.
Renee James was identified as a potential John Buchanan 4 4 candidate and subsequently recommended to the Board by the Alan Jebson 4 4 Nominations and Governance Committee on the basis that she met the Anne Lauvergeon 3 4 desired criteria.
The Audit Committee is comprised of financially literate members having the In February 2010 the Board initiated a succession planning process to search necessary ability and experience to understand financial statements.
The independent consulting firm was provided with a for the purpose of fulfilling the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and detailed brief of the desired candidate profile and their services were used the Combined Code, the Board has designated Nick Land, who is an to conduct a thorough search to identify suitable candidates.
The independent non-executive director satisfying the independence Nominations and Governance Committee considered a list of potential
