64 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 Directors remuneration continued The remuneration package The table below summarises the main components of the reward package for executive directors.
Objective and practice Performance period Award size and performance conditions Base salary To attract and retain the best talent.
n a Level of skill and experience, scope of responsibilities, Base salaries are reviewed annually and set individual and business performance, and competitiveness on 1 July.
of the total remuneration package are taken into account when determining the appropriate level of base salary.
Global Short-Term To motivate employees and incentivise 1 year Performance over the financial year is measured against Incentive Plan delivery of performance over the one-year stretching financial and non-financial performance GSTIP operating cycle.
targets set at the start of the financial year.
Bonus levels and the appropriateness of Summary of the plan in the 2011 financial year: measures and weightings are reviewed service revenue 30% : annually to ensure they continue to support operating profit 20% : our strategy.
free cash flow 20% : and The annual bonus is paid in cash in June each competitive performance assessment 30%.
year for performance over the previous Target bonus is 100% of base salary.
Minimum and maximum bonus is in a range of 0 200% of base salary with maximum only paid out for exceptional performance.
Global Long-Term To motivate and incentivise delivery of 3 years Performance over three financial years is measured Incentive Plan sustained performance over the long-term.
against stretching targets set at the beginning of the GLTI Award levels and the framework for performance period.
base awards determining vesting are reviewed annually to Vesting is determined based on a matrix of two ensure they continue to support our strategy.
measures as follows: Long-term incentive awards base awards free cash flow as our operational performance consist of performance shares which are measure: and granted each year in June July and vest three relative TSR as our external performance measure.
years later based on Group operational and Awards vest to the extent performance conditions are external performance.
satisfied, three years from grant.
The Chief Executives base award will have a target face value of 137.5% of base salary as of June 2011.
The base award for the other executive directors will have a target face value of 110% of base salary as of June 2011.
Minimum vesting is zero times and maximum vesting is four times the base award level.
Global Long-Term To support and encourage greater 3 years GLTI matching awards are subject to the same Incentive Plan shareholder alignment through a high level performance conditions as the main GLTI award.
GLTI of personal financial commitment.
Executive directors can co-invest up to their annual co-investment Individuals may purchase Vodafone shares gross salary.
matching awards and hold them in trust for three years in order Matching awards will be granted on a one for one basis to receive additional performance shares in at target performance.
the form of a GLTI matching award.
Minimum vesting is zero times and maximum vesting is GLTI matching awards are granted each year four times the target award level.
in June July in line with the investment made, and vest three years later based on Group operational and external performance.
Other remuneration In addition to base pay and incentive opportunities as described in the table above, the Company offers a competitive package of retirement and other benefits as follows: Executive directors may choose to participate in the defined contribution pension scheme or to receive a cash allowance in lieu of pension.
The cash payment or pension contribution is equal to 30% of annual gross salary.
From 6 April 2011 contributions into the defined contribution pension scheme are restricted to 50,000 per annum.
Any residual of the 30% pension benefit will be delivered as a cash allowance.
Company car or cash allowance worth 19,200 per annum.
Chauffeur services, where appropriate, to assist with their role.
