62 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 Directors remuneration Letter from the Remuneration Committee In order to ensure greater alignment with shareholders we have re-emphasised the importance of share ownership for executives and Dear Shareholder have introduced share ownership goals to all our operating company Although business conditions were somewhat more stable this year chief executives and to the rest of the senior leadership team.
Details compared to the prior year, the global economy still remained of the current ownership levels are on page 63 where it is noted that challenging.
As a consequence, the Remuneration Committee has at the year end the value of shares held by the Executive Committee maintained its focus on ensuring that the Companys remuneration exceeded 15 million.
policies in general, and the packages of the executive directors in Finally after reviewing base salaries for the Executive Committee it was particular, were designed to allow the Company to recruit, retain and decided appropriate to make some modest salary increases.
Details of motivate its talented people and to ensure those people were fully the increases for the executive directors are found on page 67 but it incentivised to maximise shareholder value.
should be noted that the average increase for the Executive Committee is 3% which is in line with general increases for employees of the Group The key principles of our reward philosophy are set out on page 63.
year the Remuneration Committee reviews these principles as well as the operation and design of the compensation packages provided to As in previous years the Remuneration Committee has had dialogue with executives.
If changes are required, the Committee is both willing and its shareholders about the changes and appreciates the feedback from able to effect those changes.
The key changes made during the year are them.
The Remuneration Committee will continue to take an active detailed below: interest in investors views and the voting on the remuneration report.
As such, it hopes to receive your support at the AGM on 26 July 2011.
In order to reflect the equal importance of growing revenue and profit we rebalanced the relative weightings of these two measures in the short-term incentive plan.
At the same time we also changed the definition of profit from adjusted operating profit to EBITDA.
Details of this are on page 65.
Luc Vandevelde In order to simplify the long-term incentive awards both the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee co-investment requirement and the matching awards are now 17 May 2011 defined in terms of a percentage of gross salary.
Details of this plan are on page 64.
Remuneration Committee External advisors The Remuneration Committee appointed Towers Watson TW and The Remuneration Committee is comprised to exercise independent  LLP pwc as independent advisors in 2007. judgement and consists only of independent non-executive directors.
In During the year TW supplied market data and advice on market practice and anticipation of the retirement of Simon Murray on 27 July 2010, the Board governance and pwc provided performance analyses and advice on plan appointed Samuel Jonah to the Remuneration Committee.
Further details design and performance measures.
The advisors also provided advice to the can be found on page 58.
Company on general human resource and compensation related matters.
In addition, pwc provided a broad range of tax, share scheme and advisory Remuneration Committee services to the Group during the year.
Chairman Luc Vandevelde Committee members Samuel Jonah from 1 June 2010 As noted in his biographical details on page 53 of this annual report, Simon Murray until 27 July 2010 Philip Yea sits on an advisory board for pwc.
In light of their role as advisor to Anthony Watson the Remuneration Committee on remuneration matters, the Committee Philip Yea continue to consider this position and have determined that there is no conflict or potential conflict arising.
The Remuneration Committee regularly consults with the Chief Executive and the Group HR Director on various matters relating to the appropriateness Meetings of awards for executive directors and senior executives, though they are not The Remuneration Committee had five meetings during the year.
The present when their own compensation is discussed.
In addition, the Group Committees work during these meetings and throughout the year included, Reward and Policy Director provides a perspective on information provided but was not limited to: to the Committee, and requests information and analyses from external advisors as required.
The Deputy Group Company Secretary advises the a review of the total compensation packages of the executive directors Committee on corporate governance guidelines and acts as secretary to and the most senior management of the company: the Committee.
approval of the global short-term incentive bonus framework and targets: approval of the 2011 global short-term incentive bonus payout: approval of the long-term incentive framework, targets and 2011 Management attendees at Remuneration grant levels: Committee meetings approval of the July 2008 global long-term incentive vesting level: approval of the introduction of share ownership goals to all operating Chief Executive Vittorio Colao company chief executive officers and selected senior leadership Group HR Director Ronald Schellekens individuals below the Board and Executive Committee: Group Reward and Policy Director Adrian Jackson a review of the current UK corporate governance environment and the Deputy Group Company Secretary Philip Howie implications for our company: a review of the directors remuneration report: and a review of Chairmans fees.
On an annual basis, the Committees effectiveness is reviewed as part of the evaluation of the Board.
