69 Other statutory information 2012 annual general meeting The aim is to encourage a culture in which all employees The annual general meeting will be held at 2.30pm on have the opportunity to develop fully according to their Wednesday 9 May 2012 at the Hilton Glasgow Hotel, 1 William individual abilities and the needs of the Group.
The notice of meeting along with an explanation remains committed to the fair treatment of people with of the proposed resolutions are set out in a separate circular to disabilities regarding applications, training, promotion shareholders which accompanies this annual report and can and career development.
be downloaded from the Companys website.
Employee involvement and feedback is actively encouraged.
Substantial shareholders A variety of ways are used to consult and inform employees At 29 February 2012, the Company had been notified in including a Group-wide bulletin, e-mail, intranet and local accordance with the UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure Rules and briefings.
These are designed to facilitate dialogue while Transparency Rules that the following held, or were beneficially enabling the development of a common awareness among interested in 3% or more of the Companys issued share capital: employees of what affects business performance.
Financial instruments Percentage of The information required in respect of financial instruments Number of issued share Shareholder shares capital as required by Schedule 7 of the Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations Legal & General 10,646,643 5.03% 2008 is given in note 30 to the Group financial statements on BlackRock 10,607,332 5.02% page 113 to 121.
AXA 10,477,626 4.96% Auditors Aberdeen Asset Management 10,443,509 4.96% A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys FMR Corp 6,425,000 3.09% auditors will be put to the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Share capital and rights attaching to the Companys shares Since the date of disclosure to the Company, the interest of any Details of the issued share capital of the Company, which shareholder listed above may have increased or decreased.
No comprises a single class of shares, ordinary shares of 12.5p requirement to notify the Company of any increase or decrease each, are set out in note 25 to the Group financial statements would have arisen unless the holding moved up or down through on page 108.
The rights attaching to the shares are set out in a whole number percentage level.
The percentage level may the articles of association.
There are no special control rights in increase if the Company cancelled shares pursuant to the power relation to the Companys shares and the Company is not aware to purchase its own shares or decrease on the issue of new of any agreements between shareholders that may result in shares under the LTIP.
restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
Material contracts During the period, the 2008 LTIP award vested and the trustees There are no persons with whom the Company has contractual of the Companys employees benefit trust EBT, Kleinwort or other arrangements which are essential to the business of Benson Guernsey Trustees Limited, transferred 37,143 ordinary the Company.
shares to employees to satisfy the LTIP awards using ordinary Employment policy and involvement shares purchased by the EBT in the market.
A further 369,291 The average number of employees in the Group during the ordinary shares were transferred out of treasury to satisfy awards period is given in note 4 to the Group financial statements under the LTIP.
In addition, a total of 212,853 ordinary shares, on page 87. with an aggregate value of 26,606.63 were allotted during the period in connection with the Companys LTIP.
Group companies operate within a framework of HR policies, practices and regulations appropriate to their market sector The EBT has agreed to waive any right to all dividend payments and country of operation.
Policies and procedures for on shares held by it, with the exception of shares held in respect recruitment, training and career development promote equality of awards which have a dividend entitlement.
Details of the of opportunity regardless of gender, sexual orientation, age, shares held by the EBT are set out in note 25 to the Group marital status, disability, race, religion or other beliefs and financial statements on page 108.
The EBT holds, through its ethnic or national origin.
account nominee K. B CI Nominees Limited, 0.08% of the issued share capital of the Company, as at 30 December 2011, in trust for the benefit of certain executive directors and senior executives of the Group.
The voting rights in relation to these shares are exercised by the trustee.
The EBT may vote or abstain from voting the shares or accept or reject any offer relating to shares, in any way it sees fit, without incurring any liability and without being required to give reasons for its decision.
70 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Directors report Other statutory information continued Repurchase of shares Powers of directors At the 2011 annual general meeting, shareholders renewed the The business of the Company is managed by the directors who Companys authority to make market purchases of up to 21.08m may exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the ordinary shares representing 10% of the issued share capital provisions of the Companys articles of association, any special excluding treasury shares.
No shares were purchased under this resolution of the Company and any relevant legislation.
authority during the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2011 and Change of control significant agreements at the forthcoming annual general meeting, the Board will again The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling seek shareholder approval to renew the annual authority for the the counterparties to require prior approval, exercise termination, Company to make market purchases.
alteration or similar rights in the event of a change of control of Voting rights the Company.
The Companys articles of association provide that on a show The Group has in place a four year US$800m multi currency of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every holder of revolving credit facility with a syndicate of 12 banks due ordinary shares present in person and by proxy and entitled to to mature in September 2014.
Under the terms of these vote shall have one vote and on a poll, every member present agreements, if there is a change of control of the Company in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote any lender may request, by not less than 30 days notice to for every ordinary share held.
The notice of the annual general the Company, that its commitment be cancelled and all meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights and outstanding amounts be repaid to that lender at the expiry appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions of such notice period.
to be passed at the annual general meeting.
The Company conducts the vote at the annual general meeting by electronic The Group has in place a three year US$300m term loan with Banc poll.
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against of America Securities Limited and HSBC Bank plc, coterminous with or withheld in relation to each resolution are announced at the the revolving credit facility.
Under the terms of these agreements, annual general meeting and published on the Companys website if there is a change of control of the Company either lender may after the meeting.
request, by not less than 30 days notice to the Company, that its commitment be cancelled and all outstanding amounts be repaid The articles of association may only be amended by a Special to that lender at the expiry of such notice period.
Resolution passed at a general meeting of shareholders.
As outlined in the Finance Review, the Company secured an Transfer of shares additional placing of fixed rate private placement notes to the There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the value of US$1bn in February 2012.
As a result, the Company Company, other than as contained in the articles of association: is now party to various note purchase agreements with The directors may refuse to register any transfer of any a range of maturities: US$90m at an interest rate of 4.2% certificated share which is not fully paid up, provided that this due in 11 January 2015, 12m at an interest rate of 4.58% due power will not be exercised so as to disturb the market in the in 11 January 2015, US$70m at an interest rate of 5.03% Companys shares.
due in 11 January 2018, 43m at an interest rate of 5.36% due in 11 January 2018, US$210m at an interest rate of 3.69% due in The directors may also refuse to register the transfer of 16 February 2019, US$590m at an interest rate of 4.27% due in a certificated share unless it is delivered to the registrars 16 February 2022 and US$200m at an interest rate of 4.34% due office, or such other place as the directors have specified, in 16 February 2023.
Under the terms of the agreements, if there accompanied by a certificate for the shares to be transferred is a change of control of the Company, the notes must be offered and such other evidence as the directors may reasonably for prepayment by the Company within seven days of the change require to prove title of the intending transferor.
The prepayment date would be no later than 60 days after the offer of prepayment by the Company.
Certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations, for example, insider trading laws, in relation to There are no agreements between the Company and its directors the transfer of shares.
or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or Appointment and replacement of directors employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy The provisions about the appointment and re-election of directors or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
of the Company are contained in the articles of association.
Alan Mitchelson Secretary Signed and approved for and on behalf of the Board 29 February 2012
