08 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Directors report Driving growth The Weir Way innovaTive 1 SoLUTionS Innovation is central to Weirs growth plans.
The development of new products and technologies provides the Group and our customers with competitive advantage.
Innovation also applies to the operational improvements that we make and how we extend our existing product ranges into new markets.
During 2011, we introduced new products in each of our key markets, focusing on enabling our customers to operate for longer, with less frequent maintenance requirements.
We invested in the infrastructure to support innovation, establishing the Weir Advanced Research Centre with Strathclyde University, providing a platform for creating breakthrough technologies in areas such as materials development and flow control.
We also continued to invest heavily in engineering resources across the Group.
Significant new product introductions during 2011 included the market leading Destiny pump for the onshore upstream oil and gas sector.
The pump offers higher output and pressure loads, responding to customer demand for equipment to meet the challenges of harsher shale A dewatering mega-barge developed by Weir Minerals Canada environments.
The new Warman WBH centrifugal slurry pump was also launched across our global minerals networks, featuring more than 20 design enhancements compared to existing technology and good progress was made on the development of new technology for nuclear markets.
One of the key differentiators of Weir products is the superiority of our materials and wear life.
This year we have committed to developing our underlying technologies with a cross-divisional team of Weir engineers and leading engineering academics from the Weir Advanced Research Centre examining how our products can benefit from the use of specialist coatings used in applications in other industries.
This project is an early example of the potential commercial application this new research framework provides The Destiny pump from Weir Oil & Gas the Group.
Enhanced engineering processes were developed throughout the year with the establishment of best practice audits and cross-divisional groups to ensure new approaches in technology can be leveraged across all our businesses.
We also invested in state-of-the-art software to enhance failure and performance analysis to ensure our engineering capability remains at the leading edge of the industry.
Innovation also applies to extending our product offering to new and existing markets.
Strong growth this year in sales of ancillary products and services, such as Linatex rubber products in the minerals and oil and gas sectors, Weir Minerals Linatex, Malaysia demonstrates how products from our recently acquired businesses are enabling the Group to build out its position in important markets.
After engineers and service experts worked with customers around the world, this year, for the first time, Minerals took a full mine dewatering product portfolio to global mining markets.
The Weir Advanced Research Centre, Strathclyde University 09 During 2011, we introduced new products in each of our key markets, focusing on enabling our customers to operate for longer, with less frequent maintenance requirements.
10 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Directors report Driving growth The Weir Way CoLLaBoRaTive 2 MinDSeT The end markets served by Weir share similar technical challenges and production characteristics, allowing us to apply expertise and engineering skills in abrasive and critical applications from all our divisions to one particular sector.
To make the most of this Group-wide capability, we work together across our businesses, divisions and regions to share expertise, solve problems and help our customers.
Weir people worked in partnership with each other, our customers and other partners throughout 2011 to optimise our performance across our key markets.
The Oil & Gas Forum, a cross-divisional initiative, uses the expertise and resources across the Group to focus on a wider customer and market base within the oil and gas sector.
The Forum has 13 projects underway, with successful trials being held, several millions of dollars in revenue generated and new products taken to market.
One example is the development of STAMPEDE, a new line of downhole packing equipment applying Minerals leading elastomer expertise to upstream oil and gas applications.
Shared engineering services in India A broadened shared engineering services capability in India, offering design, value engineering and automation solutions has provided additional engineering resources to all divisions in 2011, eliminating bottlenecks in product development and reducing product time to market.
In Africa and Australia, a new approach to sales and customer targeting has led to the Power & Industrial Division joining forces with Minerals colleagues to leverage the strength of Minerals infrastructure and operations in order to increase market share.
The alliance between Minerals and KHD Humboldt on High Pressure Grinding Rollers HPGR made good progress this year with a number of new projects secured and increasing aftermarket support for HPGR as acceptance of the HPGR technology benefits of this technology by the mill circuit industry grows.
As capital costs associated with traditional SAG mills have increased with the growth of large scale minerals processing plants, the HPGR alternative offers lower initial start up costs, which is further enhanced by reduced operating costs owing to its more efficient grinding action.
Closer collaboration with customers has also been made possible by the opening this year of new onsite service centres at some of the largest mining operations in the Asia-Pacific region, enabling Weir to provide rapid support.
STAMPEDE, the first product taken to market by the Oil & Gas Forum Weir Minerals service team at a customer site in Indonesia 11 W eir people worked in partnership with each other, our customers and other partners throughout 2011 to optimise our performance across our key markets.
12 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Directors report Driving growth The Weir Way GLoBaL 3 CaPaBiLiTY Weir is one of the few engineering solutions providers with global capability.
Around one third of our revenues during 2011 came from the fast growing economies of Asia-Pacific, South America, the Middle East and Africa as global demand for resources continues.
We are committed to be where our customers are, from upstream oil and gas production in North America to nuclear power generation in South Korea and copper mining in Chile.
This commitment to global capability enables Weir to best serve our customers and provide our products and services to new international markets.
In 2011, good progress was made in developing Weirs presence in fast growing markets.
The acquisitions of Seaboard and Novatech accelerate Weirs growth momentum in North American unconventional oil and gas markets, whilst also strengthening Weirs product offering for emergent international shale opportunities and further expanding the service footprint.
The addition to Weir Minerals Netherlands, Taicang, China the Group of the South Korean valves business, Weir International, provides access to a developing domestic market as well as to the increasing international success of Korean engineering, procurement and construction contractors.
Prompted by the growth and increasing geographical spread of US and Canadian shale drilling operations, our upstream operations have expanded manufacturing and service capacity, utilising other Group facilities in North America to support growth.
The development of North American multisite manufacturing is at an advanced stage, with key aftermarket products now produced from three sites, ensuring customer equipment is supplied, repaired and put back in the field as quickly as possible.
Weir International, South Korea Growth ambitions in China were supported by the opening by Weir Minerals Netherlands of an assembly facility for its GEHO pumps in Taicang, enhancing customer relationships by ensuring rapid original equipment and parts supply for the large installed base of GEHO pumps in China.
Weir Shengli Highland, the joint venture established in 2010 to serve the emergent onshore oil and gas drilling sector in China, assembled and tested its first pumps during the year.
Expansion of the Minerals service centre network during 2011 supported sales of a broadening product portfolio in all key mining markets.
Fifteen new centres were opened across Europe, Africa, the US, Australia and Asia-Pacific.
Weir Oil & Gas Services, Deer Park, Texas Weir Seaboard, Houston, Texas 13 We are committed to be where our customers are, from upstream oil and gas production in North America to nuclear power generation in South Korea and copper mining in Chile.
