Governance Board of Directors Board of Directors 1.
Walker Boyd joined the Board of 4.
Mike Ellis is a non-executive director Board Committees WHSmith as a non-executive director and joined the Board of WHSmith in Audit Committee inFebruary 2010 and became Chairman March2005.
He was previously Group on1 September 2010.
He retired as Group Finance Director of HBOS plc.
Prior to Mike Ellis Chairman Finance Director at Signet Jewelers this, he worked in a number of senior Drummond Hall Limited in June 2010 previously Signet executive positions at Halifax plc and its Jeff Harris Group Plc having held this position since predecessor, Halifax Building Society.
He also became Chairman of Spirit Heis Chairman of Skipton Building Society.
Pub Company plc in August 2011.
Kate Swann is Group Chief Executive director and joined the Board of WHSmith Walker Boyd Chairman and joined the Board of WHSmith in in September 2008.
He spent the early part Mike Ellis November 2003.
She started her career of his career with Procter & Gamble, Mars Drummond Hall atTesco plc before moving to positions at and PepsiCo Inc, and from 2002 to 2006 Jeff Harris Homepride Foods, Coca-Cola Schweppes was Chief Executive of Dairy Crest PLC.
Henry Staunton and Dixons Stores Group.
She then worked Kate Swann 6.
Jeff Harris is a non-executive director for Homebase, ultimately as Managing and Senior Independent Director and joined Remuneration Committee Director, before becoming Managing the Board of WHSmith in June 2011.
He Director of Argos in December 2000.
Drummond Hall Chairman was Chief Executive of Alliance Unichem Sheisalso a non-executive director Walker Boyd plc from 1986 to 2003 and Chairman ofBabcock International Group PLC.
He is also Chairman Jeff Harris 3.
Robert Moorhead is Group Finance ofFiltrona plc and Cookson Group plc.
Henry Staunton Director and joined the Board of WHSmith 7.
Henry Staunton is a non-executive in December 2008.
He joined WHSmith director and joined the Board of WHSmith in in2004 as Retail Finance Director.
He is also a non-executive Previously, he was Group Finance Director director and Vice Chairman of Legal & at Specsavers Optical Group and Finance General Group Plc, Capital and Counties and IT Director of World Duty Free Europe.
Properties plc and Merchants Trust plc.
He also held a number of roles at B&Q and Kingfisher Group.
He started his career at Ian Houghton is Company Secretary Price Waterhouse.
WH Smith PLC 30 Annual report and accounts 2011
