Directors report The directors present their report Results and dividends Share capital and accounts for the year ended Details of the issued share capital can Group profit 275.6 million 3 March 2011 be found in note 28 to the accounts.
before tax and Certain information required for exceptional disclosure in this report is provided Holders of ordinary shares are items in other appropriate sections of entitled to attend and speak at the Annual Report and Financial Group profit 271.2 million general meetings of the Company, Statements.
These include the before tax to appoint one or more proxies and, business review, the corporate and after if they are corporations, corporate governance and remuneration exceptional representatives to attend general reports and the group financial items meetings and to exercise voting statements and accordingly these rights.
Holders of ordinary shares Interim dividend 11.25p per share are incorporated into the report may receive a dividend and on paid on by reference.
a liquidation may share in the 11 January 2011 assets of the Company.
Holders Principal activities and review Recommended 33.25p per share of ordinary shares are entitled of business final dividend to receive the Companys annual The principal activities of the Group report and accounts.
Subject to Total dividend 44.50p per share are the operation of a hotels and meeting certain thresholds, holders for the year restaurants business and a coffee of ordinary shares may requisition shop business.
These operations a general meeting of the Company are largely carried out in the UK, Subject to approval at the Annual or the proposal of resolutions at although Premier Inn operates one General Meeting, the final dividend annual general meetings.
hotel in Ireland, one hotel in India will be payable on 13 July 2011 to and three hotels in Dubai via a joint shareholders on the register at the Voting rights venture.
Costa operates coffee close of business on 13 May 2011.
On a show of hands at a general shops in 24 international markets meeting of the Company, every through joint ventures or on a Board of directors holder of ordinary shares present, franchise basis, and wholly owns The directors at the date of this in person or by proxy and entitled coffee shops in Eastern Europe.
report are listed on pages 20 and to vote, has one vote unless the Details of the Groups activities, 21.
All except for Andy Harrison and proxy is appointed by more than developments and performance Ian Cheshire served throughout one member in which case the for the year, the main trends and the year.
Andy Harrison joined the proxy has one vote for and one factors likely to affect its future Board on 1 September 2010 and vote against if the proxy has been development and performance succeeded Alan Parker as Chief instructed by one or more members and information required by the Executive on 25 November 2010. to vote for the resolution and by Companies Act 2006 relating to Alan Parker stepped down from one or more members to vote the business review are set out the Board on 30 November 2010. against the resolution and on a poll on pages 2 to 19.
Details of the Ian Cheshire was appointed to the every member present in person Companys WINcard, containing Board on 1February 2011 and Philip or by proxy and entitled to vote the key performance indicators Clarke resigned from the Board with has one vote for every ordinary can be found on page 13. effect from 1 March 2011. share held.
Voting rights for any ordinary shares held in treasury are Details of the directors service suspended.
None of the ordinary contracts are given in the shares carry any special rights remuneration report on page 31. with regard to control of the None of the non-executive directors Company.
Electronic and paper has a service contract.
proxy appointments and voting instructions must be received by Details of continuing professional the Companys Registrars not later development programmes for all than i 48 hours before a meeting directors are given in the corporate or adjourned meeting excluding governance report on page 27. non-working days, or ii 24 hours before a poll is taken, if the poll is not taken on the same day as the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Unless the directors decide otherwise, a shareholder cannot attend or vote shares at any general meeting of the Company or at any separate general meeting of the holders of any class of shares in the Company or upon a poll or exercise any other right conferred by membership in relation to general meetings or polls if he has 22 not paid all amounts relating to Employee share schemes resign, iv he is or has been those shares which are due at the Whitbread does not have any suffering from mental or physical time of the meeting.
employee share scheme with shares ill health and the directors pass a which have rights with regard to resolution removing the director Restrictions on transfer of shares the control of the Company that from office, v he has missed There are the following restrictions are not exercisable directly by directors meetings whether or on the transfer of shares in the the employees.
not an alternate director appointed Company: by him attends those meetings certain restrictions which may Appointment and replacement for a continuous period of six from time to time be imposed by of directors months without permission from laws and regulations for example, Directors shall be no less than two the directors and the directors pass insider trading laws : and no more than 20 in number.
a resolution removing the director pursuant to the Companys share Directors may be appointed by the from office, vi a bankruptcy order dealing code, the directors and Company by ordinary resolution or is made against him or he makes senior executives of the Company by the Board of directors.
A director any arrangement or composition require approval to deal in the appointed by the Board holds with his creditors generally, vii he Companys shares: office until the next Annual General is prohibited from being a director where a person with at least a Meeting and is then eligible for under any applicable legislation, 0.25% interest in a class of shares election by the members.
or viii he ceases to be a director has been served with a disclosure under any applicable legislation or notice and has failed to provide At every Annual General Meeting he is removed from office under the the Company with information the following directors shall retire Companys Articles of Association.
concerning interests in those from office in accordance with the shares: Articles of Association: Amendment of the Companys the subscriber ordinary shares any director who has been Articles of Association may not be transferred without appointed by the directors since Any amendments to the Articles of the prior written consent of the the last Annual General Meeting: Association of the Company may directors: any director who held office at the be made in accordance with the the directors can, without giving time of the two preceding Annual provisions of the Companies Act any reason, refuse to register the General Meetings and who did not by way of special resolution.
transfer of any shares which are retire at either of them: and not fully paid: and any director who has been in office, Powers of the directors transfers cannot be in favour of other than as a director holding an The business of the Company is more than four joint holders.
executive position, for a continuous managed by the directors who period of nine years or more at the may exercise all the powers of The Company is not aware of any date of the meeting.
the Company, subject to the agreements between shareholders Companys Memorandum and that may result in restrictions Any director who retires at an Articles of Association, any relevant on the transfer of shares or on annual general meeting may legislation and any directions voting rights.
offer himself for reappointment given by the Company by passing by the shareholders.
a special resolution at a general B shares and C shares meeting.
In particular, the directors Holders of B shares and C shares In accordance with the UK may exercise all the powers of are entitled to receive an annual Corporate Governance Code 2010 the Company to borrow money, non-cumulative preferential to which the Company will be issue shares, appoint and remove dividend calculated at a rate of subject in respect of the 2011 12 directors and recommend and 75% of 6 month LIBOR on a value financial year and beyond, it has declare dividends.
of 155 pence per B share and 159 been decided that all directors pence per C share respectively, but will stand for re-election at the Significant agreements are not entitled to any further right forthcoming AGM.
The Companys facility agreements of participation in the profits of the and the private placement loan Company.
They are also entitled The Company may by special notes agreement, details of which to payment of 155 pence per B resolution remove any director can be found in note 22 to the share and 159 pence per C share before the expiration of his term accounts, contain provisions respectively on a return of capital of office.
entitling the counterparties to on winding-up excluding any exercise termination or other rights intra-group reorganisation on a Any director automatically stops in the event of a change of control solvent basis.
being a director if i he gives of the Company.
the Company a written notice Except in limited circumstances, of resignation, ii he gives the the holders of the B shares and Company a written notice in which C shares are not entitled, in their he offers to resign and the directors capacity as holders of such shares, decide to accept this offer, iii all to receive notice of any general of the other directors who must meeting of the Company nor to comprise at least three people attend, speak or vote at any such pass a resolution or sign a written general meeting.
notice requiring the director to 23 Directors report Contractual arrangements Major interests Employee involvement The Group has contractual As at 27 April 2011, the Company The importance of good arrangements with numerous had received formal notification, relations and communications third parties in support of its under the Disclosure and with employees is fundamental business activities, none of which Transparency Rules, of the following to the continued success of our are considered individually to material holdings in its shares: business.
Each of the Groups be essential to its business and, operating businesses maintains accordingly, it has not been No.
of % of employee relations and consults considered necessary for an shares issued employees as appropriate to its understanding of the development, share own particular needs.
Regular performance or position of the capital internal communications are made Groups business to disclose to all employees to ensure that information about any of those BlackRock 13,630,952 7.69% they are kept well informed of the third parties.
Further Schroders Plc 10,345,740 5.85% information can be found in the Financial instruments section Our people on page 12.
Information on the Companys use Legal & 6,922,924 3.94% of financial instruments, financial General Directors indemnity risk management objectives and A qualifying third party indemnity policies and exposure is given Standard Life 5,528,439 3.12% provision as defined in Section in note 25 of the consolidated Investments 236 1 of the Companies Act 2006 financial statements.
is in force for the benefit of the directors.
Compensation for loss of office Charitable and political donations There are no agreements between No direct charitable donations Purchase of own shares the Company and its directors have been made by the Company.
The Company is authorised to or employees providing for The Whitbread Charitable Trust purchase its own shares in the compensation for loss of office or made donations totalling 377,429 market.
Approval to renew this employment that occurs as a result during the year.
Costa Limited, a authority for a further year will of a takeover bid.
subsidiary of the Company, made a be sought from shareholders at direct donation of 303,000 to the the 2011 AGM.
Supplier payment policy Costa Foundation.
Further details The Company has no trade creditors about the Costa Foundation can be The Company did not purchase 4 March 2010: nil.
In addition, the any of its own shares during keeps to the payment terms which Company organised and supported the year.
14.3 million shares have been agreed with suppliers.
a number of charitable events and a representing 7.38% of the total Where payment terms have not number of its employees carried out called up share capital at the been specifically agreed, it is the charitable activities during working beginning of the year are held Groups policy to settle invoices hours.
The value of these activities as treasury shares 4 March 2010: close to the end of the month has not been quantified.
During the course of following the month of invoicing.
the year, the company transferred The Groups ability to keep to The Company has not made any 500,000 shares from treasury to these terms is dependent upon political donations during the the Employee Share Ownership suppliers sending accurate and year and intends to continue its Trust for the future satisfaction adequately detailed invoices to the policy of not doing so for the of awards under the Long Term correct address on a timely basis.
The Group had 48 days purchases outstanding at 3 March 2011 Employment policies 4 March 2010: 48 days, based on Whitbread has a range of the trade creditors at that date and employment policies covering purchases made during the year.
such issues as diversity, employee well-being and equal opportunities.
The Company takes its responsibilities to the disabled seriously and seeks not to discriminate against current or prospective employees because of any disability.
Employees who become disabled during their career at Whitbread will be retained in employment wherever possible and given help with rehabilitation and training.
24 Directors share interests The Group has considerable The interests of directors and their connected persons at the end of financial resources and, as a 122 the year in the ordinary shares of 76 p each in the Company are consequence, the directors believe 153 shown below: that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks.
Held at Held at 03 03 2011 04 03 2010 The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has Anthony Habgood 50,797 50,797 adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 2 Andy Harrison 161,673 132,234 foreseeable future.
Thus they 1 Alan Parker 184,943 45,263 continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in Patrick Dempsey 24,957 15,938 preparing the financial statements.
Christopher Rogers 50,000 34,821 Annual General Meeting Richard Baker 4,966 1,450 The AGM will be held at 2.00pm on Wendy Becker 6,000 6,000 21 June 2011 at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, 2 Ian Cheshire Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
The 1 Philip Clarke 4,044 3,939 Notice of Meeting is enclosed with this report for those shareholders Simon Melliss 1,500 1,500 receiving hard copy documents, and Stephen Williams 4,258 4,149 available at www.
co. uk for those who elected to receive The share interests shown above include the non-beneficial interests of Anthony Habgood documents electronically.
At the 122 in 522 ordinary shares of 76 153p each.
2011 AGM, all voting will be by poll.
1 Electronic handsets will be utilised at date stepped down from the Board 2 and results will be displayed on the at date of appointment screen at the meeting.
Further details regarding the interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company, including with respect to options to acquire ordinary shares, are set out in the remuneration By order of the Board.
There have been no change to the interests shown above between the end of the financial year and the date of this report.
Simon Barratt General Counsel and Company Secretary Auditor Disclosure of information Ernst & Young LLP have expressed to auditor 27 April 2011 their willingness to continue in The directors have taken all office as auditor of the Company reasonable steps to make Registered Office: and a resolution proposing their themselves aware of relevant Whitbread Court reappointment will be put to audit information and to establish Houghton Hall Business Park shareholders at the 2011 AGM.
that the auditor is aware of that Porz Avenue After proper consideration, the information.
The directors are Dunstable Audit Committee is satisfied that not aware of any relevant audit Bedfordshire the Companys auditor, Ernst information which has not been LU5 5XE & Young LLP, continues to be disclosed to the auditor.
4120344 objective and independent of the Company.
In coming to this Going concern The directors report that has been drawn up conclusion, the Audit Committee The Groups business activities, and presented in accordance with and in gave full consideration to the together with the factors likely reliance upon applicable English company non-audit work carried out by to effect its future development, law and any liability of the directors in Ernst & Young LLP.
performance and position are set connection with this report shall be subject out in the business review on pages to the limitations and restrictions provided The Audit Committee has 2 to 19.
The financial position of the by such law.
The directors report includes considered what work should not Company, its cash flows, net debt the business review on pages 2 to 19 and this report on pages 22 to 25. be carried out by the external and borrowing facilities and the auditor and have concluded that maturity of those facilities are set The Annual Report and Accounts contain certain services, including internal out in the Finance Directors report certain statements about the future outlook audit, acquisition due diligence and on pages 16 and 17.
In addition there for the Group.
Although the Company IT consulting services, will not be are further details in the financial believes that the expectations are based on carried out by Ernst & Young LLP.
statements on the Groups financial reasonable assumptions, any statements risk management, objectives and about future outlook may be influenced by policies note 25 and details of the factors that could cause actual outcomes financial instruments note 26. and results to be materially different.
