Key performance indicators We use a balanced scorecard, called the WINcard to measure our performance against key indicators.
Whitbread in numbers 2010 11 WINcard results The WINcard is our balanced Whitbread scorecard.
It has driven our high Whitbread Hotels and performance and maps our Measures Group Restaurants Costa progress.
Every leader in the business from the management Team turnover teams in our Costa stores, Team engagement restaurants and Premier Inns, to the Chief Executive has a WINcard Health and safety which is relevant to their role and Brand standards level of contribution.
All team members in Whitbread can see Guest recommend their achievements and progress Like for like sales on a monthly basis wherever they work.
The WINcard measures Profit conversion N A N A our performance around our key IBFC stakeholders: our customers, our people, our shareholders and our Market performance N A community which is better known Premier Inn as our Good Together strategy.
System sales N A N A The WINcard aligns our day-to-day activities to the overall vision and Store openings N A N A strategy of the Company and helps Profit us to measure our progress.
Energy reduction N A The WINcard has enabled a Food wastage N A N A performance culture to thrive across all levels of the organisation and mobilises our people to The WINcard Performance significantly below target act around shared goals.
The Performance marginally below target WINcard measures are used as key Performance has met or exceeded the target indicators in personal development planning, for recognising excellent performance, in coaching and During the year, Whitbread Changes for the year ahead performance management, achieved seven greens and two reds For 2011 12 a number of changes supporting talent management at Group level.
The achievement have been made to the WINcard and succession planning.
It is a of a green rating for seven Group measures.
The guest recommend core component of our incentive measures was an excellent result measures for Premier Inn and framework at all levels.
as in each case, except for where Restaurants will be based on a net the measures were new, the targets scoring system, which is widely The WINcard educates, motivates were made tougher to achieve.
The considered to be a more robust and engages our leaders and reds were for team turnover and measurement.
Costas brand teams across the business to guest recommend.
In both cases preference score will be based on focus, prioritise and deliver what is the scores were actually better the YouGov quarterly usage and required to achieve success.
than in 2008 09, but didnt quite attitude survey.
There will also be match the excellent performance new targets for brand expansion WINcard results in 2010 11 in 2009 10.
The targets for 2010 11 for Premier Inn and Costa.
The cash The measures on the WINcard were set in such a way that a further flow hurdle for incentive payouts were updated in 2010 11 to include improvement would have been in 2010 11 has been replaced by a Premier Inn market performance necessary to achieve green, and return on capital hurdle, while the and electricity carbon reduction.
these extremely onerous targets health and safety hurdle has been were not quite achieved.
made tougher, with a number of autofail questions being identified in the health and safety audit.
