Board of directors Anthony Habgood Andy Harrison Chairman since August 2005 Chief Executive since November 2010 Date of appointment to the Board: Date of appointment to the Board: May 2005 September 2010 Age: 64 Age: 53 Committee membership: Previous experience: Nomination Committee Chairman Chief Executive of easyJet plc Remuneration Committee from 2005 to June 2010 and External appointments: was Chief Executive of RAC plc Reed Elsevier plc and NV Chairman previously Lex Services plc from Previous experience: 1996-2005.
Managing Director of Director of The Boston Consulting Courtaulds International Fabrics Group Inc from 1977 to 1986.
Director, and Finance Director of Courtaulds and then Chief Executive of Tootal Textiles plc.
Andy has also held a Group plc until 1991.
Chief Executive non-executive directorship at Emap and then Chairman of Bunzl plc plc, where he was Chairman of the until 2009.
Chairman of Mlnlycke Audit committee.
Also held non-executive directorships at Geest plc, Marks and Spencer Group plc, National Westminster Bank Plc, SVG Capital plc and Powergen plc.
Patrick Dempsey Christopher Rogers Executive Director Finance Director Date of appointment to the Board: Date of appointment to the Board: January 2009 May 2005 Age: 52 Age: 51 External appointments: External appointments: Hospitality Action Trustee HMV Group plc Non-executive Business in the Community talent director and skills leadership team The Langley Academy DCMS Tourism Advisory Council Previous experience: Previous experience: Qualified as an accountant with Patrick joined Whitbread in 2004 Price Waterhouse before joining as Managing Director of Marriott in Kingfisher plc in 1988.
Subsequent the UK, and has been in the hotel roles included Group Financial and restaurant business for thirty Controller at Kingfisher plc, Finance years.
Patrick was with Forte Hotels Director, and then Commercial for twenty years, prior to joining Director, at Comet Group plc Compass Group as CEO of Restaurant before becoming Finance Director Associates.
In 2005, Patrick became at Woolworths Group plc and Managing Director of Premier Inn Chairman of Woolworths Group and is now Managing Director of Entertainment business.
20 Stephen Williams Simon Melliss Ian Cheshire Senior Independent Director Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Date of appointment to the Board: Date of appointment to the Board: Date of appointment to the Board: April 2008 April 2007 February 2011 Age: 63 Age: 58 Age: 51 Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Chairman Remuneration Committee Chairman Nomination Committee Nomination Committee External appointments: External appointments: External appointments: Kingfisher plc Group Chief Executive Croda International plc Hammerson plc Mediacinema Eversheds LLP Chief Financial Officer Mediacinema Enterprises Ltd fide la Warr Pavilion Trust Chairman Member of the Committee of Department for Work and Pensions Member of the Leverhulme Trust Board Management of Hermes Property Non-executive member Previous experience: Unit Trust Previous experience: After spending three years in the tax Previous experience: Previously Chief Executive of planning and commercial departments at Having trained as an accountant B&Q UK from June 2005.
Prior to Slaughter and May, Stephen joined the he has held a number of financial joining Kingfisher plc he worked legal department of Imperial Chemical roles at Reed International plc for a number of retail businesses Industries plc, before joining Unilever as and Sketchley plc.
Simon has also including Sear & Guinness and he Joint Secretary and General Counsel in previously held a non-executive was a non-executive director of 1986.
He retired as Chief Legal Officer directorship at Associated British Bradford & Bingley from 2003 last year.
Served as a non-executive Ports Holdings plc.
Ian was a consultant director of Bunzl plc and as Senior with Boston Consulting Group.
Independent Director at Arriva plc.
Wendy Becker Richard Baker Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Date of appointment to the Board: Date of appointment to the Board: January 2008 September 2009 Age: 45 Age: 48 Committee membership: Committee membership: Audit Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee External appointments: External appointments: Working Families Trustee Virgin Active Group Previous experience: Non-executive Chairman Previously Managing Director of European Advisory Board, TalkTalk and Group Chief Marketing Group Aeroplan Inc Chairman Officer for Vodafone.
Partner of Advent International plc McKinsey & Company for 14 years.
Operating Partner Brand Manager of Procter & Gamble DFS Furniture Holdings plc and a consultant with Boston Non-executive Chairman Consulting Group.
Member of Heidrick & Struggles Advisory Board Lawn Tennis Association Non-executive director Previous experience: Chief Executive of Alliance Boots Group plc and Chief Operating 21 Officer at Asda Group plc.
