5 Strategic review 4 21 Performance review 22 31 Governance 32 51 Group financial statements 52 88 Company financial statements 89 101 Investor information 102 105 Different 2010 was a year of solid performance in the We are different to other grocers because: business, whilst we reshaped the top team and we are vertically integrated we make much of our own food: began a series of initiatives and investments to drive the business forward.
Our plan to make Morrisons Different and Better than Ever has great momentum, with store trials under way that are yielding exciting results, our first convenience store sites secured and important e-commerce investments in our breadth and depth of craft skills FreshDirect and kiddicare.
is the best in the industry: and Morrisons difference Morrisons is different.
We are different because: we are closer to source than any other food retailer through our relationships with farmers and through our unique manufacturing and packing facilities, so we really understand how the food that we sell has been produced.
We intend to broaden the range of food we make ourselves to reinforce this difference: we prepare more food every day in our stores than any of our we have a greater focus on fresh food.
competitors because our customers value food that is really fresh: and we have in-house craft skills and employ more butchers, bakers and fishmongers than any other supermarket, because our customers like to be served by food specialists.
We will maintain these points of difference by continuing to invest in our colleagues, providing them, through the Morrisons Academy, with the biggest ongoing training programme in UK retail.
Better than Ever A strong heritage We will constantly invest and From selling eggs and butter on a innovate to: Bradford market stall over 100 years reinforce our differences which ago the business has grown into Britains create value: and fourth largest supermarket group, serving seize new opportunities to make over 11 million customers a week.
Morrisons better for our customers, better for our colleagues and better Morrisons is now a household name and for our shareholders.
its the same name above the door that William Morrison started in 1899 with the founding principles of great service, quality foods and value for everyone.
page 6 for more on vertical integration Infused with strong values and a sound page 8 for more on craft skills understanding of food provenance, Morrisons has stayed true to what page 10 for more on fresh food makes it different and now has the opportunity to be even better than ever.
co. uk annualreport11 Annual report and financial statements 2011 6 Chief Executives business review continued We want to give all our customers great, fresh food at low prices.
At Morrisons, we work hard to ensure good quality not just in our stores, but throughout our whole supply chain.
By buying food directly from suppliers we know and trust, we can control quality, keep prices down and get fresh food onto our shelves faster.
Committed to quality, from field to fork Today Sourcing British food 100% of our fresh beef, lamb, pork and poultry is British.
co. uk today Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2011 7 Strategic review 4 21 Performance review 22 31 Governance 32 51 Group financial statements 52 88 Company financial statements 89 101 Investor information 102 105 700 We have 700 tractors and 1,700 trailers delivering to our stores across the country.
st 1 In 2010, we became the first of the big four supermarkets to move to 100% free range for our own-brand eggs.
Building great relationships with our suppliers We care about getting to know the people who produce and prepare our food.
Just ask Clive Goulsbra, a fourth-generation Lincolnshire beef farmer who has supplied Morrisons with meat for more than 7 years.
Our livestock manager, Michael Winchester, deals direct with Clive, buying at a fair price and delivering to our own meat processing plants, managed by professionals who care about animal welfare.
Its a unique supply chain set-up that works for us in a number of ways.
First of all, because we buy direct from farmers, we know exactly what were buying and where it comes from.
By cutting out the middle man, we can save money and pass on those savings to our customers.
And by running our own processing plants, we can keep control of quality throughout every stage of the production process.
Four reasons why our supply chain model makes all the difference: Quality we control quality by owning our own production facilities Insight we know what were buying and where it comes from Value we buy direct and pass savings on to the customer Flexibility we get our food in store faster and react to the market more quickly www.
co. uk annualreport11 Annual report and financial statements 2011
