32 Board of Directors and Management Board Board of Directors Pictured above: Sir Ian Gibson Dalton Philips Richard Pennycook Mark Gunter Philip Cox Brian Flanagan Penny Hughes Nigel Robertson Johanna Waterous Management Board Dalton Philips Richard Pennycook Mark Gunter Neal Austin Norman Pickavance Chief Executive Group Finance Group Retail Logistics Group HR Officer Director Director Director Director Terry Hartwell Richard Hodgson Martyn Jones Martyn Fletcher Mark Harrison Group Property Group Commercial Group Corporate Group Manufacturing Group Retail Director Director Services Director Director Director designate Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2011 33 Strategic review 4 21 Performance review 22 31 Governance 32 51 Group financial statements 52 88 Company financial statements 89 101 Investor information 102 105 Nomination Committee Sir Ian Gibson Dalton Philips Richard Pennycook Remuneration Committee Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director Corporate Compliance and Chair of the Nomination Age 43 Age 47 Responsibility Committee Committee Dalton Philips joined the Group Richard Pennycook joined the Board as as Chief Executive on 29 March 2010.
Group Finance Director in October 2005.
Audit Committee Age 64 He is a member of the Boards Nomination Prior to that, he was the Group Finance Sir Ian Gibson joined the Group as Committee and Corporate Compliance Director of RAC Plc, the quoted specialist Non-Executive Deputy Chairman in and Responsibility Committee.
Prior to motoring and vehicle management Membership of committees September 2007.
He was appointed joining Morrisons, Dalton was Chief company.
Previous senior roles include at the date of signing the Chairman in March 2008.
Sir Ian is Chair Operating Officer of Loblaw Companies Group Finance Director of HP Bulmer financial statements of the Boards Nomination Committee Limited, Canadas largest food distributor Holdings PLC, Laura Ashley Plc and JD and a member of its Remuneration and a leading provider of general Wetherspoon plc and Chief Executive of Committee and Corporate Compliance merchandise, pharmacy and financial Welcome Break Holdings plc.
He is also a and Responsibility Committee.
He is also products and services.
Prior to that Non-Executive Director of Persimmon Plc.
Non-Executive Chairman of Trinity Mirror position, he was Chief Executive of Irish plc and a non-executive member of the department store group, Brown Thomas.
Public Interest Board of the UK firm of Between 1998 and 2005 he worked for  LLP.
Previous Wal-Marts international division holding Board appointments include Chairman a range of commercial positions, rising to of BPB PLC, Deputy Chairman Chief Operating Officer in Germany.
Dalton of Asda Group PLC, and a Director of started his career as a store manager in Chelys Limited, GKN PLC, Greggs Plc New Zealand with Jardine Matheson and and Northern Rock Plc.
He is also a former was later regional director of the Companys member of the Court of the Bank of Spanish supermarket division.
Sir Ian enjoyed a distinguished 30-year career in the motor industry, most recently as President of Nissan Europe.
Mark Gunter Philip Cox Brian Flanagan Group Retail Director Chair of Audit Committee Age 58 Age 52 Age 59 Brian Flanagan was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in July 2005.
Mark Gunter joined the Group in 1986 Philip Cox joined the Group as a He is a member of the Audit, Nomination as a Store General Manager.
In 1993, Non-Executive Director in April 2009. and Remuneration Committees.
He is also he was appointed Regional Director and He is a member of the Audit Committee a Non-Executive Director of The Financial Stores Director in 1999.
He was appointed and became its Chair in September 2009 Services Authority and is an adviser to to the Board of the Group in 2000 as and is also a member of the Remuneration Jet Environmental Systems.
Previously, Group Retail Director with additional Committee and the Nomination he worked for the Mars Corporation for responsibility for retail operations, retail Committee.
He is also Chief Executive 26 years and possesses broad international fuel, retail projects and Company-wide Officer of International Power plc, a business experience.
He has held senior security.
Prior to joining Morrisons, he position that he has held since 2003, when management positions in finance, gained wide experience in UK food he was promoted from his previous role of information systems, manufacturing, retailing, which included working at Chief Financial Officer 20002003.
He is purchasing and was, most recently, Iceland, Fine Fare, Tesco, Argyll Foods a member of the Presidents Committee of the global Vice President of Business and Asda.
He was a Non-Executive Director Transformation for Mars Inc. Brian has Company announced that Mark will step at Wincanton Plc from 2001 to 2009, informed the Board that he will step down down from the Board at the 2011 AGM having chaired their Audit Committee from the Board at the 2011 AGM and will and leave the Group in June 2012. from 2001 to 2008 and was Chair of their not seek re-election.
His previous board position was as Chief Financial Officer at Siebe Plc.
Penny Hughes Nigel Robertson Johanna Waterous Chair of the Corporate Senior Independent Director Chair of the Remuneration 1 Compliance and Responsibility Age 51 Committee 1 Committee Age 53 Nigel Robertson joined the Group as a Non-Executive Director in July 2005.
With Age 51 Johanna Waterous joined the Group as effect from 10 March 2011 Nigel will be a Non-Executive Director in February Penny Hughes joined the Group as a appointed as Senior Independent Director.
Johanna is a member of the Audit, Non-Executive Director in January 2010.
He is a member of the Nomination, Nomination, Remuneration and Corporate Penny is a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Corporate Compliance Compliance and Responsibility Committees.
Nomination and Remuneration and Responsibility Committees, and was She is currently a Non-Executive Director of Committees.
Penny is currently a Chair of the Corporate Compliance and RSA Group Plc and Chairman of Sandpiper Non-Executive Director of Cable & Wireless Responsibility Committee from September CI, as well as being an Operating Partner of Worldwide Plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland 2009 to 9 March 2011.
Working in the Global Leisure Partners and Duke Street plc and Home Retail Group plc, the private equity sector, he is the Group Chief LLP.
Her previous experience includes president of the Advertising Association Executive of Health and Surgical Holdings 22 years with McKinsey & Co, London, and a trustee of the British Museum.
Ltd. Until the business was sold in 2007 ultimately as Co-Leader of the firms Pennys previous experience includes he was the Chief Executive Officer of Global Marketing and Sales Practice.
10 years with Coca-Cola ultimately as Chelsea Stores Holdings Ltd and he was She is a Non-Executive Director of the president of Coca-Cola GB & Ireland and previously the Managing Director of Ocado, Kew Foundation and of Kew Enterprises various non-executive roles including Body the online grocery shopping business set Limited.
Between 1998 and 2006, she Shop International plc, GAP Inc, Reuters plc, up in partnership with Waitrose.
Prior was Chairman of Tate Enterprises.
Johanna Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken, Trinity to this he held senior positions in Marks has been appointed as Chair of the Mirror plc and Vodafone plc.
With effect and Spencer Group PLC both in the UK Remuneration Committee with effect from 10 March 2011 Penny has been and USA.
from 10 March 2011. appointed as Chair of the Corporate 1 with effect from 10 March 2011 Compliance and Responsibility Committee.
co. uk annualreport11 Annual report and financial statements 2011
