12 Chief Executives business review continued Strategy overview Our strategy Our strategy is to deliver sustainable long term growth, building Our strategy builds on Morrisons historic strengths and make us on our traditional strengths of fresh food, quality, value and service, unique in the UK grocery market.
backed by our unique vertical integration capability, whilst reflecting our customers needs and the changes that are taking place in the pages 511 for more on building on our strengths market.
We will do this in a way that stays true to the things that make us Morrisons.
Our new vision is aligned to our strategy by reinforcing Morrisons differences Vision and seizing the opportunities.
Our vision is to be Different and Better than Ever.
Different and Better than Ever captures the key initiatives that will help reinforce what makes our Company different from others, page 5 for more on being and to seize the opportunities that will ensure we continue our growth and great results.
Different and Better Than Ever Strategic priorities We have identified opportunities To enable us to deliver the strategy, our strategic priorities are expansion through new for growth that will help us deliver space and new channels.
New space expansion page 13 for more on Over recent years we have extended the reach of Morrisons away from its traditional opportunities heartland in the North and we are now a recognised and truly national brand.
Despite this, we estimate there are 6.8m households out of a total of 23m who do not yet have easy access to a Morrisons store, and we have strengthened our property acquisition team to enable us to accelerate the pace at which we are able to add new stores to our portfolio.
Closer to customers Finding new store sites has become easier because in recent years we have successfully extended the range of store sizes we can operate, whilst still maintaining our unique We are growing our stores across Market Street offer.
Today we operate stores from 8,000 to over 40,000 square feet, all regions and now have 439 which gives us great flexibility in being able to identify and acquire potential new sites.
Additionally, we find local planning authorities more and more receptive to us, in part because of the attractive jobs and skills training we bring to an area.
New channels convenience and e-commerce The grocery market is changing, with customers seeking alternative and complementary channels.
Convenience stores and online shopping are the two fastest growing sectors of the market and developing our offer in these channels will be another focus of our future strategy.
We will look to do this in a way that is uniquely Morrisons and in a way that makes us Different and Better than Ever.
Scotland 56 Marketplace We believe the UK grocery market will continue to offer attractive growth in the medium to long term.
The UK population is expected to grow at a higher rate in the coming ten years, and the pre-recessionary trend towards healthier eating and concern for the provenance and quality of food will strengthen again as the economic recovery takes hold.
North The long term trend of food expenditure falling as a proportion of GDP reversed in the 85 past two years, and we believe it is likely to continue to rise given the growing global demand for commodities.
Shareholder investment and returns Midlands In 2007 we committed to financial management based on four key principles: 85 we will maintain a strong investment grade balance sheet: South East operational control of our stores is fundamental to us: 75 we are a prudent organisation and we structure our finances accordingly: and South Central South West 73 our defined benefit pension schemes assets and liabilities are effectively part 65 of our balance sheet, and will be managed as such.
We have maintained these principles.
Our credit rating, assessed by Moodys, is A3, one of the strongest retail ratings in the world.
Our property portfolio is 87% freehold, Key to map and our pension schemes are well funded.
Stores Manufacturing sites Distribution centres Bridgwater distribution centre, Somerset Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2011 13 Strategic review 4 21 Performance review 22 31 Governance 32 51 Group financial statements 52 88 Company financial statements 89 101 Investor information 102 105 Alongside this balance sheet strength, we have been determined to deliver value for Opportunities at a glance shareholders.
Over the period since our new policy was established, the dividend has more than doubled, with dividend cover remaining strong at 2.4 times.
Space expansion We will be accelerating our new We will continue to adopt the same prudent approach to our financial strategy, balancing store programme and re-setting the need to invest for future business growth and deliver shareholder returns.
The Group our target to 2.5m square feet over has a very strong balance sheet which is securely financed with a number of long dated the next three years.
bonds and a new 1.2bn revolving credit facility available at competitive rates until 2016.
These available facilities and our anticipated organic cash generation can comfortably fund We will also be optimising our existing our capital programme over the coming three years, estimated to be 3.0bn.
Additionally, space which could give us an additional we intend to enhance shareholder returns through: 750k square feet selling space.
a three year commitment to double-digit annual dividend growth: Convenience a rebalancing of the split between our interim and final dividend payments, to be c30:70 We will be trialling our convenience in future: and format in 2011 under the name M local.
a two year equity retirement programme of 500m per annum, to commence immediately These stores will offer customers: through the purchase of shares in the market, followed by their cancellation.
affordable, fresh and convenient food: a look and feel that emphasises our Delivering our strategy fresh credentials: and Operational Plan We have developed a detailed plan to deliver our vision.
The plan has three areas of focus: a distinctive experience something which is truly Morrisons.
driving sales: increasing efficiency: and Online capturing growth.
We are committed to retailing online in the coming two years.
To support this, page 14 for more on our Operational Plan we have made two investments to help us launch our e-commerce activities successfully in the future.
How we manage the business Our employees A sustainable and Risks and uncertainties Strengthening our brand Success at Morrisons relies responsible retailer We discuss the principle We want to extend our lead on fresh on our 132,000 people We aim to build responsible risks and uncertainties food and have been trialling a range delivering great service and sustainable values that the Group faces in of exciting new concepts.
to our customers each into our business and achieving its objectives.
and every day by living the products we sell.
We will be transforming our own brand our Values.
products over the next three years to give our customers something page 18 for more page 16 for more page 20 for more on distinctive either on price, quality on our employees on Corporate risks and uncertainties or eating experience.
Responsibility Efficiency How we have performed We will be increasing efficiency through three main programmes: Operational review Market overview Financial review It has been a record A summary of how the Our financial strategy investing in our IT systems and year for us and once again market has performed in is explained along with enhancing our distribution network: we have delivered strong the year, to set a context more detail on the financial seeking ways to drive costs out of performance.
performance and position the business and improving store of the Group.
efficiency: and investing to extend the range of page 22 for more page 25 for more page 28 for more our food production capability.
co. uk annualreport11 Annual report and financial statements 2011
