8 Chief Executives business review continued Today Committed to training Morrisons is now the largest provider of apprenticeships in the UK, with more traditional craft trained skills than any other retailer.
co. uk today Traditional craft skills in-store We pride ourselves on giving customers fresh food just the way they like it.
Thats why our stores have Market Street: a place that combines the convenience of supermarket shopping with the skills, experience and helpful advice youd expect to find in a traditional family food shop or market stall.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2011 9 Strategic review 4 21 Performance review 22 31 Governance 32 51 Group financial statements 52 88 Company financial statements 89 101 Investor information 102 105 In Market Street we have more people Market Street gives our customers: preparing food than any other retailer and we employ more specialist fishmongers, butchers and bakers than our competitors.
Great choice Food prepared the way they like it by staff 2, 000 who know their trade Skilled butchers Expert advice A better shopping experience 1, 200 Fully trained fishmongers Prices that are great value across the ranges 2, 000 Skilled bakers We bake bread from scratch in-store every day.
We bake throughout the day too so if we see were running out, we roll up our sleeves and get baking again.
Traditional service, supermarket convenience A welcoming atmosphere.
Staff who know your name and what you like.
Everyone loves the feel of buying groceries in a market or at a specialist food shop.
At Morrisons, we dont see any reason why you cant have the same experience in a supermarket.
In Market Street we have more highly trained and experienced tradespeople on hand than any other supermarket.
Whether our customers are looking for recipe ideas, advice about whats in season, or a certain cut of meat for their family Sunday roast, our expert staff will be happy to help.
And because were able to respond quickly to changes in demand, we can cut down on unnecessary waste while giving more of our customers what they want.
co. uk annualreport11 Annual report and financial statements 2011 10 Chief Executives business review continued Balancing the demands of daily life and a tight budget can be tricky enough without the challenge of preparing fresh, tasty food every night of the week.
Thats why, at Morrisons, were coming up with new ways for our customers to enjoy fresh food for less and bringing it to market faster than ever.
Making it easy to enjoy fresh food Today Helping towards 5-a-day Over the last year we have averaged 100 promotions per week on fresh produce, making it easy and affordable for our customers to buy fresh, healthy food.
co. uk today Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2011 11 Strategic review 4 21 Performance review 22 31 Governance 32 51 Group financial statements 52 88 Company financial statements 89 101 Investor information 102 105 90% 90% of our fresh produce orders are delivered to store within 12 hours.
12 weeks We responded quickly to our customer demands by launching our Dinner Made Easy range in just 12 weeks.
New ways to enjoy fresh Morrisons is all about fresh.
While our competitors have looked elsewhere for sales and profits, reducing the amount of store space and attention they give to fresh food, we have become famous for fresh.
For example, we guarantee the fresh fish on our fishmonger counter is exactly that fresh, and never frozen.
And we bake bread from scratch in most of our stores every day.
Fresh food is our starting point but we also want to give customers new and easier ways of enjoying it too.
With our Dinner Made Easy range, we provide all the fresh ingredients they need Panettone for one recipe in one pack so customers can rustle up a delicious We introduced freshly baked Panettone in our dinner in minutes.
At our Fresh to Go counters, customers can grab stores this Christmas.
The delicious, buttery, a punnet and fill it with a choice of freshly made salads at any time sweet bread was loaded with mixed fruit and of day.
And last years new product launches for Christmas included peel to give it a distinctive flavour and was a authentic Italian Panettone baked fresh in-store, of course.
Our staff make sandwiches fresh every day, using ingredients from in-store.
And the same goes for our salads: our in-store produced coleslaw, for example, is prepared fresh each day.
We have up to 24 varieties of freshly made salads to choose from.
Our pizzas are freshly prepared in-store and carefully topped by hand.
Our Oven Fresh counter offers a wide choice of fresh, tasty and great value hot food straight from the oven.
co. uk annualreport11 Annual report and financial statements 2011
