18 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 The business Within each geography the Group operates a number of Wolseley is the worlds largest specialist distinct business units with strong trading identities, including trade distributor of plumbing and heating many with market leading positions in their localmarkets.
products to professional contractors and The Group has strong management teams in each region.
aleading supplier of building materials Business units report on operational performance and totheprofessional market.
strategic progress through regular performance review meetings with senior executives.
The business model Business unit strategies Wolseley is a distributor bridging the gap between over Business unit strategies are aligned with the Group value 100,000 vendors and over 1 million customers by bringing creation model as outlined on pages 6 and 7.
Each business together a wide range of products from different vendors that unit aims to grow profitability faster than the competition our customers need and providing our vendors with access through gaining a greater share of its existing customers to these customers cost effectively.
business and through attracting new customers.
To achieve this each business unit focuses on achieving: Over Over best customer service: 100,000 1 million pf best branch staff: and vendors customers preferred vendor relationships.
Underlying this, Wolseley aims to operate the most efficient operating model in the industry, ensuring its distribution Source Distribute Sell activities benefit from national scale and an efficient supply We source a wide We distribute them We sell through a chain.
range of products efficiently to our variety of channels efficiently and branches and including branches, responsibly, bringing customers, allowing call centres and Synergies together the mix of us to provide great online, with a strong products from product availability focus on providing The business model offers opportunities for synergies to be different vendors that levels for our excellent customer achieved by being part of the Group.
These include: our customers need customers service management synergies such as sharing best practice, management development and corporate finance: and For more information For more information For more information operating synergies in the areas of joint sourcing, own label see page 19 see page 20 see page 21 development and the sharing of costs and infrastructure.
Market overview Business and management structure The markets for plumbing and heating and building materials Wolseley is an international business, operating 3,837 are directly exposed to macroeconomic cycles.
Most of the branches in 23 countries and employing over 45,000 people.
countries in which the Group operates began to return to The Groups business falls into six geographic regions the growth in the second half of last financial year and continued United States, Canada, United Kingdom, France, the Nordic to recover throughout 2011.
Further detail by geography is region and Central Europe.
provided in the regional performance overviews on pages 22to 33.
Revenue split by region Total Group revenue 13.6 billion Although our markets are cyclical, the business model is strong and it is underpinned by demographic trends towards Central Europe 6% ageing populations and smaller households and by the France ageing of housing stocks.
14% USA 40% Nordic region 16% UK 18% Canada 6% Strategic overview Business and performance Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 19 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Our businesses sell to customers ranging across the Vendor relationships residential, commercial and industrial sectors.
Theexposure Our vendors need distributors who can give them access to each market differs by geography and by business unit.
tomany smaller customers cost effectively.
Our relationships Further detail is provided on pages 22 to33.
with these vendors are key to our success: we want to build strong relationships and grow our business with them.
Revenue by market driver % of total 2010 11 revenue The Group has over 100,000 trade vendors.
Key vendors are Civil manufacturers with market leading brands, usually focused infrastructure on the needs of local markets.
We work in partnership with Residential 7% our key vendors to offer market breadth and penetration new construction Non- 20% andto collaborate on promotions and incentive programmes.
residential Ourprimary focus is to derive benetfrom national scale.
RMI 21% Whilst the vendor base is predominantly based on national geographies, some international sourcing benets exist, for example across Europe and for the sourcing of own label products.
The Group continues to work with low cost, high Nonquality manufacturers tosupply our own label product ranges.
residential Residential Intheyear ended 31July 2011 sales of own label products new construction RMI 16% 36% represented 8 per cent of Group revenue 2010: 8per cent.
Products Competition The Group sources and supplies a broad range of products.
The distribution of plumbing and heating and building The main product categories are set out in the following list: materials is fundamentally a local business, in that the Plumbing, heating and air conditioning majority of our customers are serviced by a local branch ashort distance from their workplace.
It is also highly Baths, showers and accessories.
fragmented, with no dominant supplier and few large players.
Wolseley aims to have a leading market position in the Brassware.
territories and sectors in which it operates, with strong Bathroom furniture.
Using public and private sources of information, the Radiators and valves.
management of each of our business units assesses its Hot water cylinders and ues.
position in its chosen markets relative to its competitors.
Theseestimates are presented for our larger business units Ventilation and air conditioning equipment.
in each geographic region on pages 22 to 33.
Heat pumps and solar equipment.
We source a wide range of products efficiently and Plaster and plasterboard.
responsibly, bringing together the mix of products from Roong materials.
different vendors that our customers need.
Over 100,000 trade vendors supplying a broad mix Tiles and ooring.
ofproducts including own label ranges.
Strong vendor relationships and use of preferred Doors and frames.
Scale advantages in sourcing are a key Hardware and tools.
Commitment to responsible sourcing practices.
Civils waterworks, industrial and commercial Drainage pipes, associated supplies and covers.
Sourcing programme Underground pressure pipes.
The aims of the sourcing programme are to standardise Small bore pressure pipes and ttings.
quality, improve product availability and choice, and Carbon and stainless steel pipes, valves and ttings.
maximise the synergies offered by the Groups scale Other pipes, valves and ttings.
andsize, benefiting both Wolseley and our customers.
Other Electrical cables, wiring and lighting.
Services, including installation, maintenance and management of customer inventory.
20 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 The business continued The proportion of Group revenue derived from each product Our objective is to operate the lowest cost, most efficient category is shown in the chart below.
operating model in our industry, ensuring that our distribution activities benefit from national scale and an efficient supply Product mix by category chain.
The Group has invested signicantly in supply chain technology to manage inventory in our distribution centres Other and branches in order to maximise efficiency.
Civils 2% waterworks Plumbing, industrial heating and Product availability and air conditioning commercial The availability of a wide rage of products to our customers is 40% 28% fundamental to the Wolseley business model.
Our distribution network is key to allowing us to outperform the competition in this area.
Each distribution centre aims to maximise the ll rate that it achieves, which is the proportion of orders that Building can be fullled from inventory on hand at the time of order.
materials Inmany cases the distribution centres operate with ll rates 30% that are substantially better than those we receive from our vendors thedistribution centres absorb the gap between Responsible sourcing vendor ll rates and ll rates to our branches.
The Group is committed to responsible sourcing and has a At a branch level, product ranges are focused on the fastest range of procedures and policies in place related to product moving products, with the distribution centres able to safety and ethical sourcing practices.
We work to ensure quicklydeliver a wide range of other products as required.
thatthe vendors we deal with adhere to our expected For example, the Ferguson business in the US aims to ethicalstandards.
provide 100 per cent ll rates on its top 3,000 products which has been key to the improved customer satisfaction scores, Further detail is given in the Corporate responsibility report higher share of customer spend and market share gains on pages 44 to 53. achieved this year.
Further details can be found on page 17.
Branches Distribute With 3,837 branches at 31 July 2011 across 23 countries, We distribute products efficiently to our branches and Wolseley is an international business but also a local customers, allowing us to provide great product availability business, with the majority of the Groups customers levels for our customers.
travelling less than 20miles to a branch.
We rely on the strength of our brands intheir local markets, and the local Branch network of 3,837 branches.
knowledge of our employees in the branches to meet our customers needs.
Large scale network of distribution centres supporting the plumbing and heating businesses.
Transport Market leading levels of product availability across a broad range of products is a key competitive advantage.
The Group uses a range of different transport solutions ineach of its businesses including both owned and leasedeet and third party delivery.
The Group uses fleet Distribution network management systems and backhauling arrangements Distribution centres are a key competitive advantage for tomaximise the efficiency of its transport network and Wolseley, allowing the Group to purchase in bulk and better minimise its environmental impact.
Further detail on the serve customers through reduced delivery times, broader environmental impact of our transport requirements and product selection, increased ll rates and improved product actions taken to minimise CO2 emissions is given in the availability, as well as enabling the Group to better manage Corporate responsibility report on pages 44 to 53. inventory.
The Group has a large scale network of distribution centres which serve branches for our plumbing and heating businesses.
By contrast the majority of products in our building materials businesses are delivered directly to our branches or customers.
Strategic overview Business and performance Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 21 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Customer service Sell Wolseley is a relationship business and our focus is to meet We sell through a variety of channels including branches, our customers needs better than the competition, ensuring call centres and online, with a strong focus on providing we deliver the right products, at the right price, at the right excellent customer service.
time, on every occasion they do business with us.
We use regular customer surveys in all of our business units so that Continued focus on customer service measured we can take actions to improve our performance, both throughregular customer surveys.
nationally and within each branch operation.
Investment in employee training programmes and toolsto allow our branch staff to deliver the best Branch staff customer service.
In order to achieve the best customer service in the industry Investment in online sales channels to drive we need to have the right talent with relevant training, organicgrowth.
skillsand knowledge in our locations.
Within each of the business units there is a strong focus on ensuring that training programmes and tools are available for our people Channels sothey are equipped to give the best service in the industry.
Sales to customers are made over the counter at our Employee engagement is measured in each business branches, through supply contracts which are managed unitatleast annually and the results are used to make centrally, or through orders that can be placed with improvements in working practices and environments.
branches, into call centres, or over the internet.
In some regions we also operate a network of showrooms which enables us to showcase our product range.
E-commerce is a rapidly growing sales channel for the Groupand we continue to invest in our business-to-business  websites across the Group.
Forexample, Plumb Center in the UK has recently launched its online Trade Superstore allowing its customers to order from across the product range online for either delivery or collection in the branch.
Customers The Group has a wide range of customers operating in different industry sectors, ranging from individual plumbers and builders through to national contractor chains and housebuilders.
Wolseleys primary customer focus is on professional contractors, who constituted 87 per cent of the Groups customer base during the year ended 31 July 2011.
Customer mix % of total 2010 11 revenue Heating, ventilation and Electrical air conditioning contractors 6% 1% Utilities Building 10% contractors Mechanical 25% contractors 9% End users 13% Industrial Plumbing and 13% heating engineers 23% 22 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Regional performance Regional KPIs USA Revenue 5,500m 40% of Group 2011 2010 - Like-for-like revenue growth 9% 9 % 18% Trading profit 314m Trading margin 5.7% 4.6% 1.1% Trading margin 5.7% Five year performance m Business units 7 Revenue Trading profit Branches 1,261 5,685 5,613 5,820 5,174 5,500 Employees 17,481 Leading distributor of plumbing and heating products in North America.
401 389 309 239 314 Strong business model with large scale distribution centre network and national branch network.
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Continued strong financial performance despite difficult market conditions.
Quarterly like-for-like revenue growth % Market outperformance in the year with significant market share gains achieved.
10% Strong customer service and employee engagement 0% scores.
10% Business unit portfolio and prole 20% In the US we operate seven business units.
Ferguson is the Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 primary operating brand although anumber of other brands have been retained to service specic markets.
The business 2010 2011 operates in all 50 states andis served by 10 distribution centres across the country that can provide next day product Business unit contribution availability, a key competitive advantage.
Ferguson % of total 2010 11 revenue predominantly serves the RMI markets with relatively low Other exposure to the residential new construction market.
7% Industrial The Ferguson Blended branches business sells to customers 11% across the residential, commercial and industrial sectors fornew construction and RMI projects through its national HVAC Blended branch network.
Insmaller markets that may not justify a 8% branches stand alone presence for HVAC and Waterworks, a blended 60% location can also provide the products and services for thesecustomers.
Waterworks 14% The Waterworks business distributes pipes, valves, hydrants, ttings and meters to residential, commercial and municipal contractors.
This is a strong business which has been diversifying its customer base into private water companies Revenue by market driver and treatment plants, and expanding its product range into % of total 2010 11 revenue new areas such as metering technologies.
Civil Residential infrastructure new construction The HVAC business distributes heating, ventilation, air 14% 14% conditioning and refrigeration equipment to specialist contractors, predominantly in the residential and commercial sectors.
Vendors have a strong position in this market, and branded dealerships of high quality equipment are the most Residential Nonimportant parts of the business.
The majority of revenues RMI residential aregenerated by providing parts for the repair and 28% RMI replacement market.
30% Non-residential new construction 14% Strategic overview Business and performance Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 23 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 The Industrial business distributes pipes, valves and ttings, including specialty high-density polyethylene pipes, to industrial customers across all sectors including oil and gas, mining and power generation sectors.
Although project driven, the business has historically performed strongly over the economic cycle.
The industrial business also offers maintenance, repair and operations services MRO and integrated services, off-site integrated supply with centralised procurement, storeroom and commodity management.
The other smaller business units include: Fire and Fabrication: The supply and fabrication of re protection systems.
Ferguson branch bounced back two weeks after tornado hit B2C Business-to-consumer : Websites and platforms to On Saturday 16 April this year a Ferguson branch in Raleigh, support e-business.
com, sales North Carolina was severely damaged by a tornado that are made directly toconsumers using the product range ripped through the area.
and distribution network of the Blended branches business.
Within hours of the crisis, teams from Ferguson headquarters This is a particularly fast growing area of the US business.
and the Raleigh branch were working to secure the facility and make arrangements to continue to service customers.
Master distribution: Distribution of plumbing, heating Thanks to thestrong communication culture created by thebranch manager and her management team, affected andpipe supplies to retailers and small wholesalers.
associates were quickly informed, and anaction plan These business units have synergies with the distribution wasexecuted.
andbranch network of the larger units, and frequently By Monday morning 18 April, phone calls were transferred sharevendors.
to other branches, associates were reassigned and orders were being lled at neighbouring counters.
Customers andvendors were notied of the event.
Market position and competitive environment Less than two weeks after the tornado hit, a new temporary location was open for business.
Ferguson is the market leading distributor of plumbing supplies in the USA.
The market positions of the main business units are estimated as follows: Market position Blended branches 1 Waterworks 2 HVAC 3 Industrial 4 Ferguson has no direct competitor that competes across allbusiness units, but rather each business unit has its own competitor set.
Competitors range from large national players, including professional sales from the national Davidson Pipe helps to rebuild  homeimprovement chains, to single-branch operations.
Davidson Pipe, Fergusons pipes, valves and ttings Themarket remains fragmented with a large number of business, supplies carbon and stainless steel pipe, valves smalland regional competitors making up the majority and ttings to many of the contractors who are working ofthemarket.
torebuild the World Trade Center towers in New York.
Davidson supplied material for re protection and plumbing Management believes that Ferguson has continued to gain for both towers, pipe and ttings for the Memorial Fountain, market share in the year to 31 July 2011, growing sales heavy wall pipe used in the foundation, and recently the fabricated piping system for the chiller plant, which will be signicantly ahead of the market.
used to provide air conditioning for the World Trade Centers non-commercial areas.
The largest pipe diameters that Davidson fabricates were 42inches outside diameter with half an inch wall thickness, and many of these pieces were up to 35 feet long.
In total, there were more than 80,000 diameter inches of welding performed in Davidsons fabrication shop.
The total contract for this project, including materials, welding and lining, exceeded 1.6 million.
