28 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Regional performance continued Regional KPIs Nordic region Revenue 2,128m 16% of Group 2011 2010 - Trading profit 113m Like-for-like revenue growth 4% 7 % 11% Trading margin 5.3% Trading margin 5.3% 5.0% 0.3% Business units 7 Five year performance m Revenue Branches 288 Trading profit 1,678 2,299 2,124 2,012 2,128 Employees 6,754 The largest distributor of building materials in the Nordic region with number one market positions in Denmark and Sweden.
103 160 97 101 113 A leading retailer in Denmark and Sweden.
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Return to like-for-like revenue growth in all geographies inthe year.
Quarterly like-for-like revenue growth 10% Business unit portfolio and prole Wolseleys Nordic business principally operates in Denmark, 0% Finland, Sweden and Norway.
Stark is the leading distributor of heavy building materials, 10% tools, hardware, timber and panels in Denmark.
Starks customers include both professional contractors and DIY Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 builders with around half of stores having a dedicated DIYsection.
Starks market leadership and its efficiencies 2010 2011 ofscale have historically delivered strong results.
During the year we made twosmall acquisitions and Stark continued Business unit contribution tofocus on growing its market share.
% of total 2010 11 revenue Beijer is the leading distributor of building materials in Other Norway building 6% Sweden.
About half its revenue comes from local building materials 7% contractors and another third from retail consumers.
As the Denmark Denmark building Swedish market is very fragmented, Beijers reach is valuable DIY materials to vendors, and by maintaining efficiencies of scale and 9% 35% working capital management it has delivered good results over time.
Finland Starkki is a Finnish chain of builders merchants with a building Sweden business model based on large stores and well-trained materials building 21% materials specialist staff.
Whilst local building contractors are the 22% largest single customer segment, consumers and small retail stores generate nearly 50 per cent of its revenue.
Starkki has a strong record of profitability based on efficiency and a low Revenue by market driver cost base.
% of total 2010 11 revenue Infrastructure Silvan is a DIY and retail chain in Denmark.
Its specialist DIY NonResidential 3% market, focused on tools and hardware, is driven by RMI.
residential new construction RMI 14% The majority of Silvans product range overlaps with other 21% businesses in the Nordic region and therefore the business Nondelivers significant synergies by taking advantage of these residential economies of scale.
new construction 11% Residential RMI 51% Strategic overview Business and performance Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 29 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 The smaller business units managed in the region include: Neumann Bygg, a distributor of building materials inNorway: Cheapy, a DIY chain in Sweden: and Woodcote, a building materials distribution business operating in Eastern Europe.
Market position and competitive environment The market positions of the main business units are estimated as follows: Starks Health and Wellbeing pilot programme Market position The Stark business in Denmark has introduced a pilot health and wellbeing programme in some of its stores.
Denmark building materials 1 Itisaimed at raising awareness of employees health and physical wellbeing, advising on all aspects including diet, Sweden building materials 1 sleep, exercise and general lifestyle.
Whilst providing Finland building materials 2 positive benets for employees, it is also hoped that it will reduce sickness absence rates.
Denmark DIY 2 The Stark and Beijer brands are market leaders in Denmark and Sweden respectively, with Silvan the number two DIY retailer in Denmark and Starkki the second largest builders merchant in Finland.
Each country in the Nordic region is a distinct market with its own national, regional and local competition.
However, there are several major competitors operating across the region in the building materials and DIY markets.
The markets in the Nordic region tend to be fragmented and there are significant opportunities to consolidate our market positions across theregion.
Stark targets a new market Operating performance Stark is the market leader in the building materials market inDenmark.
They identied an opportunity to use their In the Nordic region revenue was 4 per cent ahead on a excellent knowledge and position as market leader in the like-for-like basis.
The building materials business in Denmark professional market to help private house owners with theirbuilding projects and improve the value of their returned to like-for-like revenue growth in the period, although property through the right choices of building materials.
market conditions remained subdued as a result of low levels Stark now offers private house owners the same service of construction activity and poor consumer confidence.
and product advice as they offer professional customers in Incontrast our building materials businesses in Sweden, Denmark.
More than 200 Stark employees have received Finland and Norway all generated good like-for-like revenue training in order to better understand the private customers growth, with Finland performing strongest.
Adedicated area has been introduced in the branch for the self build customer with product displays, market share in Denmark and Sweden and improved market marketing and product literature.
A special membership share in Finland and Norway.
scheme has also been created for these customers with benets including member offers and discounts, home Trading profit in the year of 113 million was 12 million visits and access to project advice and prices.
Since this higherthan last year benefiting from revenue growth and an concept was introduced in 2010, a total of 71,000 people improvement in gross margin, offset by a 6 per cent increase have becomemembers in Denmark.
in operating costs at constant currency.
The underlying performance was better as last years results included aone-off credit of 4 million.
During the year we completed two small bolt-on acquisitions in Denmark.
The trading margin was higher at 5.3 per cent 2010: 5.0percent.
