24 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Regional performance continued Operating performance Canada Revenue in the USA was 9 per cent ahead of last year on a Revenue 811m 6% of Group like-for-like basis.
Growth was broadly based, supported by price ination of approximately 3 per cent with all of the major Trading profit 39m businesses ahead.
The RMI segment has been resilient Trading margin 4.8% although it remains subdued as a result of lower consumer confidence.
The recovery in new construction was modest as factors such as high unemployment, low availability of Business units 4 credit and high levels of unsold housing inventory have Branches 221 continued to constrain demand.
The Commercial sector showed some resilience although continued to be restricted Employees 2,693 by the lack of availability of finance for construction projects.
Industrial markets were generally better.
We believe all of our A leading wholesale distributor of plumbing, heating, major businesses in the USA continued to gain market share industrial andventilation equipment.
National distribution centre in Ontario and branches The gross margin was ahead of last year as we continued located inall10provinces across Canada.
tofocus on improvements in the business mix towards showrooms, counter sales and private label products.
Operating costs increased by 7 per cent in constant currency Experiencing increasingly difficult market conditions.
due to some additional headcount, the reinstatement of merit increases, pension contributions and higher volume related costs.
The combination of strong revenue growth and margin Business unit portfolio and prole improvement led to a significant increase in trading profit to 314 million 2010: 239 million.
There was a one-off charge Wolseley Canada is a wholesale distributor of plumbing, of 12 million in the period in respect of the settlement of heating, industrial and ventilation products, servicing RMI litigation dating back to 2004. markets and with a higher exposure to new residential markets than most of our regions.
Synergies with the US Growth in Blended branches continued throughout the year.
include shared supply chain and back ofce functions A strong focus on gross margins contributed to good profit andcombined sourcing activities.
ow through and the business was a major contributor to theoverall improvement in the Groups trading profit.
The Blended branches mainly supply plumbing equipment to TheIndustrial and HVAC businesses made good progress.
residential and commercial contractors and DIY customers, The Industrial business inparticular benefited from a buoyant and have historically delivered a strong performance.
TheWaterworks business was resilient Thenew national distribution centre in Milton, Ontario despite a fall in state and municipal funded projects.
com consumer internet business grew strongly The Waterworks business serves residential, commercial atmargins consistent with the rest ofthe US business.
Its market leadership is based In the first half of the year we completed a small Waterworks onstrong relationships with a base of core contractors and acquisition in Alabama.
Since the year end we have also national and international vendors.
completed two further small acquisitions of a PVF business The HVAC business supplies a wide range of heating, inLouisiana and a Blended branches business in Chicago.
ventilation, air conditioning and refrigeration products The USA trading margin was 5.7 per cent 2010: 4.6 per cent.
andparts from leading manufacturers to both residential andcommercial contractors.
The Industrial business derives three quarters ofits revenue from industrial customers and a quarter from municipal contractors.
We have the opportunity to gain a greater share ofour existing customers business and win new customers through technically knowledgeable sales staff, on time infulldelivery and value added services.
Strategic overview Business and performance Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 25 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Market position and competitive Regional KPIs environment The market positions of the main business units are 2011 2010 - estimated as follows: Like-for-like revenue growth 2% 1% 1% Market position Trading margin 4.8% 5.4% 0.6 % Blended branches 2 Five year performance m Waterworks 1 Revenue Trading profit Industrial 3 619 684 700 765 811 Wolseley Canada is estimated to be the largest national competitor in the Waterworks business and the second largest in blended branches.
However its market position varies by region.
42 39 32 41 39 Wolseley Canada is the only national HVAC distributor, facing regional competitors.
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Operating performance Quarterly like-for-like revenue growth % In Canada revenue was 2 per cent ahead of last year on a like-for-like basis.
The growth rate declined as the Canadian 10% economy cooled, following rises in interest rates and weakening consumer sentiment.
Last year the business benefited from the impact of tax incentives.
0% Trading profit of 39 million was 2 million lower after one-off costs of 3 million.
Higher revenue and an improvement in 10% the gross margin were offset by operating costs which grew by 7 per cent at constant currency as the new distribution Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 centre in Milton came on stream and we also invested in 2010 2011 more branch staff.
Waterworks and Industrial both improved their performance during the year.
Waterworks benefited from government subsidies whilst the Industrial business Business unit contribution continued to be supported by the strength of the oil and gas % of total 2010 11 revenue sector.
HVAC revenues declined as government stimulus Industrial incentives were removed.
Blended branches slowed in line 12% with the weakening new residential construction market.
TheWaterworks and Industrial businesses both gained HVAC market share in the period though HVAC and Blended 11% branches market shares were slightly lower.
The trading margin in Canada overall was lower at 4.8 per cent Blended 2010: 5.4 per cent.
Waterworks branches 15% 62% Revenue by market driver % of total 2010 11 revenue NonResidential residential new RMI construction 23% 34% Wolseley Canada improves efficiencies Wolseley Canada opened a new regional distribution centre DC in Milton, Ontario in October last year replacing their existing DC in Oakville.
The new DC measures 300,000 Non-residential Residential square feet and allows the business to offer a more extensive new construction RMI inventory of products, offer more vendor programmes and 35% 8% further improve ll rates to its 221 branches.
The distribution centre maintains a ll rate totheir branches which is on average 25 per cent higher than that of their vendors.
Thisresults in better product availability for customers.
26 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Regional performance continued Regional KPIs UK Revenue 2,404m 18% of Group 2011 2010 - Trading profit 109m Like-for-like revenue growth 3% 3% Trading margin 4.5% Trading margin 4.5% 3.7% 0.8% Ongoing business units 7 Five year performance m Revenue Ongoing branches 1,059 Trading profit 3,171 3,203 2,699 2,466 2,404 Ongoing employees 6,673 Excludes Build Center and Encon in disposal.
Focus of UK portfolio on strongest businesses capableof market leadership.
211 176 55 91 109 Disposal of the non-core businesses in the year, BuildCenter subject to competition authorityclearance.
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Investment in organic growth initiatives, including Quarterly like-for-like revenue growth substantial investment in the online B2B platform.
% 10% Business unit portfolio and prole 0% During the year ended 31 July 2011, Brandon Hire and Electric Center were disposed of in line with the Groups strategy of focusing on businesses with significant scale 10% andleading market positions.
In July, the Group announced an agreement, subject to competition authority clearance, Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 todispose of Build Center, itsbuilding materials distribution business.
The UK management team isnow in a strong 2010 2011 position to focus on its core, strong businesses with market leading positions.
Business unit contribution % of total 2010 11 revenue The majority of the UKs revenue is generated from the RMI market.
The business has particularly high exposure to public Disposals 6% sector work, which accounts for around 25 per cent ofrevenue.
Others Plumb and Parts Center is a leading distributor of plumbing 27% Plumb and heating products.
The business operates through a and Parts national branch network and can deliver superior ll rates Centers anda wide range of products through its distribution centres.
43% The business also supplies a wide range of spares and Pipe and replacements.
efficiencies arise from purchasing volumes, Climate Centers Build Center from opportunities to cross-sell and from shared sites.
10% 14% Thebusiness has continued to deliver strong financial performance in a tough trading environment and continues tolook for opportunities to improve customer service and Revenue by market driver grow sales.
% of total 2010 11 revenue Infrastructure Pipe Center and Climate Center distribute pipes, valves, 2% Residential ttings, air conditioning and refrigeration products.
Non-residential new construction Thebusiness has a sound track record of profitability, RMI 16% 12% andvolumes are particularly dependent on non-residential new build projects.
NonThe smaller UK business units include: residential new Drain Center, a specialist in above and below ground construction drainage: 18% Residential William Wilson, which distributes plumbing and heating RMI 52% products in Scotland: Strategic overview Business and performance Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 27 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Integrated services, outsourced inventory management and procurement services for maintenance activities on along-term contract basis, mainly to public institutions forexample housing associations: Bathstore, a retail bathroom specialist, whose product range includes baths, basins, showers, toilets, taps and bathroom furniture: Encon, a specialist distributor of insulation, drywall, ceilings, partitioning and re protection products held for disposal at 31 July 2011 : and BCG, which supplies kitchens, bathrooms and associated Plumb Center launches online trade superstore ttings to other builders merchants and to retailers.
Plumb Center has launched a comprehensive and interactive plumbing and heating online trade superstore.
Market position and competitive environment The website allows customers to check the current stock availability for 40,000 product lines 24 7, with over 20,000 The market positions of the main business units are products available for next day delivery.
estimated as follows: Customers are able to register their trade account and see their own exclusive terms, so they can rest assured they Market position are still getting the best possible deal.
They can set up job Plumb and Parts Center 2 lists, repeat orders and view their invoice and credit history.
The website also saves installers time as they can now click Pipe and Climate Center 2 and collect in branch or arrange delivery direct to site.
The website also contains a wide range of useful information The UK market is more consolidated than many ofthe other for customers.
This includes product information, videos, markets in which the Group operates with a fewlarge details about training courses and accreditations, updates on regulations and legislation and industry events and national players leading the market, although significant updates.
Visitors can also download or order company competition is provided by numerous smalllocal businesses.
Plumb and Parts Center have historically been the market leader in the UK plumbing and heating distribution market.
However, the recent merger of two businesses has created acompetitor of a similar size.
Build Center holds the number four position in the UK market.
The planned disposal is in line with Wolseleys strategy offocusing resources on its market leading businesses.
Operating performance Revenue in the UK was 3 per cent lower in the year due to the impact of disposals and the contract loss referred to at the half year, although the ongoing businesses were 2 per Wolseley UK is awarded the Carbon Trust Standard cent ahead due principally to commodity price ination.
Wolseley UK was recently awarded the Carbon Trust Public sector activity, which represents around 25 per cent of Standard in recognition of measuring, managing, and UK revenue, weakened in the second half.
The more resilient reducing carbon emissions.
RMI sector, which represents about 65 per cent of revenue The company underwent a rigorous assessment carried held up reasonably well.
out by an independent third party in order to achieve thishighly regarded national award.
It recognises the Trading profit of 109 million was 18 million ahead of last companys achievements in carbon reduction through year, of which 7 million arose within the ongoing businesses initiatives such as the adoption of its Transport Management with higher revenue and gross margins partly offset by a System, which ensures that vehicles take the most efcientroutes, and the installation of smart meters 5million one-off bad debt charge.
pictured above across the branch network to provide consumption data which enables the company Despite strong competition, Plumb and Parts Center was tounderstand and manage its energy consumption.
able to improve gross margins and gained market share Achieving the standard requires an ongoing commitment inthe fourth quarter.
Pipe and Climate and Drain Center to reducing carbon emissions.
Wolseley UK has already performed well, generating strong growth in the period as committed to reducing energy consumption in its business aresult of improved management focus and some benets by a minimum of 10 per cent by 2012. from commodity price ination.
Both businesses gained market share.
Trading conditions in Bathstore were particularly challenging with revenue down 15 per cent in theyear, though the business continued to generate profits.
The trading margin for the UK in the ongoing business was5.2 per cent 2010: 4.9 per cent.
