Strategic overview Business and performance Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 83 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Other statutory information Subject to the terms of the authority noted above, the Share capital and voting rights Directors will also recommend that they be empowered to Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together allot equity securities for cash other than pro rata to existing with any movements in the issued share capital during the shareholders, until the Annual General Meeting to be held year, are shown at note 29 of the consolidated financial inNovember 2012.
This authority shall be limited to the statements.
As at 31 July 2011 there were 284,910,959 fully allotment of equity securities for cash up to an aggregate paid ordinary shares of 10 pence each in issue and listed nominal amount of 1,424,622, being 5 per cent of the onthe London Stock Exchange.
The rights and obligations ordinary share capital issued at the date of this report.
attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, as well as TheDirectors currently have no intention to issue ordinary thepowers of the Companys Directors, are set out in the shares, other than pursuant to the Companys employee Companys Articles of Association, copies of which can be share schemes and any share dividend alternatives.
obtained from Companies Registry, Jersey or by writing to the Group Company Secretary.
Authority to purchase shares The Company also has a Level 1 American Depositary In certain circumstances, it may be advantageous for the Receipt ADR programme in the US for which Deutsche Company to purchase its own ordinary shares and a special Bank Trust Company Americas acts as Depositary.
The resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting American Depositary Shares ADS which are evidenced by inNovember 2011 to renew the Directors limited authority, ADRs are traded on the US over-the-counter market, where last granted in January 2011, to purchase the Companys each ADS represents one-tenth of a Wolseley plc ordinary ordinary shares in the market.
The authority will be limited share.
toa maximum of 28,492,450 ordinary shares being approximately 10 per cent of the Companys issued share CREST capital at the date of this report and sets the minimum andmaximum prices which may be paid.
The Directors The Companys ordinary shares are in CREST, the settlement willuse this authority to purchase shares only after careful system for stocks and shares.
consideration, taking into account market conditions, other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and Restrictions on transfer of shares theoverall financial position of the Company.
The authority There are no restrictions on the voting rights attached to the will enable the Directors to continue to be able to respond Companys ordinary shares or on the transfer of securities in promptly should circumstances arise inwhich they consider the Company.
No person holds securities in the Company that such a purchase would result in an increase in earnings carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
per share and would be in the best interests of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between In accordance with the Companys Articles the Company is holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the allowed to hold shares purchased by it to be held as treasury transfer of securities or on voting rights.
The Companys shares that may be cancelled, sold for cash or used for the Articles of Association may be amended by a special purpose of employee share schemes.
As at the date of this resolution of the Companys shareholders.
report, the Company holds no shares in treasury but the Directors currently intend that any shares which are purchased will be held in treasury.
The authorities to be sought by each Authority to allot shares of the resolutions noted above are intended to apply equally At the Annual General Meeting held in January 2011, to shares to be held by the Company as treasury shares authority was given to the Directors to allot new 10 pence andto the sale of treasury shares.
The Directors consider ordinary shares up to a nominal value of 18,967,966. itdesirable for these general authorities to be available to TheDirectors intend to propose at the Annual General provide exibility in the management of the Companys Meeting in November 2011 to seek authority to allot and capital resources.
grant rights to subscribe for or to convert securities into shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 18,994,968, representing approximately two-thirds of the Companys issued share capital as at the date of this report, but ofthat amount, 9,497,484 may only be allotted pursuant to a fully pre-emptive rights issue.
Ifapproved, this authority will expire at the conclusion of theAnnual General Meeting to be held inNovember 2012.
84 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Other statutory information continued Local management is responsible for maintaining high Share options standards of health and safety and for ensuring that there During the financial year ended 31 July 2011, options were isappropriate employee involvement in decision-making.
exercised pursuant to the Companys share option schemes AEuropean Works Council EWC has been operating resulting in the allotment of 476,390 ordinary 10 pence since 1996 to provide a forum for informing and consulting shares.
A further 13,569 ordinary 10 pence shares have been employees in Europe on such matters as significant allotted under these schemes since the end of the financial developments in the Groups operations, managements year to the date of this report.
Details of shares issued during plans and expectations, organisational changes within the the year are set out in note 29 to the financial statements.
Group and also for employee representatives to consult Group management about concerns over any aspect of Auditors and audit information theGroups operations.
At the date of this report, there were23EWC representatives of which 17 were employee  LLP PwC are willing to continue representatives and six were management representatives.
as auditors of the Company and resolutions concerning their Employee representatives are appointed from each European reappointment and the determination of their remuneration country in which Wolseley operates, with more than one will be proposed at the next Annual General Meeting.
employee representative appointed from the UK, France The Directors in ofce at the date of this report confirm that, andDenmark.
All employees are offered a range of benets so far as they are each aware, in respect of the consolidated depending on their local environment.
Where possible, they financial statements for the financial year ended 31 July 2011, are also encouraged to build a stake in the Company through there is no relevant audit information of which PwC are the ownership of shares through participation in the unaware and each Director has taken all the steps that ought Companys employee share schemes.
to have been taken as a Director to be aware, in respect of the consolidated financial statements for the financial year Employment policies ended 31 July 2011, of any relevant audit information and Our employment policies aim to attract the very best people toestablish that PwC are aware of that information.
and we believe that a diverse and inclusive culture is a key factor in being a successful business.
The Group remains Change of control committed to equality of opportunity in all of its employment The Company is not party to any significant agreements practices.
It is the Groups policy that the selection of thattake effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control employees for appointment, career development and following a takeover except for the 750,000,000 multipromotion be determined solely on the skills and attributes currency revolving credit facility agreement dated 18 July which are relevant to the job and which are in accordance 2011 and US$270,000,000 revolving credit facility agreement with the laws of the country concerned, without having dated 21 July 2011, which could become repayable following regard to an employees gender, race, religion, age or a relevant change of control.
Ongoing training of employees and the continued development of their skills is of prime importance to the There are no agreements between the Company and any Group.
These policies also cover the continuation of Director that would provide compensation for loss of ofce employment and appropriate retraining for employees oremployment resulting from a change of control following whobecome disabled during their employment.
atakeover bid, except that provisions of the Companys share schemes may cause options and awards granted UK pension schemes under suchschemes to vest in those circumstances.
All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to Wolseley currently has two pension schemes in respect of a change of control.
Outstanding options and awards would UK employees: normally vest and become exercisable for a limited period 1 Dened benefit Scheme the Wolseley Group Retirement oftime upon a change of control following a takeover, Benets Plan and the William Wilson Group Pension reconstruction or winding up of the Company not being Scheme merged on 1 January 2010.
Both have been aninternal reorganisation, subject at that time to rules closed to new entrants since 31 May 2009.
The merged concerning the satisfaction of any performance conditions.
plan is known as the Wolseley Group Retirement Benets Plan, retains a separate section in relation to the former Employees William Wilson Group Pension Scheme and has three We believe that our employees are central to our future trustees consisting ofan independent trustee, a member success.
The Group actively encourages employee nominated trustee and a corporate trustee.
The corporate involvement and places particular importance on keeping trustee consists of nine trustee directors and, save for employees regularly informed on the Companys activities MrDavid Tucker, chairman of the trustees, David Illingworth and financial performance and on matters affecting them and Ian Percy, CBE, all of the other trustee directors are individually and the business generally.
This can be through employees or former employees ofthe Group.
informal bulletins, in-house publications and briengs, as well as via the Companys intranet sites.
The Group operates on a largely decentralised basis with a rigorous control framework exercised by a small team at the Group Services Ofce.
Thisallows for greater autonomy and accountability at a local level and provides encouragement for the development of entrepreneurial air.
Strategic overview Business and performance Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 85 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 2 Dened Contribution Scheme the Wolseley Group Creditor payment policy Dened Contribution Plan is a trust-based dened All Group companies are responsible for establishing contribution pension scheme with three Companytermsand conditions of trading with their vendors.
It is the nominated trustees, one of whom is an independent Companys policy that payments to vendors are made trustee and two who are UK-based employees of the withinagreed terms and are, where applicable, consistent Group.
In addition, up to three member-nominated with ThePrompt Payment Code, which is sponsored by the trustees may be appointed.
Following anelection process UKDepartment for Business Innovation & Skills BIS.
in July 2010 one member was appointed.
The chairman Copies of this Code can be obtained from BIS.
At 31 July ofthe trustees is Wayne Phelan ofPS Independent 2011, the Company had no trade creditors 2010: nil.
Theamount of trade creditors for the Group as at 31 July 2011 was equivalent to 64 days 2010: 67 days of trade purchases.
Charitable donations On behalf of the Board The Groups Charitable donations in 2011 totalled 1,457,000 2010: 1,521,000.
Donations to charitable organisations from the businesses across the Group rangefrom small to substantial amounts.
The charitable organisations which received donations of more than 10,000 per annum from Wolseley are referred toin the Corporate responsibility report.
General details of charitable donations made in the year arecontained in the Corporate responsibility section.
Richard Shoylekov Group Company Secretary and General Counsel 4 October 2011 Political donations At each of the Annual General Meetings held since 2002, shareholders have passed a resolution, as a precaution, toapprove donations to political organisations and to incur political expenditure as such terms are now dened in sections 362 to 379 of the Companies Act 2006.
Each year, the Board has confirmed that it operates a policy of not giving any cash contribution to any political party in the ordinary meaning of those words and that it has no intention of changing that policy.
In previous years this resolution related to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
TheCompany has ensured that, although Jersey registered, it will continue to apply the same standards and has such provisions incorporated into its Articles of Association.
TheDirectors propose to seek, once more, authority for theGroup to make political donations and or incur political expenditure for amounts not exceeding 125,000 in a total aggregate, which they might otherwise beprohibited from making or incurring under the provisions of Article 12 of theCompanys Articles of Association and which would notamount to donations in the ordinary sense of the word.
This authority would last until the Companys next Annual General Meeting.
86 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
