10 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Value creation in action 1 2 3 Best customer service Strategic overview Business and performance Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 11 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 In order for us to be a supplier of The advantages of this tool are that Gain share of existing customers and gain choice for our customers we need individual branches can see how they new customers to give them the best possible score: theycan log into the tool and see service.
All of our business units the results for their own customers the Best Best Preferred measure customer service on a next day.
This means that the branches customer branch vendor service staff relationships regular basis and use the results can take action straight away to follow up todrive improved performance.
The surveys ask customers to rate how competitive Stark, the leading building materials Most efficient operating model Stark is and how they feel treated by business in Denmark, surveys all of its employees.
Depending on the rating that customers at least twice a year.
For Value creation model the customer gives Stark, the My Maze see pages 0607 Throughout the year they also send out survey tool generates a red unhappy, targeted surveys asking customers about amber or green smiley face.
This is a a particular initiative or part of their simple way of capturing customer Using your smartphone, scan this service.
Theyusean online survey tool code to view a short lm about feedback and allows Stark employees Stark customer service.
called My Maze to capture customer toquickly identify the areas inwhich Or visit: feedback and measure satisfaction in theyneed to take action.
com Images of staff from Stark, Aalborg, Denmark 1 Kirsten Hedeman, Accounts Manager.
2 Claus Bo Nielsen, Sales Assistant, Hardware.
3 Lars Ersted Nielsen, Sales Manager, Stark Selvbyg.
4 Henning Jrgensen, Sales Assistant, Hardware.
5 Kasper Hansen, Sales Apprentice, Building materials.
