54 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Board of Directors Directors in ofce as at 31 July 2011 Gareth Davis Ian Meakins John Martin Chairman Group Chief Executive Chief Financial officer Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointed to the Board on 1 July 2003 and became Appointed to the Board on 13 July 2009.
Appointed to the Board on 1 April 2010.
Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths Broad international board and general management Extensive operational and financial management Extensive international board and general experience in brand, retail and wholesale distribution experience.
Mr Martin has significant experience management experience, having served on various management: strategic vision and extensive atcost control, driving productivity, and leading company boards for many years.
business expansion projects, acquisitions, disposals, capital efficiency, tax, treasury and Experience Experience compliance activities.
Mr Davis spent 38 years in the tobacco industry and Mr Meakins was, until April 2009, Chief Executive was Chief Executive of Imperial Tobacco Group plc ofTravelex Holdings Ltd, the international foreign Experience from its incorporation in 1996 until May 2010. exchange and payments business.
Previously he was Mr Martin, a chartered accountant, joined the Age61.
Chief Executive officer of Alliance UniChem plc until Company in February 2010.
He was previously a its merger with Boots in July 2006 and prior to that, partner at the private equity group Alchemy Partners Committee membership between 2000 and 2004, was President, European and prior to that was Chief Financial officer of Chairman of the Nominations Committee and Major Markets and Global Supply for Diageo plc, Travelex Holdings Ltd and Hays plc, the business member of the Major Announcements Committee.
spending over 12 years with the company in a variety services group.
Mr Martin started his career at Arthur External appointments of international management positions.
Andersen before joining The Stationery Ofce Chairman of William Hill PLC and a Non Executive Group, on its privatisation, where he was Group Committee membership Director of DS Smith Plc, the international packaging Controller.
Chairman of the Executive Committee.
Member of manufacturer and ofce products wholesaler.
the Major Announcements, Treasury and Disclosure Committee membership Committees.
Chairman of the Major Announcements, Disclosure and Treasury Committees and a member of the External appointments Executive Committee.
Director of the Impetus Trust and Non Executive Director of Centrica plc.
Michael Clarke Tessa Bamford Richard Shoylekov Non Executive Director Non Executive Director Group Company Secretary and General Counsel Appointment Appointment Appointed to the Board on 22 March 2011.
Appointed to the Board on 22 March 2011.
Key strengths Key strengths Considerable board and executive management Extensive City experience having held senior Responsibilities experience within global businesses with strong advisory roles in both the UK and US across a range Mr Shoylekov, a solicitor, has responsibility marketing and distribution capabilities.
forthe Groups legal affairs, risk management and corporate responsibility.
Experience Experience Mr Clarke, a qualied accountant, spent his early career Ms Bamford was, until July 2011, a Director of Cantos Committee membership in South Africa and Hong Kong working for Deloitte.
Communications, theonline communications service Secretary to the Board and all Committees He joined Reebok International in 1991 and serving as provider.
Previously she was a Director of JHenry ofthe Board.
Member of the Major Vice President of South Asia Pacic.
Between 1996 Schroder & Co where she worked for 12years in a Announcements, Disclosure and and 2008 he held various roles at The Coca-Cola number of roles between 1986 and 1998.
Company including President of South Pacic and that, Ms Bamford worked in corporate finance for External appointments Korea, and President of North West Europe and Barclays fide Zoete Wedd.
Until August 2011, he was President of Kraft Committee membership Foods Europe, headquartered in Zurich.
Member of the Audit, Remuneration and Committee membership Nominations Committees.
Member of the Audit, Remuneration and External appointments Nominations Committees.
Non Executive External appointments Director of Barratt Developments plc and a Became Chief Executive officer of Premier Governor ofthe British Institute of Florence.
Strategic overview Business and performance Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 55 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Frank Roach Andrew Duff Michael Wareing CMG Chief Executive officer, North America Non Executive Director Non Executive Director Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointed to the Board on 16 December 2005.
Appointed to the Board on 1 July 2004.
Appointed to the Board on 1 October 2009.
Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths Strong business and operational leadership: Broad knowledge of international business: Comprehensive board and financial management Management of subsidiaries and joint ventures.
Strategic management and strong customer experience: significant commercial and international Business development and wide ranging serviceexperience.
experience having served in various advisory roles.
Experience Experience Experience Mr Duff spent 16 years at BP plc working in Europe, Mr Wareing was International Chief Executive of Mr Roach is responsible for all the North American the USA, Far East and Africa in marketing, strategy KPMG from 2005 until he retired in September businesses.
He first joined Ferguson Enterprises Inc. and oil trading.
He joined National Power in 1998, 2009, having previously been Chief Executive of in 1976 and has held a number of business roles.
joining the board of its daughter company Innogy KPMGs Europe, Middle East and Africa region.
In2005, Mr Roach was appointed as Senior plc a FTSE 100 company upon its demerger from Throughout his career Mr Wareing has been closely VicePresident of the Wolseley North America National Power in 2000 and its listing on the LSE.
involved with a number of charities and public management team, playing a key part in further Restructured Innogy plc, prepared a technology bodies, including his appointment in 2007 as the developing and expanding the Groups North spin-out for IPO, secure shareholder approval for Prime Ministers Special Envoy for the reconstruction American businesses.
Age 60. several Class 1 transactions including the sale of ofSouthern Iraq and Chairman of the Basra Innogy to RWE in 2003.
Mr Duff then became CEO Development Commission.
Committee membership of the successor company, npower and a member Member of the Executive Committee.
Committee membership of the RWE Group Executive Committee.
He was Chairman of the Audit Committee and member of External appointments appointed Non Executive Chairman of RWE npower the Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
until his retirement in December 2010.
External appointments Committee membership Became Non Executive Director of Cobham plc Senior Independent Director.
Chairman of the inDecember 2010 and of Intertek Group plc in Remuneration Committee and a member of April2011.
Chairman of the Iraq Advisory Board theAudit and Nominations Committees.
Board member External appointments ofBusiness in the Community.
Economic Chairman of Severn Trent Plc and Severn Trent Development Adviser to the Government Water Ltd.
Member of the CBI Presidents ofAfghanistan.
A fellow of the Energy Institute.
Memberof the board of trustees of MacMillan Cancer Support.
Member ofthe board of trustees ofthe Earth Trust.
