How were doing Media Investment Management Mindshare 2011 was a year when clients wanted the full breadth of our services.
Accountability as well as creativity.
Value as well Report by Dominic Proctor below as differentiation.
Measurement as well as magic.
I am pleased Chief executive officer to say that Mindshare delivered against these demands and we were rewarded with some significant new business wins from 2011 was Mindshares 14th year, each year showing clients such as Unilever, Heineken, SKY, Mazda and MSD.
considerable growth on the previous one, in good times It also meant that we were very well recognized in and bad.
However, theres no industry awards, winning Agency of the Year in Argentina, doubt 2011 was tough, particularly because of the Chile, Colombia, Ireland, the Netherlands, Portugal, Turkey, uncertainty in the global economy and in our clients India and Malaysia.
Beyond this we won regional Agency marketing plans.
Caution became the overwhelming of the Year in Asia Pacific, South East Asia and the Indian sentiment within clients and this cautious uncertainty subcontinent.
We were also rewarded for our creativity is now spilling into 2012. by winning more at Cannes than any other media agency, Mindshare needed to be flexible and our service offering including three Gold Lions.
needed to adapt to these changing sentiments.
With a heavy emphasis on pricing and delivery we are fortunate to be part of GroupM, which gives our clients the platform to be very We launched our mobile marketing competitive in the marketplace and the confidence to help us centre of excellence in India, leading develop new service propositions.
So in 2011, we invested a business development and global best lot in developing our digital skills, our content development capabilities, our business planning strength and our practice in this area strategic offering.
We also changed the management in many regions and markets in order to keep fresh and challenging.
We brought in new CEOs in North America, Latin America and Europe, as well as important countries like Italy, Australia and Mexico.
We also recognized that technology would continue to be the main driver of change within our business.
So we hired our first chief technology officer.
We recognized that within technology, mobile will become a key driver.
So we launched our mobile marketing centre of excellence in India, leading business development and global best practice in this area.
2011 was also my last year as CEO of Mindshare, as I am moving to GroupM.
It has been a privilege to have been at Mindshare since day one, and I know that the new management team, led by Nick Emery, will make the company even better and stronger.
The clear feedback from clients is that they want these specialists on their account, but that they want them integrated into the account groups.
This is challenging to achieve but the integration of disparate specialists into multidisciplinary teams is key.
Scientists working with artists, planners with buyers.
