How were doing Letter to share owners WPP Reading Room, an extensive online library of think offerings in the telecommunications sector to increase pieces both public and original from WPP professionals efficiencies and to provide enhanced support to our worldwide: our online Fact Files profiling Group resources increasingly mobile workforce.
companies products: regular communication on Group initiatives such as the WPP Worldwide Partnership Program and the WPP Marketing Fellowship Program: our annual Practice development Sustainability Report and this consistently award-winning Annual Report, both in print and online.
In practice development we continue to develop horizontal initiatives in a focused set of high-potential areas across our vertical operating brands: in media investment management, Property management healthcare, corporate sustainability, government, new technologies, new faster-growing markets, retailing, shopper In 2011, we were able to reduce our core property portfolio.
marketing, internal communications, financial services and Although square footage rose by 1.7% from 22.8 million sq media and entertainment.
Specifically, we continue to invest ft to 23.2 million sq ft at the end of the year, this increase in sharing insights and developing initiatives through WPP was less than the 3.1% of revenue growth attributable to Digital in digital marketing and media and The Store acquisitions and considerably less than constant currency in distribution and retail.
revenue growth of 8.4%, meaning our core portfolio In key geographic markets we are increasingly excluding the impact of acquisitions reduced.
Consequently, coordinating our activities through WPP Country Managers.
average square foot per head dropped to 211 sq ft, well ahead We continue to believe that increasing coordination is of the target of 220 sq ft we set ourselves.
required between our brands at the country and global levels, As a result of this improvement in space utilisation the as the arguments for investment in regional management establishment cost-to-revenue ratio dropped to 6.7%, ahead become weaker.
In addition, we have increased the number of our long-term 7% run rate and in spite of a 3% increase in of WPP Global Client Leaders to coordinate our efforts on cost per square foot.
For 2012 we will continue our focus on behalf of clients and to ensure they receive maximum benefit the key drivers of space per head, particularly in the US from their relationships with WPP operating brands.
Over where it runs above our average, and the cost per square 30 global client leaders have been appointed so far.
foot on our lease renewals, particularly in the faster-growing Furthermore, we continue to encourage internal strategic markets where the rental markets are rising fastest.
Our aim alliances and promote co-operation.
Practice development is to maintain the establishment cost-to-revenue ratio at 7% initiatives have therefore been reinforced in such areas as or even reduce it.
healthcare, retail, internal communications, corporate sustainability and media and entertainment.
This has been especially important in developing our portfolio of direct Procurement investments in new media under WPP Digital and where our investments are working with our agencies and people to We continue to target clear sector leadership in procurement, bring new technology capabilities and understanding to our through continuous investment in people, processes and clients.
All these initiatives are designed to ensure that we, technology.
WPP has professional procurement resources the parent company, really do as well as being perceived to based in 14 countries.
inspire, motivate, coach, encourage, support and incentivise Our goal is to make savings and add value across all our operating companies to achieve their strategic and of WPPs bought-out spend, with particular emphasis on operational goals.
opportunities to leverage our global, regional or local scale to the benefit of our clients and our operating companies.
Sustainability Information technology The Groups commitment to, and investment in, sustainability initiatives supports major business wins.
In IT we continue to consolidate our core technology We estimate that clients who engaged with WPP on our infrastructure with the objectives of reducing cost and approach to sustainability were worth at least $1 billion improving quality.
This enables our operating companies to the Group in 2011.
See pages 117 to 127 for more to concentrate their efforts on clientrelated developments on sustainability at WPP.
and other internal business-focused applications.
The convergence of mobile, voice and data communications has allowed us to take advantage of new 28 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2011
