How were rewarded  Key elements of short and long-term remuneration the arrangements were finalised towards the end of 2011.
The decision was made to increase Sir Martins base salary The design of compensation policy at WPP ensures a clear and fee from 1,000,000 to 1,300,000.
That was the first and direct link between the performance of the Group and increase to Sir Martins base salary since 1 January 2007 executive compensation.
Substantial use of performancewhich was the only increase since September 1999. driven compensation not only ensures the continued Since 2007, the Group has continued to grow in scale and alignment of share owner and executive interests but also complexity, with worldwide headcount increasing from fewer enables the Group to attract, retain and motivate the talented than 80,000 people in 2,000 offices to over 113,500 people people upon whom our success depends.
in over 2,500 offices: revenues increasing by over 69%: In light of this policy, the principal elements of WPP and earnings per share increasing by over 61% by the end executive compensation currently comprise the following: of 2011.
The level of the increase in compensation was base salaries and fees fixed : determined by several factors including business and personal short-term incentives paid in cash and shares which performance, competitive pay levels and the extended time vest after two years variable : and period since the last review.
long-term incentives paid in shares under LEAP, Paul Richardsons and Mark Reads base salaries were which are subject to a stretching performance test with reviewed during 2010 and no further review was undertaken participation linked to a significant co-investment in 2011. requirement over the five-year performance period.
Executive directors are also entitled to receive a pension Retirement benefits contribution or a cash allowance in lieu, life assurance, healthcare and other benefits.
All pension benefits for the Companys executive directors Compensation packages for executive directors and the are provided on either a defined contribution or a cash most senior people at WPP below Board level are normally allowance basis.
Only the aggregate of base salary and reviewed every 24 months.
These reviews consider the mix director fees is pensionable.
As part of the committees of fixed and variable elements of the compensation package, review of the chief executives compensation, the allowance general market conditions and internal factors such as the for Sir Martin was increased from 40% to 45% of base performance of the Group or relevant business unit and salary and fee, effective from 1 January 2011.
Paul pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group or Richardsons and Mark Reads pension contributions relevant business function.
remained unchanged at 30% and 10% respectively.
Details In determining suitable benchmarks, the Compensation of pension contributions or allowances for executive directors Committee looks at the compensation of executives holding for the period under review are set out on page 137. similar roles in competitor organisations and, if appropriate, media industry or general industry data for organisations Short-term incentives of comparable size and complexity.
WPP sets stretching performance targets for each operating Base salary and fees company on an annual basis.
Performance against these Current salary and fees Effective date targets determines the size, if any, of the incentive pool for SirMartinSorrell 1,300,000 1Jan2011 that business unit.
In aggregate, incentive payments in 2011 PaulRichardson $925,000and100,000 1Jan2011 were 338.2 million, reflecting strong Group financial MarkRead 425,000 1Jan2011 performance.
That strong performance is reflected in the bonuses paid to executive directors.
As reported in previous years, fees of 100,000 are paid to Individual targets both financial and strategic for the each of the executive directors in respect of their directorships operating company CEOs are set by WPP and in turn, these of WPP plc and are included in the numbers above.
CEOs set similar targets for employees who report directly Share owners will recall from last years Compensation to them.
Payment is in the form of both cash bonuses and Committee report that the committee undertook an extensive deferred shares which vest a further two years after grant.
review of the executive directors compensation at the end of The grant of those deferred share awards typically occurs 2010 and considered that increases to the base salaries of the within three months of the end of the financial year.
In a similar way, the committee sets objectives for the The consideration in respect of Sir Martins base salary executive directors.
The extent to which these objectives are continued during 2011, and the committee consulted share met will determine the size of both annual cash bonuses owners in the summer with regard to quantum and the under the short-term incentive plan STIP and Executive structure for Sir Martins remuneration arrangements.
Share Awards ESAs, the portion of the annual bonus paid in Having adjusted the proposals following that consultation, shares which normally vest a further two years after grant.
132 WPP ANNUALREPORT2011 How were rewarded  Since 2010, unvested ESAs are subject to clawback Actual bonus Sir Martin Sorrell 2011 target performance range Achievement % of salary provisions, which give the committee the right to cancel Groupfinancial HeadlinePBTgrowth: Above or reduce unvested share awards should this be justified objectives headlinePBTmargin Maximum improvementand by a participants acts or omissions.
167% Effective 2011 the committee adjusted the bonus Individual Relativefinancial Target strategic performanceofWPP opportunity for all executive directors.
83% provide for a better balance of the cash and share incentive Keybusiness Creativereputation Targetto elements of their remuneration.
As explained last year, the achievements recognition:succession Maximum planning:capital decision regarding adjustments to Sir Martins incentive effectivenessand acquisitionsuccess.
135% opportunities was unconfirmed, as the committee was keen Total 385% to engage with share owners on that subject.
Following the  60% oftheachieved share owner consultation process, the committee decided to  ESA adjust the target and maximum bonus opportunity, effective 2011, from 167% to 250% at target and from 300% to 500% Actual bonus Paul Richardson 2011 target performance range Achievement % of salary at maximum with at least half being delivered in the form Groupfinancial HeadlinePBTgrowth: Above of deferred shares, as shown in the table below.
As noted objectives headlinePBTmargin Maximum above, these adjustments reflect the fact that WPP is now improvementand revenuegrowth.
100% a considerably larger and more complex organisation than Individual CostreductioninIT, Targetto in 2007, when Sir Martins compensation was last reviewed.
90% The rapid growth of the organisation and the increasing Keybusiness  Targetto complexity of the sector have resulted in Sir Martins role achievements strategyandpractice: Maximum .
85% becoming significantly more demanding and the committee Total 275% believes that there should be greater reward opportunity Tobedeliveredas50%deferredshares ESA and50%cash available for success.
These adjustments strengthen further the direct and clear link between reward and performance Actual bonus and are better aligned to the incentive opportunities available Mark Read 2011 target performance range Achievement % of salary at our direct competitors.
Groupfinancial HeadlinePBTgrowth: Above objectives headlinePBTmargin Maximum improvementand Cash ESA revenuegrowth.
67% % of base salary and fees Target % Max % Target % Max % Individual Digitalperformance Targetto SirMartinSorrell 125 250 125 250 strategic andimprovementof Maximum objectives  PaulRichardson 100 150 100 150 andcapabilitythrough  MarkRead 67 100 67 100 ofdataandtechnology strategy:successfully .
60% The STIP seeks to incentivise the executive directors Keybusiness DevelopWPPDigital Targetto achievements throughthelaunchof Maximum to achieve specific goals over a one-year period, while PossibleWorldwide, Xaxis continuing to contribute to the on-going and sustainable andotherinitiatives.
63% success of WPP and demonstrating the core values of Total 190% Tobedeliveredas50%deferredshares ESA and50%cash ownership and alignment of interests with share owners.
Consistent with previous years, the plan rewards for performance in three equally weighted areas shown in The committee has determined that deferred shares ESAs the following tables financial, strategic and business will, subject to continued employment, vest after two years.
Except for the Group financial objectives, the The executive directors are eligible to participate exact measures differ for each individual executive director.
although, in 2011, have chosen not to participate in a cash In 2011 the Group achieved double-digit growth in all bonus deferral plan whereby they can defer receipt of part the core measures including revenue, profit before tax and of their bonus for four years, and receive a 25% match in earnings per share.
In addition, our profit margin improved the form of WPP shares subject to continuous employment.
strongly while we increased the number of employees by Bonus opportunity for the executive directors will be 9.2% to over 113,500 across the Group.
The Group was also unchanged for 2012, but the measures and ranges will be recognised at Cannes for its creative leadership.
The following assessed in light of expectations and the business strategy, tables summarise the measures in place for 2011, along meaning that they may change depending on the strategic with the committees assessment of the level of performance.
WPP ANNUALREPORT2011 133 How were rewarded  Long-term incentives the impact of major exchange rate shifts on the common currency TSR calculation as illustrated by the TSR graphs During the latter part of 2011, the committee reviewed the shown on page 131 : long-term incentive plans to assess whether they continued to the underlying financial performance of the Company meet the strategic objectives of the Company.
The conclusion relative to its peers, covering a range of measures including of the review was that the plan design, grant levels and vesting EPS, PBIT, margin and revenue growth: and schedules remained appropriate and well suited to the nature the constituents of the comparator group and whether of the business.
While the committee believes that the relative there were any extraordinary events that could have had TSR measure used in LEAP for a number of years continues to a positive or negative impact on their TSR performance.
be the most appropriate performance measure, the committee On review, the committee determined that there had periodically reviews whether the Plan would be strengthened been no significant events at any of the comparator group by the addition of one or two further non-market measures companies during the performance period and, therefore, in order to balance TSR.
Other than share options, it is intended that all awards In respect of the first factor, during the performance will be satisfied out of WPP shares held in treasury or one period sterling dropped sharply against the other currencies that of the Companys employee share ownership plans ESOPs.
feature in our peer group, falling 45% against the yen, 22% against the euro and 16% against the US dollar.
This dramatic Leadership Equity Acquisition Plan III currency shift is a factor that the committee has previously had to consider when determining the vesting for prior awards, once In 2011, awards under LEAP III were made to 15 of the adjusting the match upwards from the common currency result Groups key executives.
Details of the awards made to the and once adjusting the match downwards.
These significant executive directors can be found on page 140. currency movements meant that, while on a local currency basis LEAP III is a co-investment plan under which WPPs TSR ranked between second and third place above both participants must make and retain an investment in WPP Omnicom and Interpublic and equating to a match of 4.62, on shares investment shares in order to be eligible to receive a common currency basis WPP ranked below median, equating awards.
The committee may also extend the invitation to to zero vesting.
participate in the Plan to include options over WPP shares as The committee was of the view that the unprecedented part of the co-investment commitment.
In 2011, participants turmoil in the currency markets during the financial crisis were not given this opportunity.
Given the very international LEAP III awards provide participants with the focus of the comparator group, with all but one of our opportunity to earn additional WPP shares to match their comparators listed outside the UK and the five-year investments matching shares.
The number of matching investment and performance period, this event has impacted shares that a participant can receive at the end of the several award cycles under the Plan including some awards investment and performance period depends on the that are yet to vest.
While the committee has previously Companys TSR performance measured over five years considered and adjusted for the impact of currency and compared with a peer group.
fluctuations, this is the most significant impact that has Following the end of a performance period, the Plan been observed to date.
rules require the committee to perform a fairness review The committee determined that this factor of currency, dependent upon which it may, in exceptional circumstances, which was outside management control, had materially decide to vary the number of matching shares that will vest.
affected WPPs relative TSR ranking and meant that the As previously reported in the 2010 Compensation common currency TSR result was not a fair reflection Committee report, the 2006 award vested in March 2011 with of the Companys true performance relative to its peers.
a match of 4.14 shares for each investment share committed.
This was supported by a review of the Companys financial performance relative to the comparator group.
Therefore, Vesting of the 2007-2011 LEAP award the committees judgement was to use the average of the common and local currency results, resulting in a match In undertaking the fairness review described above for the of 2.31 for the 2007 awards which was also consistent with 2007-2011 LEAP award, the committee considered a broad the underpinning measures considered by the committee.
range of factors when determining whether the relative This implies a ranking between fourth and fifth out of TSR result was representative of Group performance over nine companies, which the committee felt to be more the five-year performance period from January 2007 to representative of the Companys underlying performance December 2011, and the extent to which there were factors over the five-year performance period.
that required the result to be adjusted.
For the vesting of the 2007 award the committee considered the following factors: 134 WPP ANNUALREPORT2011
