How were doing Healthcare Communications Of note, the agency dedicated its talents to a pro bono initiative for Direct Relief International, an organization that provides medical assistance to those affected by poverty, disaster and civil unrest around the world.
The creative campaign will be rolled out this year through donor outreach initiatives via TV, interactive and direct mail.
Future plans Today, forward-thinking agencies are taking note of the fact that medical professionals and consumers are redefining healthcare by putting the emphasis on health preventive medicine and wellness rather than care in the treatment of a condition or illness.
As health and wellness become more important to medical professionals and consumers, this, too, will become an important platform for OCHWWs new business growth.
The healthcare communications world of the future will be more global, more integrated, and more digital in every aspect.
OCHWW, built on this very foundation, is not just responding to the changes, but truly leading the charge.
ghg Report by Lynn OConnor Vos above right Chief executive officer What hasnt changed at ghg is the delivery of outstanding creative work, for which we received notable industry 2011 was a landmark year for ghg, as a combination of new recognition.
As part of Team Chemistry the WPP team for business wins and existing business expansion led to recordJohnson & Johnson, ghg was recognized for its innovative breaking growth.
The pursuit of leadership in the emerging, work with the 2011 North American Marketing Award, fully integrated, digitally-driven healthcare world, with as well as a Global Burke Award in the healthcare access the consumer at the center, has been a stated goal of our category on behalf of Janssen Connect.
ghg Australia took organization for several years.
Now, as that vision of the home a Clio, and was a Global Awards finalist in eight future becomes a reality, ghgs long-range strategic decisions categories for its exceptional creativity.
ghg continues to transform professional marketing for pharmaceutical brands with integrated models that leverage iPad applications, social media, online distance learning ghg continues to transform and mobile initiatives.
Our US and European medical education groups Phase Five, IMsci, Darwin Healthcare professional marketing for are redefining professional medical education with an pharmaceutical brands with integrated approach based on the changing needs of digitized models that leverage iPad applications, healthcare professionals.
ghg strengthened its digital practice with the launch social media, online distance learning of ghg Healxx Digital, a full-service digital healthcare and mobile initiatives communications agency that channels digital innovation from WPP Digital companies.
The agency provides best-inclass digital healthcare strategies and integrated, ghg now speaks health for a diversified client base that multichannel programs designed to improve health outcomes, includes OTC health brands, animal health brands, medical engage professionals and deliver solid business results.
devices, corporate identity clients, and health advocacy ghg also continues a tradition of pro bono work for organizations.
This reflects the new reality that, as healthcare the Jed Foundation and the Helen Keller National Center companies become more consumer-driven, many are playing for Deaf-Blind Children and Adults.
a bigger role in prevention and wellness.
