How were doing WPP Digital Report by Mark Read below 24 7 Media Chief executive officer Report by David Moore below WPP Digital enjoyed excellent growth in 2011.
We launched Chairman and chief executive officer Possible Worldwide and Xaxis in partnership with GroupM and 24 7 Media, continued to invest in proprietary 24 7 Media remains at the centre of WPPs dual strategy of technologies and made several acquisitions of strong investing in building proprietary technologies and partnering companies, particularly in fast-growing markets.
We start with industry leaders to develop an integrated technology 2012 with an even stronger footprint in the geographies platform which allows our clients to reach their customers and sectors which will drive further growth.
We strengthened our digital agency network with the launch of Possible Worldwide, an interactive marketing agency, and with the acquisitions of Rockfish in the US and F. biz in Brazil.
Our minority investment in Vice Media, a leading global youth media brand, reflects the growing importance of branded content to win online audiences.
We also continued to invest in technology and analytics to harness the exponential growth of data.
We launched Xaxis, a global audience buying company which combines the demand-side data and technology of 24 7 Media with the client relationships and trading leverage of GroupM.
We established The Data Alliance, a partnership between WPP companies to connect diverse data to provide powerful, analytics-driven solutions for our clients.
Finally, we made a strategic investment in nPario, a proprietary technology company which analyses big data for marketing and monetization.
WPP Digitals companies summarise their performance and activities on the following pages.
2011 saw continued success for 24 7 Media, which now operates in 12 countries through 18 offices, and in partnership with other WPP agencies.
Open AdStream our market-leading ad management platform continued to grow, delivering 1.2 trillion ads across thousands of websites in 2011.
And our Global Web Alliance maintained its strong position, finishing the year ranked seventh largest advertising network by reach in the US, according to ComScore Media Metrix.
In December 2011 we acquired Panache, a Los Angeles-based digital video advertising technology company.
Adding video capabilities to the Open AdStream platform has created new and expanded revenue opportunities for our clients at a time when online video consumption is experiencing enormous growth.
2011 was also a transitional year for 24 7s Media Innovation Group MIG.
The team helped successfully launch Xaxis in partnership with GroupM.
MIG continues to grow fast, serving advertisers and agencies with one of the most complete multi-channel digital advertising solutions currently in the market.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2011 79 How were doing WPP Digital Possible Worldwide In 2012, we will focus on creating an agency that is truly collaborative.
Possible Worldwide will continue to draw from Report by Shane Atchison below its strengths, as we leverage each offices local capabilities, Chief executive officer and develop them across Possibles growing global footprint.
Blue State Digital Report by Thomas Gensemer Managing partner In our first full year as part of WPP Digital, Blue State Digital saw very strong organic growth within the agencys portfolio of non-profit, cultural and political clients from United Way Worldwide, Oxfam UK, Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Tate, and from the re-election campaign of US President Barack Obama to the transition into office for Brazils President Dilma Rousseff.
With nearly 150 employees based in six offices New York, Washington DC, Boston, Los Angeles, Detroit and London Blue State Digital builds and manages communities of online Possible Worldwide was formed in 2011 with 23 offices on advocates, donors and influencers for brands, causes and five continents.
We are building on the strengths of our local political interests.
Our strategic campaign services are deployed offices to create a global digital offering for our clients, who in conjunction with our proprietary tools for email marketing, include Procter & Gamble, Dell, Conagra, Abbott and Mazda.
social media management, fundraising and peer-to-peer Possible Worldwide gained recognition almost immediately advocacy.
This unique combination of skills and capabilities after our founding for our work on The Art Project powered attracted a strong list of new clients including Cadbury, Ford, by Google, a detailed and intimate look at famous artwork the Greenbay Packers, Procter & Gamble, Royal Bank of from 17 museums around the world.
We created a beautiful Scotland and Recyclebank.
and intuitive site experience that leveraged a host of Google technologies, from Street View allowing users to navigate the interior of a museum, YouTube for in-context educational F. biz videos, and Google Scholar.
The project received worldwide press and acclaim, including a Cannes Gold Lion.
Report by Gal Barradas Another highlight of 2011 was our acquisition of Grngo, Chief executive officer one of Brazils most creative digital agencies.
The 70-person So Paulo office serves clients such as Coca-Cola, Absolut Created 12 years ago, F. biz is recognized as one of the Vodka, Microsoft and Ita Unibanco.
It also boasts one of most influential Brazilian agencies of the digital age.
With a the Southern Hemispheres most enviable award-winning brand-oriented approach, our mission is to help brands to track records, having garnered 24 FWA awards, 15 Wave develop a strong and lasting relationship with their clients, Awards, three Cannes Lions awards and more over the past combining strategic planning, creativity and technology three years.
The acquisition augmented our strategic position in order to generate results for the clients business.
in emerging markets such as China and India, with the 2011 was a great year for F. biz.
In addition to joining ability to execute large-scale, interactive initiatives in the WPP Digital in June, we won new business from Heineken fast-growing Brazilian market.
and Shiseido, and we were delighted to win awards including In March 2012, Possible Worldwide merged with digital Festival of Media LATAM, Mobile Merit Awards, MMA agency ZAAZ, to bring its global footprint to 1,200 Mobile Marketing Awards, Premio fide Midia Estado and employees, adding locations in Seattle, Portland, Chicago Festival of Media in Valencia.
F. biz was also named a Great and Helsinki.
ZAAZ brings world-class creative to Possible Place to Work as one of the best agencies for the second year Worldwide, as well as a distinct performance marketing running by the Great Place to Work Institute.
This includes expertise in digital analytics, search, search engine optimization, behavioral targeting, and local marketing strategies.
These capabilities will enhance Possible Worldwides ability to deliver the highest quality ideas and digital experiences, with more measurable results.
80 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2011 How were doing WPP Digital Fabric Worldwide Housed within WPP Digital, The Data Alliance facilitates coordination and collaborative innovations that span across Report by Neil Miller and Chris Perry data types and analytical disciplines, ranging from consumer Joint chief executive officers and marketplace insights Kantar, to media investment and response data GroupM and 24 7 Media, to purchase Fabric Worldwide is WPPs client-side platform: a technology transaction data i-Behavior.
built to simplify the way our clients control, use and act on In the few months since we started The Data Alliance, their data.
This technology is based around a marketing we have identified several areas where analytic projects operating system which allows consumer data and ways that began as process-intensive collaborations on one or of working with this data to be consistent across channels two clients can be automated and scaled by 24 7 Media and across different parts of the organisation.
We anticipate the first of the new analytics The last 12 months have seen the global roll-out of products resulting from these efforts will be released in this technology to over 100 brands in some of the largest mid-2012.
Built for marketers by marketers, it helps our clients understand what they need to know about their Summary consumers, and build analytic models, new ways of working, predictive algorithms or targeting methods on top of the As ever in the digital industry, 2011 was a year of wealth of new data that digital marketing unleashes.
change across WPP Digital, with companies joining the team, new companies and initiatives launched and new partnerships formed.
Our priorities remain to complement Rockfish Interactive the wider Groups digital strategies by incubating and providing a home for specialist digital agencies and talent Report by Kenny Tomlin and taking on cross-WPP initiatives in the technology and Founder and chief executive officer data area.
2011 has truly been a banner year at Rockfish, with explosive growth across the company.
We opened two new Our priorities remain to complement offices to accommodate an almost doubling of our people the wider Groups digital strategies by one in Cincinnati and a new headquarters building in incubating and providing a home for Rogers, Arkansas.
We also invested in developing new capabilities, including a digital analytics team and a content specialist digital agencies and talent strategy team.
We launched a new Rockfish Labs company, and taking on cross-WPP initiatives in CouponFactory.
com, which has been highly successful from the technology and data area the start.
Brand Ventures also premiered in April as a new model of agency as an investor, with three targeted investments made to date.
We were honoured to have been named as the Best Our key focus areas for 2012 are to strengthen our Web Design and Development Agency of the Year by capabilities in mobile and social marketing for our clients, OMMA magazine, and were also named once again in the to invest in e-commerce and e-shopper technology and Inc. 500 5000.
In 2011 we had 19 new client wins, including expertise and to continue to focus on data, technology restaurant chains like P. F. Changs, one of the most celebrated and analytics.
It is the people in our companies who coffee brands, BUNN, and the worlds leading sports gaming worked hard all year that we should thank for company EA Sports.
The launch of an iPad app for the the progress we have made and we will strive to harness nations eighth largest retailer, Sams Club, capped off their passion, creativity and talent to make 2012 a tremendously busy and exciting year at Rockfish.
The Data Alliance IBM estimates that 90% of the data in the world today was created within the past two years.
2011 was the year that all this data hit a tipping point for many of the Groups largest clients.
In response, we launched The Data Alliance, a Group-wide initiative to help marketers and their agencies make faster, smarter decisions with data.
