How were doing Healthcare Communications Ogilvy CommonHealth Worldwide counter categories provide balance to OCHWWs traditional Rx pharmaceutical client base.
Report by Matt Giegerich below Work on major product launches also helped to reinforce Chairman and chief executive officer OCHWWs dominant industry position.
Our networks involvement in Team Chemistry, WPPs multidisciplinary team for Johnson & Johnson, contributed to the US launch of Xarelto rivaroxaban Janssen Pharmaceuticals, arguably one of the largest and most important pharmaceutical innovations in the cardiovascular category.
In 2011, Team Chemistry also helped introduce to market Zytiga abiraterone acetate Janssen Biotech, a groundbreaking oncology brand for prostate cancer.
All told, the network has earned more than 160 industry awards in the last two years, including a number of Gold or first-place finishes, in addition to a CLIO Healthcare Award given to Ogilvy CommonHealth Madrid.
Integrated global services With 65 offices across 35 countries, individual business units within the OCHWW network continue to provide specialized focus on key healthcare marketing disciplines.
However, a new, unified global reporting structure is now in place, intended to help ensure the network can deploy the right team and resources for every client, regardless of geography or scale.
After just one full year of operation, Ogilvy CommonHealth This global structure also creates operational efficiencies and Worldwide OCHWW, the healthcare marketing network reduces duplication of effort and investment.
formed in 2010 by the merger of Ogilvy Healthworld and CommonHealth, has proven it can deliver a more integrated, more digital and more global offering than either could A new, unified global reporting as separate entities, with an impressive 72 significant new structure is now in place to help the agency-of-record AOR assignments in 2011, as well network deploy the right team and as numerous additional project-based assignments.
resources for every client, regardless Strong and growing ofgeography or scale Strong growth in 2011 was driven by Ogilvy CommonHealth Worldwides ability to deliver end-to-end solutions that integrate both leading-edge and traditional offerings on Other new and expanded offerings for OCHWW in a local and global scale.
2011 included the launches of Parsippany, NJ-based Scientific The fastest-growing segments in the network were our Communications & Information services group, which London-based businesses and Payer Marketing divisions, focuses on the specific needs of medical affairs and R&D the latter of which specialize in access and reimbursement teams, and London-based Ogilvy Digital Health, a newly communication to those who pay for medical services, formed agency that brings together best-in-class health and such as insurance companies.
We believe access strategies digital marketing all under one roof.
are game-changers in our industry and we are well placed with three well-established Payer Marketing business units, Support for communities offering our clients a way to integrate these strategies seamlessly into their overall communications efforts.
In addition to the local charities OCHWW supports Of note, our Interactive Marketing groups drove through annual food, coat and toy drives: health-related considerable growth for existing agency-of-record assignments, fund-raisers: and disaster-relief efforts, the agency gave as clients increasingly saw the value in a single network that back to its communities with hundreds of thousands of can deliver both powerful core creative ideas along with dollars worth of pro bono work and negotiated more than full-service digital and multimedia expertise.
New business $1,000,000 worth of free advertising space for various assignments in the medical device, diagnostic and over-theworthy organizations.
