How were doing Media Investment Management GroupM Report by Irwin Gotlieb right Chairman GroupM enjoyed an especially prosperous 2011.
By the end of the year, our company scored a 13% increase in overall global billings compared to the previous year, according to RECMA, the independent organization that measures media agency sector operations.
At the same time, with $82.2 billion in worldwide billings RECMA we remained the undisputed market leader among all global media agency networks with a 29% share of total measured volume.
As both a parent company and collaborator, GroupMs primary goal remains constant: we provide maximum support for each of our operating companies Maxus, MEC, MediaCom and Mindshare.
We assist them in their efforts to provide a wide range of products and services to their clients, such as trading, content creation, digital communications, new business, finance, proprietary tool development and other critical capabilities.
Throughout 2011 our agencies scored important new business wins around the globe and also benefited from varying degrees of organic growth from existing clients.
The account wins, along with industry awards, are outlined in the individual agency accounts on the following pages of this report.
Im particularly pleased to note that Maxus truly came into its own this year as our fourth international agency network.
Since 2009, the agency more than doubled OMMA magazines.
One of those issues was online privacy.
its billings from under $3 billion to upwards of $6.5 billion.
In June, GroupM announced the development of new In North America, the agencys billings were roughly $700 guidelines for safeguarding the privacy of consumers using million at the end of 2010 and edged toward $2 billion by mobile devices in a pioneering effort to introduce a high the end of 2011, according to RECMA, which named Maxus level of privacy standards to mobile communications.
the fastest-growing agency network in the world in both The guidelines were designed to limit the amount of data 2010 and 2011. collected and passed from mobile devices that can be used in marketing campaigns in order to protect consumers from the unwanted collection and distribution of their... several key issues placed us personal information.
In its article announcing our award, MEDIA said: Over attheforefront of industry-shaping the past two years, the firm is credited with doing more than developments and led us to be named any other advertising company to advance the cause of the Media Agency Holding Company of industrys self-regulatory position on privacy.
In other awards, GroupM also topped the annual Gunn the Year Reports Holding Company of the Year tables in 2011 with 513 points and, at the Cannes Festival, Mindshare was awarded for its creativity by winning more awards in more GroupM also has always placed a priority on meeting categories than any other media agency, including three tough challenges and developing new initiatives to keep our Gold Lions.
company at the forefront of the media services business while Another area in which we were viewed as leading maintaining our global reputation as a pioneering influence the industry was in our efforts to protect the copyrightthroughout our industry.
This was especially true in 2011 protected intellectual property of all content-producing when several key issues placed us at the forefront of industrycompanies.
GroupM developed and adopted a pioneering shaping developments and led us to be named Media Agency new digital media trading policy designed to prevent its Holding Company of the Year by both MEDIA and clients ads from appearing on websites that distribute 54 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2011 How were doing Media Investment Management illegally-obtained content.
The policy includes anti-piracy language for insertion orders that prohibits vendors from placing GroupM clients advertising on sites that support piracy or contain any illegally distributed content.
In conjunction with the new policy, GroupM identified a list of more than 2,000 US-based websites that were identified as containing or supporting pirated content.
In 2011, GroupM... emerged as anindustry thought leader on the major issues challenging media agencies globally As always, developing new technology also played a key role for us in 2011.
As part of that plan, we launched a new company called Xaxis, a global audience buying company that combines all of WPPs demand-side data and technology resources and the trading leverage of the GroupM agencies into a single comprehensive resource that allows advertisers to target specific audiences directly, independent of website, app or media platform.
With a presence in 13 markets globally, Xaxis has served hundreds of billions of impressions for over 600 advertisers since its launch.
In other areas, GroupM continues to be a leading prognosticator of worldwide advertising spending in both traditional and digital media, issuing several This Year, Next Year forecast reports throughout 2011.
We also published Interaction 2011, our fifth annual point of view on the state and future of the digital media marketplace with an analysis of what it means for the worlds largest advertisers.
In 2011, GroupM not only emerged as an industry thought leader on the major issues challenging media agencies globally, but each of our agencies also experienced continued growth in both billings and market leadership in a majority of locales worldwide.
At the same time, we remained committed to our long-standing and ever-present goal of serving as a catalyst in advancing the media landscape for the benefit of our stakeholders and our clients.
We continue to act aggressively to pursue any and all opportunities and initiatives that bring substantial competitive advantage to our agencies clients.
