How were doing Branding & Identity B to D Group vision and company purpose.
FITCH and The Partners continued to expand their global reach, with FITCH opening an Report by Craig Branigan below office in Delhi and The Partners opening its third international Chairman and chief executive officer hub in Singapore.
PeclersParis made good headway in growing its consulting business and achieved record-level trend book 2011 was a year of growth and achievement for the Branding sales.
At the end of the year our group launched The Mix, to Design B to D Group.
We delivered solid revenue growth a website developed to facilitate greater collaboration between and profit improvement with several of our companies the B to D Group companies and our sister group, Kantar.
achieving record revenues and operating profits for the year.
As a group, we continue to establish our sustainability We continued to strengthen our global performance across marketing services and we work to make sustainability central a number of practices and we improved our showing at the to our marketing approach.
Notably, The Partners created a Cannes Festival in June.
desktop app for Deloitte, named PlanetSaver, that encourages Through the insights, creativity and dedication of our Deloitte staff to put their computer screens into sleep mode teams around the world, we initiated new client partnerships whilst idle.
After one full year of deployment in 2011, with many respected brands, including GlaxoSmithKline, PlanetSaver had 31,000 active users worldwide and had saved Interstate Hotels & Resorts, JX Holdings, Saudi Telecom, 64 MWh of power.
According to Deloittes own data, that Shanghai Media Group, Yell, South African Airways and is the equivalent of powering one small office for 16 years, Best Buy.
We also continued to successfully build and brewing 1.8 million cups of coffee, or powering all of expand our key client relationships, delivering innovative Greater London for 21 minutes.
and effective solutions for our long-standing clients.
As ever, Looking ahead, the early signs for 2012 are favorable.
these global key client relationships continue to form the We are aligning ourselves with those clients, capabilities bedrock of our businesses.
and geographies that provide the greatest potential for growth, and we anticipate another positive year in 2012.
Please see below for an overview of Addison, The Brand Union, FITCH, Lambie-Nairn, Landor Associates which is also a Y&R Group company, The Partners, PeclersParis and VBAT.
Addison Addison achieved another growth year in 2011.
It was also one of significant development, reflecting the rapidlychanging environment within corporate communications.
Major trends included the evolving societal expectations on companies, the continuing rise of regulation and the accelerated use of technology providing Addison with clear opportunities for growth, based on its distinctive consultancy offer within the market.
Once again, our companies won several high-profile awards Led by CEO Tom Robinson, Addison continues to in 2011 and these are detailed in their respective reports.
All of expand its areas of practice, including research, digital our companies continue to innovate, adapt and change in order communications, sustainability, thought-leadership to remain creative leaders of the industry.
communications, internal communications, as well as The B to D Group garnered a number of other highlights social media and engagement.
Client relationships continue for the year.
Lambie-Nairn and The Brand Union sponsored the to grow across its core European markets, most notably inaugural Cannes Also event at the Cannes Festival, showcasing with BASF, Zurich Financial Services and Heineken.
the photographic talent within the global creative marketing industries.
VBAT successfully launched the new corporate identity for PostNL and achieved a significant profit turnaround The Brand Union full report on page 71 for the year.
Addison continued to establish itself as an integrated corporate communications agency, with new After a challenging first quarter in 2011, momentum grew, strategic communications projects for BASF, BG and Zurich culminating in a very strong second half performance.
Mary Zalla was promoted to CEO of positive outcome came from three main sources: growth with Landor, leading the agency in the implementation of its new our key client partners: the development of our consumer WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2011 69 How were doing Branding & Identity branding practice: and further expansion of the network, category.
The Partners also won a Bronze Lion at Cannes, opening offices in Qatar and Thailand, and adding a and was named Design Agency of the Year at Marketing Weeks Cape Town operation and an affiliation in Korea.
Blades Awards and was commended runner-up in Marketing magazines Branding Agency of the Year.
The Partners continued to develop its thought-leadership FITCH full report on page 72 position throughout 2011, with articles published in The Guardian, Management Today and other influential titles.
FITCH continued to grow in 2011, with a high double-digit With the current leadership in New York Steven Gilliatt, revenue increase in North America and the Asia Pacific region.
managing director and new leadership in the London office The agency welcomed many new clients including Best Buy, Matt Woods, managing director and Singapore office Staples and Nickelodeon in the US, Etihad Towers and Wafra Anant Deboor, managing director, The Partners have Real Estate in the Middle East, Molton Brown and Ann positioned the organization for another year of growth Summers in the UK, and Nestl and Pepsico in India.
FITCH and success in 2012. opened a Delhi office and garnered best-in-class design wins from Chain Store Age, the VM&RD Retail Awards and the Asia Retail Congress.
PeclersParis Under the leadership of CEO Eric Duchamp, styling and trend Lambie-Nairn forecasting agency PeclersParis continues to be a partner for some of the leading brands in the world, providing consulting Lambie-Nairn achieved a record year in 2011 in terms of both services and trend publications for the textile, fashion, revenue and profit growth.
Led by CEO Christian Schroeder, cosmetics, home decoration, consumer goods and retailing the agency experienced significant double-digit business growth.
industries across its main geographies of Europe, China and On the heels of its first full year of trading in its three Latin the US.
2011 was a year of revenue growth for the agency, American offices Colombia, Mexico, and Argentina, the based on the strength of its restaged trend books and the agency is now looking to open an office in Brazil in 2012. addition of a number of new clients including Shiseido, Lambie-Nairn continued to successfully grow its business Elle Licensing and Wonderbra.
in Spain and Germany and was named global branding agency PeclersParis has unique creative transformation for Telefnica, O and Movistar.
It also added a number of capabilities, creating value for its clients by strategically 2 significant new clients to its roster, including GlaxoSmithKline, translating future innovation opportunities into tangible Panasonic, Telecom New Zealand, Saudi Telecom and Qatar style and design directions.
At a moment when brands really National Hotels.
Lambie-Nairn won several design effectiveness want to reinforce their emotional link with consumers, the and creative awards, continuing to build its reputation as a agency leverages its experience in the fashion world to help leading screenand digital-based global branding agency.
Landor Associates full report on page 47 VBAT For Landor Associates, 2011 was a year of renewed energy.
For Netherlands-based VBAT, 2011 was a very good year.
The company refocused on top-line growth and new Building upon the recovery which started in the second part business, introduced an exciting new vision, added energetic of 2010, a strong performance was delivered.
Both revenue new leaders, increased its corporate responsibility initiatives and margin showed significant growth.
and launched a new approach to awards.
This growth was fuelled by a number of successful new business gains: of particular note were the corporate identity program for PostNL and the store concept for Makro Cash & The Partners Carry Metro Group.
Long-term relationships with key clients such as Heineken Group, Campina and Intergamma continued The Partners delivered a strong performance, achieving to develop and provide a strong foundation for growth.
significant growth in both London and New York.
Under the VBATs presence on the international stage continued leadership of CEO Jim Prior, the agency expanded its global with the development of successful launches for Goldberg footprint, putting a stake in the ground in Singapore.
Nigeria, Amstel Premium Pilsner Russia and Greece and Continuing to bolster its reputation as one of the most work for Sol beer global.
 agencies in the world, The Partners won Led by chairman CEO Eugene Bay, VBAT has a positive a Gold Lion at Cannes for the third year no other agency has outlook on the coming year and is determined to build on won Gold more than once in the four years design has been a its momentum.
