Who runs WPP Non-executive chairman Board of Directors Philip Lader Chairman of the Nomination and Governance Committee Philip Lader Non-executive chairman Age 66 Member of the Compensation Committee Philip Lader was appointed chairman in 2001.
The US Executive directors Ambassador to the Court of St Jamess from 1997 to 2001, he previously served in several senior executive roles in the Sir Martin Sorrell US Government, including as a Member of the Presidents Chief executive Cabinet and as White House Deputy Chief of Staff.
Before Paul Richardson entering government service, he was executive vice president Finance director of the company managing the late Sir James Goldsmiths US Chairman of the Sustainability Committee holdings and president of both a prominent American real Mark Read estate company and universities in the US and Australia.
Strategy director A lawyer, he is also a Senior Advisor to Morgan Stanley, Chief executive, WPP Digital a director of Marathon Oil, AES and Rusal Corporations, a trustee of the Smithsonian Museum of American History Non-executive directors and the Atlantic Council and a member of the Council on Colin Day Foreign Relations.
Member of the Audit Committee and Compensation Committee Esther Dyson Sir Martin Sorrell Chief executive Age 67 Member of the Compensation Committee and Nomination and Governance Committee Sir Martin Sorrell joined WPP in 1986 as a director, Orit Gadiesh becoming Group chief executive in the same year.
He is Member of the Nomination and Governance Committee a non-executive director of Formula One and Alcoa Inc. msorrell@wpp.
com Ruigang Li Stanley Bud Morten Paul Richardson Finance director Age 54 Koichiro Naganuma Lubna Olayan Paul Richardson became Group finance director of WPP in Member of the Nomination and Governance Committee 1996 after four years with the Company as director of treasury.
John Quelch He is responsible for the Groups worldwide functions in finance, information technology, procurement, property, Jeffrey Rosen treasury, taxation, internal audit and sustainability.
Chairman of the Compensation Committee Member of the Audit Committee He is a chartered accountant and fellow of the Association Senior independent director of Corporate Treasurers.
He is a non-executive director of CEVA Group plc, Chime Communications PLC and STW Timothy Shriver Member of the Compensation Committee Communications Group Limited in Australia, the last two being companies associated with the Group prichardson@wpp.
com Paul Spencer Chairman of the Audit Committee Mark Read Strategy director and CEO, WPP Digital Age 45 Sol Trujillo Member of the Audit Committee Mark Read was appointed a director in March 2005.
He has been WPPs director of strategy since 2002 and is also chief Members of the Advisory Board executive of WPP Digital.
He is a member of the Supervisory Board of HighCo and a director of CHI & Partners.
He Jeremy Bullmore worked at WPP between 1989 and 1995 in both parent John Jackson company and operating company roles.
Prior to rejoining Richard Rivers WPP in 2002, he was a principal at the consultancy firm of Booz-Allen & Hamilton and founded and developed Company Secretary the company WebRewards in the UK mread@wpp.
com Marie Capes 100 WPP ANNUALREPORT2011 Who runs WPP Colin Day Non-executive director Age 57 IBLAC and sits on the International Advisory Board at HEC School of Management in France.
Colin Day was appointed a director in July 2005.
He is the chief executive of Filtrona plc and a non-executive director of Amec.
Ruigang Li Non-executive director Age 42 He was the group finance director of Reckitt Benckiser plc, until April 2011, having been appointed to its board in September Ruigang Li was appointed a director in October 2010.
Prior to joining Reckitt Benckiser he was group finance Chairman of China Media Capital CMC.
CMC is the first director of Aegis Group plc and previously held a number and only sovereign private equity fund dedicated to the media of senior finance positions with ABB Group plc and fide La Rue sector in China and abroad.
In 2010, CMC forged a strategic Group plc.
He was a non-executive director of Vero Group plc partnership with News Corporations Star China to jointly until 1998, Bell Group plc until 2004, Imperial Tobacco plc develop growth opportunities on operational and investment until February 2007, easyJet plc until 30 September 2005 platforms within China and beyond.
Li was president of and Cadbury plc until 2010.
Shanghai Media Group SMG between 2002 and 2011.
Under Lis Leadership, Shanghai Media Group, a multimedia Esther Dyson Non-executive director Age 60 conglomerate based in Shanghai, built the most complete portfolio of media and related businesses and became one Esther Dyson was appointed a director in 1999.
In 2004 she of the worlds largest providers and distributors of Chinese sold her company, EDventure Holdings, to CNET Networks, language media contents and services.
SMGs business scope the US-based interactive media company now owned by spans multiple platforms and disciplines of television, radio, CBS.
She left CNET at the end of 2006 and now operates print media, digital media, content distribution, e-commerce, as an independent investor and writer, again under the name live theatre entertainment and education.
She has been highly influential for the past 25 years on the basis of her insights into online information Stanley Bud Morten Non-executive director Age 68 technology markets and their social impact worldwide, including the emerging markets of Central and Eastern Bud Morten was appointed a director in 1991.
From 2003 to 2009 he An active investor as well as an analyst observer, she was the Independent Consultant to Citigroup Smith Barney participated in the sale of Flickr to Yahoo!
and of Medstory with responsibility for its independent research requirements.
She sits on the boards of Russias Previously, he was the chief operating officer of Punk, Ziegel leading search company Yandex YNDX and also of non-listed & Co. a New York investment banking firm with a focus start-ups including Evernote, 23andMe, Airship Ventures, on the healthcare and technology industries.
com, Meetup Inc. NewspaperDirect Canada, Voxiva was the managing director of the equity division of Wertheim US and XCOR Aerospace US.
She is also active in public Schroder & Co. Inc. in New York.
He is a former nonaffairs and was founding chairman of ICANN, the domain executive of Register.
com, which was sold to a private equity name policy agency, from 1998 to 2000.
She currently sits firm in November 2005, and of The Motley Fool, Inc. a on the board of the Sunlight Foundation, which advocates private company in the financial content business.
He is transparency in government, and writes a monthly column also a non-executive director of Darien Rowayton Bank, for Project Syndicate which is distributed worldwide.
Orit Gadiesh Non-executive director Age 61 Koichiro Naganuma Non-executive director Age 67 Orit Gadiesh was appointed a director in April 2004.
She is Koichiro Naganuma was appointed a director in February chairman of Bain & Company Inc. and a world-renowned 2004.
He is chairman of the Board of Asatsu-DK Inc. expert on management and corporate strategy.
She holds an also known as ADK.
He is also vice chairman of Japan MBA from Harvard Business School, was a Baker Scholar Advertising Association and chairman of Japan Advertising and was also presented the Brown Award.
Joining the agency in 1981, he Ms. Gadiesh is a member of the Foundation Board for the was president and Group CEO from 1991-2010.
World Economic Forum as well a member of the International ADK is Japans third largest advertising and Business Council of the World Economic Forum.
She is on the communications company, and 15th largest in the world.
Board of Directors of The Peres Institute for Peace, sits on the International Advisory Board of The Atlantic Council of the United States, and the Advisory Board for the British-American Business Council.
She is the Chairman of the International Business Leaders Advisory Council for the Mayor of Shanghai WPP ANNUALREPORT2011 101 Who runs WPP Lubna Olayan Non-executive director Age 56 entrepreneur.
As chairman and CEO of Special Olympics, he serves nearly four million Special Olympics athletes in Lubna Olayan was appointed a director in March 2005.
180 countries all working to promote health, education, Ms Olayan is the deputy chairperson and chief executive and unity through the joy of sports.
officer of the Olayan Financing Company, a subsidiary Before joining Special Olympics in 1995, Shriver was and the holding entity for the Olayan Groups operations and remains a leading educator focusing on the social and in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the Middle East.
He co-founded and currently Ms Olayan is a Board Member of two publicly listed chairs the Collaborative for Academic, Social, and Emotional companies, the Saudi Hollandi Bank and Schlumberger, Learning CASEL, the leading research organization in the and sits on the International Advisory Board of Akbank, field of social and emotional learning.
He is a member of the Rolls-Royce and the National Bank of Kuwait.
She is on Council on Foreign Relations, and is a non-executive director the Board of Trustees of Cornell University, INSEAD of Neogenix Oncology and Fisker Automotive.
and KAUST King Abdullah University of Science and Technology and on the Board of DSCA Down Syndrome Paul Spencer Non-executive director Age 62 Charitable Association and Al Fanar, the first Arab venture philanthropy organisation in the Arab region.
Paul Spencer was appointed a director in April 2004.
He is a financier with 20 years experience in the financial John Quelch Non-executive director Age 60 management of a number of blue-chip companies, including British Leyland PLC, Rolls-Royce PLC, Hanson PLC and John A. Quelch was appointed a director in 1988.
He is Royal & Sun Alliance PLC.
the Dean, Vice President and Distinguished Professor of He has held a number of non-executive directorships International Management at China Europe International including until 2009 chairman of NS and I National Business School in Shanghai.
He is currently chairman of State Street Managed was the Lincoln Filene Professor of Business Administration Pension Funds and chairs audit at TR Property Investment and Senior Associate Dean at Harvard Business School.
He is the independent Trustee of BT, BA and Between 1998 and 2001 he was Dean of London Business Rolls-Royce Pension Funds.
He is Chairman of Hermes School.
Between 2002 and 2011 he served as chairman of Asset Managers Ltd.
In the 2010 Honours List he was the Massachusetts Port Authority, honorary consul general awarded a CBE for services to the financial services industry.
of the Kingdom of Morocco in New England and as He is a governor of the charity Motability.
honorary chairman of the British American Business Council of New England.
Sol Trujillo Non-executive director Age 60 Professor Quelchs writings focus on global business practice in emerging as well as developed markets, international Sol Trujillo was appointed a director in October 2010.
He marketing and the role of the multinational corporation and the is an international business executive with three decades nation states.
He is a non-executive director of Alere, Inc and experience as CEO of large market cap global companies a member of the Council on Foreign Relations.
He served in the US, the EU and Asia Pacific, including US West now previously on the boards of Blue Circle Industries plc, easyJet CenturyLink, Orange now France Telecom and Telstra, plc, Pentland Group plc, Pepsi Bottling Group and Reebok the Australian communications company.
In the 2011 Honours List he was operating in the telecommunications, technology, and media awarded a CBE for services to the promotion of British business.
space, he has been a long-time champion of high-speed broadband and a pioneer and innovator of smartphone and Jeffrey A. Rosen Non-executive director Age 64 the mobile internet to stimulate productivity and innovation across all sectors of the economy.
He has managed operations Jeffrey Rosen was appointed a director in December 2004. in more than 25 countries including developed and emerging He is a deputy chairman and managing director of Lazard, markets from the EU and North America to China, South with over 30 years experience in investment banking.
He is a Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
member of the Council on Foreign Relations and is President He currently sits on corporate boards in the US, EU and of the Board of Trustees of the International Center of China including Target and ProAmerica Bank in the US Photography in New York.
and, in Asia, Silk Road Technologies in China, where he is board chairman.
Timothy Tim Shriver Non-executive director Age 52 In the public sector, Mr Trujillo served as trade policy advisor to the Clinton and Bush administrations and remains Tim Shriver was appointed a director in August 2007.
He is active on public policy issues related to immigration, trade, a social leader, educator, activist, film producer and business productivity and fiscal affairs.
