How were doing Consumer Insight Kantar researchers who can understand and predict human behaviour, storytellers who can inspire an audience, client Report by Eric Salama below service people who can join up the dots and operational Chairman and chief executive officer people who can improve data quality and drive efficiencies.
But the ferocity of competition, the importance of speed in decision-making and the explosion of data often referred to as Big Data has led many clients to zero base their insight plans and examine what data and insights they really need to drive their business and how they should be partnering with agencies.
Bob McDonald, CEO of Procter & Gamble, said recently in McKinsey Quarterly: Weve been working with all our data partners to help them understand that our need is for real-time data.
It is against this backdrop our own Insight Spring that we assess our business and plan our strategy and try to get the balance right between incremental and radical change.
Kantars mission: collaboration, creativity, innovation The end we continue to seek is actionable joined-up insights, told in creative ways that inspire our clients to act: and real-time quality data which can be used to make good business decisions fast.
Our means lie in innovating and in collaborating, within Kantar and WPP and with external partners.
Our goal is a mix of incremental and radical innovation in our offer and approach.
Against this backdrop, how did we do in 2011?
Maybe its easiest to see it through two of the lenses that are most critical to our clients: data and China.
The end we continue to seek is actionable joined-up insights, told in If 2011 reminded us of anything, it was the importance of creative ways that inspire our clients the Big Idea.
From the Arab Spring to the Royal Wedding to the legacy of Steve Jobs, we were surrounded by examples toact: and real-time quality data of big ideas that inspired people.
And, in our own way, our which can be used to make good industry is going through its own Spring as clients reassess business decisions fast the role of data and insights and explore ways in which they can be used to revolutionise business, drive revenue growth and optimise spending.
The need for big ideas that influence deep-seated change Not just Big Data: good data, better data, connected within our industry was eloquently expressed by Joe Tripodi, data, actionable data chief marketing and commercial officer of The Coca-Cola Company, when he told his audience of planners, researchers Much of our work and success is hidden and clientand clients at the ARF Conference that, If you dont like confidential.
But there are some areas where the combination change, you are going to like irrelevance even less.
of innovation, imagination, talent, collaboration and perseverance resulted in the winning of highly-visible longWhat hasnt changed.
What must change term contracts.
Nowhere was this more apparent than in the media measurement space, where Kantar Media won the The need for consumer understanding has increased, TV audience TAM contracts in UAE new, Turkey from and not just in fast-growing markets where market access Nielsen, Romania from Gfk and Switzerland from Gfk.
The need for actionable insights has not In addition, a joint Kantar Media and Kantar Worldpanel changed.
Nor has the importance of having talented people: team was at the heart of our winning Googles cross-media WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2011 61
