What we think  andwomen  ell, here we are three years later, beyond where growth and it came in at 5%.
Well, certainly, clients we were in 2008, reflecting on a record year realised the world had not come to an end.
Severe cost actions W against almost all measures in 2011 and on a in 2009, combined with stimulatory monetary and fiscal 2010 that surprised us, as the US and traditional media bit policies saved the day, and gave clients the headroom to focus, back see last years think piece.
Of course, it is foolhardy once again, on geographic and functional growth.
I could to be arrogant or complacent.
We should remain paranoid, not find a client CEO who was not hesitant about increasing but what has happened?
How did things snap back relatively capacity in mature, mainly Western markets, while I could quickly?
not find a client CEO who was hesitant to invest in the growth markets of Asia except Japan, Latin America, Africa and the Middle East, and Central and Eastern Europe.
Life after Lehman Two forces seemed to be at work and confirmatory evidence came from Alan Greenspan, the former chairman of the It didnt seem that way in the first half of 2009.
In late 2010, he told CNBC which he did not appear to affect the final quarter of 2008, when our confirmed again in mid-2011 that he had seen little evidence like-for-like revenues were flat globally.
Maybe because most that fixed-capital formation among US non-financials had of our clients budget are on a calendar-year basis, there is little shown any lift.
While that statistical series included about 40% or no immediate institutional reaction even to violent financial of earnings from outside the US, the point was made.
The effect is inevitably delayed until the next calendar in 2010 we saw a snap back in traditional markets that had year.
Certainly, I saw little or no impact in that final quarter become overly depressed.
For example, in the US, advertising on my travels, perhaps with the exception of those companies as a proportion of GDP seemed to have fallen to levels not seen that despite their size were more focused and less diverse.
At the very least, there was an opportunity We certainly were shaken out of any complacency by the for dead cat bounce.
Secondly, there was a growing realisation, second quarter of 2009.
Having ourselves budgeted for a 2% that although growth rates had slowed in the BRICs and decline in like-for-like revenues for calendar 2009, -3% in the Next 11, relative growth opportunities were still considerable.
first half and -1% in the second half, we finished the first half down 8%, without having made any significant reduction in our cost base.
That certainly was the wake-up call and, I could not find a client CEO who beginning in the second quarter of 2009, we started to make was hesitant to invest in the growth the necessary cost adjustments, which sadly resulted in a markets of Asia except Japan, Latin reduction of over 15,000 positions.
By the end of 2009, point-to-point headcount on a like-for-like basis was down America, Africa and the Middle East, over 12% and incentive pools had been reduced to below and Central and Eastern Europe 16% of headline operating profits before bonuses and taxes.
Interestingly, as a result, the second half of 2009 saw our operating margins achieve the same level as the second half of 2008.
Certainly in 2009, most of our clients had thought the Functionally, the change in the consumer's media financial world, at least, had come to an end and were cutting consumption habits meant growth in digital media was costs indiscriminately, focusing on effectiveness better work, also faster.
The result was a multi-speed world.
The efficiency more for less and liquidity act as our banker.
Premier League teams were BRICs, Next 11 and digital.
The Championship teams were the US, Germany, free-to-air television and outdoor.
League One was Western Europe, 2009 might have been extremely mainly the UK, France, Italy and Spain, and magazines and radio.
Finally, League Two was Japan and newspapers.
painful, even brutal, but it was not the What we thought might be a LUV-shaped recovery, in end of the financial world fact was more LVVor LuVVY-shaped, with the US being V-shaped rather than U-shaped.
We budgeted like-for-like revenue Well, 2009 might have been extremely painful, even growth of more than 5% and achieved 5.3%, with gross brutal, but it was not the end of the financial world.
Principally margin growing even faster at 5.9%, pretty much at the because governments flooded the financial markets with increased level we indicated at the end of the first quarter Keynesian-style support we gave up counting at $12 trillion of 2011.
The recovery continued, but this year it was more against global GDP of $65 trillion or 20% in the form of LUV-shaped, with the BRICs, Next 11 and digital regaining TARPs, investments, liquidity, investments and guarantees.
their greater prominence, and the mature markets and media 2010 turned out, however to be completely different.
slowing, mainly affected by the Eurozone crisis and the US Once bitten, twice shy, we budgeted flat like-for-like revenue budgetary deadlock, particularly in the second half of the year.
