How were doing Public Relations & Public Affairs senior management of leading global companies in every Ogilvy Public Relations major industry.
Full report on page 36 Services provided by the combined firm include financial communications and investor relations, M&A transactions, A healthy combination of new business wins and expanded IPOs and other capital raisings, proxy fights and corporate work with existing clients added up to a record year for Ogilvy restructurings, as well as crisis communications, corporate PR.
While the Asia Pacific region has served as the most reputation campaigns, issues management, executive powerful growth engine for many years, in 2011, the US and transitions and litigation support.
The firm also provides Europe fired up double-digit growth rates surpassing Asia.
advice on corporate affairs, public policy, regulatory affairs, The agency won highly-competitive global pitches for thought leadership, issue advocacy campaigns, strategic Diageo, the BP London 2012 Olympic Games sponsorship, marketing initiatives, employee communications and BMC Software and the Mexico Tourism Board, among corporate social responsibility philanthropy campaigns.
RLM Finsbury is affiliated with FIPRA Finsbury As in prior years, broadening and deepening relationships International Policy & Regulatory Advisers, a global with existing clients drove a significant amount of growth.
Ogilvy network of senior, strategic advisers in more than PRs multi-region client roster grew by 40%.
This organic growth 50 countries, specialising in advising clients on a range is a reflection of the agencys ability to maintain long-term client of government relations and regulatory policy issues.
partnerships retaining 95% of its top 20 clients.
Ogilvy PR garnered more than 125 awards in 2011, including Cannes PR Lions and winning the top WPP WPPED RLM Finsbury now serves the Cream creative award for the fourth time in five years.
boards and senior management of leading global companies in every Hering Schuppener majorindustry Report by Ralf Hering Chief executive officer In 2011, RLM Finsbury delivered solid results in a challenging economic environment.
The firm continued Hering Schuppener, headquartered in Dsseldorf with offices to provide a broad range of communications support to major in Frankfurt, Berlin and Hamburg, is Germanys market financial services and investment management companies, leader in financial and corporate communications.
The leading global manufacturers and natural resources companies, consultancy has topped the mergermarket rankings for M&A major technology, media and telecom companies, and hightransactions in volume since 2004 and value since 2007. profile healthcare and pharmaceutical companies.
The Holmes Report named the firm European Financial Consultancy in 2012, for the second time.
It was also named EMEA Best Consultancy to Work For 2011, for the third time.
In 2011, the consultancy advised clients in four of the five Burson-Marsteller largest M&A transactions and in three of the five largest Full report on page 46 IPOs in Germany.
The firm also provided corporate communication counsel to listed and private companies from Burson-Marsteller continued to build on the significant Europe and beyond in almost every sector, including leading growth it has had over the last five years.
It achieved financial institutions, global manufacturers, service firms, aggressive growth in the growing economies of Asia and healthcare companies and family offices.
Its European markets have remained strong assignments included CEO transitions in the financial despite challenging economic times.
Burson-Marsteller also services and consumer goods industry, major litigation continued to build upon its comprehensive modernization projects and bankruptcies in the retail industry, and of its services and systems through its DIGS Digital, restructurings in the manufacturing sector.
Integrated, Global, Strategic initiative, expanding its footprint in key markets while deepening its commitment to the client worldwide.
