How were doing Healthcare Communications New wins confirm the value of our approach GCI Health also bolstered its consumer health resources to best channel consumers increasing interest in taking ghg was named Bayer Animal Health global Agency of greater ownership of their personal health.
Furthermore, Record, cementing its position as the global leader in animal the agency enhanced its advocacy and stakeholder outreach health communications.
The agency was also awarded tools to strengthen advocates ability to ensure the highest professional work for two global oncology agents, a diabetes quality of care for patients.
diagnostic brand consumer launch and a medical device The reach of the agency was also broadened with the professional launch from Medtronic.
As part of the opening of the Chicago office, joining a network spanning multidisciplinary Team Chemistry, we won the US launch of New York, Boston, Atlanta, Los Angeles, San Francisco, a new hepatitis C agent from Johnson & Johnson.
In the EU, Toronto and the UK.
ghg won important pharmaceutical assignments from key Focused on even greater success in 2012, GCI Healths clients, and also expanded its animal health business.
goal remains to provide an unwavering commitment to fearlessly tackle the complex and high-profile challenges Future plans clients are facing today and tomorrow.
As the industry continues to evolve, a new landscape has emerged that calls for a different business model for Sudler & Hennessey healthcare brands and their agencies.
ghg is leading this Full report on page 47 change with enhanced digital and mobile expertise, innovative creativity and an integrated marketing approach.
2011 was another positive year for the Sudler global The success achieved in 2011 has positioned ghg well for network.
Its network goals were growth and collaboration.
continued growth as we move into Health 3.0: The Era It achieved both with the addition of new US and global of Outcomes.
clients to its roster, along with the development of new Sudler & Hennessey network initiatives.
GCI Health Report by Wendy Lund Chief executive officer Named Healthcare Agency of the Year by The Holmes Report, GCI Health not only successfully navigated 2011s challenging healthcare landscape, it also exceeded growth expectations.
This growth resulted from GCI Healths strategic focus on the evolving marketplace and anticipating changing client needs.
As one of the worlds largest specialty healthcare PR agencies, we aggressively expanded current accounts in high science, aesthetics, consumer health, patient advocacy and activation, and crisis management.
The agency also added to the diversity of our client mix, which ranges from large pharmaceutical companies to specialty pharma and biotech to medical devices and not-for-profits.
This year, we further invested in developing our media specialty.
As clients continue to value traditional media and its convergence with digital media, we added new talent and repositioned services to better integrate expert strategy into each account team and maximize client coverage.
