What we think  andwomen  Communicating change internally if not complexity.
There is also a need to concentrate on areas at a country level like government relations, research Fifth, there are the challenges of internal and development, universities and craft schools, and communications.
The biggest task facing CEOs corporate social responsibility.
Also, how is it possible, 5 is communicating strategic and structural change if the corporate centre is in New York, Chicago, London, to increasingly larger and more complex organisations.
Paris, Frankfurt, Milan or Madrid to know what is going The nature and the history of the organisation may offer on in each of up to 200 countries?
A uni-branded organisation that has organisations will have a dumbbell look to them, with strong grown organically is probably the easiest to manage.
At the central management and country management, but with other end of the scale is the multi-branded organisation regional management increasingly slimmed down, as new that has grown by acquisition.
It is no accident that in the technology speeds the flow of information around the professional services industry, for example, the two brands organisation.
Regional management also has so much ground that continue to impress are McKinsey and Goldman Sachs, to cover that it inevitably focuses on the issues or problems essentially uni-branded companies that have not grown and not the strategy and opportunities.
When we were significantly by acquisition.
Certainly, where they have reviewing our Middle Eastern and African operations in grown by acquisition, they have found it difficult going, Cape Town last year, it was clear that our EMEA regional McKinsey with ISG and Envision, and Goldman with people were more focused on the E than the MEA J Aaron.
Strong, internally-grown cultures reject foreign principally because the E is where the challenges are.
However, the MEA is where the growth and opportunities are.
It is also illogical to manage Brazil, Russia, India or China as you would Portugal or Singapore with a country The biggest task facing CEOs is head or as part of a region.
Each of the BRICs is so big and so full of potential, they should report directly to the centre.
communicating strategic and structural To deal with these central and local opportunities, we change to increasingly larger and more at WPP have appointed client leaders for our top 30 accounts, complex organisations amounting to almost one-third of our total revenues last year.
These key people are responsible for deepening and broadening our client relationships across the whole of WPP.
While logical, You are also at the other end of the scale, if you have had this does create a more complex matrix and a need to develop to build an organisation in significant part by acquisition, a better balance between the horizontal team leaders and to take, for example, a wire basket manufacturer to a global the vertical operating company or brand leaders.
communications services provider in your own lifetime and maintain separate brands for conflict or diseconomies of scale reasons you have to grapple with the complexities.
We need the country focus to This is particularly difficult if the businesses acquired have ensureour people work together traditionally been competitors or were subject to hostile locallyand that we have the requisite takeovers although as Sir James Goldsmith pointed out, there is no such thing as a hostile takeover.
It is certainly not local knowledge hostile to the clients, the people particularly the good ones or the share owners probably only hostile to the incumbent CEO.
Although new technologies have eased the task, Similar complexity occurs at a country level, with our getting, in our case, around 160,000 people to face in the development of country managers to focus on finding the best same direction at the time remains the critical task.
If you people, the local companies that will be the multinationals succeed, you have a very powerful army.
of the future and potential acquisitions.
We need the country focus to ensure our people work together locally and that we have the requisite local knowledge.
The matrix becomes even Global and local balance more complicated particularly difficult when it is the good people who tend to be the least co-operative.
The weak tend Sixth, there is the move to greater centralisation, to co-operate more easily, the strong do not need the help, although at the same time there is increasing and they receive the offers.
6 complexity at a local or country level.
While it is true that the overwhelming trend is to greater centralisation or control in organisations, there is a parallel tendency to focus on country organisations, particularly as they grow in scale, 94 WPP ANNUALREPORT2011
