What we think Plonk and Placebos :  By Jeremy Bullmore ut the same red wine into two identical bottles.
Then The wine in both bottles will have come from the same apply two different labels.
The first label, on Bottle A, vines in the same vineyard.
They will have been harvested P looks like this: at the same time and will have been part of the same batch when bottled.
Were you to analyse them in a laboratory they would be found to be physically identical, as indeed they are.
Yet in any such test, every time, there will be a significant preference for the wine in Bottle B.
Red Wine World-weary sceptics wont be surprised.
Its well known that all wine drinkers are snobs and poseurs.
Some will refer to Product of France themselves as oenophiles.
By claiming to prefer the wine from the chteau label, theyre parading their connoisseurship.
Its 2009 simply a form of self-congratulation.
An alternative explanation is rather more convincing and a great deal more illuminating.
For decades, an essential stage in pharmaceutical research has been the double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial.
You give one group of patients a compound you want to The second label, on Bottle B, looks like this: test, and another group a dummy pill that has no active ingredients.
Neither the patients nor the researchers know who is getting which.
Typically, between 30% and 60% of patients who have received the placebo report a substantial improvement in their symptoms.
The placebo effect, though still in part mysterious, is clear evidence that there exists an amazing complexity of mind-body interaction.
Placebo treatment, measurably, changes the function of the brain.
Expectation can and does affect actual therapeutic performance.
Furthermore, placebos branded with a widely recognised trademark are even more effective than generic placebos.
This is not just in the mind: 2009 they actually contribute more, and measurably, to the reduction of pain or anxiety or whatever condition the placebo has been claimed to alleviate.
Then ask a thousand experienced wine drinkers to taste More than any other form of measurement, placebo each wine, conscientiously rotating the order in which the experiments demonstrate the real power of The Brand.
wines are sampled: 50% starting with a taste of Bottle A As long ago as May 1981, the British Medical Journal and 50% starting with a taste of Bottle B.
Then invite them, published after the mandatory scrupulous peer review without conferring, to declare their preference.
the results of a study conducted by Alan Branthwaite and Peter Cooper: Analgesic effects of branding in treatment of headaches.
It was another classic double-blind trial 98 WPP ANNUALREPORT2011 What we think PlonkandPlacebos comparing not only the effects of placebo versus active more people: he saw himself as someone whose task it ingredient on the reduction of headache pain but also the was to provide the greatest possible degree of pleasure, of functional effects of branded versus unbranded tablets enjoyment, of satisfaction, of reward to those who owned and even of packaging.
And he clearly made absolutely no Their findings were clear, significant and have never artificial distinction between the functional and the nonbeen challenged.
To the pain relief contributed by the active functional satisfactions that his products delivered.
In the ingredient, Branding added over 30%.
The packaging itself categories in which Jobs specialised, many of his competitors widely advertised and extremely familiar had a consistent believed that function was everything: that if an attribute and measurable beneficial effect, enhancing the performance couldnt be measured, it couldnt have a value.
So if you got of both the dummy pill and the active analgesic.
The study the price right, and the size and weight and speed and confirmed what many suspected: when ordinary people claim capacity and battery life and reliability right, then youve got to find widely publicised products more effective than generic a good product.
And so, of course, you have: but as Steve equivalents, theyre not being confined by snake-oil salesmen.
Jobs proved, you havent got a brand.
In thinking this way, Jobs was totally in line with his And so it is with wine.
A fancy label wont make plonk market: with his public.
People have long believed that good acceptable.
Bad stuff will always be bad stuff, however prettily tea tastes better when drunk from fine china.
But wine thats known to have come from a French does.
And if you, personally, find that it does, then it chteau will actually give more pleasure to most drinkers than certainly does: and thats the only thing that matters.
will exactly the same wine poured from an anonymous bottle.
Its a pity that so much of the marketing lexicon implies Nobodys been deceived or duped: at little or no extra cost, a state of war between producers and consumers.
We talk more enjoyment has been delivered.
of target groups and campaigns and rifle shots: and think For everyone in marketing, and particularly perhaps it makes us sound manly if we commit to pursuing all our in marketing communications, all this clearly has huge objectives aggressively.
The truth is so much more agreeable.
implications: half-understood, perhaps, but strangely First to understand the complex set of satisfactions that under-recognised.
make up a successful brand, and then to apply the technical wizardry and creative imagination to deliver them, implies a complete coincidence of interest between buyer and seller: Not only the measurable between manufacturer and user.
Everybody wins: except, of course, your less perceptive competitors.
As Stephen King pointed out as long ago as 1970, all brands, whether products or services, deliver a blend of functional and non-functional satisfactions.
And he went Jeremy Bullmore is a member of the WPP Advisory Board on to say there is still a puritan streak in us which says it is wicked for people to have non-functional values, that they Analgesic effects of branding in treatment of headaches, A. Branthwaite, P. Cooper, .
ought to buy brands for function and performance only.
ReproducedinA Master Class Such views still exist: certainly in the minds of some inBrand Planning, editedbyJudieLannon&MerryBaskin, JohnWiley, 2007. academics and commentators but not, interestingly, in the minds of the great consuming public.
The important word here is blend.
A brand is not just a product with lipstick on.
A strong brand delivers a set of satisfactions as intertwined and interdependent as if theyd been whirled around together in a kitchen blender.
None of this is new: and none of it is evidence of a consumerist society corrupted by manipulative marketing.
Several thousand years ago, axes were valued not just for their ability to fell trees and decapitate mammoths: from almost the beginning they were embellished and decorated and acquired symbolic value.
And while the embellishments and decorations in no way improved an axes ability to fell or decapitate, they greatly enhanced its appeal to its user and hence its worth.
The remarkable Steve Jobs could accurately have described himself as an executive, an entrepreneur, a technocrat, an inventor, a designer or any number of other designations.
Instead, he chose to see himself as a marketing man.
But he saw himself, not as the kind of marketing man whose task it was to sell more stuff more often to WPP ANNUALREPORT2011 99
