Why we exist Our mission To develop and manage talent: to apply that talent, throughout theworld, for the benefit of clients: to do so in partnership: to do so with profit.
etween them, WPP companies have tens of thousands First, it relieves them of much administrative work.
They range from Fortune 500 Financial matters such as planning, budgeting, reporting, global giants through single-nation start-ups to the control, treasury, tax, mergers, acquisitions, investor Bsmallest of specialist charities.
Diverse as they are, relations, legal affairs and internal audit are co-ordinated they have one thing in common: in pursuing their objectives, centrally.
For the operating companies, every administrative they face formidable competition.
Growing affluence in many hour saved is an extra hour to be devoted to the pursuit of parts of the world combined with overcapacity and overprofessional excellence.
supply in almost every significant consumer market has Second, the parent company encourages and enables put more and more power into the hands of consumers, operating companies of different disciplines to work together accelerated by technology.
for the benefit of clients.
Such collaborations have the As always, if they are to succeed or even to survive additional benefit of enhancing the job satisfaction of our with profit every competitive company needs an intrinsically people.
The parent company also plays an across-the-Group appealing product or service.
Increasingly, part of that appeal role in the following functions: the management of talent, must lie in a companys evident sense of a wider responsibility: including recruitment and training: in property management: one that extends beyond share owners, employees and in procurement and IT: in knowledge sharing and practice consumers and recognises a duty to the environment and development with an increasing emphasis on corporate to society as a whole.
Todays most successful companies responsibility and sustainability.
are founded on strong values.
And finally, WPP itself can function as the 21st-century But even all that, though remaining the most fundamental equivalent of the full-service agency.
For some clients, of requirements, is seldom enough.
Just as competitive predominantly those with a vast geographical spread and a costermongers arrange their apples in appealing displays need for marketing services ranging from advertising through and polish them lovingly to catch their customers eyes, design and website construction to research and internal so all companies need to display their wares compellingly.
communications, WPP can act as a portal to provide a single They need access to high-quality information, strategic point of contact and accountability.
advice and specialist communications skills.
And its in the No two clients are structured in precisely the same way.
nature of specialist and creative talent that it is unlikely to Within WPPs operating companies, teams can be tailor-made flourish within the confines of a client company.
People with to match any and all.
specialist talents work best and contribute more when recruited, trained and inspired by specialist companies.
Within the WPP Group, our clients have access to companies with all the necessary marketing and communications skills: companies with strong and distinctive cultures of their own: famous names, many of them.
WPP, the parent company, complements these companies in three distinct ways.
