How were doing Letter to share owners Dear share owner 011, our twenty-sixth year, was a record year in almost all respects.
Revenue, profit before tax and earnings per share all reached new highs.
Yet, as pleasing as these financial results are, perhaps your Companys most satisfying achievement 2in 2011 was the first ever award of a Cannes Lion to a Holding Company, in recognition of your Companys collective creative excellence.
2011 demonstrated once again that outstanding creativity and financial success go hand in hand.
Forward-looking statements In connection with the provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform major currencies because a substantial portion of its revenues are derived Act of 1995 the Reform Act, the Company may include forward-thinking and costs incurred outside of the UK and the overall level of economic statements as defined in the Reform Act in oral or written public statements activity in the Companys major markets which varies depending on, issued by or on behalf of the Company.
These forward-looking statements among other things, regional, national and international political and may include, among other things, plans, objectives, projections and economic conditions and government regulations in the worlds advertising anticipated future economic performance based on assumptions and the like markets.
In addition, you should consider the risks described under the that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
As such, actual results or outcomes caption Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 112 to 114, which could may differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements.
also cause actual results to differ from forward-looking information.
In light of Important factors which may cause actual results to differ include but are these and other uncertainties, the forward-looking statements included in this notlimited to: the anticipated loss ofa material client or key personnel, document should not be regarded as a representation by the Company that delaysor reductions in client advertising budgets, shifts in industry rates of the Companys plans and objectives will be achieved.
The Company compensation, government compliance costs or litigation, natural disasters undertakes no obligation to update or revise any such forward-looking oracts of terrorism, the Companys exposure to changes in the values of other statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
This letter to share owners should be read in conjunction with and as part of the management report set out in the section headed Directors report on pages 105 to 116.
