What we think  andwomen  Overcapacity and shortage of talent for example, Fiat and Volkswagen dominate and Chinese manufacturers such as JAC have launched, although new Second, there continues to be significant overcapacity Brazilian tariffs have stopped them for the moment.
Take, for example, the auto and 2 truck industry, in which our largest client operates.
Two of the Detroit-based Big Three auto manufacturers Defining and emphasising went into Chapter 11 bankruptcy, with only Ford not taking emotional and psychological government money.
In such circumstances, you might have differences as well as qualitative expected a reduction in global car and truck capacity.
The world can still produce around 80 million ones, is increasingly critical in units, while consumers can still only buy around 60 million.
over-supplied markets The US market has indeed seen a fall off in demand from around 18 million at its peak to a current level of around 12-13 million.
Europe currently buys 14-15 million, but China has now become the largest car market in the Overcapacity is a feature of many if not all industries.
Few have the natural advantages of the tequila industry, An Israeli entrepreneur I met recently in Beijing is launching where it takes seven years or so to cultivate the requisite herb a budget car in China with a big local manufacturer, aimed and the supply is naturally limited.
In these circumstances, at the domestic market and for export.
He believes the therefore, what we do, which is to provide tangible or countrys car market will reach 32 million.
Any shrinkage intangible differentiation, is critical.
Defining and in mature market demand has been more than compensated emphasising emotional and psychological differences as for by the rise of the faster-growing markets.
South Korea with well as qualitative ones, is increasingly critical in overHyundai and Kia, China with Geely and BYD, and India with supplied markets.
In the 20th century, the major problem Tata and the Nano have taken up any slack.
The US domestics was a shortage of productive capacity and getting products have in turn sought sales growth in the new markets.
In the 21st century, the key issue is ensuring available production is consumed.
It will not be in fixed capital or capacity, but in human capital.
Although youth unemployment US sales of new vehicles 1981-2011 units, m in many countries, mostly the mature markets, is high, the surplus will be absorbed over time as birth rates fall.
12 Total car 10 Total 8 light truck If you think there is a war for 6 talentcurrently, it willbecome even 4 more violent 2 0 81 84 87 90 93 96 99 02 05 08 11 Improvements in healthcare, later marriages, increased Source:WardsAutoInfoBank divorce rates, more working women, all will result in more mature and ageing populations.
Even countries like Mexico and Pakistan, which have relatively young population profiles, Average age of disposed vehicles, US will mature over time.
If you think there is a war for talent currently, it will become even more violent.
The key 9 Car differentiator between companies will increasingly become Truck the ability to identify, train, motivate, incentivise, develop and 6 Industry retain talent, whether you are in the advertising and marketing services industry, the consulting business, investment banking, 3 manufacturing or oil refining.
Superior talent will ever more increasingly be the key reason for success.
