How were doing Media Investment Management MediaCom In the US, we faced some tough challenges and responded quickly by asking our global COO Harvey Goldhersz to take Report by Stephen Allan below on a North American CEO role and to lead a change in this Worldwide chairman and chief executive officer market.
The switch led to a strong comeback in the second half of the year, winning six accounts including Bayer, Brand USA, 2011 was a year full of positives for MediaCom, helped by Crystal Cruises and Universal Music Group.
To further a fragmented media landscape that has given consumers strengthen our management team in 2012, we recently even more ways to interact with each other and brands.
This appointed Sasha Savic to become our US CEO.
rather chaotic world of communications has elevated our role We aim to maintain our progress across the network during of helping advertisers simplify and consolidate the task the year ahead, and we have already laid foundations for further of engaging with consumers.
growth by investing in new offices, talent and new divisions.
Of course, in response to these changes, we cannot stand still In Asia, for example, we strengthened our regional and we continue to reshape and re-tool our business to ensure management and, under the leadership of our CEO Alex that our offer remains competitive and ahead of the game.
This Crowther, we appointed Divya Gururaj as head of South and was demonstrated by another strong year in new business in Southeast Asia.
Toby Jenner became our regional COO in which we consolidated and won global assignments from Bayer, addition to his chairmanship of our Australasian operations.
NBC Universal with Maxus, Revlon, Visit Britain and Zoosk.
Elsewhere, we continued our growth strategy in the Middle We also captured some significant regional appointments East and North Africa, led by our newly appointed CEO for including: Procter & Gamble in Southeast Asia: Coca-Cola in the region, Nick Barron.
This follows the merger between Singapore Malaysia: Ferrosan, Nestl, SAS and Danske Bank in MediaCom and sister WPP agency Media Insight.
The early the Nordics: and Bose, Findus and Mller in Europe.
We won signs are promising and, in January 2012, we were appointed many significant local assignments including Westpac Group in to handle the Etihad Airways global media business.
Australia, Mars Wrigley and Yum!
Brands in Canada, Procter In Latin America, we have strengthened our management & Gamble in Japan and the Netherlands, Wort & Bild in team by appointing a new Latin America CEO, Fernando Silva, Germany, DFS in the UK and Allianz in France.
These wins, who brings with him a wealth of experience from across the and many others, amounted to over $2 billion of annualised region.
He will be supported by Annetta Cembrano who was billings, and will further strengthen our position as the worlds appointed regional COO in addition to her role as CEO Chile.
third largest media agency as measured by RECMA.
We have also completed the global roll-out of our service offering, MediaCom Beyond Advertising MBA.
MBA provides our clients with expertise in social, content, search, events and sponsorship to ensure they benefit from owned and earned media as well as bought messages.
And, appropriately in the run-up to the Olympics, we have established a dedicated global sport offering: MediaCom Sport, led by Marcus John, who joined us from IMG.
We continue to advise clients on sustainable marketing practices, helping to communicate the environmental and social benefits of their products and services.
Recent work includes Procter & Gambles Future Friendly campaign, which was highly commended at the International M&M Awards 2011.
Additionally, we provide pro bono work for many worthy causes, such as UNICEFs Christmas campaign in Austria, and created a Carbon Zero Planning tool to help clients measure and offset their campaigns carbon footprints.
Internally, we strengthened In recognition of the work we do for our clients, we were our green credentials by providing sustainable workplace named Agency Network of the Year at the M&M Awards solutions including a Green Roof in our New York office the first time an agency has ever received this award three years and we are the only media agency named in the top 100 of in a row.
The win capped an excellent 12 months in which we the UK The Sunday Times Best Green Companies 2011 list.
received over 300 recognitions across the network, including Finally, I would like to thank our dedicated and talented Agency of the Year crowns in seven territories: Australia, team of people at MediaCom who all remain committed Canada, Estonia, Japan, Philippines, Poland and Sweden.
to achieving our goal of becoming the largest media agency These local awards are particularly valuable as they network.
Im optimistic about the opportunities that lie ahead underline our commitment to delivering best practice in and confident that in 2012 we will move even closer to our every local market, whilst building strong foundations ultimate goal.
for our overall global performance.
