How were doing Letter to share owners 1 The difference was primarily due to the exceptional release 2011 digital revenue vs peers $bn of prior year corporate tax provisions following the resolution 5 of a number of open tax matters, together with deferred tax WPP 4 Omnicom credits in relation to amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
Publicis Diluted headline earnings per share rose over 19% to 3 IPG 67.7p and diluted reported earnings per share increased over 2 Havas 40% to 64.5p.
Including the exceptional tax credit, diluted 1 headline earnings per share rose over 33% to 75.6p.
No severance or integration or acquisition expenses have been 0 excluded in arriving at headline earnings which is, unusually, not competitive practice.
1 Peer digital revenue $bn according to Advertising Age %s applied to FY US$ revenue.
The outlook for 2012 2011 revenue by geography vs peers $bn 20 2012 may well have a pattern similar to 2011.
Forecasts Asia Pacic, Latin America, 16 of worldwide real GDP growth still hover around 3.5% Africa & Middle East with inflation of 2% giving nominal GDP growth of 5.5%.
12 and Central & Eastern Advertising as a proportion of GDP should at least remain 8 Europe constant, as it is still at relatively depressed historical levels, Western 4 particularly in mature markets, post-Lehman, and grow at Europe & UK North a similar rate to GDP.
The three maxi-quadrennial events 0 America 1,2 1,3 1,4 1,3 WPP Omnicom Publicis IPG Havas of 2012, the UEFA Football Championships in Central and Eastern Europe, the Summer Olympics and Paralympics in 1 London and last, but not least, the US Presidential election Sourced from 2011 company presentations.
Central & Eastern Europe estimated as 3% ofrevenue.
in November should underpin industry growth by 1% alone 2 Assumed non-Euro countries in Europe are 3% of revenue and Canada is 1.5% of revenue.
Some commentators, including our own, estimate Assumed $1 0.71 based on the average for 2011.
4 Assumed Canada is 1.5% of revenue.
$7-8 billion of political spending in the US alone.
Both consumers and corporates are likely to continue to be cautious and fearful, but should continue to purchase or invest in brands in both fastand slow-growth markets.
In addition, although there may not have been the required structure to significant market changes.
The initiatives taken strong political leadership in the Eurozone, it is just possible by the parent company in the areas of human resources, that Europe will muddle through the current crisis, without property, procurement, information technology and practice a catastrophic failure, although the Iranian and Middledevelopment continue to improve the flexibility of the Eastern situation poses another threat to global stability Groups cost base.
Additionally, as noted earlier, flexible staff and oil prices.
Some worry about Chinese growth rates costs including incentives, freelance and consultants have and hard landings, although we see little let-up in Mainland returned close to historic highs of around 7% of revenues, China in the first three months of 2012, China revenues giving some protection in case market conditions change.
are up 16% like-for-like and believe the worst case is a soft The budgets for 2012 have been prepared on a conservative landing, particularly following the strategies laid out in the basis, as usual, reflecting the faster-growing geographical 12th Five Year Plan stressing consumption, social security markets of Asia Pacific, Latin America, Africa and Central and service industries.
and Eastern Europe and faster-growing functional sectors In 2012, our prime focus will remain on growing revenues of Advertising, Media Investment Management and direct, and gross margin faster than the industry average, driven by digital and interactive to some extent moderated by the slower our leading position in the new markets, in new media, in growth in the mature markets of the US and Western Europe.
consumer insight, including data analytics and the application Our 2012 budgets show like-for-like revenue and gross margin of technology, creativity and horizontality.
New markets, growth of around 4% and a target operating margin new media and consumer insight account respectively for improvement of 0.5 margin points.
29%, 30% and 25% of the Groups revenues of over Incentive plans for 2012 will continue to emphasise $16 billion, demonstrating the success of our strategic focus.
revenue particularly in the mature markets of our custom At the same time, we will concentrate on meeting our consumer insight businesses and operating profit growth operating margin objectives by managing absolute levels of in conjunction with operating margin improvement, costs and increasing our flexibility in order to adapt our cost although objectives will continue to include WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2011 23
