How were doing Media Investment Management Maxus Maxus its US Media Agency of the Year and Advertising Age said we are an Agency to Watch in 2012.
Report by Kelly Clark below Chief executive officer Attracting top talent Great people continue to join us.
We hired ambitious new country heads in Canada, Denmark, Indonesia, Mexico and Turkey.
We appointed new digital leaders in a number of markets including China, Germany, Italy, the UK and the US.
We bolstered our trading teams in Europe, Asia and North America.
And we strengthened our global leadership team by appointing a chief information officer and a global talent director.
The ability to attract and retain the best talent in our industry is one of the best indicators of success.
Delivering great work for clients We measure client satisfaction through a research company called The Client Relationship Consultancy.
It consistently tells us that our client relationships are among the strongest in the Maxus had a great 2011 by almost any measure: new business business.
This is due, in part we think, to our Relationship wins: network development: visibility and recognition: talent Media philosophy.
It has improved the quality of the work recruitment: and most importantly, client satisfaction.
we do for clients, in terms of both creativity and effectiveness.
With our clients, we won over 100 awards globally in 2011 Winning new business We have an exciting new global relationship with SC... Maxus was the fastest-growing Johnson, in partnership with our colleagues at Ogilvy: [media] agencyin the world in 2011, we won Universal Pictures and NBC Networks in North for the third year running America: and the global Barclays and Krcher accounts.
We expanded our LOral relationship in Asia, winning pitches in Malaysia, Thailand and Vietnam.
There were significant local wins, including GSK in Australia, Bausch in recognition of our great work.
Maxus India won a Silver & Lomb in the US, and Pfizer in China.
Importantly, we Cannes Lion: we won more WPPED Cream jugs than any are also winning significant digital marketing assignments other media agency: we won Effies in Hungary and Poland: in a number of markets as we continue to invest in our leading industry awards for search marketing in Australia and social, search and data analytics capabilities.
In total, India: and a major award for research excellence in the US.
we added $2.5 billion in new business billing, our most successful year ever.
Keeping our focus Expanding our network RECMA will soon announce that Maxus was the fastestgrowing agency in the world in 2011, for the third year Our global footprint grew again in 2011, with eight running.
We have 1,500 people around the world to thank new offices launching to meet our clients requirements.
We are a hungry, ambitious team, who thrive We opened operations in Argentina, Canada, Czech Republic on change and pace.
Campaign magazine said we have a and Sri Lanka: we expanded our US presence with offices dynamic, fast-moving culture.
We are proud to be part in Chicago, Los Angeles and Minneapolis: and we launched of GroupM, which gives us media trading power and Maxus Nanjing, our fourth China office.
Our network leading-edge tools and technologies.
now spans over 70 offices in 60 countries.
I write this report from Budapest.
Our agency here is brand new.
We are only six people today.
The Hungarian Improving our visibility economy is difficult, to say the least.
And yet, our team sees opportunity because of their creativity, agility, Campaign magazine in the UK named Maxus its Global entrepreneurialism and hard work.
Exactly like Maxus Media Network of the Year.
Adweek magazine named people everywhere.
I could not be more optimistic.
