How were doing Advertising agency networks JWT embracing a philosophy we call worldmade.
In short, at JWT, we make things inspired by the world.
Report by Bob Jeffrey below Worldmade permeates everything we do, and is the Worldwide chairman and chief executive officer foundation and inspiration for the creation of dotJWT.
dotJWT is the operating system that unites all of our digital expertise, both in our specialist agencies and within JWT, and connects them internationally to solve client problems.
dotJWT encompasses nearly 2,000 specialists, nine agency brands, 20 locations and more than 100 clients.
Weve already seen success with dotJWT across a number of our key global brands including Unilevers Lux, J&Js Zyrtec, Energizer Schick and HSBC.
We are Googles biggest customer in Brazil, an Adobe development partner in Singapore, New York and San Diego, and help manage HSBCs online presence across the globe.
Non-traditional marketing is the fastest-growing segment of our industry, and now accounts for a growing percentage of our revenues.
Our work on activating global campaigns such as Nokias Lumia launch is further testament to the power of our global network.
dotJWT is the operating system that unites all of our digital expertise, both As JWT approaches its 150th anniversary in 2014, we in our specialist agencies and within continue to redefine what it means to be a global network in the 21st century.
Our pioneering spirit, fortified by the breadth JWT, andconnects them internationally and depth of talent and knowledge across our global network, to solve client problems has helped us maintain many enduring relationships: Unilever 108 years, Kraft 88 years, Kimberly-Clark 83 years, Kelloggs 80 years, Ford 66 years, Rolex 65 years, J&J 50 years, Shell 49 years and Bayer 14 years.
It also has Weve further fortified our non-traditional capabilities translated into winning creative and substantial business by increasing investment in shopper marketing.
In 2011, we in new categories across the globe, including mobile telecoms acquired Lunchbox, a premier player in this space.
Lunchbox Nokia and Vodafone and financial services and technology has led innovation in sales and marketing platforms for retailers HSBC and Bloomberg, and Microsoft in Brazil and China.
by connecting brands to millions of hard-to-reach customers.
In 2011, under the This is just one example of JWTs latest best-in-breed guidance of Fernando Vega-Olmos, chairman of JWTs acquisitions as the agency continues to add capabilities that Worldwide Creative Council, we won 49 Cannes Lions and will bolster our offerings in growing markets and sectors.
earned a spot as one of the top five agencies in the Festival.
Below is an update from the senior executives of We also made history by bringing home the first-ever Grand our regions.
Prix award for Mainland China for our work on Samsonite after a similar feat at JWT India for the Times of India three Asia years ago.
Our performance significantly contributed Michael Maedel, president, JWT Asia Pacific to WPPs ranking as the top holding company of the year at Cannes.
This momentum continues to fuel our desire to Although Asia was buffeted by the European debt crisis look towards the future and innovate as the industry evolves.
and US economic slowdown of 2011, the regions economies Two forces are shaping our culture technology and remained relatively strong.
Our revenues in this region geography.
Our strategy for 2012 and beyond, developed continued to grow, reflecting the growth of our clients interest with our worldwide planning director Guy Murphy, is and investment in BRIC and the Next 11 markets.
Internet a belief that, correctly executed, blending technological and mobile phone penetration rates are soaring, even in the innovation with international imagination will give us a regions least-developed markets.
To leverage this trend, competitive advantage.
In other words, the route to great JWT has expanded the footprint of XM Asia Pacific in key work and therefore growth for our biggest clients is Southeast Asian markets, and in October 2011 agreed to WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2011 39 How were doing Advertising agency networks acquire A4A, one of Chinas most dynamic digital marketing forward-thinking leaders.
Jeff Benjamin, chief creative officer, agencies.
XM will continue to strengthen its regional presence JWT North America, is the most-awarded digital creative through additional acquisitions.
Mike Geiger, chief integration officer, JWT India remains one of our strongest markets through North America, is famous for delivering cutting-edge our diversified offerings of mainstream, digital, design and technological innovation on a massive scale.
Talent development is at the forefront Perry Fair takes the helm as chief creative officer, JWT of our strategy.
Recent hires include creative heavyweight Bobby Atlanta, to steer our U. S. Marines account, one of JWTs Pawar as chief creative officer and managing partner for India, longest-standing relationships 65 years.
Bindu Sethi as chief strategy officer and Max Hegerman as head of digital, adding fresh momentum to the advertising agencys South America formidable presence in the market.
Client relationships continue Stefano Zunino, chief executive officer, JWT Group Brazil to be strong, especially our penetration in every category with James Evans, chief executive officer, JWT Latin America Indias market leaders the most admired multinational & Caribbean companies and Indias finest in a bluest-of-blue-chip line up.
JWT Brazil was the third most-awarded Brazilian agency at Cannes and is considered one of the top creative operations India remains one of our strongest in our network.
Approximately 35% of our business in this region is digital and growing.
In 2011, we were awarded markets through our diversified offerings a prestigious global assignment from Johnson & Johnson of mainstream, digital, design and for their 2014 FIFA World Cup sponsorship.
activation capabilities Additionally, JWT Brazil launched Agncia CASA, the result of a successful merger of two agencies Digital Media and RMG Connect.
Agncia CASA is currently the countrys JWT notched up a number of key firsts for Chinas ad largest buyer of digital media in internet search engines.
industry in 2011, helping to raise the bar in one of the worlds JWT Latin America had a great year in 2011, bringing most important and competitive advertising markets.
JWT in 12 Cannes Lions in different categories across Argentina, Shanghai won the prestigious Grand Prix Lion at Cannes for Chile, Mexico, Colombia and Puerto Rico.
Two of our its Heaven and Hell print ad campaign for Samsonite the creative leaders, Manuel Techera and Jaime Rosado, have first-ever Grand Prix awarded for Mainland China.
The team been selected as leading creative talent, according to also won Chinas first-ever Grand LIA, for the same campaign, leading publication Adlatina.
at the London International Awards.
That ad took home Team Ford Latam has had an impressive start developing numerous other awards in 2011: The Gunn Report named global ideas for two key nameplates as well as a regional idea Heaven and Hell the most-awarded print ad in the world to deploy the new Ford brand promise.
This is a great in 2011. example of WPP companies working together to add value Lo Sheung Yan, JWTs North East Asia executive creative to the Ford brand in the region.
director, was also selected by the Cannes Lions committee Our strategy to become stronger with local clients is to lead the Outdoor ad jury in 2012 becoming the first jury producing good results, winning business from leading chair from China in the history of Cannes.
brands such as Telmex and CPTM in Mexico, and AT&T and Banco Popular in Puerto Rico.
North America David Eastman, chief executive officer, JWT North America UK and continental Europe Toby Hoare, chairman and chief executive officer, North America has enjoyed considerable success in expanding JWTUK& Europe our relationship with Nestl by winning the Lean Cuisine business.
Additionally, the Corporation for Travel Promotion The European market remains challenging.
However, now Brand USA named JWT agency of record to lead there are positive signs of growth in some markets, notably Americas first global campaign to create a marketing and Russia, which has experienced growth with multinationals, promotion program to compete for international visitors including Bayer HealthCare, Johnson & Johnson and Nokia.
and the job creation and economic growth they bring.
Turkey had significant success with its appointment to the We have seen continued success with Macys ongoing Turkcell business.
There were other encouraging wins in Believe platform and the continuation of Diageos powerful Italy, the Netherlands and the UK.
JWT London has been Nightlife Exchange efforts for the Smirnoff brand.
appointed by the Ministry of Defence to oversee the entire In addition, North America has significantly bolstered integrated advertising business for the British Armys management by hiring two of our industrys most innovative, recruitment account.
40 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2011 How were doing Advertising agency networks The majority of our offices are focused on organic traditional communication activities while using new growth driven by digital investment.
This has already paid technologies such as mobile geo-location in addition to off with significant digital projects from our multinational field sampling.
With its near 150-year history, no agency clients.
JWTs shopper offering has also been rolled out to is better poised to use this old and new approach to key European markets, and we have identified this as an deliver results to our clients across the continent.
There has also been considerable progress building dotJWT.
Conclusion The London office has focused on growing revenue from existing clients.
At the start of this year a new management JWT is soon to be 150 years old, and we are very proud structure, a three-way partnership, was put in place.
The three to have such a long, rich and exciting history.
But it is not executive partners have ambitious plans for new business, and passive appreciation: we are aggressively working to expand we expect to see positive signs of growth from London in 2012. our services, geographies and capabilities.
In todays twospeed world where some countries continue to grow at Middle East and Africa breakneck speed and other, more mature markets have Roy Haddad, chief executive officer, JWT Middle levelled off worldmade, dotJWT and our continued focus East Africa on non-traditional capabilities are allowing us to optimize opportunities and grow.
We are confident that we are The African Development Bank estimates that the African middle positioned to meet the challenges of 2012 with continued class, those earning between $4 and $20 a day, will increase to growth, innovation and success on behalf of our clients.
1.1 billion by 2060 the year when JWT will be 196 years old.
This middle class will account for 42% of the continents population.
The International Monetary Fund has forecast economic growth in sub-Saharan Africa at 5.25% this year and 5.75% next year, beating the global average of 4% each year.
But Africa still presents challenges.
About 61% of the continents population still lives on less than $2 a day.
Notwithstanding the fact that many consumers live far from urban areas and roads are often sketchy at best and the supply network often falls short.
JWT has been a pioneer in Africasince 1927... We are today aggressively pursuing this great opportunity throughan innovative approachthat will see us operating through five hubsthat willoffer marketing solutions to multinational andlocal clientsalike JWT has been a pioneer in Africa since 1927, having opened an office in Alexandria, Egypt, that year and another in Port Elizabeth, South Africa, in 1928.
We are today aggressively pursuing this great opportunity through an innovative approach that will see us operating through five hubs that will offer marketing solutions to multinational and local clients alike.
Already we are present in more than 12 African countries, regrouped under these five hubs.
Our Back to the Future pioneering spirit will allow us to access the consumer through a combination of WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2011 41
