How were doing Advertising agency networks bates We have adopted a quasi-consultancy approach to leveraging our pockets of excellence and our previously Report by Tim Isaac below right independent specialists across the network.
For instance, Chairman the intelligent activation expertise of bates Sercon and the experiential outdoor skills of bates Wallstreet, both in 2011 was a year in which our positioning was refined from India, the discreet marketing experience of bates Indonesia the change agency to the changengage people: a year in and Vietnam, and the event activation capabilities of bates which we made significant progress in raising the calibre of our MeThinks China.
These specialists are highly relevant to our local office management to better deliver against our promises changengage offer and have therefore been fully integrated to clients: a year in which progress was made in integrating into the network to deliver greater value during 2011. our specialist operating units: a year that put us in a very good place for further advances in 2012. bates remains focused on the high-growth BRIC markets in Asia China with three offices and India with four offices and in the Next 11 markets of ASEAN, with global and Asian clients such as HSBC, Diageo, Four Seasons Hotels and Resorts, F&N and Ultrajaya.
We are a nimble mid-sized network but with competitive scale within our one company, two brands collaborative set up with Ogilvy & Mather.
We summarize this as big enough to care and small enough to dare.
bates remains focused on the highgrowth BRIC marketsin Asia... and in the Next 11 markets of ASEAN We piloted the changengage positioning in Singapore where it resonated so well with our people and clients that we ended the year having won 10 new contracts.
We refined this positioning and refreshed our identity for a launch across our network in October.
The essence of We continued to invest in our talent, with the second wave changengage is a simple and holistic embrace of new of our Young Change Agents career development program.
The emphasis is not on digital for digitals Twenty of our brightest young stars were handpicked to take sake, but on the benefits that these new technologies bring part.
We also initiated a number of changengage thought the ability to engage with audiences as never before.
leadership projects as a launch pad for our ambitious growth We have since completed case studies that successfully plans for the coming years.
We see this as a great differentiator demonstrate the values of this offer for clients including that underscores everything we do.
Disney, Castrol and Singapore Polytechnic.
We started 2011 by organizing our offices into three clusters and with our management structure in place in two of them China and ASEAN.
We ended the year with the opportunity to strengthen our Indian cluster leadership and we put in place new local management where our changengage ambitions have demanded new style and new skills most notably in Delhi, Singapore, Manila, Kuala Lumpur, Shanghai and Taiwan.
