How were doing Branding & Identity B to D Group vision and company purpose.
FITCH and The Partners continued to expand their global reach, with FITCH opening an Report by Craig Branigan below office in Delhi and The Partners opening its third international Chairman and chief executive officer hub in Singapore.
PeclersParis made good headway in growing its consulting business and achieved record-level trend book 2011 was a year of growth and achievement for the Branding sales.
At the end of the year our group launched The Mix, to Design B to D Group.
We delivered solid revenue growth a website developed to facilitate greater collaboration between and profit improvement with several of our companies the B to D Group companies and our sister group, Kantar.
achieving record revenues and operating profits for the year.
As a group, we continue to establish our sustainability We continued to strengthen our global performance across marketing services and we work to make sustainability central a number of practices and we improved our showing at the to our marketing approach.
Notably, The Partners created a Cannes Festival in June.
desktop app for Deloitte, named PlanetSaver, that encourages Through the insights, creativity and dedication of our Deloitte staff to put their computer screens into sleep mode teams around the world, we initiated new client partnerships whilst idle.
After one full year of deployment in 2011, with many respected brands, including GlaxoSmithKline, PlanetSaver had 31,000 active users worldwide and had saved Interstate Hotels & Resorts, JX Holdings, Saudi Telecom, 64 MWh of power.
According to Deloittes own data, that Shanghai Media Group, Yell, South African Airways and is the equivalent of powering one small office for 16 years, Best Buy.
We also continued to successfully build and brewing 1.8 million cups of coffee, or powering all of expand our key client relationships, delivering innovative Greater London for 21 minutes.
and effective solutions for our long-standing clients.
As ever, Looking ahead, the early signs for 2012 are favorable.
these global key client relationships continue to form the We are aligning ourselves with those clients, capabilities bedrock of our businesses.
and geographies that provide the greatest potential for growth, and we anticipate another positive year in 2012.
Please see below for an overview of Addison, The Brand Union, FITCH, Lambie-Nairn, Landor Associates which is also a Y&R Group company, The Partners, PeclersParis and VBAT.
Addison Addison achieved another growth year in 2011.
It was also one of significant development, reflecting the rapidlychanging environment within corporate communications.
Major trends included the evolving societal expectations on companies, the continuing rise of regulation and the accelerated use of technology providing Addison with clear opportunities for growth, based on its distinctive consultancy offer within the market.
Once again, our companies won several high-profile awards Led by CEO Tom Robinson, Addison continues to in 2011 and these are detailed in their respective reports.
All of expand its areas of practice, including research, digital our companies continue to innovate, adapt and change in order communications, sustainability, thought-leadership to remain creative leaders of the industry.
communications, internal communications, as well as The B to D Group garnered a number of other highlights social media and engagement.
Client relationships continue for the year.
Lambie-Nairn and The Brand Union sponsored the to grow across its core European markets, most notably inaugural Cannes Also event at the Cannes Festival, showcasing with BASF, Zurich Financial Services and Heineken.
the photographic talent within the global creative marketing industries.
VBAT successfully launched the new corporate identity for PostNL and achieved a significant profit turnaround The Brand Union full report on page 71 for the year.
Addison continued to establish itself as an integrated corporate communications agency, with new After a challenging first quarter in 2011, momentum grew, strategic communications projects for BASF, BG and Zurich culminating in a very strong second half performance.
Mary Zalla was promoted to CEO of positive outcome came from three main sources: growth with Landor, leading the agency in the implementation of its new our key client partners: the development of our consumer WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2011 69
