How were doing Advertising agency networks Young & Rubicam Group Wundermans leadership role in gathering, interpreting and leveraging data continues to make it a global hot shop, with Report by Peter Stringham below top rankings in many markets, including Shanghai, Argentina, Global chief executive officer Vienna and Frankfurt.
Wundermans Blast Radius and ZAAZ also continued to garner honors around the world.
At Burson-Marsteller, much of its growth can be attributed to its increasing presence within digital and social media.
Work for a broad spectrum of clients, from Coca-Cola to Japans Nuclear Energy Institute, has demonstrated the importance of digital and social media in the public relations and public affairs arena.
In the healthcare arena, Sudler & Hennessey brought digital integration to its clients, developing some important proprietary digital tools for clients in their markets, as well as demonstrating their thought leadership in a North American eHealth and Technology Summit.
As each of our companies advanced its offerings, the Young & Rubicam Group built on its shared resources and training to enhance their collaborative efforts.
Training remained a key commitment for us.
In 2011, Y&R led the charge in the pilot phase of WPPs Spectrum program, which develops client leaders who can drive innovation and collaboration across disciplines.
We selected some of our most promising developing leaders from across companies and geographies.
They have been working intensively individually, in groups, and with an executive sponsor to broaden their focus, handle greater complexity and increase their impact.
The program will be expanded significantly in 2012.
Our established Ray Rubicam University program had yet another The Young & Rubicam Group philosophy, Best Alone.
successful year of building cross-disciplinary skills in 2011.
Better Together, is really about two things innovation and integration.
All of the Young & Rubicam Group companies operate The year brought innovation independently, with their own set of clients, their own point inmany forms and across all of of view, their own expertise, their own pursuit of state of the ourbusinesses art.
Their independence gives them their drive and freedom to innovate.
At the same time these companies, some of them working together from as early as the early 1970s, know how to We continued to be thought leaders.
In 2011, Cohn & collaborate around a clients challenge, know how to deliver Wolfe, Landor Associates and Penn Schoen Berland released seamlessly integrated communications programs customized their seventh annual Green Brands Global Insights Survey, a to deliver on the business objectives of their clients.
highly-esteemed industry benchmark on consumer perceptions In 2011, our companies lived up to their standard of of green brands.
At the World Economic Forum in Davos in advancing the state of their art.
The year brought innovation early 2012, BrandAsset Consulting, Burson-Marsteller, Landor in many forms and across all of our businesses.
VML once and Penn Schoen Berland presented the results of the inaugural again singled out by Forrester Research as a Stronger Performer Global Corporate Reputation Index.
We participated in in 2011 and named one of Advertising Ages 10 Standout numerous global conferences sponsored by The Economist.
Digital Agencies in North America for the same year is In early 2012, Y&R New York launched www.
moneyexpanding globally with the help of Y&R.
com, a site that was developed with the agencys opened in So Paulo, Singapore and Mumbai and, in early propriety eXploring research and is focused on this generation 2012, in Sydney.
Early 2012 also brought iconmobile an of 20-somethings and their relationship to money and brands.
extraordinary player in the mobile arena, with a footprint that In the last part of the year, we undertook a name change reaches from Berlin to Beijing under the VML umbrella to and rebranding, from Young & Rubicam Brands to Young complement its own vibrant mobile practice.
& Rubicam Group, which clarifies and underscores 42 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2011 How were doing Advertising agency networks our integrated offering and its Best Alone, Better strengths resonate around the world and are reinforced by Together philosophy.
shared values, tools and resources that connect us globally.
In shaping our global boutique, we are looking at markets differently.
In Europe, we unbundled the regional network, Y&R making geographic clusters where it was advantageous, and giving greater independence to major markets, where it was Report by David Sable below most productive.
Martin Beck, an 18-year veteran of the Chairman and chief executive officer agency and most recently the EVP of Y&R in Central and Eastern Europe, took on the COO role to give operational For Y&R, 2011 was a year of digital growth, a year of support.
We created three geographic groupings led by Y&R building infrastructure, a year of evolution and innovation.
veterans Central and Eastern Europe Petr Havlicek, Our digital growth was prolific.
In the past 12 months, Middle East and North Africa Nassib Boueri, as well as we expanded the global footprint of VML around the world, Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands Erwin Jansen which has advanced and deepened our partnership.
The rest of Y&Rs markets in Western simplest articulation of our relationship is Y&R Y&R Europe and South Africa are now moving ahead under their Advertising VML and it has three strategic pieces.
In France, we brought in Xavier del first is VML as VML, one of the worlds most highly-regarded Sarte, a luminary in the market, to head the agency.
We digital agencies a Standout Digital Agency in Advertising successfully transitioned to the next home-grown generation Ages A-List and lauded by Forrester Research yet again as of leadership at RKCR Y&R, promoting Ben Kay and Alison a Strong Performer.
In early 2012, we aligned iconmobile, Hoad to joint CEOs, while Mark Roalfe continues as the WPPs largest mobile marketing agency, under VML in agencys chairman.
New business wins in Europe included a move that greatly expands our global mobile offering.
The second piece revolves around integration Y&R Advertising and VML share clients, and 2011 brought full integration on clients like Colgate, Revlon and Xerox.
Third, We are a global boutique and while every Y&R Advertising office is fully digital on its have organized ourselves around own, we are fortunate to have VML as a digital backbone, thatprinciple which gives us a competitive edge that is truly unparalleled in the industry.
Through a comprehensive training and activation program last year, VML shared their state-of-theart thinking with our people in every region of the world.
In the US, we continued the unbundling of structure, bringing in Carter Murray to lead both the North America region, as well as serve as CEO of Y&R New York.
The North America markets have repositioned themselves to benefit from their regional strengths Y&R Chicago, for example, has taken off as a great center for the American Midwest and is consistently winning new business.
On the West coast, we are successfully repositioned as Y&R California, which is about innovation, a state of mind rather than place.
New clients in North America include BMO Harris Bank, Hampton Inn, Crystal Cruises, Microsoft Advertising, Waldorf Astoria, the U. S. Olympics Committee and Famous Footwear, among others.
We continued to focus on fast-growth markets to great results for our clients and the agency.
Double-digit growth 2011 was a year in which we changed our infrastructure in Latin America came from new assignments and new wins.
and continued to build our talent pool to reflect the changing Creatively, Latin America won nine lions at Cannes last marketplace and its new challenges, as well as to give all of year and ranked among the top three networks in the our clients the full benefit of the talent and resources across important Ojo fide Iberoamerica.
In 2012, we will expand our global network.
our shopper marketing capabilities and strengthen our We embraced the notion that we are a global boutique position in Central America.
and have organized ourselves around that principle.
Simply Our Asia region had a great new business track record in put, this means that the strength of our global network is 2011, with new clients that include Amazon, Disney Stores, driven by the strength of our local agencies because customers Suntech and SoSo.
In early 2012, we announced that connect, consume and commit to brands locally.
These local WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2011 43 How were doing Advertising agency networks Sanjay Bhasin, CEO of Y&R Thailand and Indochina, would VML take on the additional role of CEO, South East Asia.
Asia, too, had its best year ever at Cannes, with seven Lions.
Report by Jon Cook below Impressively, Thailand took home two Gold Lions.
Finally, Chief executive officer and president the truest measure of our success, our work for Gap in China helped our client win Brand of the Year at the 2011 Campaign Asia-Pacific Agency of the Year Awards.
At the same time that we have empowered our local agencies to be best in market, we are also focused on the global side of the equation.
As clients ask for global solutions more and more, our ability to bring diverse talent and relevant expertise is critical.
Tony Granger, our global chief creative officer, continues to attract world-class creative talent and has successfully built a global creative community, driven by technology, that gives our clients access to talent all around the world.
In 2011, more and more of our clients tapped into creative talent across the network.
And our global boutique philosophy found validation in client wins like Revlon and Beeline.
Innovation at the agency took many forms.
In 2011, we felt the benefit of global planning director Sandy Thompsons strategic leadership.
We created eXploring, a new From being selected by Advertising Age as one of 10 A-List anthropological system of field research that complements Standout agencies in North America to receiving Crme fide our quantitative research, and is key to a full understanding la Crme top digital honors in the coveted WPPED Cream of consumers.
Working with GroupM, in particular with Sue awards program, VML realized unprecedented growth in Kaufman, we brought communications planning back into terms of global expansion, number of employees and offices, the strategic process, and we recommitted to our proprietary creative recognition and reputation, WPP partnership brand management tool, BrandAsset Valuator.
strength and overall business results.
In 2011, we saw the beginning of what we are calling While there were many exciting developments over the Digital Exponential a convergence of the digital and past 12 months notably expanded capabilities in Asia, physical worlds to create a complete lifestyle for our clients Europe and South America the core philosophy that fuels customers.
The implications for marketing are huge, as we VMLs business remains constant: delivering creative solutions take digital tools, efficiency and enablements and leverage at the intersection of marketing and technology.
VMLs global them in the physical world.
It is a massive opportunity for footprint is expanding in collaboration with Y&R Advertising Y&R, because of the individual and collective strengths leveraging the breadth and scope of VMLs digital expertise of Y&R Advertising, VML and iconmobile.
and the reach and experience of Y&Rs worldwide operations.
We also drove innovation through The Spark Plug, an initiative that offers innovative start-ups office space in exchange for access to their people, ideas and products.
On every level, it was a standout A hugely-successful launch in New York has already created year for VML opportunities for clients.
In 2012, we are creating regional Spark Plugs in Chicago, London, Paris, Tel Aviv, Brazil and Singapore.
At the end of the year, we launched Tech.
YR, a new New VML offices in So Paulo and Singapore global practice that links together the expertise of seven of strategically positioned in two of the worlds most dynamic our agencies around the world for companies with complex business centers further enable VML to deliver worldwide business-to-business offerings and smaller budgets.
marketing initiatives for global brands.
Thanks to expanded Y&R is poised to help our clients with the fundamental worldwide operations, the number of VMLers grew to nearly core of our business the ability to tell great stories about 1,000, with close to 1,250 people in the VML network, brands as well as the innovation to drive these stories including iconmobile and Studiocom.
The two core pieces of our business VMLs remarkable client roster grew even stronger over add up to new consumer engagements with powerful impact the past year.
New partnerships were established with a in the marketplace and culture.
2012 remains lined with variety of distinguished industry-leading brands, including these opportunities.
AB InBev brands Becks and Stella Artois, American Century 44 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2011 How were doing Advertising agency networks Investments, Boehringer Ingelheim, Cushman & Wakefield, grew to 150 offices in 60 countries and we were consistently Dignity Memorial, Kashi, Owens-Illinois, Saks Fifth Avenue, placed in the top 10.
AGENDA was named Best Creative U. S. Bank and Whole Foods.
Agency in Hong Kong by the Yahoo!
Big Idea Chair Awards VML expanded relationships and delivered award-winning and placed second for Best Digital Agency in Shanghai at the work with established clients, including Carlson Hotels, Dell, ROI Festival.
Wunderman in Argentina was again named Ford, Gatorade, Hills Pet Nutrition, Kelloggs, Microsoft, Best Interactive Agency at the Jerry Goldenberg Awards and, SAP, Southwest Airlines, T-Mobile and Western Union.
for the first time, was named by AMDIA as Agency of the The successful partnership between VML and Y&R Year.
Our agencies in Vienna and Frankfurt ranked first and led to strengthened integrated engagements with Colgatesecond in the Austrian Direct Marketing Awards, and Blast Palmolive and Xerox.
Working together, VML and Y&R Radius in Canada made Marketing magazines Top Agency also initiated new client partnerships with the United States of the Year shortlist.
Olympic Committee Team USA, FIBA 2014 Basketball World Cup, ANA Airlines and Revlon.
VML drove its digital partnership with Gatorade to new heights.
The groundbreaking VML-produced Everything to Prove video series was recognized as an Effie Award finalist.
Contagious magazine selected Everything to Prove as one of the years most contagious branded content programs.
WPPs iconmobile officially joined VML, furthering the agencys credentials as a global mobile marketing leader.
iconmobiles technology expertise and mobile platform delivered from major global business centers stretching from Berlin to Beijing is a perfect complement to VMLs established mobile practice.
In recognition of VMLs mobile marketing experience, Forrester Research, Inc. named VML a Strong Performer in the Forrester Wave: Mobile Marketing Strategy and Execution, Q1, 2012.
Giving back has been a hallmark of VMLs values since 2011 performance was strongest in Asia Pacific and Latin the agency was founded in 1992.
VML partnered with America both regions grew by double digits, with BRIC water.
org, an internationally recognized nonprofit markets, where we have a true digital presence and 1,100 organization committed to providing safe drinking water people, fueling growth.
Europe Middle East Africa had to people in developing countries, to create One Week for healthy growth.
Underlying our Water, enabling people to contribute their voice in support success are our people who build strong relationships with of water.
org on Facebook and Twitter.
our clients, especially Ford, Microsoft and Nokia.
In addition, On every level, it was a standout year for VML.
the talent in the companies we have acquired since 2006, such The agency enters its 20th year in business with irrepressible as AGENDA, Blast Radius, Designkitchen and i-Behavior, momentum and purpose.
gives us tremendous flexibility and bench strength to tap into the social, mobile and local skills our clients demand.
After lengthy and fiercely competitive pitches, Wunderman Wunderman won Levis and Best Buy, two multimilliondollar, enterprise-wide accounts that will benefit North Report by Daniel Morel above right America in 2012.
Three factors tipped the scales in our Chairman and chief executive officer favor: our expansive global footprint: operational efficiency: and the social local marketing innovation of our network Customers rule.
This idea should never go out of fashion, partners.
Wunderman World Health, which also draws on and it wont.
network resources, won two major global accounts Connecting customers and brands anywhere they are, in Novartis and Johnson & Johnson.
Among current clients, the right context, is what matters most.
Its why Wunderman our relationships with Coca-Cola, Procter & Gamble, links massive amounts of data to map customer journeys and Telefonica, Starbucks and Nike expanded dramatically optimize paths to purchase.
Its why we build sophisticated across borders and regions.
targeting models and why our creative delivers business results.
In December, our Marketing Solutions Center opened for Clients recognize the value of this approach.
This global resource combines production, creative At the start of 2011, Advertising Age recognized execution and analytics in one end-to-end service offering Wunderman as a global leader and hot shop.
Our footprint that reduces costs and increases marketing effectiveness for WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2011 45 How were doing Advertising agency networks our clients across print, digital, mobile and broadcast platforms.
At its core are high-volume, scalable, global delivery centers in Dhaka and Moscow, as well as seven regional delivery centers.
With all work flowing through an integrated measurement framework, near real-time performance reporting reveals whats working and what needs improvement.
It already serves Nokia and Microsoft, and we are ramping up for Best Buy.
On the analytics front, working with KBM Group and WPP sister company Kantar, Wunderman now connects customer data with both purchasing and click-stream data, which enables CMOs to make better-informed decisions about when to use TV, print, online video and mobile media.
Wunderman heads into 2012 with momentum as new accounts and global resources gear up.
Our immediate focus is North America.
We also look to accelerate growth and increase capabilities in Australia, Brazil, China, India, Russia at Pohjoisranta by taking a majority stake in the company.
and throughout Central Europe, and the Middle East Additionally, we launched North of Nine Communications, and Africa.
With the customer charting our course and an independent boutique technology agency within Bursontechnology providing infinitely more data, we are excited Marsteller, led by our former Global Technology Practice about the possibilities.
Major clients like Ford At 91, our agency founder Lester Wunderman continues significantly expanded their global work with us in 2011. to inspire us.
In his honor, we launched Sigi, an internal We are constantly focused on obtaining and retaining awards program born of his passion for the Dogon tribal the best talent across the globe.
While we made a number people of Mali, their secret language and spirit of kinship.
of noteworthy promotions and hires this year, including the addition of Matt Miller, Martin Roll and Hoh Kim to the Global Strategy Team, I would also like to highlight a Burson-Marsteller few changes with regards to the members of our Business Operations Team.
For their outstanding record and Report by Mark Penn above right commitment to our clients, we promoted Ramiro Prudencio Worldwide chief executive officer to Latin America CEO, Dave DenHerder to US CEO, Dallas Lawrence to chief global digital strategist, Lisa Poulson Burson-Marsteller continued to build on the significant growth to Global Technology Practice chair and Michael Bassik to we have had over the last five years, and 2011 was no exception.
Moreover, we welcomed three worldwide hires: We have achieved aggressive growth in the growing economies global consumer and creative lead Lisa Travatello formerly of Asia and Latin America.
We have the biggest presence in Weber Shandwick, global consumer lead for the Ford account Latin America as compared to any of the global agencies.
Laura Hall formerly MSL Group and global chief marketing Moreover, our European markets have remained strong despite and new business officer Esther Lee formerly US Department challenging economic times.
We have also continued to build of Commerce.
We also promoted former US CEO Pat Ford upon our comprehensive modernization of our services and to worldwide vice chairman of Client Service.
In this newlysystems through our DIGS Digital, Integrated, Global, created position, Pat is responsible for supporting BursonStrategic initiative, expanding our footprint in key markets Marsteller as we continue to strengthen our relationships while deepening our commitment to the client worldwide.
with and services to key clients.
Digital and social media have been a huge initiative Throughout the globe, we were recognized at The Holmes for us this year, as evidenced by our robust growth in the Reports SABRE Awards, with EMEA, Asia Pacific and the marketplace.
From collaborating with Coca-Cola to establish US taking home a host of honors, including North American global social training, to working with the Nuclear Energy Agency of the Year.
ASDAA Burson-Marsteller took home Institute to handle its digital crisis management during the Middle East and Africa Agency of the Year at the International Japan crisis, we proved ourselves as a top contender in the Business Awards while our work with the Royal British Legion digital and social media space.
on the 2 Minute Silence track title was awarded two European To lay the foundation for a long-term relationship and Excellence Awards and two Silver Lions at Cannes.
future expansion in Africa, we acquired a majority stake Our integration of top-flight research, grassroots and in Arcay Communications, a leading African consulting digital along with public relations sets us apart.
Our firm headquartered in Johannesburg, South Africa.
We also integrated family of companies includes Penn Schoen strengthened our partnership with our Finnish colleagues Berland, Prime Policy Group, Direct Impact, North of Nine 46 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2011 How were doing Advertising agency networks Communications, BrandAsset Consulting BAV and Proof Beverage Company, New York Life Insurance Company, Yell Integrated Communications.
Group, Takenaka Corporation, Shutterfly and British Airways.
On a final note, Burson-Marsteller along with Landor Published over the summer, Dispatch from a New Associates, Penn Schoen Berland and BrandAsset Consulting Business Horizon is Landors synthesis of best-in-class unveiled our findings from the inaugural Global Corporate companies rethinking their activities to create social and Reputation Index during this years World Economic Forum environmental benefit and making them more essential to Annual Meeting in Davos.
The findings revealed that their business.
We were fortunate to have the opportunity citizenship consistently lagged in comparison to corporate to share this at the Cannes Festival and with clients.
performance, suggesting a lack of emphasis on citizenship Landor aggressively pursued top new talent and made in todays corporate marketplace.
Companies can and should strategic shifts in leadership to better position our organization use this finding as a clear opportunity to strengthen their for success.
Notable additions included: Mark Levy, chief reputation by demonstrating and communicating more talent officer: Henry Chan, president, Greater China: Jane actively their commitment to good corporate citizenship.
Geraghty, managing director, London: and Dominic Walsh, At Burson-Marsteller, were committed every day to helping managing director, Sydney.
Significant promotions included: our clients do just that.
Nick Foley, regional president, South East Asia & Pacific: Marcela Graces, managing director, Mexico City: and Chris Lehmann, general manager, Chicago.
Landor Associates In 2011, we also refocused on awards in an effort to drive a more creative culture and raise the bar for our work.
Report by Mary Zalla below In December, we launched a new approach to our internal Chief executive officer awards, calling them The Walter Awards, with expectations that this will drive more winning submissions externally.
Our success in the WPPED Cream awards continues to be a point of pride for our network.
Externally, we improved our performance at Cannes with a Bronze Lion for the packaging design of Australias Yummy Tummy Koalas.
Our 2012 strategic initiatives will be driven by our new purpose of collectively unleashing creativity to make a meaningful difference.
We will work to embed our culture and values, expand our offer to grow the bottom line, and continue to focus on our key client relationships as the foundation of our business.
Sudler & Hennessey For Landor Associates, 2011 was a year of renewed energy.
Report by Jed Beitler see page 48, top left We refocused the company on top-line growth and new Chairman and worldwide chief executive officer business, introduced an exciting new vision, added energetic new leaders, increased our corporate responsibility initiatives 2011 was another positive year for the Sudler global and launched a new approach to awards.
Our network goals were growth and collaboration.
Landor enjoyed an excellent year with Procter & Gamble, We achieved both with the addition of new US and global our largest global client, where we continue to expand our clients to our roster, along with the development of new offer and build deep, strategic partnerships across key S&H network initiatives.
One of the most exciting programs was our The Sudler global network is divided into three key work for P&Gs 2012 Olympics sponsorship.
We have also regions: The Americas, headed up by co-CEOs Louisa strengthened our capabilities in Asia to meet the growing Holland and Rob Rogers: and the EMEA and Asia Pacific needs of P&Gs brands in this important region.
regions, both headed up by CEO Max Jackson.
Ellen We continue to nurture our key client relationships with Goldman is the global CFO COO.
Diageo, Kraft and others, with the goal of growing these Our EMEA and Asia Pacific regions enjoyed growth important partnerships in line with their needs for a partner and our new business efforts achieved exceptional success that can help them realize their global brand ambitions.
While our various regions were faced We were also pleased to welcome new clients across a broad with difficult economic market conditions, globally we range of industries and geographies in 2011, including DC continued to enjoy stable growth.
Entertainment, ICICI Bank, Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd, Kirin WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2011 47 How were doing Advertising agency networks Bravos strategy of client-centricity, whereby we help clients capitalize on the growing Hispanic opportunity in the US, has fueled growth and satisfaction across our major relationships with AT&T, Chevron, CVS, Pfizer, Wendys and Wrigleys.
As the face of America becomes more Hispanic and multicultural, clients are turning to Bravo for bold, integrated solutions that deliver bottom-line results.
Our investments in planning and insights, digital and creative are enhancing our product quality and service delivery while ensuring we are an innovative, world-class agency and our clients most valuable partner.
This strategy has also fueled new business success.
Our Miami office won FedEx and Winn-Dixie, while our New York office won Extra Care from CVS, Vertex Pharmaceuticals and the Prevnar business from Pfizer.
By delivering actionable insights, brighter ideas and Our worldwide network creativity was recognized precise implementation for our clients, Bravo has achieved through platinum, gold, silver and bronze awards, as well excellent top-line growth.
Our focus on superior talent as many awards of excellence from local, regional and global is winning.
ceremonies including the PMEA, Comprix, IPA, MarCom Looking forward to 2012, the opportunity to collaborate and Rx Club Awards.
S&Hs new website reflects the with sister WPP companies takes on greater focus.
Major creative nature of our global network.
global clients and categories like auto, banking, consumer Thought leadership was also of growing importance package goods, insurance and spirits are yet to be represented for the Sudler network in 2011.
We communicated the in Bravos portfolio and offer us the opportunity to further strategic, digital and creative expertise of our people enhance our business and performance.
through a variety of publications, podium presentations and website placements.
The Sudler global network continued to strengthen its core capabilities throughout the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific regions, with focused growth in our Medical Education and Digital offerings.
We expanded our promotional, educational and digital activities in many of the growth markets of the pharmerging world, especially in Latin America and Asia Pacific.
Digital integration accelerated and played a key role in our business model as our clients needs continued to quickly evolve from a technology standpoint.
The Sudler network continued to grow and adapt to meet the everchanging demands of our global marketplace, from developing proprietary digital tools for our clients local markets, to convening a North American eHealth and Technology Summit.
Cohn & Wolfe full report on page 66 The Bravo Group Report by Donna Imperato Chief executive officer Report by Eddie Gonzalez right Chairman and chief executive officer With a strengthened global leadership team in place and significant new business momentum going into In 2011, Bravo continued to grow and excel across all critical 2011, Cohn & Wolfe delivered a year marked by solid business areas: client satisfaction, innovation, new business topand bottom-line growth, award-winning client success and financial results.
work, groundbreaking digital initiatives for clients and staff and expansion across Asia.
