The Fast Read How were rewarded About share ownership Executive remuneration policy is set by WPPs Compensation WPP is quoted on the London Stock Exchange and NASDAQ Committee and is governed by three guiding principles: in New York.
Performance Analysis of shareholdings Competitiveness  Issued share capital as at 31 December 2011: 1,266,373,821 ordinary shares owned by 12,653 share owners.
The committees work during 2011 included: A comprehensive review of the compensation arrangements for executive directors, in conjunction with the Share owners by geography % ongoing review of the Group chief executives compensation.
Supervision of the Groups equity incentive plans that are UK 36 critical to the attraction and retention of talent.
US 35 Oversight of the Groups cash incentive programs and Asia Pacic, Latin America, Africa & Middle East, Canada approval of the awards to the most senior business leaders and Continental Europe 29 below Board level.
Reviewing developments in areas of corporate governance and ensuring the Companys compliance with changes to the design of compensation of Board directors.
Share owners by type % Our directors remuneration and interests are set out on pages 137 to 143.
A full report from the Compensation Committee starts on page 129.
Institutional investors 95 Employees 3 Other individuals 2 Inaddition, 2.07% .
Substantial share ownership As at 20 April 2012, the Company is aware of the following interest of 3% or more in the issued ordinary share capital: Legal&General 3.55% The disclosed interest refers to the respective combined holdings of this entity and to interests associated with it.
The Company has not been notified of any other holdings of ordinary share capital of 3% or more.
Share owner relations WPP has a continuous program to address the needs of share owners, investment institutions and analysts, supplying a regular flow of information about the Company, its strategy and performance.
com, provides current and historical financial information including trading statements, news releases and presentations.
More information relating to share ownership can be found on pages 185 to 188.
