How we behave The Board of Directors The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the Election of directors success of the Company by directing and supervising the Companys policy and strategy and is responsible to In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, share owners for the Groups financial and operational the directors will submit themselves for annual re-election at performance.
Responsibility for the development and each Annual General Meeting.
Directors may be appointed implementation of Group policy and strategy and for by share owners by ordinary resolution or by the Board on day-to-day management issues is delegated by the Board the recommendation of the Nomination and Governance to the Group chief executive and the other executive directors.
Committee and must then stand for re-election at the next For the year under review, Philip Lader continued as Annual General Meeting where they may be re-elected chairman of the Board, responsible for the leadership of by ordinary resolution of the share owners.
Sir Martin Sorrell, as the Group chief executive, The Board recommends that share owners vote continued to be responsible for the development and in favour of the resolutions to re-elect those directors implementation of policy and strategy and for the day-to-day of the Company standing for re-election and sets out their operations of the Group.
The biographies of the current reasons for this recommendation in the Appendix to the Board members appear on pages 100 to 102.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
All directors are fully briefed on important developments in the various business activities which the Group carries out worldwide and regularly receive extensive information Committee meetings concerning the Groups operations, finances, risk factors and its people, enabling them to fulfil their duties and obligations The attendance of non-executive directors at meetings of as directors.
The directors are also frequently advised on the committees of the Board during 2011 was as follows: regulatory and best practice requirements which affect the Nomination and Audit Compensation Groups businesses on a global basis.
Governance Committee Committee Committee During 2011, the Board met seven times formally and 1 PhilipLader 2 7 8 held 17 committee meetings throughout the year.
With the 2 BudMorten 2 6 7 exception of Lubna Olayan, Tim Shriver, Colin Day, John JeffreyRosen n a 7 8 Quelch, Paul Spencer, Sol Trujillo and Orit Gadiesh each PaulSpencer n a 7 n a absent for one meeting and Ruigang Li absent for four EstherDyson 2 n a 7 meetings and Koichiro Naganuma who was only able to OritGadiesh 2 n a n a attend one meeting, there was full attendance at all formal ColinDay n a 7 8 meetings of the Board during 2011.
LubnaOlayan 2 n a 1 The Board was composed of 16 directors in 2011.
Three TimShriver 1 n a 8 members are executive directors and 12, plus the chairman, SolTrujillo n a 7 n a are non-executive directors.
The Board considers that 10 of 1 Byinvitation, .
the 12 non-executive directors, in addition to the chairman, 2 Byinvitation,  are independent.
John Quelch and Koichiro Naganuma are .
the only non-executive directors the Board considers are not independent.
During 2011, the Sustainability Committee, chaired by Paul The shareholdings of non-executive directors are set out Richardson, met once on a formal basis and had many informal on page 143.
Non-executive directors do not participate in discussions.
Their report for 2011 starts on page 117. the Companys pension, share option or other incentive plans, The Disclosure Committee, which met four times during but may receive a part of their fees in ordinary shares of the 2011, is comprised of senior executives from Group financial Company and may participate in the Companys deferred reporting, internal audit, treasury, legal, tax, human resource compensation program.
The purpose of the The Board considers that the non-executive directors Disclosure Committee is to add further assurance to the remuneration conforms with the requirements of the UK Board and its committees in relation to the content of major Corporate Governance Code.
financial public statements and advises the Audit Committee The fees payable to non-executive directors represent and the Board on their disclosure obligations generally and compensation in connection with Board and Board the Disclosure and Transparency Rules so as to enable the committee meetings and where appropriate for devoting Board to comply with all relevant provisions.
additional time and expertise for the benefit of the Group in a wider capacity.
Details of directors remuneration and service contracts form part of the report of the Compensation Committee which commences on page 129.
