How were doing Branding & Identity The Brand Union New business Report by Simon Bolton below We prevailed in a number of big reviews to secure new Worldwide chief executive officer clients such as Genpact, Cofco Group, China Mobile, Qatar National Bank, Kelloggs, Heineken, Fidelity International Investment, Yves Rocher, South African Airways and Abu Dhabi Ports Company.
It was particularly gratifying to be awarded major new branding assignments for digital clients such as Shazam, Moussy.
com and WPPs new initiative, The Data Alliance.
Network development We opened offices in Qatar and Thailand and bolstered our African presence by adding a Cape Town operation.
We established an affiliate partnership in Korea and, at time of going to press, we are in the advanced stages of entering Brazil.
Talent progress We transferred a record number of people across our network including Toby Southgate who moved from New York to London to become CEO of UK and Ireland.
Other significant appointments included Meghna Prasad as CEO I believe this to be the most exciting and challenging of of India, Oleg Kuzmin as CEO of Moscow, Rene fide Paus times in our industry.
Brands compete in an ever-changing as MD of Jakarta and Natasha Adams as group human landscape where market forces, media channels and the resources director.
breadth of web, digital and social media mean that we all interact with brands in a different manner today.
However, Awards, accolades and social responsibility the core tenet of our business remains constant.
The Brand Union is charged by its clients to bring perspective and We had another good year and, amongst many awards, resonance to their brands.
highlights included: our Paris and India agencies being crowned Agency of the Year in their markets: we increased Rising to the challenge our visibility at Cannes through the sponsorship with our sister company Lambie-Nairn of Cannes Also: at the After a challenging first quarter in 2011, in which we individual level, Glenn Tutssel, our UK executive creative merged our high-end consulting offer with our core director, was made a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts business, momentum grew culminating in a very strong and Sujata Keshavan, founder of our business in India, was second-half performance.
This positive outcome came from named one of that countrys Fortune Top 50 most powerful three main sources: growth with our key client partners, women in business.
the development of our consumer branding practice led Finally, I would like to recognise the social contribution by Dave Brown, and further expansion of our network, our people have made through initiatives such as pro bono particularly in developing markets.
work, our internship program, education and charitable endeavours.
Our New York team mobilised the entire Key client partners network in the Movember moustache campaign to raise awareness and funds for male cancers.
Initiatives such as The philosophy of focusing effort and investment around these help fuel our culture and make The Brand Union our major multinational client business is embedded in our such a special place to work.
culture and is manifested in strong teams delivering worldclass output every day.
We were rewarded with major new assignments from Bank of America Merrill Lynch, GSK, Henkel, Pernod Ricard, Reckitt Benckiser and Vodafone.
