How were doing Advertising agency networks Grey Group Grey received wide recognition for the multi-platform creative excellence we are achieving.
Fast Company named Grey New York in its 50 Most Innovative Companies Grey in the World issue in 2011.
Grey New Yorks president and chief creative officer Tor Myhren was named to Fortune Report by Jim Heekin below magazines 40 Under 40 stars of the business world, the Chairman and chief executive officer, only ad person on the list.
Grey London, Grey Hong Kong GreyGroupandGrey and Grey Asia Pacific were all nominated for Agency of the Year by trade magazines Campaign and Marketing.
Grey India was chosen as Digital Agency of the Year by the Indian Digital Media Awards and Grey Colombia was named Agency of the Year by P&M magazine.
Grey received wide recognition for the multi-platform creative excellence we are achieving Grey, again, delivered its best new business performance ever in 2011, led by the win of the $200 million Ally Financial account.
We expanded our client roster with wins including Mikes Hard Lemonade, Turner Network Television US : Vodafone Ireland, Bacardi, QVC, Jordans & Ryvita, Spanish Lottery, Banco Popular and Anheuser Busch EMEA : Heinz, Bulla, FedEx, Galaxy Macau and Honda Asia Pacific : and Herbalife, Heineken, Casa & Video and HBO Latin America.
The foundation of Grey is its long-lasting, dynamic partnerships with global clients.
We were awarded significant new brand assignments from Procter & Gamble, Eli Lilly, GlaxoSmithKline, Allergan, Boehringer Ingelheim and Diageo.
Our top 20 clients grew in agency revenue, despite a challenging global economy.
2011 was Greys fourth year in a row of record new business Greys flagship agency in New York accelerated its performance.
In naming Grey to its prestigious A-List of the creative cachet and financial momentum.
Highly-acclaimed 10 hottest shops in the US, Advertising Ages headline said, integrated efforts for DirecTV, CoverGirl, Pantene, Febreze, Strong exec leadership and improved digital knack draw Downy, Red Lobster and Canon delivered sales success a slew of enviable new business.
and unprecedented social media buzz.
Once again, the As we begin our 95th year under the banner of E TRADE baby set new records for popularity and Grey Famously Effective Since 1917, our track record effectiveness in the Super Bowl, as did our work for for effectively building many of the worlds great brands, the NFL.
coupled with our growing reputation for famous work Grey enhanced its global leadership with the that influences popular culture, is resonating across appointment of Alain Groenendaal as president and the globe as never before.
CEO of Grey Latin America.
He will continue to serve We continued to elevate our creative performance and as president and CEO of Wing, uniting our US Hispanic award recognition through the work of our Global Creative and Latin American capabilities into a powerful resource.
Council, headed by Tim Mellors, worldwide chief creative Michael Houston was promoted to managing director officer.
We won 18 Cannes Lions in eight categories from of Grey New York after overseeing our successful new 13 countries of our global network, ranking us among the business and marketing efforts since 2007. top 10 winning agencies.
New executive creative directors We were delighted to welcome T. H. Peng, one of were appointed in 13 countries, a testament to the priority Chinas most accomplished and respected advertising we place on world-class talent.
leaders, as chairman and CEO of Grey Greater China, WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2011 49 How were doing Advertising agency networks a new position, to expand our reach and resources in this G2 Worldwide vital market.
Eric Hanna returned to Grey, where he spent a decade building our Middle East operations, to become Report by Joe Celia below CEO of Grey Group MENA.
Stephanie Nerlich joined Chairman and chief executive officer Grey Canada as president and CEO and Claudia Martinez was promoted to president and CEO of Grey Mexico.
We continue to invest in the worlds developing growth countries and expand our service offering.
Grey 141 Group, a merger between Grey Brazil and Ogilvys second agency, 141, opened its doors as the 13th largest agency in Brazil, led by Luiz Kroeff.
We entered into a strategic partnership with Possible Worldwide, WPPs interactive marketing network, to provide our clients with best-in-class digital communications on a global scale as we concurrently build Greys digital holdings through acquisition.
In addition, we rebranded and expanded The Social Partners, our social media marketing agency.
Today we are producing some of the most leading-edge creative work across platforms, breaking new ground in brand experience We launched Grey Healthy People, a next-generation, full-service, integrated offering to serve the health, wellness and lifestyle industries, with 300 people, five offices, $500 million in billings and 50 leading brands.
In 2011, G2 Worldwide continued to build upon the Plans call for the division to be introduced into our 20 momentum that we started in 2010.
Our accomplishments largest markets in 2012.
Led by Maureen Maldari as were driven by G2s focused and energetic worldwide staff, president, its mandate is to help marketers build brands all of whom contributed to the expansion of our relationships dedicated to the preservation, longevity and enjoyment with key clients and the addition of important new clients of a healthy life.
and assignments to our growing portfolio of businesses.
Our Global Planning Council, under the leadership As a specialized brand communications agency network of Suresh Nair, director of global strategic planning, with a dedicated focus on brand activation, G2 is committed continued to build Greys pre-eminence in consumer insight.
to helping our clients Sell More by finding and owning We launched a new communications planning platform precisely the spaces, places, moments, and voices that most called SHIFT that combines brand planning with channel successfully influence the right people.
Our unique ability and digital planning.
The goal is to deliver brand success to see and understand the entire marketing communications through ideas that generate fame and effectiveness.
Greys landscape is realized through the breadth and depth of Eye on Asia, our proprietary trends study, remains a key expertise within our global network in the disciplines that window into consumer psyche and behavior.
And our precise blend of context Today we are producing some of the most leading-edge and content has led to great work that works for our clients.
creative work across platforms, breaking new ground in At G2, digital and data have long been at the center of brand experience and building relationships at both Grey everything we do, and our Precision Influence approach and G2.
whether the communications channel is branding and We move into 2012 from a position of unprecedented design, digital, experiential, promotional and shopper or strength thanks to the imagination of our people in relationship marketing has resulted in significant new 96 countries and a growing global reputation for business wins and assignments over the past year.
Our best years lie ahead as Greys 100th we continued to build upon the partnerships with our anniversary approaches.
stable of key multimarket clients, including Adobe, BAT, 50 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2011 How were doing Advertising agency networks GlaxoSmithKline, Heineken and Procter & Gamble.
Looking ahead, we will continue to bolster our Global Additionally, we were awarded new multimarket assignments Shopper Marketing offering, led by Sarah Todd, global key from Coca-Cola, Hertz, Kraft, Nestl and Vodafone.
accounts director for Shopper Marketing, and facilitated Additional new business activity in 2011 included: by our network of shopper experts around the world.
G2 China was assigned a CRM campaign for MercedesAdditionally, Jonathan Dodd, global chief strategy officer, Benz in China and e-marketing duties for Hilton.
G2 Korea G2 Worldwide: Cesar Montes, chief strategy officer, G2 was named in-store management consultant for the home EMEA: and Eric Pakurar, executive director, head of appliances division of LG Electronics.
Strategy & Planning, G2 USA, will continue to evangelize In EMEA, G2 won digital assignments for Laureus in the G2s proprietary Pathfinder planning process within G2 UK: data and CRM assignments for BMW, also in the UK: and with our roster of clients.
and ATL assignments for Bacardi in Russia.
We look forward to continuing our momentum as G2 USA picked up new business wins from Ally with well as pursuing new opportunities in the coming year.
our sister agency Grey, Capital One, Southwest Airlines and Weight Watchers.
And, following a competitive review, G2 Brazil bested the competition by winning planning, creative and advertising duties for Panasonic in Brazil.
These wins and assignments reflect clients growing demand for G2s unique marketplace offer, which combines multidisciplinary skill sets across our global network.
Since the introduction of G2s Pathfinder planning process in 2010, weve been able to engage existing and new clients with a new way of thinking about consumers Purchase Decision Journey, which has helped to grow our reputation within the industry.
At G2, digital and data have longbeen at the center of everything we do Throughout 2011, G2 offices around the world were committed to pro bono and cause-related programs that benefit our communities.
We partnered with many different organizations, including One Laptop Per Child, the Malaysian Nature Society, the SPCA, Action Against Hunger and the World Health Organization.
For the fourth year in a row, G2 devoted its global pro bono efforts to Save the Children.
Building on the project that we initiated in 2010, G2 sponsored 10 children around the world to support education and quality of life programs in countries including Central America, Asia and the Middle East.
G2 was ranked among the Promo Power 100, named an IT Agency by Event Marketer, and once again named to B2B Magazines Top Agencies List.
Across the G2 network, our agencies garnered multiple honors and accolades for our client work.
A key priority in 2011 was continuing to build our senior management ranks, and we strengthened our worldwide leadership teams across the globe with a number of strategic appointments.
