Who runs WPP Non-executive chairman Board of Directors Philip Lader Chairman of the Nomination and Governance Committee Philip Lader Non-executive chairman Age 66 Member of the Compensation Committee Philip Lader was appointed chairman in 2001.
The US Executive directors Ambassador to the Court of St Jamess from 1997 to 2001, he previously served in several senior executive roles in the Sir Martin Sorrell US Government, including as a Member of the Presidents Chief executive Cabinet and as White House Deputy Chief of Staff.
Before Paul Richardson entering government service, he was executive vice president Finance director of the company managing the late Sir James Goldsmiths US Chairman of the Sustainability Committee holdings and president of both a prominent American real Mark Read estate company and universities in the US and Australia.
Strategy director A lawyer, he is also a Senior Advisor to Morgan Stanley, Chief executive, WPP Digital a director of Marathon Oil, AES and Rusal Corporations, a trustee of the Smithsonian Museum of American History Non-executive directors and the Atlantic Council and a member of the Council on Colin Day Foreign Relations.
Member of the Audit Committee and Compensation Committee Esther Dyson Sir Martin Sorrell Chief executive Age 67 Member of the Compensation Committee and Nomination and Governance Committee Sir Martin Sorrell joined WPP in 1986 as a director, Orit Gadiesh becoming Group chief executive in the same year.
He is Member of the Nomination and Governance Committee a non-executive director of Formula One and Alcoa Inc. msorrell@wpp.
com Ruigang Li Stanley Bud Morten Paul Richardson Finance director Age 54 Koichiro Naganuma Lubna Olayan Paul Richardson became Group finance director of WPP in Member of the Nomination and Governance Committee 1996 after four years with the Company as director of treasury.
John Quelch He is responsible for the Groups worldwide functions in finance, information technology, procurement, property, Jeffrey Rosen treasury, taxation, internal audit and sustainability.
Chairman of the Compensation Committee Member of the Audit Committee He is a chartered accountant and fellow of the Association Senior independent director of Corporate Treasurers.
He is a non-executive director of CEVA Group plc, Chime Communications PLC and STW Timothy Shriver Member of the Compensation Committee Communications Group Limited in Australia, the last two being companies associated with the Group prichardson@wpp.
com Paul Spencer Chairman of the Audit Committee Mark Read Strategy director and CEO, WPP Digital Age 45 Sol Trujillo Member of the Audit Committee Mark Read was appointed a director in March 2005.
He has been WPPs director of strategy since 2002 and is also chief Members of the Advisory Board executive of WPP Digital.
He is a member of the Supervisory Board of HighCo and a director of CHI & Partners.
He Jeremy Bullmore worked at WPP between 1989 and 1995 in both parent John Jackson company and operating company roles.
Prior to rejoining Richard Rivers WPP in 2002, he was a principal at the consultancy firm of Booz-Allen & Hamilton and founded and developed Company Secretary the company WebRewards in the UK mread@wpp.
