How were doing Branding & Identity FITCH Globally, we continued to leverage our networks multicultural insight, diverse skill sets and regional Report by Lois Jacobs below deployment to support clients looking for worldwide Chief executive officer design consistency.
FITCH has been a key partner to Dell in growing its retail presence, with consumers experiencing this previously online-only brand in a variety of retail settings and channels.
For Nokia, FITCH was the lead retail experience agency for the biggest new product launch in their history: the Nokia Windows platform.
With sustainability central to our design approach, our innovative concept for US homewares retailer Fixtures Living earned two awards for its green credentials in energy and resource efficiencies.
From simple to splintered to seamless retail Thanks to technology, the way people shop is changing quickly.
We are seeing a more powerful consumer, able to shop where and when they want, possessing better information on price and pedigree, and able to shift comfortably and easily between in-store, online and out-ofstore worlds.
FITCH is embracing this change by defining FITCH continued to grow in 2011 and it was a good year new opportunities for retailers and innovating product for us.
Of particular note was our high double-digit revenue categories for brand owners.
Our New Customer Journey increase in North America and the Asia Pacific region.
tool joins up the myriad splintered touch points and options We were pleased to welcome many new clients including that digitally-empowered consumers now have.
Weve also Best Buy, Staples and Nickelodeon in the US, Etihad Towers identified three universal Shopper Mind States Dreaming, and Wafra Real Estate in the Middle East, Molton Brown Exploring and Locating delivering important new thinking and Ann Summers in the UK, and Nestl and Pepsico in around how consumer behaviour is changing, and how India.
We also opened our Delhi office, complementing brands and retailers can respond with a seamless in-line our Mumbai presence.
Best-in-class design wins from experience that captures the heads, hearts and hands of Chain Store Age, the VM&RD Retail Awards and the the target customer.
Asia Retail Congress were undoubtedly strong contributors This approach is already being used on a number to our success.
of different client engagements as we go into 2012, which is shaping up to be another busy year.
We are seeing a more powerful consumer, able to shop where and when they want, possessing better information on price and pedigree, and able to shift comfortably and easily between in-store, online and out-of-store worlds In 2011, we delivered new store concepts and strategies for leading retailers in local markets including Morrisons in the UK, Sundan in China, Asian Paints in India and Eldorado and Beeline in Russia.
