How were doing Letter to share owners And finally... Howard Paster 1944-2011 For companies such as ours, the regular acquisition of new hen Howard Paster died in August business from new clients in open competition carries huge of last year, his army of friends and significance.
More than any other form of achievement, colleagues shared two dominant it hits the headlines.
It signals, very publicly, progress and W emotions: a huge sense of loss: and momentum and state-of-the-art professionalism.
It works infinite gratitude for having known him.
as a kind of compliment to existing clients.
And it is a great Bill and Hillary Clinton were among them.
Hed morale booster for staff.
So it is extremely gratifying to worked closely with both.
We will remember Howard be able to report that the Groups 2011 new business for his passion and candor and his dedication to public performance continued, across disciplines and territories, service, they wrote.
Howard Paster had been part of WPP since 1989 At least as admirable, however, if less publicly recognised, for the last decade with responsibility for all the Groups is the ability of our companies to continue to service and public relations and public affairs interests, and for satisfy existing clients over many years and often through much of that time as a member of the WPP times of considerable difficulty.
In 2011, an outstanding Board of Directors.
Extensive though that responsibility validation of this was the award of the first Lion at Cannes was, Howards influence was greater still.
The multitude to any Holding Company for creative excellence.
This ability of tributes that followed his death painted a remarkably to service and satisfy clients is sometimes referred to as client consistent picture of the qualities with which he retention: but thats a seriously misleading term.
Client was blessed and which he so liberally shared.
retention suggests little more than passive custodianship: Here is just a fraction of those tributes.
looking after what you have got and making sure it does not A good man.
One of the finest men Ive ever slip away.
In truth, of course, to satisfy properly demanding met.
His integrity, compassion and deep love of his existing clients requires at least as much energy, initiative, family were inspirations to all of us.
Always the enterprise and imagination as any hectic new business person to turn to for advice.
We will all miss presentation and on top of that, the ability to sustain Howards knowledge, great wisdom and kindness such service over very long periods of time.
He was as insightful a So while we delight in our new business record, and business guy and generous a human being as I have thank and congratulate those thousands of our people who known.
Wise, kind, expert, polite and always contributed to it, we would like to reserve our last word of helpful.
A great guy and a wise gratitude for those many more thousands who continued to counsellor.
Weve truly lost a remarkable man, but prove, day in and day out, the value to their clients of the skills the inspiration of his faith, optimism and perseverance and talents of WPP professionals.
It is testing and admirable will live in our hearts forever.
work that they do, that sometimes goes unrecognised.
Howard has been our colleague, friend and trusted advisor Philip Lader for almost a quarter Chairman of a century, said Martin Sorrell at that time.
He really Sir Martin Sorrell is irreplaceable.
Group chief executive As we extend our sympathy to Howard Pasters Paul Richardson family, we thank Group finance director them profoundly for having shared him with us.
