How were doing Letter to share owners Fourth, we will continue to enhance the value added attractiveness of WPP companies as destinations for talent.
by the parent company and build unique integrated Our quarterly reviews with the operating companies have marketing approaches for clients.
WPP is not just a been structured to give more time and attention to talent 4holding company focused on planning, budgeting, and to clients.
Our recruiting efforts throughout 2011 were reporting and financial issues, but a parent company that can especially fruitful as we successfully targeted and recruited add value to our clients and our people in the areas of human top talent within and beyond our industry, often competing resources, property, procurement, information technology with investment banking, management consulting, new and practice development, including sustainability.
We will media and private equity offers.
The war for talent is fierce continue to do this through a limited group of 400 or so and will intensify further, and there is more to be done.
people at the centre in Dublin, London, New York, Tokyo, The blueprint for our executive development curriculum Hong Kong, Shanghai and So Paulo.
This does not mean has been completed, and our flagship client leadership that we seek to diminish the strength of our operating training program, Maestro, is being continuously developed.
brands, but rather to learn from one another.
Our objective The parent company and each of our operating companies is to maximise the added value for our clients in their installed its own approach to performance assessment and businesses and our people in their careers.
succession planning, aimed at developing the careers of their Many of our initiatives are possible because of the scale people, improving the quality of feedback, coaching and on which we now operate.
In the optimum use of property, mentoring they receive and providing for orderly succession.
in information technology and in procurement generally, We have launched a senior management mentoring and we are able to achieve efficiencies that would be beyond development program specifically for women, run by the reach of any individual operating company.
Charlotte Beers and called The X Factor.
But it is also clear that there is an increasing requirement In 2011, your Company teamed up with the Shanghai Art for the centre to complement the operating companies in & Design Academy SADA to establish the WPP School of professional development and client coordination.
It is a Marketing and Communications.
This jointly run school relatively recent development for certain multinational marketing offers Chinas first professional marketing and companies, when looking to satisfy their global communications communications three-year diploma program.
After 17 years, needs, to make their initial approach not to operating the WPP Marketing Fellowship program remains sadly the companies, but directly to holding or parent companies.
only multi-disciplinary and multi-geographical recruitment Such assignments present major, and increasingly and training initiative in the industry.
frequent, opportunities for the few groups of our size.
It is We continued to scrutinise and modify our compensation absolutely essential that we have the professional resources practices, both to offer competitive and appropriately-based and the practice development capability to serve such clients rewards to our people and to attract outstanding talent from comprehensively, actively and creatively.
This is a key strategic priority for us.
Our some of the worlds largest marketers continue to gain competition is, sometimes, not so rigorous in evaluating and momentum.
The worlds largest advertiser is itself integrating rewarding performance for example, taking advantage of its efforts around brands, in the areas of advertising, media sharp falls in share prices to re-price or issue options or giving investment management, market research, packaging design limited disclosure to investors of compensation plan details.
Our largest client is seeking a seamless A failure of external, as well as internal, audiences to model, effectively a one-client agency within our Group.
All understand the importance of globally competitive incentiveour clients, whether global, multinational or local, continue based compensation will undermine the Companys leadership to focus on the quality of our thinking, coordination of position.
After all, we invest almost $10 billion a year in communications and price.
In response, we focus on talent, human capital, as opposed to only $400 million in fixed assets structure and incentives.
Managing talent Communications Talent and its management therefore remain the lynchpin of Of all businesses, a communications services company must our reason for existence: that is what our clients pay us for.
be a model of excellent external and internal communications.
Development of our people and the way we manage that To that end, we accelerate understanding of the Groups vast talent is a critical determinant of performance and on that resources with a raft of regular communications through our critical dimension, we continue to make significant progress.
websites and social media channels and in print: our monthly In creating highly-competitive incentives with extremely public online news bulletin, e. wire: our consistently-awarded attractive working environments, we increasingly global newspaper and eBook, The WIRE: our annual differentiate ourselves from our competitors and improve the Atticus Journal of original marketing thinking: the WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2011 27
