How were doing Letter to share owners In addition, we intend to reinforce our worldwide points in the competition, followed by Omnicom second with strength in direct and interactive marketing and research 1,152 points and Publicis with 744 points.
Awards were won through our traditional channels such as OgilvyOne, by WPP agencies from more than 30 countries across all Wunderman, G2, Blanc & Otus and Lightspeed.
We will continents, including most notably a prestigious Grand Prix also invest directly in new channels through start-ups, awarded to JWT Shanghai, the first time a Chinese agency has particularly as US and French valuations in search, for won this top prize.
Three years earlier, JWT India was the first example, are still prohibitive.
Other opportunities will agency to win a Cannes Grand Prix for India.
be sought to enhance our online capabilities.
Our performance in The Gunn Report, even on an Lastly, we will continue to develop our specialist expertise  weighted basis, is as strong, with in areas such as healthcare, retail and interactive and to GroupM topping the Media Holding Company of the Year identify new high-growth areas.
tables and Mindshare the fastest growing of the two big agencies at the top of the report in terms of media creativity.
2011 also saw the fifth annual WPPED Cream awards, our Creativity remains paramount internal award program for outstanding work across the Group.
We are committed to achieving our objectives in the right Sixth, to improve still further the quality of creative way, as a company that recognises our responsibilities to work throughout the Group.
Despite the growing clients, our people and the world at large.
Sustainability importance of co-ordinated communications and at WPP encompasses our principles for marketing ethics, 6price effectiveness, the quality of the work remains privacy and data protection, our leading employment and will remain paramount.
If you drew a graph plotting practices, our commitment to minimise our environmental creative awards as a proxy for creativity against margins footprint and the contribution we make to communities for any group of agencies, there would be a very strong through pro bono work and charitable giving.
The more awards, the stronger the margins.
altruism or charity, it is good business when, like us, you are The clients procurement department fades into the focused on long-term total share owner return.
Our strong background when the work is strong.
Of the three things we track record in this area enables us to take advantage of new do strategic thinking, creative execution and co-ordination commercial opportunities as sustainability continues to grow creative execution is undoubtedly the most important, and in importance for consumers, governments, brands and that means creativity in its broadest sense.
businesses in Western and fast-growing economies.
Our Clients look for creative thinking and output not just from goal is for WPP to be a centre of excellence for sustainability advertising agencies, public relations and design companies, communication, giving our clients the best advice and but also from our media companies and our research enhancing consumers understanding of sustainability issues.
Millward Brown remains arguably one of our A summary of the Groups approach to sustainability most creative brands.
Witness the BrandZ Top 100 Most can be found on pages 117 to 127.
Please also see our annual Powerful Brands study published annually with the Financial Sustainability Report on the work our clients and our people Times and its study of the BrandZ Top 50 Most Valuable do in these increasingly important areas.
Chinese Brands, together with the just-launched BrandZ Top 50 Most Valuable Latin American Brands.
We intend to achieve this objective by stepping up our Future challenges training and development programs: by recruiting the finest external talent: by celebrating and rewarding outstanding A colossal amount remains to be done challenging our creative success tangibly and intangibly: by acquiring strong clients, and therefore us.
It seems certain that once these creative companies: and by encouraging, monitoring and objectives are achieved, they will be replaced by new ones.
promoting our companies achievements in winning As companies grow in size, most chairmen and CEOs creative awards.
become concerned that their organisations may become In pursuing these aims, the Group is led by John flabby, slow to respond, bureaucratic and sclerotic.
Any OKeeffe, WPPs worldwide creative director.
Under Johns sensible business leader aggressively resists this phenomenon: guidance, gratifying and discernible progress continues.
we all seek the benefits of size and scale without sacrificing Your Company was named Holding Company of the Year the suppleness and energy of a smaller firm.
And, for the first at the 2011 Cannes Lions International Festival of Creativity, time, new technologies now make this possible on a global the worlds premier showcase for excellence in communications.
WPP wants the scale and resources of the largest This marks the first time the Cannes Lions have measured and firm together with the heart and mind of a small one.
recognised creative performance at the parent company level.
Based on the collective number of Cannes Lions awarded to WPP agencies for creative excellence, WPP accumulated 1,219 30 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2011
