The Fast Read Why we exist What we think Our mission A new normal and why Mad Men and : women are becoming more important toapplythattalent, bySirMartinSorrell throughouttheworld, 2011 was a record year against almost all measures, showing : just how far we have come from the dark days of 2008 and todosoinpartnership: the Lehman collapse.
WPP achieved like-for-like revenue todosowithprofit.
growth of 5.3%, with gross margin growing even faster at 5.9%.
The recovery was LUV-shaped, with the BRICs, Within the WPP Group, our clients have access to companies Next 11 and digital regaining their greater prominence, and with all the necessary marketing and communications skills: the mature markets and media slowing, hit by the Eurozone companies with strong and distinctive cultures of their own: crisis and US budgetary deadlock.
famous names, many of them.
The prospects for 2012 look similar, despite the maxiWPP, the parent company, complements these companies quadrennial impact of the UEFA Football Championships, in three distinct ways.
Summer Olympics and US Presidential election.
The First, it relieves them of much administrative work.
following year could be more challenging, but 2014 may Financial matters such as planning, budgeting, reporting, well be a different story if the new US Administration finally control, treasury, tax, mergers, acquisitions, investor begins to tackle the deficit issue.
In addition, it will be a relations, legal affairs and internal audit are co-ordinated mini-quadrennial with the Winter Olympics, FIFA World centrally.
For the operating companies, every administrative Cup and US mid-term Congressionals.
hour saved is an extra hour to be devoted to the pursuit In summary, the long term looks reasonably good.
WPPs growth will continue to be driven by nine factors Second, the parent company encourages and enables globalisation, overcapacity and the shortage of talent, the operating companies of different disciplines to work together web, retail, internal communications, central and local for the benefit of clients.
Such collaborations have the organisational focus, the rise of finance and procurement, additional benefit of enhancing the job satisfaction of our the role of government, and sustainability.
The parent company also plays an across-the-Group Sir Martin Sorrells article begins on page 82. role in the following functions: the management of talent, including recruitment and training: in property management: in procurement and IT: in knowledge sharing and practice development with an increasing emphasis on corporate Plonk and Placebos responsibility and sustainability.
byJeremyBullmore And, finally, WPP itself can function as the 21st-century equivalent of the full-service agency.
For some clients, A brand is routinely described as a product with added predominantly those with a vast geographical spread and a presentation.
The product is said to be the bit that delivers: need for marketing services ranging from advertising through the taste, the function, the effect.
And the presentation is design and website construction to research and internal there merely to attract the eye and distinguish the product communications, WPP can act as a portal to provide a single with some ill-defined property called personality.
point of contact and accountability.
An examination of the placebo effect, demonstrated to exist over decades of pharmaceutical research, shows that Read more about our role on page 12. this is a dangerously superficial understanding of the nature of a successful brand.
Because of the far from fully-understood inter-relationship of mind and body, a well-known, wellpresented brand will deliver more real satisfaction to its users than an anonymous, generic equivalent: and this is just as true for an analgesic as it is for a bottle of wine.
Jeremy Bullmores essay can be read in full on pages 98 and 99.
