How were doing Public Relations & Public Affairs Cohn & Wolfe Middle East.
The practice also managed a massive re-launch of HP consumer products in China and took both LinkedIn Report by Donna Imperato below and Responsys from private to public companies.
Chief executive officer Enforcing our immersion in the wisdom business, H K Strategies launched Research Data Insights RDI, an independent organization with a focus on providing clients with data analytics and primary research the basis of strategic and effective communications in a public environment.
Following this, H K Strategies introduced its Corporate Advisory Group as a new strategic service providing business advisory counsel, focusing exclusively on meeting the public risk and reputational challenges of client leaders at the C-suite and board levels.
H K Strategies has also been active in assisting companies like Procter & Gamble and HP with their sustainability initiatives while also providing pro bono counsel for organizations including Text4Baby, an award-winning educational platform for expectant mothers, and for United Cerebral Palsy, a leading disability rights and advocacy organization.
Additionally, H K assisted Operation Smile, a volunteer-based organization that provides free medical treatment for children of impoverished families suffering from various facial deformities, as well as for Mercedes Benz China with its Happy Music Classroom Project, which provided 125 fully furnished music classrooms and donated musical instruments to over 40,000 students across With a strengthened global leadership team in place rural China.
and significant new business momentum going into 2011, Cohn & Wolfe delivered a year marked by solid topand bottom-line growth, award-winning client work, Our goal at Hill Knowlton groundbreaking digital initiatives for clients and staff and expansion across Asia.
Strategies is to occupy a fifth seat in The full impact of our 2010 leadership restructuring our clients executive suites, alongside including the addition of new talent and moving other leaders the traditional advisors to the worlds into new roles to drive strategic priorities came in 2011, where we saw a solid increase in global revenue and double-digit largest corporations growth on the bottom line.
It was a big year for new business as we added 50 new brands to our client roster.
We were appointed agency of record for Hennessy and Allergan, began work for Our goal at Hill Knowlton Strategies is to occupy a fifth the US Olympic Committee and picked up Universal Pictures.
seat in our clients executive suites, alongside the traditional Other significant wins include Sams Club, Berkeley Park advisors to the worlds largest corporations the attorney, Capital, Boots, Global Premium Brands, Hotels.
com, HSBC, the accountant, the banker and the management consultant.
We believe that strategic communications today belongs at Thanks to the talent and creativity of our account teams, the forefront of corporate strategy.
We will continue to 30% of Cohn & Wolfes growth was organic.
With client elevate this offering in 2012 and earn the right to be seated satisfaction at an all-time high, we retained and grew 19 in our clients C-suites.
Were changing the industry, and of our top 20 accounts including Walmart, 3M, Colgatewere excited for the road ahead.
Palmolive, JM Smucker, Panasonic and Valvoline.
Many of our existing accounts also expanded into new domestic and international markets.
We accomplished another key priority: fully integrating digital into every aspect of the organization with digital talent in all offices around the globe.
Our digital practice drove revenue growth in all markets through awardwinning work and 10 new digital services including Online Reputation Management, Enterprise Social Media Strategy and Social Newsrooms.
