How were doing Media Investment Management MEC MEC in EMEA and Latin America are, according to RECMA, those regions fastest-growing agencies.
Special Report by Charles Courtier below kudos goes to MEC Latin America for again being our Chief executive officer fastest-growing region, for the third year running.
We made a number of important management changes MEC delivered double-digit growth again in 2011. this year.
A new management team is in place in North We added more than $1 billion in new billings for the America, with Marla Kaplowitz at the helm.
MEC North second year running.
Much of this growth was characterised Europe chairman Tom George joined our global executive by a successful run in new business in local markets.
We strengthened our strategic resources in Key wins included: Marriott International globally: BUPA, Asia Pacific as well as installing a new management team Everything Everywhere and the Department of Health in the in China.
We also made positive leadership changes in UK: Loteria y Apuestas in Spain: Hollard Insurance Group Spain, Russia, Italy and the UK.
in South Africa: SIBA in Sweden: Henkel in Poland: Ahold in the Netherlands: and Allianz in Australia.
Our fastest-growing resources are in data and digital, particularly social and mobile, and we continue to invest heavily in these areas In June we gathered together as a management team, 250 of our top people, for our Global Conference in San Francisco.
We engaged with the Silicon Valley companies that are doing so much to change the world of communications.
In fact, we were the largest group that Google had ever hosted at their Mountain View headquarters.
We got inspired and challenged ourselves to accelerate change.
Keeping pace with this communications landscape continues to occupy most of our waking hours.
Our ability to provide strategic leadership to our clients in this environment is paramount.
Our fastest-growing resources are in data and digital, particularly social and mobile, and we continue to invest heavily in these areas.
Despite the difficult economic conditions in Western Europe and the US, 2011 was a successful year for MEC.
Ultimately thats because of the efforts of all of our people, all around the world and the support of our clients and partners.
Our efforts include taking our corporate social responsibility seriously.
This year over 20 countries created and managed CR programs for clients such as H&M, Colgate, China Light and Power, Citi, IKEA and The Salvation Army.
We also have key clients fuelling our growth IKEA, Looking at 2012, were off to a flying start, winning KFC, Chanel and Colgate all had significant growth in 2011.
Scotts Miracle-Gro in the US and Lavazza across Europe.
Our focus on the work manifested itself in an excellent run And with the Olympics we also predict a big year for of awards success.
We won over 90 external awards around MEC Access, our sport and entertainment division.
the network, double our previous record.
These included So despite economic fragility we are cautiously Agency of the Year in Poland, UK, Portugal and Czech confident about 2012.
It happens to be MECs 10th Republic, as well as a stunning six Effies in Poland.
anniversary too, so we intend to make it a year to remember and one to celebrate.
