The Fast Read Who runs WPP How we behave Non-executive chairman Corporate governance Philip Lader The Board of Directors is collectively accountable to the Chairman of the Nomination and Governance Committee Companys share owners for good corporate governance Member of the Compensation Committee and is committed to achieving compliance with the principles of corporate governance set out in the UK Corporate Executive directors Governance Code.
Our goal is to comply with relevant laws, regulations, Sir Martin Sorrell and guidelines such as the UK Corporate Governance Code, Chief executive the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002, the NASDAQ rules and, Paul Richardson where practicable, with the guidelines issued by institutional Finance director investors and their representative bodies.
Chairman of the Sustainability Committee WPP operates a system of internal control, which is Mark Read maintained and reviewed in accordance with the UK Strategy director Corporate Governance Code and the guidance in the Turnbull Chief executive, WPP Digital Report as well as the relevant provisions of the Securities Exchange Act 1934 and related SEC rules, as they currently Non-executive directors apply to the Company.
In the opinion of the Board, the Colin Day Company has complied throughout the year with the UK Member of the Audit Committee and Compensation Committee Corporate Governance Code, the Turnbull Report and also Esther Dyson with the relevant provisions of the Securities Exchange Act Member of the Compensation Committee and Nomination 1934 and SEC rules.
and Governance Committee Orit Gadiesh Member of the Nomination and Governance Committee Sustainability Ruigang Li Stanley Bud Morten Paul Richardson is the Board director responsible for sustainability and chairs WPPs Sustainability Committee, Koichiro Naganuma established in 2003.
WPPs five most significant issues are: Lubna Olayan The impact of our work for clients.
Our goal is for WPP Member of the Nomination and Governance Committee to be a centre of excellence for sustainability communication, John Quelch giving our clients the best advice and enhancing consumers Jeffrey Rosen understanding of sustainability issues.
The value of client Chairman of the Compensation Committee business supported by our sustainability credentials is worth Member of the Audit Committee at least $1 billion.
Senior independent director Marketing standards, including ethical decision-making, Timothy Shriver privacy and data protection, and compliance with marketing Member of the Compensation Committee standards and our Code of Conduct.
Paul Spencer Employment practices, including diversity and inclusion, Chairman of the Audit Committee training and development.
Women currently account for Sol Trujillo 54% of our total employees and 31% of our Board members Member of the Audit Committee and executive leaders.
In 2011, WPP invested 58.3 million on training and wellbeing.
Members of the Advisory Board Environmental performance.
WPP was ranked 41 in Jeremy Bullmore Newsweeks Green Rankings of the 500 largest global companies.
We have reduced our carbon footprint per person John Jackson by 26% since 2006.
Our target is a 63% reduction by 2020.
Richard Rivers Social investment including pro bono work.
Our total social investment was worth 15.3 million in 2011, the Company Secretary equivalent of 1.5% of reported profit before tax.
Marie Capes Full details of our governance policies and practices, and our sustainability activities, can be found on pages 105 to 127.
Directors biographies appear on pages 100 to 102.
