How were doing Public Relations & Public Affairs Expanding our global footprint in Asia Pacific was grew its clean tech practice with new clients that include another top priority for Cohn & Wolfe.
We opened an Qualcomm, Enphase and Bridgelux.
office in Jakarta, added new offices in Hong Kong, Looking forward, our expanding network, new Singapore and Malaysia and, following the acquisition industry offerings, outstanding creative resources of leading communications agency, impactasia, in China, and strong leadership across practices gives us a solid merged offices in both Beijing and Shanghai.
With an foundation for long-term company growth.
2012 is established network throughout Greater China, Cohn & primed to be one of our best years ever.
Wolfe-impactasia represents top clients such as Rolls-Royce, Guinness, Pernod Ricard, MGM Hospitality, Robert Half International, Mandarin Oriental Hotel Group and Sofitel RLM Finsbury Luxury Hotels.
In Southeast Asia, we added XPR now Cohn & Wolfe XPR, one of the regions top digital Report by Roland Rudd below, top and social media agencies with leading brands including Chairman Groupon, SingTel, BMW Asia, Dell, Salesforce.
com and and Motorola Mobility.
These acquisitions tripled our size Walter Montgomery below, bottom in the Asia Pacific region, positioning us well to serve Chief executive officer multinational clients in Asia and around the world.
Our digital practice drove revenuegrowth in all markets through award-winningwork and 10 new digital services Our agency continues to be recognized for its creative spirit and imaginative mindset, ranking as one of Advertising Ages Best Places to Work and shortlisted for the UKs Pathfinders Media Employer of the Year.
We won over 40 industry honors, including a PRSA Prism Award of Excellence for the launch of Michael Jackson: The Experience, the Shanghai PR Association Gold Award for MSD Pharmaceutical and a Silver SABRE in Fashion & Beauty for our work with Toms of Maine.
Stockholm won the Spinn Award for Best Social Media Campaign of the Year for its work with Unibet and Spain picked up the IPRA special Golden World Award for its work with the EUs Consumer Rights campaign.
We also brought together more than 500 employees in 18 offices worldwide to focus on our pro bono client, Project Kaisei, a nonprofit organization dedicated to reducing plastic waste in our oceans.
This global campaign more than doubled Project Kaiseis Facebook fans and raised funds for its next clean-up voyage.
Cohn & Wolfes specialty companies, GCI Health and Axicom, also experienced new and organic growth in 2011.
In addition to being named Healthcare Agency of the Year and winning Rx Pharmaceutical Campaign of the Year by In 2011, US-headquartered Robinson Lerer & Montgomery The Holmes Report, GCI Health was awarded Allergans and UK-headquartered Finsbury Group merged to create RLM Facial Aesthetics business.
AxiCom continued to build its Finsbury, a global leader in strategic corporate, financial and strength in technology markets with wins that included crisis communications.
With the opening of the firms Hong IntraLinks, ITU Telecom World and NDS while expanding Kong office in 2011, along with offices in the US, Europe and its work with Red Hat, Dell and ZTE.
It also significantly the Middle East, RLM Finsbury now serves the boards and WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2011 67
