How were doing Specialist Communications Report by Andrew Scott below WPPs Specialist Communications division comprises Chief operating officer individual business units with separate and distinct International Specialist Communications marketing expertise by industry, audience segment or and medium.
Our clients benefit from their depth of knowledge Mary Ellen Howe opposite and strategic focus: the Group benefits through the flexibility Chief operating officer these companies offer as partners for affiliated WPP Specialist Communications, North America companies when serving clients integrated marketing needs.
Additionally, we are able to capitalize on evolving trends of new areas of expertise.
Our role in managing this portfolio is to help these companies grow on their own terms and to support co-operation opportunities across the Group.
Direct, promotion, digital and interactive marketing MJM, a leading US-based corporate events company serving long-term clients such as Pfizer, AstraZeneca and Deloitte, continued to focus on creating innovative corporate meetings and sales training programs that energize and transform human performance.
To better align with its clients strategic goals, MJM has developed processes that optimize program investment by unifying creative and production strategy through deep client understanding.
New clients acquired in 2011 include Sara Lee and Johnson & Johnson.
UK outsourcing agency EWA continued to focus on adding value to its clients direct communications through an innovative combination of strategy, insight and delivery techniques.
New client projects during the year included a travel information and booking service for London 2012, a food e-commerce system for a partnership between M&S and Regus, and an ordering and scheduling facility for a major fuel supplier.
Our role in managing this portfolio isto help these companies grow ontheir own terms and to support co-operation opportunities across theGroup Risk management specialists Mando had a very strong year.
They secured a large project for the Russian electronics retailer, El Dorado, coordinating with agencies across three countries.
Expansion in southern Europe produced new business in Portugal and Spain, delivering Unilevers couponing activity as well as major consumer marketing campaigns for Lindt and household brand Cofresco.
The German business continued its growth, adding Mastercard to its client list, while the UK enhanced its portfolio with brands such as Dr Oetker and Specsavers joining its established blue-chip client roster.
76 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2011 How were doing Specialist Communications 2011 saw field marketing agency Headcount win a significant project with Unilever to develop a system to deliver and report on in-store measurement activity across Europe.
The relationship between Headcount and the South African-based field marketing agency, Smollan Group, continued to develop well during 2011.
Custom media In 2011, during its 25th anniversary year, multi-channel content agency Forward launched a number of new projects for existing and new clients and won a prestigious award for its financial services work.
On the digital side, Forward developed content-rich microsites and social media strategies for a number of new FMCG brands that are available exclusively at Tesco: created the CSR website Together for Trees for the charity RSPB and Tesco: extended its outbound e-zine campaign for Regus to the Middle East: launched a number of online educational tools and animations for Standard Lifes new website: and created a monthly email program for City recruitment firm Astbury Marsden.
Alongside its new digital work, Forward published new print-based projects including The Successful Retirement Guide for Standard Life, B&Q Home, which is distributed to more than five million B&Q customers and prospects: and the Tesco Wine mailing program.
Finally, Forwards Association and Ringling Bros. Barnum & Bailey to create redesigned Standard Life magazine, MoneyPlus, won Best programs and products fueled by its youth and family Finance Title at the 2011 International Content Marketing expertise and acumen.
Awards run by the Association of Publishing Agencies.
2011 saw the combining of BDGworkfutures and BDGMcColl under the brand name of BDG architecture design, to better reflect its capability.
It delivered Demographic and sector marketing a number of high-profile projects for clients including Mindshare in London, The University of St Andrews and The Food Group used its extensive foodservice marketing, Standard Life in Scotland, and Group M in Moscow whilst public relations and culinary experience to help the Louisiana continuing to develop key relationships with its major accounts Seafood Promotions & Marketing Board as well as the Gulf in all locations.
The companys work in Europe remains and South Atlantic Fisheries Foundation promote and market strong and in Russia there have been a number of significant Gulf seafood throughout the US.
commissions in the corporate fit-out sector.
In addition, The Food Group continued to work with Contract furniture business Dovetail saw another premier foodservice brands Kraft Foods, Tabasco, Dawn improved year, with ongoing relationships with Unilever, Foods, Dannon, Kozy Shack, PERDUE and the Florida Deloitte and Bloomberg.
Significant new clients were Rio Department of Citrus in 2011.
Pace Advertising and its Green Advertising division continued to build their operations through increased client opportunities with a major healthcare client: Calder Raceway Media and film production services & Casino a Churchill Downs company : an upscale, casual hamburger chain: a virtual security business: and new Metros London technical event production team had homebuilder clients in Minnesota, New York, Florida and a successful year in 2011, maintaining long-term client New Jersey.
They successfully attracted new business from relationships with Shell, the Financial Services Authority, website video content to corporate videos and TV campaigns.
Deloitte, Roche and Credit Suisse.
New client wins included In 2011, youth marketing company Geppetto worked work for Allergan, Jagex and NYSE.
Activity during the year with companies as varied as Kraft, the National Basketball saw Metro providing clients with technical support for WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2011 77 How were doing Specialist Communications projects throughout Asia, Europe and the US.
The Edinburgh strength in international implementation.
The winning team developed its relationships with Experian, NHS Health of Santanders studio business highlighted Hogarths Scotland, Prudential, Royal Bank of Scotland and Scottish competitive strength in studio management and production Power: some notable new clients with planned activity for technology.
The agency also started to win asset management 2012 include DLA Piper and Edinburgh Council.
contracts on a software as a service basis with ZONZA, Metro was one of the first UK event companies to be its next-generation digital asset management and delivery accredited with the BS 8901 sustainability standard.
The system that came on stream in 2011. standard defines the requirements for a sustainability event The trend towards using centralised implementation management system to ensure an enduring and balanced supported by technology is set to continue: Hogarth approach to economic activity, environmental responsibility anticipates further strong growth through 2012 and beyond.
and social progress relating to events.
2011 was a landmark year for MRCs film and television Post production company The Farm Group had an studio businesses, both of which had some of the industrys extremely busy and successful year in 2011.
Activity in its largest presales.
existing Soho sites remained very high, with repeat business MRC Film is currently in post production on two films, on primetime, high-profile terrestrial series such as Downton Neill Blomkamps Elysium and Seth MacFarlanes TED.
Set to Abbey, The X Factor, Britains Got Talent, The Jonathan be released in early 2013, Elysium is Blomkamps follow-up to Ross Show, Total Wipeout and Shameless.
Added to this the Academy Award nominated blockbuster District 9 and stars were new productions including The Shadow Line, Red Academy Award winners Matt Damon and Jodie Foster.
TED or Black, A&E, Planet Dinosaur and The Marriage Ref.
is an R-rated comedy, starring and directed by MacFarlane, A competitive tender was won to be the authorized post creator of The Family Guy.
MRC demonstrated continued production facility to LOCOG for the London Olympics.
As manufacturing strength as both projects, the companys such, The Farm is editing the material that will go on the big largest-scale to date, wrapped on time and on budget.
screens at the various venues.
The Farms creative staff were In 2011, MRC released two films, The Adjustment proud to be awarded two Royal Television Society awards: Bureau starring Matt Damon and 30 Minutes or Less for the colour grading on Eric and Ernie and the sound starring Academy Award nominee Jesse Eisenberg.
Upcoming mixing on The Shadow Line.
films include two additional projects from Neill Blomkamp: In May 2011, The Farm completed its acquisition of two projects from Panic Pictures, a production company in Editgods, an LA-based post production facility.
This is now partnership with David Fincher The Social Network, Fight named The Farm LA and has a team incorporating UK and Club : The Civilian, an action film produced by Michael Bay: LA talent.
One of its major early projects was the launch a project from Duncan Jones, director of the hit film Source series of The X Factor US, as well as the Victorias Secrets Code: and Forever from director Gareth Edwards.
awards, Miss America and a recent Rihanna concert.
In television, MRC struck a groundbreaking deal with In March 2011 it was announced that The Farm had Netflix, launching it into the original-content business with won the competitive tender to supply all of the management a two-season order for the new series House of Cards.
The and staffing for the post production and sports news studios high-profile drama series marks the first foray into series within the new BBC North site in Salford.
The project went television by Oscar nominee David Fincher and Oscar live in October 2011.
This means that The Farm is now winners Kevin Spacey American Beauty and Eric Roth responsible for the output of numerous additional staple Forrest Gump.
MRC TV has two other series currently BBC programs such as Blue Peter, Match of the Day, on the air, The Ricky Gervais Show and The Life and Times Songs of Praise and many other household names.
of Tim, both in their third seasons on HBO.
Looking ahead, In 2011, implementation agency Hogarth Worldwide MRC TVs development slate includes an additional project sustained the rapid growth it saw in 2009 and 2010, from David Fincher and a drama series from Spider Man expanding its operations in London and New York and director Sam Raimi.
opening new offices in Singapore, Hong Kong and Mexico City.
The agency integrates proprietary technology with In the future transcreation the adaptation of creative work for different markets to deliver savings for global brands, by using a We will continue our strategic focus of developing our centralised implementation model that produces international creative service offer, including digital capabilities, delivering campaigns more efficiently, whilst enhancing quality.
Its measurable, cost-effective results to clients.
2011 output included the production and delivery of over 12,000 TV commercials around the world.
Hogarth achieved several significant new business wins in 2011.
The agency was appointed to handle international TV production and delivery for Ford, underlining Hogarths 78 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2011
