How were doing Letter to share owners qualitative Group objectives, including coordination and Given these short-term and long-term trends, your co-operation, talent management and succession planning.
Company believes it has the correct strategic priorities new At the time of writing, we have revenue and profit data for markets, new media, consumer insight and horizontality the first three months of 2012.
The Group has started the year and a focus on not only strategic planning, creative well, with like-for-like revenue and gross margin for the first execution and distribution, but also on both the application three months both up 4%.
Geographically, we continue to see of technology and analysis of data, to the benefit of our strong growth in Asia Pacific and Latin America and modestly clients and people.
better growth in the mature Western and Continental Europe Including associates, the Group currently employs over markets.
By sector, Advertising and Media Investment 158,000 full-time people up from over 146,000 the previous Management remains strong and Consumer Insight is showing year in over 2,500 offices in 107 countries.
It services 344 of an improvement in growth compared with the fourth quarter the Fortune Global 500 companies, all 30 of the Dow Jones of 2011.
These trends are in line with our budgets, which also 30, 63 of the Nasdaq 100, 33 of the Fortune e-50, and 730 indicate a broadly steady rate of growth throughout the year, national or multinational clients in three or more disciplines.
albeit with the usual conservatism in quarter four.
Operating More than 470 clients are served in four disciplines and these profits were above budget.
clients account for almost 57% of Group revenues.
This One of the clouds on the horizon may, however, be 2013. reflects the increasing opportunities for coordination and There will be no maxior mini-quadrennial events in that co-operation or horizontality between activities, both year.
It now seems more likely that President Obama will be nationally and internationally and at a client and country re-elected and will have to confront the intimidating US level.
The Group also works with almost 360 clients in six budget deficit, whilst dealing with a  or more countries.
House of Representatives and or Senate.
Legislative gridlock These statistics reflect the increasing opportunities for may continue at a time when kicking the can down the developing client relationships between activities nationally, road may no longer be viable.
Some hope that a re-elected internationally and by function.
We estimate that well over President becomes more concerned with his legacy.
35% of new assignments in the year were generated through the joint development of opportunities by two or more Group companies.
The Group continues to improve co-operation The longer term and coordination among its operating companies in order to add value to our clients businesses and our peoples careers, In the long term, the outlook for the communications an objective which has been specifically built into short-term services industry appears favourable.
Horizontality has been accelerated through Globalisation, overcapacity of production in most sectors the appointment of over 30 Global Client Leaders for our major and the shortage of human capital, the developments in clients, accounting for about one-third of total revenues of new technologies and media, the growth in importance $16 billion, and Country Managers in half a dozen test of internal communications, the need to influence retail markets.
The Group continues to lead the industry in distribution, brand emphasis on health and wellness, the coordinating investment geographically and functionally growth in government spending and the new focus on through parent company initiatives and winning Group pitches.
corporate sustainability issues such as climate change, underpin the need for our clients to continue to differentiate their products and services both tangibly and intangibly.
Moreover, the continuing growth of the BRICs, Next 11 and other faster-growing geographical markets will add significant opportunities in Asia Pacific, Latin America, Africa and the Middle East and Central and Eastern Europe along with the growth of new-BRICs such as Vietnam, Pakistan, Indonesia, Bangladesh, Colombia and Mexico and even Myanmar.
Advertising and marketing services expenditure as a proportion of GDP has started to resume its growth, although in these relatively low-inflationary times, where our clients have limited pricing power, we remain committed to working with our clients and their procurement departments to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of their spending and investments.
