How were doing Letter to share owners Our key priorities Our six specific objectives Our reason for being, the justification for WPPs existence, Here are six objectives which represent our key performance continues to be to add value to our clients businesses and indicators KPIs.
For an assessment of how we performed our peoples careers.
Our goal remains to be the worlds against them in 2011, read on.
most successful provider of communications services to multinational and local companies, not just the largest.
Continue to raise operating margins to the To that end, we have three key strategic priorities.
First, with the financial crisis of 2008 now hopefully Continue to increase flexibility in the behind us, and with margins now equal to historic 2 coststructure.
pro-forma highs, our immediate goal is to deliver 1a nnual EPS growth of 10-15% through organic Improve total share owner return and return revenue growth of up to 5%, margin improvement of 0.5 3 oncapital.
margin points or more, and productive use of our cash flow.
Compared with the last downturn, our people are stronger: Continue to enhance the value added they are better resourced, better motivated and incentivised 4 bytheparent company.
than when we exited the last recessions in the early 1990s and 2000s.
The Company is also more profitable, more Continue to place greater emphasis liquid and better structured.
In the most recent economic 5 onrevenuegrowth.
cycle, margins peaked at 15.0% pre-TNS and bottomed at 11.7%, as opposed to 10.5% and 5.6% in the early 1990s.
Improve still further the quality of our 6 creativeoutput.
Second, in the medium term, to build upon the successful base we have established whilst integrating our most recent acquisitions effectively.
2A t TNS the integration has gone well, particularly First, to continue to raise operating margins to the from a margin and operating profit point of view, and the levels of the best-performing competition.
In 2011, focus has now to be on revenue and gross margin growth, we achieved a margin of 14.3%, equal to our historic capturing greater market share an opportunity heightened 1pro-forma high.
We continue to believe a margin of by the recent Ipsos Synovate takeover.
18.3% is a tough, but realistic, objective given that our best-performing companies in each services sector have Our third priority, in the long term or over the next already demonstrated they can perform at a combined Group five to 10 years, is to: margin of 17%.
It may well be that gross margin margin Increase the combined geographic share of is a more accurate competitive comparison and we achieved 3 revenues from the faster-growing markets of Asia 15.5% in 2011, significantly up on 2010 and at the top levels Pacific, Latin America, Africa and the Middle East, and of industry performance.
Central and Eastern Europe, from over 29% to 35-40%.
Increase the share of revenues of new media from 30% 1 to 35-40%.
Headline operating margins vs peers % Increase the share of more measurable marketing services 20 such as Consumer Insight and direct, digital and interactive WPP IPG to be more than 50% of revenues, with a focus on digital 15 Omnicom and consumer insight, data analytics and the application Publicis 10 of new technology.
Havas 5 WPP including associates 0 WPP gross 2 margin margin 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 1 Based on headline operating profit as defined on page 183, excluding share of results of associates, and sourced from relevant public filings, adjusted to a comparable basis to WPP.
2 Gross margin margin is defined as headline PBIT as a proportion of gross margin.
