How we behave TheBoardofDirectors Conflicts of interest Internal control The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to WPP operates a system of internal control, which is consider and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations where a maintained and reviewed in accordance with the UK director has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, Corporate Governance Code and the guidance in the Turnbull with the interests of the Company Situational Conflicts.
Report as well as Rules 13a-14 and 15 under the Securities The Board has a formal system in place for directors to declare Exchange Act 1934.
In the opinion of the Board, the Company Situational Conflicts to be considered for authorisation by has complied throughout the year and up to the date of the those directors who have no interest in the matter being approval of this Annual Report and Accounts with the considered.
In deciding whether to authorise a Situational Turnbull Report and has also complied with the relevant Conflict, the non-conflicted directors must act honestly and provisions of the Securities Exchange Act 1934. in good faith with a view to the best interests of the Company The Board which receives advice from the Audit and they may impose limits or conditions when giving the Committee has overall responsibility for the system of internal authorisation, or subsequently, if they think this is appropriate.
control and risk management in the Group and has reviewed Any Situational Conflicts considered, and any the effectiveness of the system during the year and up to the authorisations given, are recorded in the relevant minutes.
In the context of the scope and complexity The prescribed procedures have been followed in deciding of this system, the Board can only give reasonable, not whether, and on what terms, to authorise Situational absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Conflicts and the Board believes that the systems it has in The system of controls is designed to manage, but may not place for reporting and considering Situational Conflicts eliminate, the risks of failure to achieve WPPs objectives.
For certain joint ventures and associates, WPP operates controls over the inclusion of their financial data but places reliance upon the systems of internal control operating within Share owner relations our partners infrastructure and the obligations upon partners boards relating to the effectiveness of their own systems.
The relationship with share owners, potential share owners The principal elements of internal control are and investment analysts is given the highest priority by described below.
The Company has a well-developed and continuous Control environment program to address the needs of share owners, investment institutions and analysts for a regular flow of information The quality and competence of our people, their integrity, about the Company, its strategy, performance and competitive ethics and behaviour are all vital to the maintenance of position.
Given the wide geographic distribution of the the Groups system of internal control.
Companys current and potential share owners, this program The Code of Business Conduct which is regularly reviewed includes regular visits to investors, particularly by the Group by the Audit Committee and the Board and was updated in chief executive, the Group finance director, the deputy Group 2011, sets out the principal obligations of all employees.
finance director and the head of investor relations, in the UK, Directors and senior executives throughout the Group are Continental Europe and the major financial centres in North required each year to sign this Code.
The WPP Policy Book America and also in Asia Pacific and Latin America.
The which was also updated in 2011 includes the Code of Company provides a preliminary announcement, an interim Business Conduct and human resource practices, as well as management statement at the end of the first and third guidance on practices in many operational areas.
Breaches or quarters which includes a trading update, an interim report alleged breaches of this Code of Conduct are investigated by at half year and a trading update and presentation at the the director of internal audit and the Group chief counsel.
The Group has an  helpline, Right The Company ensures that it has a proper dialogue to Speak, to enable our people to report issues that they feel with share owners and their representative bodies through unable to raise locally.
A number of issues have been raised executive and non-executive directors in relation to during 2011 through 42 calls to this helpline, all of which remuneration and corporate governance matters as and have been followed through and investigated where when appropriate.
The chairman provides feedback to appropriate and reported to the Audit Committee.
the Board on issues raised with him by share owners.
com, provides current and historical financial information, including trading statements, news releases and presentations and the Companys statement of its corporate governance practices.
