How were doing Consumer Insight Kantar researchers who can understand and predict human behaviour, storytellers who can inspire an audience, client Report by Eric Salama below service people who can join up the dots and operational Chairman and chief executive officer people who can improve data quality and drive efficiencies.
But the ferocity of competition, the importance of speed in decision-making and the explosion of data often referred to as Big Data has led many clients to zero base their insight plans and examine what data and insights they really need to drive their business and how they should be partnering with agencies.
Bob McDonald, CEO of Procter & Gamble, said recently in McKinsey Quarterly: Weve been working with all our data partners to help them understand that our need is for real-time data.
It is against this backdrop our own Insight Spring that we assess our business and plan our strategy and try to get the balance right between incremental and radical change.
Kantars mission: collaboration, creativity, innovation The end we continue to seek is actionable joined-up insights, told in creative ways that inspire our clients to act: and real-time quality data which can be used to make good business decisions fast.
Our means lie in innovating and in collaborating, within Kantar and WPP and with external partners.
Our goal is a mix of incremental and radical innovation in our offer and approach.
Against this backdrop, how did we do in 2011?
Maybe its easiest to see it through two of the lenses that are most critical to our clients: data and China.
The end we continue to seek is actionable joined-up insights, told in If 2011 reminded us of anything, it was the importance of creative ways that inspire our clients the Big Idea.
From the Arab Spring to the Royal Wedding to the legacy of Steve Jobs, we were surrounded by examples toact: and real-time quality data of big ideas that inspired people.
And, in our own way, our which can be used to make good industry is going through its own Spring as clients reassess business decisions fast the role of data and insights and explore ways in which they can be used to revolutionise business, drive revenue growth and optimise spending.
The need for big ideas that influence deep-seated change Not just Big Data: good data, better data, connected within our industry was eloquently expressed by Joe Tripodi, data, actionable data chief marketing and commercial officer of The Coca-Cola Company, when he told his audience of planners, researchers Much of our work and success is hidden and clientand clients at the ARF Conference that, If you dont like confidential.
But there are some areas where the combination change, you are going to like irrelevance even less.
of innovation, imagination, talent, collaboration and perseverance resulted in the winning of highly-visible longWhat hasnt changed.
What must change term contracts.
Nowhere was this more apparent than in the media measurement space, where Kantar Media won the The need for consumer understanding has increased, TV audience TAM contracts in UAE new, Turkey from and not just in fast-growing markets where market access Nielsen, Romania from Gfk and Switzerland from Gfk.
The need for actionable insights has not In addition, a joint Kantar Media and Kantar Worldpanel changed.
Nor has the importance of having talented people: team was at the heart of our winning Googles cross-media WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2011 61 How were doing Consumer Insight Above, left to right: David Geiger, CEO, Center Partners, Sharon Potter, CEO, KantarOperations, JosepMontserrat, CEO, Kantar Worldpanel, ThomasPuliyel, CEO president, IMRB, Janine Hawkins, CEO, Added Value, David Day, CEO, Lightspeed Research panel in the UK, an ambitious cross-platform world first.
And it is no longer an exception now to see datastreams Combined with the winning of a host of media measurement joined up so that clients can, for example, get the benefits contracts in Scandinavia e. g. magazines in Norway from of The Futures Companys Global Monitor segmentation Ipsos and radio in Sweden, the use of virtual meter in TNSs Digital Life, or Needscope segmentation from technology in pilots in the UK and Singapore, the roll-out TNS included in Millward Brown Link studies.
of our return-path-data capabilities in new markets such as Key to all of this is a culture of sharing and connecting India and China in addition to leadership in the US market and putting the clients interest first, and a focus on capturing which has resulted in a partnership with Nielsen and the high-quality survey data and developing behavioural data roll-out of Kantar Media Compete panels into the UK and sources.
The latter are extensive and growing.
France, we have had a tremendous year and are laying the We have launched mobile passive behavioural measurement ground for long-term success.
panels in seven markets with plans to roll out to a further 15 However, our ambition is not just to measure the new world this year: our KTags track seven billion digital display, mobile of multiple screens better than anyone else and deliver that data and video impressions every day: we process 20 million new fast: we want to connect the data to other data sources to posts and articles on a daily basis aggregating content from provide stories and the basis for action.
Our Kantar Retail over 20 million blogs and 40,000 news sites: we track productShopcom, Kantar Worldpanel and Kantar Media teams have level purchase data on 200 million consumers in the US and combined to provide clients with returns on investment ROI in an even deeper way through our consumer panels in most based on the relation between media consumption and purchase other important markets around the world including our in markets as diverse as the US, Spain, France, the UK, Brazil newly-launched panel in Indonesia.
and China not inferred links or survey-based hypotheses but In parallel, we are redefining survey research and direct you watched x, you bought y.
And those teams are innovating to deliver higher quality, cheaper, more relevant not happy with just providing the data for learning purposes.
They now profile digital consumer segments and work with Kantar Operations is working with TNS and Millward colleagues at GroupM and Wunderman to allow them to target Brown to roll out ISO 20252 as the basis for high-quality media at those segments through products such as MMatch.
In data collection while Lightspeed Researchs partnership with the space of a year we have gone from being able to understand TrueSample is raising standards in online data collection.
who is watching TV on a second-by-second basis, or monitoring TNS has developed an innovative approach to phonehow they surf the web, to being able to predict what purchases based data collection which reduces costs by 20% and they will make to help media and CRM agencies target people was the basis for the award of the multi-year Eurobarometer on the basis of behaviour.
62 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2011 How were doing Consumer Insight The InTouch team is developing highly interactive and and Kantar Health have been investing heavily in the past year more visual ways of conducting surveys which are designed in talented people and technologies to help those people dig to improve the consumer experience and be more in tune deep into human attitudes and behaviour.
Nor is it surprising with the world that our consumers inhabit.
that some of our best new recruits this year, people who are Our partnership with Lumi is being used extensively world-class experts in their own right people like Jannie to capture attitudes through mobile devices at the point Hofmeyr at TNS in the area of tracking, Susan Suponcic at which certain behaviours are displayed.
at Kantar Health in the area of market access and Bernardo Our partnership with Affectiva enables us to capture Geoghegan at The Futures Company in Latin America and interpret facial expressions through simple camera are natural storytellers who can inspire their audiences.
technology, a solution which is scalable to every part of But the world has discovered that its not just people the world and which is being used extensively by Millward who can tell stories, but data can too!
The world of data Brown to get a deeper insight into the way that consumers visualisation has blossomed and we are proud to have respond to advertising.
partnered with David McCandless, the recognised guru Our acquisition of GMI during the year has given the in the field.
With David we have established the global, enlarged Lightspeed access to panellists in 38 markets open-to-all Information is Beautiful Awards including new ones in Latin America and India with whom www.
com and begun to train we can engage for our surveys.
our people and to establish a roster of creative talent around Millward Brown has launched Fan Index to help the world.
Thankfully, examples are everywhere to see.
clients understand the value of Facebook fans to them Millward Brown with Link copy testing, Added Value and Ad Index Dash as a tool to measure online advertising with their tracking i3.0, Worldpanel grocery data and effectiveness with quick turnaround.
TNS with Digital Life, TRI M stakeholder have revamped Kantar Health has extended its National Health & their deliverables in highly-creative ways.
Wellness Survey into Brazil, allowing pharma and other health-oriented companies to understand in detail the Our world through the lens of China health status attitudes and outcomes in all key markets around the world.
We often talk about our capabilities globally but local capability continues to be as important as ever.
What do we Data plus creativity and storytelling look like to clients global, local, Chinese multinationals in the market that many of them are most focused on China?
Some of what is touched on above is about data that can From a capability point of view we look strong.
TNS, be actioned, often in real time with no human intervention.
Millward Brown, Added Value, Kantar Retail and Kantar But as the amount of data explodes so does the need to make Health have thriving businesses in the region: Kantar Media more sense of that data, to explore it holistically and find those is the provider of all audience measurement services through nuggets of insights which can give a client a competitive edge.
our joint venture with CCTV while Kantar Worldpanel has In turn, our ambition of inspiring clients to act requires an invested heavily to revamp its purchase panel, which is now ability to tell compelling stories about those insights.
the sole provider locally through a state-of-the-art 40,000 electronic panel.
And in 2012, Kantar Worldpanel has launched a media ROI solution to help clients understand the As the amount of data explodes impact that different kinds of media consumption have on purchase patterns, and Kantar Media completed the purchase sodoes the need to make more of CIC, Chinas leading online monitoring agency.
Chinese senseof that data, to explore it clients, no less than any others, have a growing need for the holistically and find those nuggets real-time monitoring of consumer brand conversations on their equivalent social media networks such as Renren and Sina ofinsights which can give a client Weibo, and CIC operates a team of over 60 consultants doing acompetitive edge precisely that.
Individually these offers are strong, together they are unmatched.
We are as proud of our thought leadership as we are of our Some of this focus on storytelling is reflected on a renewed capabilities.
Millward Browns Chinese BrandZ study has emphasis that we are putting on qualitative work, work become required reading for anyone interested in which which gets to the deepest human emotions in a way that no brands are growing in the market and why Kantar Retail quantitative work can.
The Futures Company and Added set up its iQ service in China to study retailers continuously Value have historically had qualitative work at the very heart and released its inaugural PoweRanking for China retail of their approaches.
But the likes of Millward Brown, TNS industry last month.
Western-controlled manufacturers P&G WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2011 63 How were doing Consumer Insight Above, left to right: Will Galgey, CEO, TheFutures Company, Wayne Levings, CEO, Kantar Retail, Lynnette Cooke, CEO, Kantar Health, Masanori Miyajima, CEO, Kantar Japan, Eileen Campbell, CEO, Millward Brown, Jean-Michel Portier, CEO, Kantar Media and Unilever, and retailers Walmart and RT-Mart, have ARF for client work on Dominos, Kotex, Coca-Cola, Chase, all performed well in key indicators but interestingly the Cadbury and Cracker Barrel: IMRB won Agency of the Year survey also reports that Chineseand Asian-based retailers in India for the fifth time: Kantar Worldpanel and Added accounted for five of the top-10 ranked retailers, Value were in The Sunday Times UK Top 100 employers, demonstrating the progress that local Asian companies are while numerous people including Kantar Health CEO making in the industry.
Added Value and Millward Brown Lynnette Cooke and Lightspeed GMIs Jon Puleston were combined with WPPs global retail practice, The Store, to awarded prestigious personal industry awards.
launch the Chinese New Year Report with an in-depth And recognition can come from within too.
We fulfilled analysis of Chinese consumers: while TNS, The Futures our fundraising commitment to UNICEF and to the Company and Kantar Health had a focus on China in their programs we sponsor in Bolivia, Malawi and Bangladesh global Digital Life, Monitor and NHWS services respectively.
two years early as we raised money from across Kantar in And finally, talent the biggest issue facing the industry a variety of imaginative and inspiring ways.
The vast majority of our staff is local but the industry is not as mature as it is in other parts of the world.
We are committed to an extensive training... we are increasingly comfortable program, designed to help people develop the skills needed stretching ourselves collaboratively to service global clients to the standards they are used to.
and imaginatively to deliver in And we are ambitious in taking an industry leadership position in growing the available pool of talent.
In 2011, we waysthat are revolutionising the set up a Kantar-wide graduate program aimed at recruiting research industry and training hundreds of people a year.
Our Class of 2011 launched the scheme with the hire of 60 graduates working across our businesses in China and our Class of 2012 follows this year.
The graduates participate in the two-year The effort that our people put into fundraising captures development program which is supported by our customers the spirit of what it should mean to work at Kantar.
is even truer when tragedy strikes.
We are so proud of Kantar We can never do enough in China, but the range of our Japan, where in the aftermath of the tsunami, through terrific capabilities is unmatched.
And we are fiercely ambitious to commitment and collaboration, and despite the challenges continue to innovate and develop.
to fieldwork and delivery, Masanori Miyajima and our team in Japan maintained business as usual and kept our Recognising Big Ideas clients serviced.
As I look back on 2011 there isnt a single pitch or piece of As we said earlier, our industry is not one with Cannes-like work that stands out, or a particular day or meeting, but more visibility.
But there are awards and our people and companies a feeling that we are increasingly comfortable stretching have been well represented again this year.
Millward Brown ourselves collaboratively and imaginatively to deliver in ways was part of the winning team on six Ogilvy Awards at the that are revolutionising the research industry.
