How were doing Media Investment Management tenthavenue force under the banner Kinetic Cares, providing Kinetic people with an opportunity to come together as a team and Report by Rupert Day below make a positive impact on society.
Through volunteer work Chief executive officer and by leveraging the power and strength of our relationships, Kinetic Cares encourages proactive social responsibility while delivering high-quality service to the communities in which we work and live.
Projects undertaken so far have included local public park refurbishment, fundraising races, local school refurbishment and charity collections.
The CSR leaders at Kinetic and tenthavenue are expanding this initiative internationally across other tenthavenue companies in 2012.
Spafax Spafax, our content distribution and custom publishing network, had a great year for core growth: consolidating the Lufthansa Swiss in-flight entertainment account, as well as developments in other audience groups and networks in tenthavenue has much to be proud about after our first year.
colleges, retail, healthcare and hotels.
At the end of 2011, Not only were we successful financially, but we developed Spafax Networks was launched in the US to build new and deepened both client and partner relationships in all parts audiences, focusing on the growth of digital screens in of our organization, as the summaries opposite record.
various environments such as malls and bars.
tenthavenue is focusing on how content and audiences come together at the innumerable consumer touch points outside the home.
By nurturing the development of enabling technologies Kinetic such as Near Field Communications NFC and understanding how those enabled touch points inter-relate with each other, we Out-of-home expert Kinetic further cemented its position as can deliver engaging content which consumers want to interact the worlds foremost agency at reaching people on the move.
Crucially, it is the ability to quantify those The new management has significantly strengthened its global interactions that enables the distribution of further related position, particularly in Asia Pacific, and focused on developing content to reinforce the consumer value either through new, professional service-based revenue streams, which has mobile, online or more traditional channels.
resulted in strengthened direct relationships with clients like Asda, Vodafone, Accenture and SAP.
Kinetic partnered with Mindshare to win a Gold Lion at Cannes this year.
This is tenthavenue is focusing on how a major milestone for the out-of-home industry.
content and audiences come together at the innumerable consumer touch Joule points outside the home Mobile marketing agency Joule increased its footprint by launching in Australia as well as the recent opening of offices in tenthavenue is committed to deliver, and be remunerated Paris and China.
Joule has consolidated its position as a major on, achieving specific and pre-identified client marketing and force in the mobile world with the winning of the Paramount business objectives in parallel with continuous improvement US business, among others.
on our existing business models.
Our continued success will be driven from focusing on the delivery of engaging content to appropriately targeted audiences outside of the home: Quisma to maximize the value of our clients budgets: open up the sector to more response-driven clients: and set us apart Performance marketing agency Quisma completed its European from the competition.
roll-out in the Netherlands, Italy, Spain, France and the UK and As a new company, tenthavenue was able to put corporate now has one of the largest European footprints of any performance social responsibility high on the agenda.
A strong example of marketing company.
Quisma is aligned with GroupM clients, this is Kinetic in the US, who created a local community task but also has a significant independent client base.
