How were doing Advertising agency networks Ogilvy & Mather respect, client disappointment with execution which does not live up to the promise of a plan is rife throughout the Report by Miles Young below industry.
And, secondly, you need Chief executive officer laser focus.
As my colleague Ben Richards who, with his team, has developed our strategic approach in this area puts it, while you desperately need 360 capabilities, what then matters is how you deploy them: clients want the 10 which really matter.
Goodbye to all those bicycle wheel charts, which showed a zillion points of contact radiating from the core idea, which would inevitably be a television commercial.
This 10 is our sweet spot, and it happens in one room, with one team and one operating system.
The other highlight of our year was Cannes at so many levels.
At one level, it saw our best performance ever in terms of awards, emerging as the No.
2 network a tribute to the leadership of our worldwide creative director Tham Khai Meng and his teams.
At another, it saw us celebrate the 100th birthday of David Ogilvy.
The event was made for us by the attendance of Mme Herta Ogilvy.
We spread a two-kilometer red carpet along the length of the Croisette, parts of which Khai has had cut up and made into official David Ogilvy insoles to remind us to continue walking like a lion!
TED speaker and education and creativity expert Sir Ken Robinson delivered the first lecture of our Ogilvy & Inspire series and reminded us that pervasive creativity is about In 2011, we welcomed two new global clients to our involving everybody and the whole operation and that network, SC Johnson and Royal Philips Electronics.
great creative work involves interactions across and within We could not be more proud to have been entrusted an organization and among different areas of expertise.
This was another reminder of the need for deep integration.
In the discussion which led up to our appointments, a common and central theme was integration.
Perhaps not surprisingly, since our research shows it to be the No.
1 Last year, we performed ahead issue concerning CMOs today.
Both clients attributed ofthe market in all our regions and our appointment, in part, to our ability to demonstrate allour disciplines deep integration.
In the last few years our focus for investment has been Integration 3.0, and now even beyond that.
One of the problems of our industry, though, is that the earlier Last year, we performed ahead of the market in all our integrated life forms resolutely refuse to die.
regions and all our disciplines.
Brian Fetherstonhaugh direct There is Integration 1.0: graphic integration, mainly marketing, Chris Graves public relations, Steve Harding what we call matching luggage, where things look and activation and Matt Giegerich healthcare detail their feel essentially similar.
Slightly more evolved is Integration performances on the following pages.
We have not called out 2.0, integration by funnel, where there is a systematic Ogilvy & Mather Advertising led by Paul Heath separately, though often formulaic attribution of different roles for as much of its achievements I have touched on above.
communications to a different stage of a funnel.
This still Geographically, the US and the UK both grew very represents best practice for many.
Integration 3.0 is where the well for us, while the developing markets in Asia and Latin process becomes much more organic: where the real journeys America continued to outperform our expectations.
Last of shoppers and customers are the basis for how to integrate.
year, we took a majority stake of our outstanding business 4.0 takes us into territory we are starting to explore, where in South Africa, cementing the acceleration of our Africa integration is dynamic, involving chain reactions to every strategy.
In China, we acquired Nanjing Yindu, one of element of the business, right across the marketing and Chinas largest independent advertising agencies, sales mix: all managed live, in-market and driven digitally.
consolidating our strong position in the Yangtze River Delta Getting there has quite a price of entry.
Who Digital in Vietnam and Promo Interactive in to possess the ability to execute to best-in-class levels.
In this Russia are both significant acquisitions in the digital area.
34 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2011 How were doing Advertising agency networks Recognizing the growing heft of Chinese business abroad OgilvyOne Worldwide we established the first US-based China Practice of any international network, to assist Chinese companies entering Report by Brian Fetherstonhaugh below the US.
DAVID in Brazil and Argentina was launched, with Chairman and chief executive officer the aim of capturing the fantastic creative talent there and making it accessible, jointly, abroad.
Through 2011, OgilvyOne continued to grow and develop Once again our agencies around the world received as a network, and we have tremendous opportunities ahead.
multiple recognitions, and it is difficult to single out all We grew in every region, and set a new all-time high of them here, but I want to recognize the success of Asia for worldwide revenues.
In 2010, our growth was led by in winning both Campaign Asia Pacifics Regional exceptionally strong performance in the US.
In 2011, it was the Network of the Year and Creative Agency of the Year, and other regions that carried the load.
Europe had its best year for of Ogilvy & Mather Latina in being Network of the Year revenue growth since 2005.
And Asia in three different awards San Sebastin Festival, Antigua achieved a hard-fought, double-digit revenue increase.
Festival and the Oro fide Iberoamrica.
These achievements OgilvyOnes strong fast-growing market footprint are remarkable.
continues to drive outstanding growth.
Our combined revenue growth in Brazil, China, India and Russia was well over 20%.
Our culture provides an environment Our digital performance marketing network Neo finished the year strongly to achieve double-digit growth that allows movements to flourish when yet again.
a few of our people gettogether with an Finally, we come to the UK, whose 2011 was nothing altruistic goal in mind short of spectacular: revenue and profit growth well above 25%, big new business wins, and a sharp increase in creative awards.
To cap it off, in December, OgilvyOne UK was Another source of pride is the networks sense of selected by Campaign magazine as the Direct Marketing responsibility to the broader communities in which we live Agency of the Year for the second year in a row.
I am thinking in particular of the Great Tohoku Earthquake in Japan.
The response of our staff in Tokyo through repeated visits to the disaster zone and the generous support of our offices around the world, have made a real difference to shattered communities.
This reaction shows the Ogilvy family at its very best, epitomizing the humanistic values espoused by our founder, who laid down a culture of volunteerism that continues to thrive today in the countless pro bono campaigns undertaken by our offices.
From long-standing global partnerships such as the WWF to local grassroots charities, our culture provides an environment that allows movements to flourish when a few of our people get together with an altruistic goal in mind.
Our global sustainability practice, OgilvyEarth, launched three years ago, is continuing to help clients such as Coca-Cola, Johnson & Johnson and Unilever develop programs that move beyond traditional green marketing.
Their latest research study Mainstream Green uncovers the huge gap between what consumers say they intend to do and what they actually do around sustainable living, providing new insights for how Creativity remains a core strength of OgilvyOne companies can create the link to behavioral change.
Worldwide, and our performance at industry award shows In 2011, I was lucky to visit our offices in over 15 is important in attracting clients and top talent.
In each of them I found the same people power, Ogilvy won the Direct Marketing category at Cannes, led by the same well-springs of inspiration, the same sense of family, integrated efforts from Latin America.
We had another good or, as we would put it, of red-ness even as the shades of year at the Direct Marketing Association Echos, capturing red vary, as we want them to, from culture to culture.
To all 14 awards including two Gold and two special awards, our staff, I would like to express the heartfelt thanks of the including the prestigious Henry Hoke award.
And we management team for driving a red letter year.
got back onto the podium at the Caples with 12 medals.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2011 35 How were doing Advertising agency networks Our reputation continues to climb we were digital or direct Ogilvy Public Relations Agency of the Year in Argentina, China, Germany, India, the UK and the US.
RECMA, in its survey of the top 150 global Report by Christopher Graves below digital agencies, ranked us at No.
Forrester, the leading US Global chief executive officer digital analyst, ranked us in their top leadership tier in their report on Mobile Marketing Strategy and Execution.
Our promise to our clients is a simple one: we help them win more customers and make them more valuable.
2011 was the year when we crystallized our ability to unlock the full value of customers.
Every OgilvyOne employee worldwide now has access to the OneStore, a comprehensive toolkit for discovering and unlocking the value of customers for our clients.
This approach has been instrumental in many of our client engagements and new business wins in 2011.
We conducted a pioneering research study to understand the impact of the mobile device on the retail environment to help marketing leaders capitalize on the potential of mobile marketing.
The resulting white paper, From Armed to Charmed: Preparing for and profiting from the new mobileenabled point of sale, developed with OgilvyAction, has been viewed by over 50,000 marketing leaders around the world.
In marking the 100th anniversary of our founders birth, Ogilvy Public Relations tried to live up to one of David Ogilvys pronouncements: Change is our lifeblood.
For 2012 and beyond, we will Ogilvy PR leadership took a view that, in a media landscape fragmenting and morphing at blinding speeds, focuson two marketing battlefields... the times called for revolution.
So we accelerated our e-commerce... and social customer transformation of the agency with a comprehensive, relationship management worldwide, educational strategy reminiscent of Six Sigma.
The industry arbiter, The Holmes Report, rewarded Ogilvy PR for these substantial efforts by naming us Digital Social As we look to the future, we will focus our attention on Agency of the Year.
Our clients rewarded us with their trust emerging markets and fast-growing segments of the digital that we understood the social phenomenon as a business landscape.
Acquisition plays a vital role in bringing critical and branding strategy and not just a tactic or gimmick.
geographic coverage, capabilities and talent to the OgilvyOne Revenues for this nascent business grew more than 43% network.
In 2011, we welcomed these companies into the fold: making it a serious contributor to our overall business.
Who Digital Vietnam And the transformation went beyond digital and social.
Promo Interactive Russia A deep integration with the other Ogilvy disciplines drives DT Digital Australia a key differentiator of Ogilvy PR.
The company embraced For 2012 and beyond, we will focus on two marketing the new Ogilvy & Mather group operating system called battlefields that will be increasingly important to our clients.
Rather than a sequential or hierarchical process, The first of these is e-commerce, which is growing globally Fusion draws Ogilvy PR into the integrated strategy from at over 15%.
OgilvyOne has a strong existing base in the outset.
Just as we did with Social@Ogilvy, we rolled out e-commerce that leverages our strengths in digital direct Fusion training around the world.
marketing, analytics and brand experiences.
We have In 2011, Ogilvy PR further embraced the transformation ambitious goals to expand beyond this e-commerce core.
IBMs Jon Iwata identified as every company is a publisher.
The second battlefield is social customer relationship But in the rush to become content creators, we recognized management sCRM, an emerging field that combines our need to help clients create relevant and high-quality the power of traditional CRM with the explosive content not just more noise.
To this end we welcomed growth of social media.
aboard four-time Emmy and two-time Peabody Award winner Betsy Stark whose three-decade career spans The Wall Street Journal and ABC News.
She joined an already strong content team that has crafted compelling content ranging from videos to infographics and conversation starters in client online communities.
36 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2011 How were doing Advertising agency networks While the Asia Pacific region has served as the most OgilvyAction powerful growth engine for many years, in 2011, the US and Europe fired up double-digit growth rates surpassing Asia.
Report by Steve Harding below A healthy combination of new business wins and Global chief executive officer expanded work with existing clients added up to a record year for Ogilvy PR.
OgilvyAction had a very successful year in 2011, the third consecutive year of positive growth and achievement.
In planning for 2011, OgilvyActions leadership team While fiercely proud of our financial forecast the continued growth of activation as a strategic part of the marketing mix.
This certainly was the case performance, just as importantly, Ogilvy and OgilvyAction was well positioned to take prominence PR people worked hard to make the with some impressive new business wins, including a new world a slightly better place relationship with SC Johnson, which was won in partnership with Ogilvy & Mather.
We were honored to win highly-competitive global pitches for Diageo, the BP London 2012 Olympic Games sponsorship, BMC Software and the Mexico Tourism Board, among dozens of others.
As in prior years, broadening and deepening relationships with existing clients drove a significant amount of growth.
Our multi-region client roster grew by 40%.
This organic growth is a reflection of our ability to maintain long-term client partnerships 95% of our top 20 clients stayed with us in 2011.
While fiercely proud of our financial performance, just as importantly, Ogilvy PR people worked hard to make the world a slightly better place.
We provided over $1 million in pro bono services, more than triple our 2010 commitment.
Pro bono clients included: Opportunity Nation, a historymaking, non-partisan coalition of more than 100 NGOs and influential institutions such as Brookings and Heritage dedicated to restoring economic opportunity in America: Caring for Cambodia, a foundation that has built and runs 15 schools in a country that in the past executed all its teachers: Yellowstone Park Foundation: and the World Social Marketing Conference.
In a great show of initiative, The stellar year-on-year growth was achieved by some our young Millennial employees created OgilvyConnect, exceptional regional performances in North America and a pro bono consultancy that provided communications Asia Pacific.
The US joint venture with the Malone Group training to 21 local non-profit groups.
All of this comes on in 2010 made OgilvyAction a top five agency and was top of the substantial charitable efforts at every office, from instrumental in the continued positive development of donating truckloads of food at holiday time, to supporting our North American operation in 2011. communities in dire need.
OgilvyActions existing client base also saw continuation Finally, Ogilvy PR garnered more than 125 awards in 2011, of sustainable growth and strengthened our platform to including Cannes PR Lions and winning the top WPP WPPED increase penetration in Ogilvy & Mathers global client Cream creative award for the fourth time in five years.
In line with this strategy, Coca-Cola, Kimberly-Clark, A great year.
We know we can do better in 2012.
Unilever and Siemens showed significant growth in 2011.
Our growth strategies were the base of 2011 plans and proved to be fundamental in achieving revenue and profit growth.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2011 37 How were doing Advertising agency networks To help elevate the quality of our creative product and to OgilvyActions ambition is to be the worlds best brand enhance our creative reputation, we launched a new global activation network.
We have made significant strides in philosophy: Big Ideas in Action.
This focus has resulted in achieving that goal and we believe that clients continued OgilvyAction increasing its success in award shows, 150% demand for strategically-led activation solutions with Big on 2010, making 2011 the most successful year for creative Ideas at their centre, will ensure that OgilvyAction is well awards in the networks history.
positioned to continue its growth in 2012 and beyond.
We also embedded a business development framework to deliver Big Ideas in Action.
Named Winning Ways, this is a dynamic and globally-consistent model and approach Ogilvy CommonHealth Worldwide full report on page 73 to new client acquisition and organic development that has now been adopted across all four regions.
Report by Matt Giegerich We have strengthened our talent pool with investment Chairman and chief executive officer in strategic and creative expertise across our key hubs.
There was also a strong focus on learning and After just one full year of operation, the healthcare development: the extension of best practice via our marketing network formed in 2010 by the merger of Ogilvy global community has spurred excellence in the delivery Healthworld and CommonHealth has proven it can deliver of our core Shopper, Trade, Experiential and Promotional a more integrated, more digital and more global offering activation disciplines.
than either could as separate entities, with an impressive Most importantly, we launched the OgilvyAction Digital 72 significant new agency-of-record assignments in 2011, Activation 6-Point Plan.
This will ensure that digital focus as well as numerous additional project-based assignments.
is ubiquitous throughout our network.
The leadership team With 65 offices across 35 countries, individual business firmly believes that this initiative will be the most important units within the Ogilvy CommonHealth Worldwide network move in defining our future success and achieving our continue to provide specialized focus on key healthcare global ambitions.
However, a new, unified global 2011, whilst successful in its own right, is only one part reporting structure is now in place, intended to help ensure of our journey.
As we move into 2012 with its continued the network can deploy the right team and resources for every economic uncertainty, we will continue to be ambitious client, regardless of geography or scale.
This global structure and driven but at the same time pragmatic.
Our 2012 plan also creates operational efficiencies and reduces duplication therefore, provides no fundamental change to our overriding of effort and investment.
We have positive momentum, so a balance of continuing on our existing path together with some increased focus in specific areas, is the basis of our plan for the year ahead.
2012 will see us focus on five key areas: Drive growth via our Winning Ways business 1 approach, building revenue in both Ogilvy & Mathers global clients and greenfields opportunities.
Continue to build our creative reputation, targeting 2 significant creative and effectiveness awards.
Drive digital ubiquity in every region, particularly 3 in the mobile and social shopper areas.
Achieve all the above whilst improving 4 our margin.
Via our talent community, ensure that our existing 5 talent is developed, retained and motivated and where we have talent gaps, strengthen our capabilities by recruiting the best.
