10 Introduction Our Strategy Overview Our primary objective is to create long term shareholder value.
What we do Plan Design Enable From cost and risk planning, feasibility Atkins designs intellectual capital such Our clients entrust us with the studies and logistics to impact as management systems and business management of projects, people and assessments and stakeholder processes.
We also design physical issues ensuring that deadlines are engagement activity, we plan every structures such as office towers, schools, met, costs are controlled and success aspect of our clients projects.
Vision Worlds Best Infrastructure Consultancy We will target chosen We will seek to consistently Buildings, transport, utilities, Our primary business model geographies, and develop anticipate and address our government and industry and will be selling expertise.
their social and environmental context.
Pages 16 to 43 Business Review Pages 44 to 47 Human Resources Review Pages 48 to 56 Corporate Responsibility Review WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Introduction Introduction 11 For more information about what we do visit: www.
com projects Strategy A multi-skill, multi-local strategy of Identity Excellence To operate as an engineering and design consultancy in a number of local markets, addressing priority sectors with high-performing businesses.
Priorities High-performing businesses To have a portfolio of high-performing businesses E ach business to continue to improve the quality of its skills in its local markets, developing capabilities and driving efficiencies forging deep client relationships.
Addressing attractive sectors T o have the breadth and depth of skills to address increasingly complex projects, increasing revenue in priority sectors M aintaining or acquiring strong technical skills in robust markets and focusing resources from across the whole Group on exploiting opportunities in sectors such as mass transit, nuclear and renewables.
Market opportunities To have several home markets where the business is a market leader Organic investment and acquisitions to strengthen our market position in our existing geographic markets and elsewhere.
Imperatives Technical excellence W e constantly strive for excellence and harness the range of skills that the Group possesses to answer our clients questions better.
Carbon critical design We are aiming to embed low carbon design in all our work as a fundamental design parameter.
Health, safety, diversity We set our own challenging targets for health and safety.
Innovation is important for success.
Our ability to look at new ideas requires us to approach issues from several points of view, so diversity among our teams is essential.
Flexing resources Having a flexible resource base means having the ability to react quickly when market conditions change and to move work to where the Groups resources can most effectively deliver it.
Business improvement Improving every aspect of our operations remains an ongoing imperative.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Introduction 12 Introduction Our Strategy continued We have demonstrated our ability to succeed in pursuing strategic growth opportunities in a number of our markets.
Our business We have a number of ongoing Group wide Our market The Groups primary objective is to create initiatives aimed at improving efficiencies We estimate that the market for our skills long term shareholder value, measured by and delivering superior services to our clients.
in selected geographies is in excess of growth in normalised earnings per share.
The coordination and implementation of 75bn and, such is the fragmented nature We achieve this by operating successfully these initiatives is being led by a dedicated of the competition, we command a share in appropriate markets with the resources Group business improvements director, of less than 2%.
Market shares vary available to us.
with each initiative sponsored by a member enormously by individual sector from of the Strategy Group.
more than 40% in rail signalling works The overall strategic direction of the Group structures down to very small market is determined and monitored by the Board, Competitive environment shares in niche activities.
providing the framework within which When clients are undertaking capital the chief executive provides leadership, projects they need assistance with By region we estimate our market share as discharges management responsibility planning, designing and enabling activities around 10% in the UK and, demonstrating and establishes the philosophy and culture from policy, strategic choices, feasibility, the potential for growth, less than 1% in that run throughout the organisation.
concept and detailed design, through North America, Europe, Middle East and to procurement and implementation.
Operational management is devolved through our regional management At each stage, professional services are Strategic progress structure, with the senior executive team sought from design and engineering We have made progress with each of ensuring alignment between the operating consultancies with the issues of quality our strategic priorities in 2010 11 with activities and Group strategy.
The senior and price to the forefront.
particular success in some areas.
executive team comprises the Strategy Group and the Group Executive.
Large or particularly complex projects The acquisition of The PBSJ Corporation can only be undertaken by organisations PBSJ forms part of our plan to grow our The Strategy Group is responsible for of scale, where skills must be applied in business through our multi-skill, multi-local identifying and evaluating strategic combination to deliver the project.
strategy and it is the most significant opportunities for the Group.
This includes strategic development within the Group expansion into new markets and sectors, Due to the breadth of activities which over the last year.
the Group undertakes, competitors are Members of the Strategy Group include generally sector and service specific.
High-performing businesses the Group finance director, the Group HR Each of our businesses has continued to director, managing directors of the Groups Each region of the world is characterised by improve the quality of its products and operating segments and other selected a small number of large players, often with services by enhancing its skill sets.
multinational reach, followed quite quickly by smaller companies with very specific Ongoing recruitment and identification The Group Executive includes members niche skills.
of potential bolt-on acquisitions continues.
of the Strategy Group as well as senior In Scandinavia, the acquisition of Gimsing directors within the regions.
It is Typically, competitors at the local level & Madsen A S, an independent specialist responsible for exploiting Group wide are divisions of large companies or smaller consultancy in bridge and structural design, opportunities and promoting collaboration privately owned specialists.
We also between business units.
This role is acquired the Technical Services Scotland particularly vital to achieving success in Barriers to entry vary across the sectors consultancy and technical support team the areas of mass transit and energy due in which we operate from very high in from RWE npowers Bellshill Technical to the diverse nature of these projects.
areas such as nuclear and rail signalling, Services group.
where specific domain knowledge and Business heads implement our business certification is required, to much lower Recruitment and skill acquisitions such as level strategy of Identity Excellence, barriers in more generalist areas of these will continue at a business level to ensuring we maintain a deep understanding civil infrastructure design and project develop the Groups capabilities.
of the skills demanded and offered management.
Identity and delivering these to a degree of quality which keeps us competitive Excellence.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Introduction Introduction 13 Improving every aspect of our operations Market opportunities Asia Pacific remains an ongoing imperative.
The Group Our priority is to have several home We intend to add disciplines to our has assigned a director to the Business markets where the business is a market Hong Kong business to broaden our Improvement Programme to drive forward leader.
We will continue to look at both activity beyond our current rail activities the implementation of the initiatives organic investment and acquisitions to and to offer the opportunity for growth.
We are monitoring progress and strengthen our market position in our As previously articulated, China remains continue to devote resources to execute existing geographic markets and elsewhere.
a region that has longer term opportunity this programme.
and our presence in this market provides UK us with future options.
We constantly aim to become more Last year, we identified correctly that the efficient in everything we do to deliver extensive UK public debt would create Europe cost effective solutions for our clients.
uncertainty in the market over the next Our focus remains on Scandinavia, a We continue to challenge the businesses few years.
We acknowledge that material developed market where we can add value to enhance efficiency.
growth in this market will be difficult to by broadening our existing business.
achieve in the near term so we will target Addressing attractive sectors organic growth where possible with We will continue to consolidate our In order to have the breadth and depth short term shrinkage possible in certain position in Denmark, Norway and Sweden.
of skills to address increasingly complex markets and supplement this with Bolt-on acquisitions will remain possible.
projects, we need to ensure we have appropriate skill acquisitions.
Other areas of Europe will not be prioritised strong technical skills in robust markets.
at present but remain under review.
North America Market entry may be considered on an We are focusing resources from across the One of the Groups objectives has been to opportunistic basis if appropriate means whole Group on exploiting opportunities achieve a multidisciplinary position in this are available and the balance of risk and in sectors such as mass transit, nuclear large market.
This objective was achieved return is attractive.
with the identification and execution of the PBSJ transaction.
Other regions We have made a number of strategic hires Other areas of the world have not been in these areas to strengthen our capability The number one priority for this region progressed as we focused our activities and translate this into bid prioritisation is to deliver value from this acquisition.
on our North American market expansion and project wins.
and the PBSJ acquisition, but will remain We will further integrate the business into under review.
Energy the Group and develop the capabilities Our focus on the energy sector has been of PBSJ, now renamed Atkins, by creating reinforced by the new Energy reporting greater efficiency in the existing business segment.
and through targeted skill additions.
Our nuclear capability has benefited Middle East from senior recruitment.
In addition, the Our plan remains unchanged to build Nuclear Atkins Assystem Alliance n. triple.
a organically on expanding market sectors provides us with a platform for addressing into existing and new geographic areas.
the nuclear market outside the UK, France The Middle East has a proven management and North America.
team with strength in depth and a demonstrable capability to grow quickly.
The team looking at the renewables Accelerated growth organically into new market has recently been strengthened.
and related areas will be achieved via We need to continue to assess the market investment in recruitment and the transfer for potential opportunities and build of expertise.
appropriate relationships to take advantage of projects in the future.
Pages 18 to 37 Segmental performance WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Introduction 14 Introduction Our Strategy continued We will continue to deliver strategic growth through geographic and sector diversification supported by a strong balance sheet.
Segment What we said What we did Markets Growth prospects UK We will continue to We have restructured We are the market leader Our well diversified invest in management our operations in in UK engineering portfolio in the UK and to deepen our building design, water consultancy with around provides some resilience.
10% of an estimated We have a stable 1 8bn market.
We will continue to We have engaged with platform to navigate the position parts of the clients to respond to their We also rank first in the short term, and exploit Group for growth, needs to ensure better roads, rail and defence opportunities when 1 whilst in other areas value services.
undertaking controlled After a period of reduction or exit of uncertainty, there is now businesses, or structuring greater clarity in some ourselves appropriately of our markets.
for any downturns Pages 18 to 21 Segmental performance in activity.
North America In the USA, Our oil and gas business The domestic market for We have opportunities Faithful Gould and our gains greater prominence the top 500 design firms for margin improvement oil and gas businesses as part of the new is approximately $60bn.
as we further integrate provide the organic Energy segment.
We are ranked 29th our North American growth focus.
overall, 12th in transport acquisition into the The acquisition of PBSJ and 2nd in the south Group.
Skill additions remain brings new skills and 2 east.
capabilities to the Group We will have the and our existing Infrastructure spending opportunity to expand Faithful Gould business has to be balanced with the business by in North America.
adding skills into new geographies within The new Highways Bill is the US.
now not expected until Pages 22 to 25 Segmental performance 2012 at the earliest.
Middle East We will continue to add We have successfully Liquidity and confidence Notwithstanding recent niche skills and prepare repositioned our have begun to return to political turmoil, we for the economic upturn.
operations to take the region.
expect the Middle East advantage of the shift to see significant We have been in the to public sector infrastructure investment region for more than infrastructure in many in the coming years.
30 years and intend to regions outside Dubai.
continue to trade We were one of the first successfully for many engineering consultants years to come.
to establish a trading presence in the Kingdom Pages 26 to 29 Segmental performance of Saudi Arabia.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Introduction Introduction 15 Segment What we said What we did Markets Growth prospects Asia Pacific We will continue to Steadily improving quality China is widely We will continue to focus invest in China to take and returns in recent recognised as an on improving margins advantage of years provide optimism economic superpower through our quality of opportunities as the that the region has of the future.
market opens up, modest growth potential Our current addressable Our current business in recognising that it could for us.
market is restricted the Asia Pacific region be several years before due to design institutes positions us for growth material growth is creating high barriers over the longer term.
to public sector In Hong Kong we will infrastructure projects.
broaden our spread Elsewhere, Hong Kong of activity beyond a provides ongoing principally , especially Pages 30 to 33 biased platform.
Segmental performance in the buoyant rail sector.
Europe We will continue to We acquired Gimsing Our Scandinavian Modest growth is develop our local & Madsen A S, an business has largely held possible from a low base businesses, focusing independent specialist up against the recession, and we will continue particularly on consultancy in bridge as a result of focused to focus on margins, opportunities in and structural design.
leveraging our leadership Scandinavia which build position in the We expanded into the We expect to see on our rail expertise.
Norwegian rail market, significant growth in the leveraging our leadership Swedish and Norwegian position in Denmark.
We have maintained our presence in Ireland and Portugal despite poor Pages 30 to 33 Segmental performance economic conditions.
Energy Areas such as energy We acquired Technical The world is considering We see Energy as a demand investment and Services Scotland, adding ways to address well material growth area for collaboration across supplementary skills to publicised energy the Group as the world businesses.
We will utilise our existing UK energy security issues.
grapples with balancing Group resources to business.
energy requirements We estimate our address these areas.
We have established the addressable market as We have a significant Atkins Training Academy, around 1bn given focus on the energy focused on mobilising our current skills and sector reinforced by the technical staff from other geographies.
new Energy reporting engineering disciplines segment.
We have entered into a joint venture with Assystem to exploit Pages 34 to 37 Segmental performance nuclear opportunities.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Introduction
