60 Governance Directors Report In accordance with the requirements of Post-balance sheet events Under the Companys articles of association the Companies Act 2006 the Act and On 3 June 2011 the Group acquired the all directors must retire at the first AGM the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules 130 people-strong oil and gas business following their appointment by the Board and Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the of Pyry PLC for a cash consideration and may offer themselves for election by directors present their annual management of 17.3m approximately 15.4m.
Uwe Krueger, following his report on the affairs of the Company and This acquisition considerably strengthens appointment by the Board as a director from the Group, together with the Financial Atkins position in the buoyant oil and gas 14 June 2011, will stand for election at the Statements and the independent auditors support services sector by bringing on board AGM.
In line with the requirements of the report, for the year ended 31 March 2011. a world class front end design capability.
UK Corporate Governance Code, which has These will be laid before shareholders at the It continues Atkins strategy of growing skills applied to the Company since 1 April 2011, all other directors, except Sir Peter Williams Annual General Meeting AGM to be held in its Energy business.
The integration of at 1630 on Thursday 8 September 2011. the Pyry teams in Aberdeen, Stavanger and Keith Clarke, will retire at the AGM and, being eligible, will offer themselves for Details of the business to be considered Norway and Perth Australia with Atkins at the AGM, together with an explanation existing operations in the UK, Europe, re-election.
Sir Peter will serve as a director until the conclusion of the AGM.
The Board of each of the resolutions, are set out in Middle East and North America will provide the separate Notice of Meeting.
a platform from which to grow in the considers that the performance of each of the directors continues to be effective and worlds major oil and gas centres.
In Principal activities and business review particular, the acquisition provides increased that each of them demonstrates a strong commitment to their role.
WS Atkins plc is the ultimate holding access to the significant gas developments company of a group of companies.
A full and Liquefied Natural Gas market in Directors and officers of the Company and description of the Groups principal activities, Western Australia and Europe.
Further business, performance, significant contracts, details regarding the transaction can be its subsidiaries benefit from directors and officers liability insurance cover in respect likely future developments and principal found in note 15 to the Financial Statements risks and uncertainties is provided in the page 115. of legal actions brought against them.
In addition, directors of the Company are Chairmans Statement pages 6 to 7, the Chief Executives Statement pages 8 to 9, Results and dividends indemnified in accordance with article 138 of the Companys articles of association the Business Review pages 16 to 43, the The Group profit after tax for the year Human Resources Review pages 44 to 47, of 72.6m 2010: 77.3m is shown in the to the maximum extent permitted by law.
Prior to the adoption of new articles the Corporate Responsibility Review Consolidated Income Statement page 140. pages 48 to 56, the Corporate Governance of association by shareholders on 3 September 2008, all directors in Report pages 64 to 71 and the The directors recommend a final dividend Remuneration Report pages 72 to 83, of 19.5p per ordinary share in respect of the appointment on that date had separate deeds of indemnity.
These indemnities, which are incorporated by reference into year ended 31 March 2011, to be paid on this report.
30 September 2011 to ordinary shareholders which still remain in force, are available for inspection by shareholders at the Companys on the register on 26 August 2011.
This A list of principal subsidiary undertakings is subject to shareholder approval at the registered office during normal business hours and will be available for inspection and the countries in which they operate AGM.
If approved, this will mean a total note 39 to the Financial Statements on dividend of 29.0p per ordinary share will at the AGM.
page 138 along with details of acquisitions have been paid for the year to 31 March 2011 and disposals made by the Group during 2010: 27.5p when added to the interim Neither the insurance nor the indemnities provide cover where the relevant director or the year note 15 to the Financial Statements dividend of 9.5p per ordinary share paid on on page 113 are also incorporated into this 28 January 2011.
Further details regarding officer has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
dividend payments can be found in Investor Information page 143.
Directors interests in the Company are described in the Remuneration Report Financial instruments Details on the use of financial instruments Directors in table 16 page 81. and financial risk management are included The names and biographies of those persons in note 2 to the Financial Statements serving as directors of the Company as Directors conflicts of interest Each director is required, in accordance with page 100. at the date of this report are set out in this Annual Report pages 58 and 59.
There the Act, to declare any interests that may give rise to a conflict of interest with the were no changes to the composition of the Board of directors the Board during the Company on appointment and subsequently as they arise.
Where such a conflict, or year ended 31 March 2011.
Uwe Krueger was appointed as a director with effect from potential conflict, arises the Board is empowered under the Companys articles 14 June 2011 and will replace Keith Clarke as chief executive on 1 August 2011. of association to consider and authorise such conflicts as appropriate.
In addition, the Company undertakes an annual review of all authorised conflicts to ensure such authorisation remains appropriate, the last such review having taken place in October 2010.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor information Governance 61 The Companys articles of association may be viewed at: www.
com investors constitution Articles of association The Group is committed to eliminating Political donations and expenditure The Companys articles of association set out discrimination and encouraging diversity The Group made no political donations and the Companys internal regulation and cover amongst its workforce.
The aim is for the incurred no political expenditure in the UK such matters as the rights of shareholders, Groups employees to be representative of or European Union during the year ended the appointment and removal of directors, all sections of society and for each employee 31 March 2011 31 March 2010: nil.
the power to issue and buy back shares and to feel respected and able to give their the conduct of the Board and general best.
The Group believes this supports the On 1 October 2010 the Group completed meetings.
A copy of the Companys articles attraction and retention of the best people, the acquisition of The PBSJ Corporation and of association is available on the Groups improves effectiveness, promotes excellence its subsidiaries the acquired companies.
com or on in delivery and enhances the success of The acquired companies have, in accordance request from the company secretary.
with relevant US Federal and state election Amendments to the articles of association laws, historically made political donations in the US both directly and to affiliated US must be approved by at least 75% of those Policies have been adopted to ensure voting in person or by proxy at a general this commitment is implemented from state and Federal political action committees PACs.
As a result, political donations in meeting of the Company.
recruitment and throughout an individuals employment with the Group.
Employees the US of $16,360 10,317 were made in the six months from 1 October 2010 to In accordance with the Companys articles are provided with the opportunity to of association, directors can be appointed develop to their full potential regardless of 31 March 2011.
The affiliated PACs were funded partly by contributions from the or removed by the Board or by shareholders sex, race, age, religion or belief, disability, in general meeting.
Subject to the provisions sexual orientation, gender identity, marriage acquired companies and partly by employee contributions.
One further corporate political of relevant legislation, the Companys and civil partnership, pregnancy, parental articles of association and any directions obligations and background, subject to the donation was made between 31 March 2011 and the date of this report but, in future, given by a special resolution of the laws of the jurisdictions in which we work.
shareholders, the Board of directors may any political donations from the acquired companies will be made via their affiliated exercise all the powers of the Company The Group encourages recruitment, training, and may delegate authorities to committees career development and promotion on the PACs.
and management as it sees fit.
Details basis of aptitude and ability, without regard of the main committees of the Board are to disability.
It is also committed to retaining Charitable donations During the year, the Group made charitable contained in the Corporate Governance and retraining as necessary employees who Report pages 64 to 71. become disabled during the course of their donations of 134,996 2010: 93,054.
The beneficiaries of these donations were local employment.
Employees charities serving the communities in which the Group operates or charities working in The Company employs more than 17,000 Employee share ownership is encouraged people.
Communication is essential at to facilitate alignment of employee and areas relevant to the Groups activities.
The Group intends to continue its focus on local a corporate and a business level to ensure shareholder interests.
In the UK, employees employees remain abreast of information are given the opportunity to become charities in the current financial year.
such as financial results and significant shareholders through the Companys Share business issues.
Multiple communication Incentive Plan SIP.
Approximately 10% channels are used throughout the Group, of eligible employees participate in the SIP.
including email, voice conference, the Groups intranet, various region-specific Further information on employees and on intranets and in-house publications, which the Groups approach to employee diversity the Company uses to ensure the timely is available in the Human Resources Review cascade of information to employees.
Over the past seven years feedback has Suppliers been provided by employees via an annual, The Groups policy is to agree terms and confidential, Group wide employee survey.
conditions for its business transactions with We have concluded that this needs to be suppliers and to endeavour to abide by these refreshed to ensure that it remains relevant terms and conditions, subject to the supplier and so the updated survey will be conducted meeting its obligations.
This will also enable us to measure the impact on employee No one supplier arrangement is considered engagement at the end of the first to be essential to the business of the Group.
12 months of the Groups new regional structure.
Further information on employee The Company, as a holding company, communications can be found in the did not have any amounts owing to trade Human Resources Review page 46. creditors as at 31 March 2011.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Investor information Financial Statements Governance Reviews Introduction 62 Governance Directors Report continued Shares At the AGM held in 2010 shareholders Significant shareholders Share capital granted authority for the directors to allot As at the date of this report, the Company As at the date of this report, the Companys relevant securities up to approximately had been notified of holdings of 3% or share capital consists of 104,451,799 issued one-third of the issued share capital and more of the total voting rights attaching to and fully paid ordinary shares each with a further one-third in connection with an its issued share capital as detailed in table 1. a nominal value of 0.5p, listed on the offer by way of a rights issue.
The directors London Stock Exchange, and American intend to seek shareholder approval to Change of control Depositary Shares ADSs.
Shares may be renew this authority at this years AGM, No agreement with a director or employee held in certificated or uncertificated form.
details of which are contained in the provides for compensation for loss of Further details of the Companys authorised Notice of Meeting.
office or employment whether through and issued share capital, including changes resignation, purported redundancy or during the year, can be found in note 31 The Company is not aware of any otherwise that occurs as a result of to the Financial Statements page 132. agreements between shareholders that a change of control.
might result in the restriction of transfer The rights and obligations attaching to the or voting rights in relation to the shares All of the Companys employee share Companys ordinary shares are contained held by such shareholders.
schemes contain provisions relating to a in the Companys articles of association.
change of control of the Company.
Under In summary, the ordinary shares and ADSs Share purchases these provisions, a change of control would allow holders to receive dividends and to At the AGM held in 2010, the Company normally be a vesting event, facilitating the exercise one vote on a poll per ordinary was granted authority by shareholders to exercise of options or transfer of allocations share for every holder present in person purchase up to 10,011,000 ordinary shares, subject to any relevant performance or by proxy at general meetings of the representing approximately 10% of the conditions being satisfied.
Shares held in treasury are not Companys ordinary share capital as at entitled to vote or receive dividends.
No ordinary shares were The Company is not a party to any other are no restrictions on the transfer or sale purchased pursuant to this authority during significant agreements that take effect, of ordinary shares or ADSs and no the year ended 31 March 2011 or to the alter or terminate upon a change of control requirements for prior approval of any date of this Annual Report.
This authority other than its bank facility agreement, transfers, except as described below.
Under will expire at the forthcoming AGM and, which provides that in such a situation the the Companys articles of association, the in accordance with current best practice, Company is unable to draw down any directors have the power to suspend voting the Company will seek to renew it.
further amounts under the facility.
rights and the right to receive dividends in respect of ordinary shares and to refuse 4,341,000 ordinary shares of 0.5p each, Directors statement of responsibility to register a transfer of ordinary shares in representing approximately 4.2% of the The directors are responsible for preparing circumstances where the holder of those Companys issued share capital, were held in the Annual Report, the Remuneration shares fails to comply with a notice issued treasury the treasury shares throughout Report and the Financial Statements in under section 793 of the Act.
The directors the year and to the date of this Annual accordance with applicable law and also have the power to refuse to register any Report following a share buy back regulations.
transfer of certificated shares that does not programme.
satisfy the conditions set out in the articles of association.
Table 1: Holdings of 3% or more of the total voting rights attached to the Companys issued share capital Shares acquired through Atkins employee At 15 June 2011 At 31 March 2011 share schemes rank equally with all other Percentage Percentage ordinary shares in issue and have no special Number of total Number of total rights.
The trustees of the Companys of voting voting of voting voting Employee Benefit Trusts EBTs have waived 1 1 1 1 Name of holder rights rights rights rights their rights to dividends on shares held by Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 5,129,917 5.12% 5,129,917 5.12% the EBTs, with one EBT fully waiving this BlackRock Inc. 9,939,227 9.52% 9,939,227 9.52% right and another waiving the right to Legal & General Group plc 3,910,332 3.90% 3,910,332 3.90% dividends in excess of 0.01p per share.
In addition none of the EBTs exercises its Below notifiable right to vote in respect of such shares.
Shares held in trust on behalf of participants Lloyds Banking Group plc threshold Less than 3% 3,154,015 3.04% in the SIP are voted by the trustee, Capita Newton Investment IRG Trustees Limited, as directed by the Management Limited 6,025,203 6.02% 6,025,203 6.02% participants.
Details of share-based Norges Bank 3,024,392 3.02% 3,024,392 3.02% payments, including information regarding Schroders plc 10,143,360 9.99% 10,143,360 9.99% the shares held by the EBTs, can be found Veritas Asset Management in note 32 to the Financial Statements UK Ltd 5,028,960 5.02% 5,028,960 5.02% pages 132 to 135.
Number and percentage of voting rights per last notification received by the Company.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor information Governance 63 Cautionary statement Company law requires the directors to Each of the directors, whose names and Under the Companies Act 2006, a companys prepare financial statements for each functions are listed in this Annual Report directors report is required, among other matters, financial year.
The directors have prepared pages 58 and 59, confirm that, to the best to contain a fair review by the directors of the the Group and Company Financial of their knowledge: companys and, if applicable, groups business through a balanced and comprehensive analysis Statements in accordance with applicable of the development and performance of the business law and International Financial Reporting the Directors Report contained in the of the company and group and the position of the Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Annual Report includes a fair review of company and group at the year end, consistent with the size and complexity of the business.
Under company law the the development and performance of the directors must not approve the Financial business and the position of the Group, The directors report set out above, including Statements unless they are satisfied that together with a description of the principal the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Statement, the Business Review, the Human they give a true and fair view of the state risks and uncertainties that it faces Resources Review, the Corporate Responsibility of affairs of the Company and the Group the Group Financial Statements, which Review, the Corporate Governance Report and and of the profit or loss of the Company have been prepared in accordance with the Remuneration Report incorporated into it by reference together, the Directors Report, has been and the Group for that period.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, prepared only for the shareholders of the Company give a true and fair view of the assets, as a whole and its sole purpose and use is to assist In preparing the Financial Statements, the liabilities, financial position and profit or shareholders to exercise their governance rights.
In particular, the Directors Report has not been audited directors are required to: loss of the Group.
The Company and its directors and the Groups employees are not select suitable accounting policies and Disclosure of audit information responsible for any other purpose or use or to any then apply them consistently The directors confirm that, as at the date other person in relation to the Directors Report.
make judgements and accounting this report was approved, so far as each The Directors Report contains indications of likely estimates that are reasonable and prudent director is aware there is no relevant audit future developments and other forward-looking state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted information of which the Companys auditor statements that are subject to risk factors associated with, among other things, the economic and business by the European Union have been is unaware and that he or she has taken circumstances occurring from time to time in the followed, subject to any material all the steps that he or she ought to have countries, sectors and business segments in which departures disclosed and explained in taken as a director in order to make the Group operates.
These factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed under Principal Risks the Financial Statements himself or herself aware of any relevant and Uncertainties pages 41 to 43.
These and other prepare the Financial Statements on the audit information and to establish that the factors could adversely affect the Groups results, going concern basis, unless it is Companys auditor is aware of that strategy and prospects.
Forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions.
They inappropriate to presume that the Group information.
relate to events and or depend on circumstances and the Company will continue in business.
in the future which could cause actual results and Going concern outcomes to differ materially from those currently anticipated.
No obligation is assumed to update The directors are responsible for keeping The directors have a reasonable expectation any forward-looking statements, whether as a result adequate accounting records that are that the Company and the Group have of new information, future events or otherwise.
sufficient to show and explain the adequate resources to continue in Companys transactions and disclose with operational existence for the foreseeable reasonable accuracy at any time the financial future and therefore continue to adopt position of the Company and the Group and the going concern basis in preparing the that enable them to ensure that the Financial Financial Statements.
Statements and the Remuneration Report comply with the Act and, as regards the Auditors Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of The Companys independent auditor, the International Accounting Standards  LLP, has expressed Regulation.
They are also responsible for its willingness to continue in office and safeguarding the assets of the Company and resolutions for its reappointment and to the Group and hence for taking reasonable authorise the directors to determine its steps for the prevention and detection of remuneration will be proposed at the fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the Approved by the Board and signed maintenance and integrity of the corporate on its behalf by and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK Richard Webster governing the preparation and dissemination Company secretary of financial statements may differ from 15 June 2011 legislation in other jurisdictions.
WS Atkins plc, Woodcote Grove, Ashley Road, Epsom, Surrey, KT18 5BW, England Registered in England and Wales No.
1885586 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Investor information Financial Statements Governance Reviews Introduction
