58 Governance Board of Directors Allan Cook CBE Keith Clarke CBE Dr Uwe Krueger Chairman Chief executive Chief executive designate Allan Cook was appointed a Keith Clarke was appointed a director in Dr Uwe Krueger was appointed a director non-executive director in September October 2003.
He is a chartered architect in June 2011.
He is a physicist who studied 2009, taking up the post of chairman with a masters degree in urban planning at the University of Frankfurt, graduating on 1 February 2010.
He is a chartered from Pratt University, Brooklyn, USA.
with a PhD in complex system theory.
engineer with more than 30 years He joined the Group from Skanska AB He also studied at Columbia University international experience in the automotive, where he was executive vice president New York, the Ecole Normale Suprieure aerospace and defence industries.
He was responsible for its activities in the UK, Paris and at Harvard Boston.
He has chief executive of Cobham PLC until the Poland, Czech Republic, India and China.
spent the majority of his career leading end of December 2009.
Prior to this Prior to Skanska, he held various engineering and consulting organisations he held senior roles at GEC-Marconi, management roles at construction in North America, Europe, the Middle East BAE Systems and Hughes Aircraft.
He is companies Trafalgar House and Olympia and Asia Pacific.
chairman of SELEX Galileo Ltd, deputy and York.
He also spent 10 years in the chairman of Marshall of Cambridge USA with the New York City Public He began his career at international Holdings Limited and a member of the Development Corporation.
He has strategy consulting firm, A T Kearney, operating executive board of J. F. Lehman over 40 years experience in urban followed by leadership positions at & Company.
He is also chairman of the regeneration, policy development and Hochtief AG, an international provider Skills & Jobs Retention Group, chairman the implementation of large scale projects of construction services, including CEO of UK Trade & Investments Advanced in construction and engineering as well of central and eastern Europe and senior Engineering Sector Advisory Board, as extensive international experience, vice president and chairman of Turner chairman of the Sector Skills Council for having worked in the USA, Asia, India International based in Dallas, USA.
More Science, Engineering and Manufacturing and Europe.
recently he was chief executive officer Technologies SEMTA, past president of of Swiss company, Oerlikon, one of the the Aerospace and Defence Industries He is an advisory board member of the worlds leading high-tech industrial Association of Europe ASD, past Built Environment Innovation Centre at companies specialising in machine and president of the Society of British Imperial College, London, a non-executive plant engineering.
He joined Atkins from Aerospace and Defence Companies director of the British Standards Institute, Texas Pacific Group, a private equity SBAC, director of the Industry Forum, and has received honorary fellowships investment firm based in London and director of the Apprentice Ambassador from the Institution of Structural San Francisco and Cleantech Switzerland, Network and a committee member of Engineers and Cardiff University.
He is a trade promotion organisation in the the UK Ministerial Advisory Group for currently deputy chairman of the UK area of sustainability which operates on Manufacturing.
He was awarded a CBE Construction Industry Council CIC.
behalf of the Swiss Federal Government.
in the Queens New Years Honours list Keith was awarded a CBE in the He is currently on the Board of in 2008 and is a fellow of the Royal Queens New Years Honours STR Holdings Connecticut, USA, Academy of Engineering.
He is a member of the Zementis, Inc San Diego and ONTEX S. A. of the Nomination Committee.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor information Governance 59 Heath Drewett Fiona Clutterbuck Dr Raj Rajagopal Group finance director Non-executive director Non-executive director Heath Drewett was appointed a director Fiona Clutterbuck was appointed Raj Rajagopal was appointed a with effect from 15 June 2009, and a non-executive director in March 2007. non-executive director in June 2008. took over as Group finance director on She has substantial experience in all areas He held several positions at BOC Edwards 19 June 2009.
A graduate in mathematics of corporate finance, including a particular before being appointed chief executive, from Peterhouse, Cambridge, he started focus on the financial institutions sector, a position he held until October 2006. his career at  gained during 15 years at Hill Samuel He was an executive director of the where he qualified as a chartered and HSBC and seven years at ABN AMRO.
BOC Group plc until October 2006 and is accountant.
Prior to joining the Group Fiona is Head of Corporate Development a non-executive director of Bodycote plc, he held a variety of senior finance and at the Phoenix Group, a FTSE 250 e2v plc and Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc.
He corporate development roles at British company.
She has an LLB Hons from is also chairman of HHV Pumps Private Ltd Airways plc and The Morgan Crucible the University of London and qualified and non-executive chairman of The Company plc.
She is a member University of Manchester Intellectual of the Audit, Nomination and Property Limited.
He is a fellow of the Remuneration Committees.
Royal Academy of Engineering, a fellow Alun Griffiths of the Institution of Engineering and Group HR director Technology IET, a fellow of the Joanne Curin Institution of Mechanical Engineers, Alun Griffiths was appointed a director Non-executive director a fellow of the Chartered Institute of in March 2007.
He has a background in Management and a fellow of the Institute management consultancy and has led Joanne Curin was appointed a of Directors.
He is also a member of the a wide range of projects in the areas of non-executive director in February 2009.
Advisory Board of the Centre for Business restructuring, organisational development She is a chartered accountant and has Research of Cambridge University.
and privatisation in the UK and a broad range of international experience He was awarded an honorary doctor internationally.
He is an economics gained during her career as a senior of science degree by Cranfield University graduate and a fellow of the Chartered finance executive for large scale in 2004 and the IETs IEE Eric Mensforth Institute of Personnel and Development.
organisations in the property and International Gold Medal for outstanding He was appointed Group HR director in construction, oil and gas, pulp and paper, contribution to manufacturing technology February 2003.
Alun chairs the Industry shipping and logistics sectors.
She has and management in 2003.
He is a Board of the UK Resource Centre for worked in the UK, New Zealand and member of the Remuneration and Women in Science, Engineering and Australia and more recently held finance Nomination Committees.
Technology UKRC, an organisation director roles for both Lend Lease charged with progressing the UK Corporation and P&O.
She is chairman Governments strategy for increasing of the Audit Committee and a member Sir Peter Williams the participation of women in science of the Nomination Committee.
Sir Peter Williams was appointed a non-executive director in May 2004.
Admiral the Lord Boyce He graduated from Cambridge University KG GCB OBE DL with a MA and PhD in physics and initially pursued an academic career at Cambridge Non-executive director and subsequently at Imperial College, Lord Boyce was appointed a London.
After a period with non-executive director in May 2004.
VG Instruments Limited he joined Oxford He had a distinguished career in the Instruments plc in 1982.
He became its Royal Navy and the Ministry of Defence chief executive in 1985 and was chairman that culminated in his becoming First Sea from 1991 until his retirement in 1999.
Lord, professional head of the Royal Navy, He is chairman of the National Physical in 1998 and then Chief of Defence Staff, Laboratory, Vice President and Treasurer professional head of the Armed Forces, of the Royal Society and served as fifth from 2001 to 2003.
He was elevated chancellor of the University of Leicester to the peerage in 2003, was appointed from October 2005 until July 2010.
Lord Warden and Admiral of the Cinque He is chairman of the Remuneration Ports and Constable of Dover Castle in Committee and a member of the Audit 2004 and was made a Knight of the and Nomination Committees.
He is senior independent director and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Investor information Financial Statements Governance Reviews Introduction
