44 Reviews Human Resources Review Overview Remaining an employer of choice is a prerequisite for our success.
We only succeed to the extent that we are able to attract and retain the most talented professionals in their respective fields and maintain an environment in which they are able to develop and apply their skills in addressing our clients changing needs.
People performance is evaluated as a key Atkins is a technical design element of business performance through our well-established business review and engineering consultancy processes.
This includes the evaluation of a range of metrics including headcount, and we rely on the ability retention and stability, vacancy levels and employee engagement alongside broader of our employees to satisfy assessments of our skills and capabilities against current and future market needs.
2011 was a year of contrasts for our people with strong growth in some areas and significant shrinkage in others.
We have made unprecedented efforts to redeploy skills across the organisation and move people with transferable skills to areas of high demand.
This has been most evident in Energy and the Middle East.
Headcount Headcount increased in year from 15,601 to 17,522 12.3% largely as the result of our acquisition in North America.
Underlying headcount for the rest of the business declined by just under 1,000 6% as we continued to adjust resources to meet market demand.
The reductions, which were most significant in the UKs design and engineering -17% and highways and transportation -13.5% businesses and in the Middle East -17%, were partially offset by growth in Energy 20% and the UKs defence, aerospace and communications business 5%.
Page 18 to 37 Segmental performance WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Reviews Reviews 45 Vacancy levels increased steadily Figure 1: Headcount 2011 throughout the year from around 850 in 19,500 April 2010 to almost 1,100 at 31 March 2011, 18,500 in particular in our energy and aerospace operations and in the Middle East region.
1 7,500 This excludes graduate trainees, where vacancies increased from 105 to 250 over 16,500 the year.
15,500 We continued to increase headcount in our offshore design centre in Bangalore 14,000 which is expected to grow to more than 13,500 850 technical staff during the year ahead.
Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar The benefits of this include lower costs and Headcount 2011 average greater flexibility, enabling us to respond to changes in demand between businesses Figure 2: Experienced hire vacancies 2011 and regions and mobilise resources for 1,200 major projects whilst maintaining a culture of engineering excellence.
1,000 Retention 800 Staff turnover has increased in most regions but still remains very low compared 600 to recent years.
This is partly a reflection of 400 market conditions but also a reflection of our credentials as an employer of choice.
200 Turnover by region was as follows: 0 Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar 2011 2010 Business area Turnover Turnover Vacancies Trend UK 8.4% 6.5% We also monitor the stability of our Independent feedback shows that more North America 9.5% 9.0% workforce using an index which calculates than 80% of employees who completed Middle East 13.9% 15.6% the proportion of staff in each business as the leavers questionnaire would work at Asia Pacific 26.1% 16.1% a percentage of the total workforce at the Atkins again and would also recommend Europe 6.3% 6.2% beginning of the year.
This allows us to the Group as a place to work.
Unfortunately, Atkins 10.4% 8.6% assess our performance in retaining more the number of leavers who are dissatisfied experienced employees.
The stability index with either the Group or their job has The only significant increase was in the for the Group was 81.3% 2010: 80.6%.
marginally increased compared to last Asia Pacific region where turnover has risen year, which may be a reflection of the substantially to 26.1%, though this is still The indices for the individual regions were uncertainty created by our right-sizing well below the levels experienced two as follows: programmes.
Staff turnover in the Middle East Region 2011 2010 has declined below 15% for the first time UK 81.6% 85.5% in ten years.
This is very encouraging North America 84.8% 78.8% progress, particularly in the context of Middle East 68.2% 65.1% several major contract wins.
Our North Asia Pacific 72.7% 74.1% American and European businesses are Europe 83.7% 80.5% relatively stable with the increase in the UK marking a partial return to normality.
Atkins 81.3% 80.6% WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Reviews 46 Reviews Human Resources Review continued Employee engagement company, but less well on those relating and North America.
The networks also We continued to invest in internal to line management and perhaps provide an excellent way for new recruits communication channels and improving unsurprising in the current economic and employees from acquired companies the quality of information shared with environment to those relating to wellbeing.
to rapidly be assimilated into Atkins.
our colleagues to ensure we maintain Succession management of our technical a proactive, two-way dialogue with our Investment in people leaders is very important and we have people.
This helps Atkins people Our training spend during the year of successfully rotated leadership of three worldwide to understand our vision, 14m was down on previous years.
networks this year, one of which is now mission and strategy and to be clear However through careful planning we led from North America.
about the role they have to play as we have continued to maintain our focus on aspire to be the worlds best infrastructure those areas of most importance.
During Our integrating digital solutions network consultancy.
Effective internal the year we introduced a robust training has recently introduced a common communication helped ensure the needs analysis process which has identified CAD standard for use across the Group.
successful integration of employees from our key strengths and also development We have also continued to invest in those our newly acquired companies, including requirements within each area of our technical capabilities which strengthen our around 3,000 colleagues in North America.
This has enabled us to focus position in key markets.
For example, in the We ended the year by holding leadership our investment on key priority areas, such nuclear sector the Atkins Training Academy conferences in the UK, North America as technical excellence, project management has developed a range of nuclear skills and Middle East for 750 of our senior capability and client engagement.
programmes which have been attended colleagues to ensure they united behind by more than 270 individuals over the past a common vision for the Group.
We maintained our commitment to 12 months.
graduate development with a substantially For the past seven years, we have increased target intake planned for 2011 During the year we trained more than conducted an annual survey across the up to 250 from 105.
This includes a 500 project managers in our Enterprise Group to measure employee engagement.
planned intake of 35 graduates in our Advantage project management tool.
This has allowed us to measure our Bangalore design centre.
This will take our We are also continuing to develop our performance against a stable set of total graduate trainee population to circa assessment tools and training content indicators, providing both absolute and 1,000 across the Group almost 6% of in line with externally accredited project relative data on our performance.
this has been an excellent management tool, we have concluded that the survey We have modernised our graduate The identification and development of needs to be refreshed to ensure that it development programme in the UK and talent at all levels are important and our remains relevant for at least the next are now working on similar changes in management development centres and five years.
The updated survey will be run North America and the Middle East, with senior management development in September, by which time our regional a plan to significantly increase the graduate programmes continue to be a cornerstone structure will have been in place for training population in these regions in of our approach 125 individuals 12 months.
The results will be shared with 2012.
In the UK, we remain in The Times participated during 2011.
These our staff and will give us a clearer picture Top 100 ranking of graduate employers, programmes have been redesigned of employee engagement as well as although our ranking has slipped to 51, during the year to drive development allowing us to compare our performance down from 37 in 2010.
Similarly, we were across key business, project management against regional and industry benchmarks.
ranked third in the sector rankings for the and technical career routes.
Target National Graduate Awards in the In the UK, we were delighted to regain our UK, having come top for the previous We have strengthened our use of learning place in the Sunday Times Top 25 Best Big five years.
technologies to deliver training in the Companies to Work For, having fallen out most effective and efficient way.
of this ranking last year for the first time Our technical networks, established some During the year we implemented a new in six years.
The survey provides a useful years ago to enhance our technical skills, learning management system across our benchmark against other large employers contribute to our understanding and UK businesses.
This has improved the and provides valuable data on employee encourage best practice and have become visibility of the development opportunities attitudes.
We scored highly on questions increasingly important this year as our available for individuals and provided relating to leadership and the contributions skills base has broadened organically in the greater governance and management individuals feel able to make to the Middle East and by acquisition in Europe information on training activities.
We have WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Reviews Reviews 47 Ranked 23rd in The Sunday Times 25 Best Big Companies to Work For.
com top-employer also increased our use of online learning To mitigate this, all participants in the Diversity technologies such as e-learning and Executive Bonus Scheme more than 1,000 We believe that diversity is a business issue webinars.
We will build on this in the staff across the Group will be paid their and needs to be managed accordingly.
future and leverage the knowledge of our bonus in cash with the normal one-third Unless we are able to attract and retain employees in North America, who have deferral in shares waived for this year.
This talented individuals from a broader range operated an online university for a number will not apply to the Executive Directors.
of backgrounds than has been the case of years.
historically, we will fail to realise our A discretionary bonus scheme covers potential as a leading consultancy business.
We continue to value our strategic the wider Atkins population and we paid relationships with a number of leading a bonus to just over one-third of staff, While we were delighted to be recognised universities.
As with our technical recognising individual contribution and as an employer of choice being included networks, they support our pursuit of performance.
in both the UKs Times Top 50 Employers technical excellence and provide us with for Women and in North America in the access to academic research and emerging As reported in the Business Review we Best of the Best Top Diversity Employers thinking relevant to our services and have reached an agreement with the for Women rankings the rate of progress markets and the development of low Trustee of the Atkins Pension Plan the has been too slow and our underlying carbon solutions.
Our technical experts largest of the Groups defined benefit demographics have not changed are involved with undergraduate and plans on the 31 March 2010 actuarial sufficiently.
postgraduate teaching programmes and valuation.
We have also commenced in mentoring research projects.
This helps consultation with approximately 1,400 Equally, while our gender balance at Board us build strong relationships with students UK staff on a proposal to remove the link level compares well against other FTSE 250 and raise our profile.
between employees accrued pension and organisations with a female representation future increases in salary.
If implemented of 22.2% compared to the average of In the UK, we actively supported National these employees will become deferred 7.8%, female representation at senior Apprentice Week and recognise the members and their accrued pension would management level is just 11% in the top increasing trend among young people to then be re-valued annually in line with 1,000 staff compared with 27.7% in the consider apprenticeships as a valuable entry inflation up to a cap of 5% per annum.
We are currently working This would reduce the funding deficit in a consortium with the Institute of Civil of 293m as at 31 March 2010 by 28m.
It is clear that we will not make progress Engineers in the development of a design without setting targets, changing the technician apprenticeship and will be We are also in discussion with the Trustee business culture and challenging the seeking to build on our current numbers regarding a proposal to offer deferred way we manage recruitment and staff of apprenticeships during the year to members an enhanced transfer value ETV progression.
To that end, each of the newly March 2012. should they wish to transfer their accrued appointed regional managing directors pension to another provider.
This option has been asked to prepare a diversity Reward would also be open to the 1,400 staff action plan appropriate for their business.
Pay levels have remained relatively flat in referred to above should the proposal to This recognises that the starting place, legal many of the markets in which we operate.
remove the link to final salary proceed.
framework and business challenges vary As a consequence, increases have been In addition, we are exploring ways in which by region.
targeted at the areas where there is high we can offer members the option of taking market demand and hence salary inflation an increased pension at retirement in The Board will be reviewing these plans e. g. Energy, aerospace, China and Hong return for waiving future inflation increases and monitoring progress as a key aspect Kong and towards graduate trainees pension increase exchange.
of business performance, together with and promotions, with limited increases reviewing its own performance with regard elsewhere.
This means that, for the third Following the UK Governments to gender diversity in the context of the year running, overall pay levels have announcement on public sector pensions, recently released Davies Report on Women increased by less than inflation.
While the method of indexation of the Railway on Boards, the recommendations of which this is in line with the market, we are Pension Scheme has changed from it has endorsed.
mindful of the impact on staff, particularly RPI to CPI.
those with young families where budgets are being squeezed.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Reviews
