18 Reviews Business Review Segmental performance Overall Atkins UK business performed in line with our expectations, navigating difficult market and economic conditions.
United Kingdom Key performance indicators 2011 2010 change Financial metrics Revenue 926.5m 983.5m -5.8% Operating profit 61.4m 77.3m -20.6% Operating margin 6.6% 7.9% -1.3pp Work in hand 56.5% 57.2% -0.7pp People Staff numbers at 31 March 9,640 10,387 -7.2% Average staff numbers for the year 10,119 10,905 -7.2% 9, 640 People employed in the United Kingdom 926.5m Revenue WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Reviews Reviews 19 What we said What we did We will continue to invest in management We have restructured our operations in and to deepen our skill base.
building design, water and highways.
We will continue to position parts of the We have engaged with clients to respond to Group for growth, whilst in other areas their needs to ensure better value services.
undertaking controlled reduction or exit of businesses, or structuring ourselves Page 14 Our Strategy appropriately for any downturns in activity.
United Kingdom Revenue m Operating profit m Average staff numbers -6% -21% -7% 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 Revenue by sector Revenue by client type Roads 32% Public sector: Rail inc. mass transit 22% local government 27% Defence and security 14% Public sector: Water and environment 7% national government 26% Education 5% Regulated 18% Urban development 4% Private sector 29% Buildings 3% Aerospace and aviation 3% Other 10% WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 971.2 1,097.9 1,051.2 983.5 926.5 54.5 69.2 68.2 77.3 61.4 11,196 11,968 12,015 10,905 10,119 Reviews 20 Reviews Business Review Segmental performance continued United Kingdom Performance Business drivers Our highways and transportation business Overall our UK business performed in line The economic environment significantly contracted during the year following with our expectations, successfully affects the opportunities available to the exceptionally strong work volumes in navigating difficult market conditions.
business, although our diversified business 2009 10, where fiscal stimulus packages The UK Governments spending review in provides some resilience to market buoyed the market, together with higher October 2010 removed some of the market fluctuations.
We are the market leader design revenue from major design uncertainty and confirmed our expectation in UK engineering consultancy, with commissions such as the M25 widening.
that public sector spending will remain preeminent rankings in the roads, rail and Delays and cancellations of schemes for the 1 tight while the budget deficit is addressed.
Highways Agency and tightening of local We have seen mixed performance during authority and central government budgets the year across the range of markets served The outcome of the UK Governments significantly impacted the business and led and have reduced staff numbers by 7% as spending review and the recent Strategic to a reduction in headcount, with staff we have flexed our resource levels to meet Defence and Security Review were largely numbers closing the year at around 2,500. anticipated demand.
The rail industry value for This also suppressed margins as the costs money study by Sir Roy McNulty will of right-sizing the business were taken Business model influence the future shape of the industry in-year.
The highway services market was This operating segment consists of and we consider his recommendations more stable for us as a result of our businesses that are primarily focused on a positive step.
portfolio of existing longer term contracts, the UK market where we plan, design and the first of which will be subject to tender enable our clients capital programmes Operations in 2013.
The Department for Transports in and around the built environment.
Our Our design and engineering business, announcement of additional funding for business is that of a technical consultancy, employing around 1,000 staff had a year highway repairs is welcome news and and we provide advice and engineering of change both in terms of its external we anticipate that this will bring around design for public and private sector clients.
market and some internal reshaping.
10m of revenue to our highways business.
The multidisciplinary nature of our skills However, it closed the year strongly with allows us to draw on expertise from across a continued focus on delivery of projects We have been appointed to all four of the business to deliver complex projects with clients such as the Olympic Delivery the Highways Agency Professional Support both in the UK and in support of our other Authority and the London Organising Frameworks: a notable achievement that businesses overseas.
Committee of the Olympic and Paralympic creates a strong platform for this business.
Games, in our role as the official Strategy engineering design services provider for Our design work for the widening of the We have identified that material growth the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic M25 is almost complete, with the first in this segment will be difficult in the near Games.
This multiple award-winning sections fully open to traffic, keeping the term and therefore our focus remains project is an excellent example of the depth overall programme below budgeted cost on managing headcount to meet the of multidisciplinary expertise within the and on track to complete in time for the anticipated market demand for our Group.
Our resources in the UK in this London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic services, driving efficiency in our operations business also play an integral role providing Games.
The related 30-year operation through cost reductions, and supplementing agile design management and technical and maintenance joint venture contract skills with niche acquisitions where capability to assist in the delivery of projects is progressing in line with expectations.
We continue to invest in in a number of our overseas markets.
developing our people, focusing on quality, technical excellence and innovation.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Reviews Reviews 21 Official engineering design services provider for the London 2012 Olympic Games.
com london2012 United Kingdom The joint venture, which comprises Balfour Our defence, aerospace and Group, Tesco, and Coca-Cola Enterprises.
Beatty 52.5%, Egis 15% and Atkins communications businesses have Our work with the government continues, 32.5%, provides services in network performed well during the year.
Around with much of it coming through the management, asset inspection, traffic 900 staff focus on high-technology Office of Government Commerce OGC management, tunnel operations, incident industries, predominantly in the UK, framework.
management and routine and winter Europe and the Middle East.
Our aerospace maintenance for the entire M25, over business performed strongly during the Our asset management business provides a distance of 250 miles.
year and we continue to expand our independent property asset management offering and geographic footprint with services to a number of private sector Our rail business of around 1,400 staff clients such as Airbus and Rolls Royce.
clients and to public sector organisations, continue to deliver complex design Communications and security remain including law and order, education, health solutions on major rail upgrade schemes, strong market segments for our skills and and defence.
The business has performed predominantly for Network Rail.
The capabilities both in the UK and the Middle well in the period with the satisfactory business had a challenging year with East.
In defence, the decision to cease the resolution of market testing challenges margins under pressure as this well funded Hydrus design project necessitated some on a number of its contracts.
market attracted significant competition, headcount reductions.
However, demand particularly in the civils business.
for core capabilities in this sector remains People strong and we enter the new financial year We rely on our professionally qualified, We have largely completed the highly in a stable position.
highly skilled, and experienced staff, complex resignalling of the North London both in the UK and in Bangalore to work Line, a project that reinforces Atkins Our management consultancy business together to deliver multidisciplinary design ability to successfully and reliably deliver performed well, improving on its strong projects.
They are essential to delivering the complex projects.
The Newport resignalling position in the UK security and intelligence highest quality product for our clients and project has progressed well during the market.
We managed to navigate difficult as such we have continued to invest in year, with the key May deadlines conditions in the wider public sector to their development and training despite completed to programme.
continue the strong performance of recent the tough economic conditions.
years and we finished the year winning the Our water and environment business of BAA IT outsource contract in partnership Outlook around 1,400 staff is seeing an improving with Capgemini, leveraging our position The outlook for the UK is stable.
We have volume of work as the latest five-year in aviation.
a solid, diversified platform to navigate regulatory Asset Management Programme short term market challenges and a AMP5 takes effect.
Although some clients Faithful Gould provides project and cost breadth of quality expertise that will help were initially slow to release work due to management services to a wide range of us exploit opportunities when growth the wider economic situation, there is clients across the public and private sectors returns in the medium term.
We have good a substantial programme of investment and continues to operate in a challenging positions in some well funded markets.
required by the industry to meet the UK market driven by tight UK Government Work in hand is broadly consistent with the regulators settlement and work is now spending.
There has been some slowdown same time last year and we enter the new starting to flow.
Our geotechnical, in public sector opportunities, although we financial year with confidence in our ability environmental and planning businesses have balanced this with wins, mainly in the to navigate what remains a difficult market.
continue to support large projects such higher education sector, for new residential Further, our depth and breadth of expertise as Crossrail and the London 2012 Olympic and teaching space.
We have strengthened in the UK is essential to supporting projects and Paralympic Games.
our presence in the water sector with in a number of our overseas businesses.
an appointment on the Welsh Water framework and in the energy sector with further work for EDF.
We had a number of other notable private sector wins, including GlaxoSmithKline, Lloyds Banking WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Reviews 22 Reviews Business Review Segmental performance continued Integration of our North American acquisition has progressed well and the business is performing.
North America Key performance indicators 2011 2010 change Financial metrics Revenue 279.2m 55.0m 407.6% Operating profit 13.8m 3.4m 305.9% Operating margin 4.9% 6.2% -1.3pp Work in hand 46.7% 40.0% 6.7pp People Staff numbers at 31 March 3,336 510 554.1% Average staff numbers for the year 1,858 533 248.6% 3, 3 3 6 People employed in North America 279.2m Revenue WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Reviews Reviews 23 What we said What we did We will prioritise organic investment and The acquisition of PBSJ brings new skills and acquisitions to strengthen our market capabilities to the Group and our existing position.
Faithful Gould business in North America.
In the USA, Faithful Gould and our oil Our oil and gas business gains greater and gas businesses provide the organic prominence as part of the new Energy growth focus.
Page 14 Our Strategy North America Revenue m Operating profit m Average staff numbers 408% 306% 249% 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 Revenue by sector Revenue by client type Roads 29% Public sector: Buildings 24% local government 53% Water and environment 13% Public sector: Aerospace and aviation 6% national government 15% Urban development 4% Private sector 32% Defence and security 3% Other 21% WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 42.2 47.8 58.1 55.0 279.2 2.1 2.5 3.8 3.4 13.8 521 591 605 533 1,858 Reviews 24 Reviews Business Review Segmental performance continued North America Performance Strategy The disaster response and emergency The results of the North America segment The acquisition of PBSJ is a major step in management aspects of our federal work consist of our Faithful Gould business, our strategy to develop a number of home arise as a consequence of natural disasters which provides project and cost markets.
It increases our presence in and emergencies and, as such, are relatively management services to a wide range of North America to around 3,300 staff and unpredictable in nature and timing.
clients across the public and private sectors, provides us with access to the worlds together with six months results for PBSJ largest engineering consultancy market.
Operations which was acquired on 1 October 2010.
Our transportation business, which PBSJ is an award winning multidisciplinary Our strategy for the acquisition going accounts for approximately 44% of business providing a full range of design, forward is consistent with our existing the business, supports the private and engineering and project management business unit level strategy, namely public sectors and focuses on the design services for buildings, transportation and Identity Excellence, ensuring we maintain and performance of transportation other infrastructure programmes together a deep understanding of the skills systems.
Our capabilities include all with building construction management.
demanded and offered Identity and aspects of transport planning, programme delivering these to a degree of quality management, design, traffic operations, Trading in the first six months of our which keeps us competitive Excellence.
construction management and ownership of PBSJ has been in line with maintenance.
our expectations and the acquisition Our key strategic priority is to deliver provides us with an excellent platform and grow shareholder value from the PBSJ has been a long-standing consultant for future growth in the largest economy acquisition and improve the profitability to the state of Florida Department of in the world.
We expect to subsequently Transportation FDOT, one of the nations grow our operations in the region, largest transportation entities.
Last year Integration has progressed well and both by extending our technical offering we were reselected as general engineering we are confident in our ability to leverage and by geographic expansion across consultant for FDOT districts three, five our enhanced capabilities.
and seven, and the state-wide intelligent also combined back office services for transportation systems general consultant Faithful Gould with those of PBSJ, Finally, we are able to leverage specialist contract.
Together, these contracts are providing a modest level of cost synergies skills from within North America to worth approximately $100m over the next in these support areas going forward.
strengthen the Groups offering in other five years, through which we will provide parts of the world: an example of this is a wide range of planning, engineering and Business model our work in the Middle East on the Jeddah technical services.
In addition to these four This operating segment consists of Airport project utilising PBSJs world class contracts, we continue to serve as general businesses that are primarily focused on airport planning and engineering expertise.
engineering consultant to FDOTs Florida the North American market where we Turnpike Enterprise, one of the nations top plan, design and enable our clients capital Business drivers toll road organisations overseeing nearly programmes.
We are in over 100 locations More than 60% of our work comes from 500 miles of toll roads.
in 29 states serving a range of public and state and local government clients, with private sector clients.
Our multidisciplinary around a further 20% from federal work, capability delivered through these offices providing a relatively stable underlying allows us to draw on expertise from across workload of repeat business.
Our workload the region to deliver complex projects in is therefore subject to public sector North America and to provide technical funding, which remains under close support to other businesses across the political scrutiny and subject to protracted Group.
negotiation through local and Federal Government.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Reviews Reviews 25 For more information about our business in North America visit: www.
com northamerica North America Delays in passing the National Our infrastructure, water and environment People Transportation Bill through Congress business has around 1,300 staff working Our staff are essential to the successful have reduced the volume of work coming across water management services related delivery of a quality service to our to market in connection with large to the development, renovation and clients.
The majority are highly skilled, programmes.
We expect that once optimisation of water and wastewater  professionals the bill is passed, the significant backlog treatment facilities, water distribution with world class technical expertise.
of infrastructure maintenance and upgrade and collection systems.
Additionally, we We invest significant time and resource work will begin to be addressed.
work on watershed management plans in keeping our staff trained in current addressing issues such as water quality, methods and technologies.
Our design and federal business of flood mitigation and water course around 500 staff provides engineering, stabilisation.
Outlook planning, architectural and surveying The medium term outlook for North services to markets including defence We continue to lead a team providing America remains good, with an ageing and disaster response mitigation, energy flood map production and related technical infrastructure that requires significant and environmental, education and services for approximately one-third of investment in areas where we have core entertainment design services.
In this role, over 100 expertise.
In the short term, the outlook employees support the Federal Emergency is dependent on continued modest growth We are assisting the US Department of Management Agency FEMA by preparing in the economy and the progress of federal Defense in transforming US Army Garrison and revising flood maps, monitoring and infrastructure bills through Congress.
Fort Belvoir, Virginia into a world class assisting external partners, performing federal centre of excellence.
The aggressive quality reviews of work by others and Work in hand stands at 47% of this years $4bn, 6.3m square feet development advising on technical and policy issues.
budgeted revenue and we continue to programme is driven by the Base FEMAs National Flood Insurance Program drive cost savings and efficiencies through Realignment and Closure Act of 2005, NFIP is one of the largest civilian mapping the business to improve margins.
which directed the relocation of over programmes in the world, and the 20,000 military staff from closing bases 20 states within the territory managed and leased facilities onto the military by Atkins have a combined flood risk of installation by September 2011.
a six-year, $60m IDIQ contract, we provide a comprehensive range of support Peter Brown Construction provides general including masterplanning, programme contracting, design-build and construction and project management, engineering, management services, predominantly conceptual design, transportation planning, in Florida and Georgia, working for scheduling, cost estimating, GIS and a number of public and private clients.
Our Faithful Gould business continues to win work for public and private sector clients, providing project management and cost control services in an increasingly cost-conscious market.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Reviews 26 Reviews Business Review Segmental performance continued Our Middle East business had a very good year thanks to successful debt recovery and diversification into infrastructure.
Middle East Key performance indicators 2011 2010 change Financial metrics Revenue 140.9m 136.6m 3.1% Operating profit 23.8m 14.0m 70.0% Operating margin 16.9% 10.2% 6.7pp Work in hand 89.0% 57.0% 32.0pp People Staff numbers at 31 March 1,555 1,867 -16.7% Average staff numbers for the year 1,629 2,154 -24.4% 1, 555 People employed in the Middle East 140.9m Revenue WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Reviews Reviews 27 What we said What we did We will continue to add niche skills and We have successfully repositioned our prepare for the economic upturn.
operations to take advantage of the shift to public sector infrastructure in many regions outside Dubai.
We were one of the first engineering consultants to establish a trading presence in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
Page 14 Our Strategy Middle East Revenue m Operating profit m Average staff numbers 3% 70% -24% 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 Revenue by sector Revenue by geography Buildings 42% Dubai 21% Rail inc. mass transit 17% Abu Dhabi 33% Urban development 13% Bahrain 12% Roads 10% Oman 11% Other 18% Qatar 5% Saudi Arabia 8% India 3% Other 7% WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 79.4 112.2 186.0 136.6 140.9 7.3 9.5 17.3 14.0 23.8 1,417 2,119 2,823 2,154 1,629 Reviews 28 Reviews Business Review Segmental performance continued Middle East Performance Strategy Operations Our Middle East business had a very Our strategy in the Middle East continues Our long standing dependency on the good year.
The increased profit in the year to be one of sector diversification and property and building design market has primarily reflects the recovery of a number geographic expansion as we develop reduced significantly over recent years with of long outstanding debts, although a multidisciplinary business across the infrastructure, planning and consultancy the underlying operating margin of the region.
This strategy has seen the business now representing 69% of our order book.
move away significantly from its DubaiIn addition, we have extended our centric building design focus, to serve geographic footprint, with 64% of our We continue to adjust our staff numbers a broader infrastructure market, securing order book now located outside the to reflect prospective workload and mix of work in airports, rail, defence, planning United Arab Emirates UAE.
During the year, staff numbers and management consultancy.
Successful completion of the Dubai Metro This is a result of reduced activity in the Business drivers Red Line remains a high-profile reference, property market along with the transfer The economic climate and market proving our capability and capacity to of approximately 100 staff to the Energy confidence in the region, which is driven deliver large scale, multidisciplinary segment.
This reduction is actively being primarily by the global price of oil, is key infrastructure projects.
This capability offset by the success of our strategy to to demand for our services as regional was important in our award of the concept increase planning and infrastructure spending ultimately flows through to design for the 1,300km Etihad Rail project, capabilities across the region.
Additionally, the formerly Union Rail in Abu Dhabi, longer term need to develop infrastructure a central element in the modernisation of Business model for growing economies and populations the UAEs goods distribution network and We have an established presence in will drive demand for our services.
Events the King Abdulaziz International Airport seven Gulf locations, through which we such as the 2022 FIFA World Cup in Qatar in Jeddah, for which we are the lead deliver our multidisciplinary design and also create localised opportunities.
designer and programme manager for engineering consultancy services.
We now a new 30-million passenger per annum have a permanent establishment in the Political unrest in parts of the region terminal with the associated buildings Kingdom of Saudi Arabia KSA and, with could interrupt our Middle East business.
our newly established partnership, we However, to date, this has only had are able to deliver significant resource a minor impact on our business in Bahrain.
Our work on the Dubai Metro Green Line and expertise to the Kingdom to meet continues, along with other rail-related the demand for design services.
This new work such as the Makkah Metro project market opportunity adds to our already in KSA, Lussail Light Rail in Qatar and the well established businesses in Abu Dhabi, Kuwait Metro.
Dubai, Qatar, Oman, Bahrain, India and Kuwait.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Reviews Reviews 29 Awarded Gulf Cooperation Council GCC Consultant of the year.
com GCC-award Middle East People We believe our staff numbers have now stabilised, having previously reduced significantly in line with anticipated market demand.
We have increased our investment in key staff, making a number of strategic hires to strengthen our capability.
Outlook Overall market sentiment is improving, although the timing of work remains unpredictable, making resource planning challenging.
Qatar, following its successful bid to host the 2022 FIFA World Cup, and KSA have announced significant infrastructure and housing investment, which present excellent opportunities for our business.
Our order book at 31 March 2011 totalled 89% of budgeted revenue for 2011 12 2010: 57%, positioning us for growth this year.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Reviews 30 Reviews Business Review Segmental performance continued Our Asia Pacific and Europe business has performed well as we have continued to focus on improving the quality of our offering in the various markets served.
Asia Pacific and Europe Key performance indicators 2011 2010 change Financial metrics Revenue 155.3m 148.8m 4.4% Operating profit 12.1m 7.4m 63.5% Operating margin 7.8% 5.0% 2.8pp Work in hand 53.3% 55.8% - 2.5pp People Staff numbers at 31 March 1,926 1,930 -0.2% Average staff numbers for the year 1,929 1,943 -0.7% 1, 926 People employed in Asia Pacific and Europe 155.3m Revenue WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Reviews Reviews 31 What we said What we did Asia Pacific: We will continue to invest in Asia Pacific: Steadily improving quality China to take advantage of opportunities and returns in recent years provide optimism as the market opens up, recognising that that the region has modest growth it could be several years before material potential for us.
In Hong Kong we will broaden our spread of activity beyond a principally transportPage 15 Our Strategy biased platform.
Europe: We will continue to develop our Europe: We acquired Gimsing local businesses, focusing particularly on & Madsen A S, an independent specialist opportunities in Scandinavia which build consultancy in bridge and structural design.
We expanded into the Norwegian rail market, leveraging our leadership position Page 15 Our Strategy in Denmark.
Asia Pacific and Europe Revenue m Operating profit m Average staff numbers 4% 64% -1% 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 Revenue by sector Revenue by geography Revenue by client type Rail inc. mass transit 43% Hong Kong 29% Public sector: Urban development 14% Mainland China 17% local government 38% Roads 11% Denmark 23% Public sector: Buildings 11% Sweden 13% national government 28% Water and environment 8% Norway 4% Private sector 34% Other 13% Other European 14% WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 74.7 86.7 129.1 148.8 155.3 0.3 2.0 5.9 7.4 12.1 1,442 1,656 1,829 1,943 1,929 Reviews 32 Reviews Business Review Segmental performance continued Asia Pacific and Europe Performance Strategy We maintain our commitment to Ireland Our Asia Pacific and Europe business has We continue to invest in China to take and Portugal despite difficult economic performed well as we have continued to advantage of opportunities for the longer conditions.
Together, these markets now focus on improving the quality of our term as the market opens up, recognising account for less than 1% of the Groups offering in the various markets served.
this could take several years before material turnover.
The segment consists of our design growth is achieved.
We have focused on and engineering consultancy and the development of our architectural and Business drivers Faithful Gould businesses in Hong Kong, urban masterplanning businesses, applying The two regions within this segment are mainland China and Singapore, and six world class design and planning talent to at different stages of the economic cycle.
countries across Europe: Denmark, Norway, take advantage of the market potential.
As Asia Pacific, and more specifically China, Sweden, Poland, Portugal and Ireland.
part of our strategy we have strengthened is growing and investing in infrastructure our architectural design capability and this, in both the public and private sectors, The portfolio of businesses has increased coupled with our Hong Kong infrastructure giving us good growth potential.
revenue by 4.4% and improved margins design skills, will provide added value to significantly year on year to 7.8% our customers.
In a number of areas of Europe, especially 2010: 5.0%.
Average staff numbers Scandinavia, investment is underway in are broadly flat at just over 1,900.
In Hong Kong, we have expanded our critical infrastructure in both the public mechanical and electrical engineering and private sectors, providing good Performance within this segment has been capability by recruiting key talent and also growth potential.
However, government driven largely by the relative economic significantly increased our architectural austerity measures in Ireland and Portugal conditions in the different markets.
We continue to broaden our are reducing the available work, impacting Pacific has shown strong growth in the infrastructure work to serve contractors future opportunities and creating sectors in which we operate.
In contrast, and private sector developers, providing increasing pricing pressure.
parts of Europe, such as Ireland and a greater platform for further revenue Portugal, continue to struggle.
Operations Scandinavian businesses have performed Our Chinese business continues to improve well, with continued expansion and We continue to develop our core margins and we are seeing increased diversification.
Scandinavian businesses, broadening activity in most of our markets.
The Hong the services we offer through organic Kong rail infrastructure market remains Business model growth and targeted acquisitions.
Our buoyant and our design work for MTRC is We operate through a network of offices acquisition of the 20-person Danish bridge progressing well.
Our Hong Kong business in Asia Pacific and Europe.
We deliver engineering and tunnelling consultancy was recognised for the quality of its work multidisciplinary services and share Gimsing & Madsen in November 2010 when it was presented with a Gold Quality technical expertise in support of our clients.
builds on our existing relationship with Award by MTRC for its design on the West this business and enhances our medium Island Line and Express Rail Link projects.
and long span bridge capability.
We are also securing further commissions with contractors as the rail delivery In Poland, we continue to focus on our programme moves into the construction project and environmental services for phase.
Our continued success in the local the transport and energy markets and this market has allowed us to consolidate the year we were appointed as the owners core skills of our civil, highway and bridge engineer for the Polish liquefied natural engineering and also to recruit and expand gas LNG project.
The addition of building services and architecture skills to the Hong Kong team further enhances our potential.
The Hong Kong government is still issuing a wide range of tenders and appears committed to its major infrastructure expenditure programme.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Reviews Reviews 33 Double win at rail quality awards in Hong Kong.
com HK rail award Awarded major bridge assignment in Denmark.
com win Denmark Asia Pacific and Europe With our strong position in the market, we We have also been chosen as part of a Outlook are well placed to deliver these upcoming consortium with Vssing, EKJ Consulting Overall, the outlook for this operating projects.
engineers and Sweco to design the first segment remains good.
There are good phase of high speed enabled rail line in prospects for our rail design and Faithful Gould, which has 150 2010: 156 Denmark.
The award by Rail Net Denmark infrastructure businesses in Hong Kong staff in Asia Pacific, is seeing a stable includes the construction of 60km of new and continued strong demand for urban pharmaceutical and oil and gas sector, line which will link with the 180km route planning and architectural design in with increasing opportunities in the from Copenhagen to the German border.
Our Scandinavian industrial and property sectors.
This flagship project is the first Danish line businesses continue to grow steadily, while designed for high speed operation.
It is also our other European businesses still face Our urban planning and architectural the first new line to be built in more than challenging market conditions.
businesses in mainland China, which a decade.
This win helps us build on our operate out of three primary locations, are existing expertise in high speed rail and This segment has secured work in hand performing in line with our expectations is informing our preparatory work on of 53% of 2011 12 budgeted revenue in a highly competitive, yet extremely new systems in North America, Sweden, 2010: 56%, which provides a good buoyant, property market.
Notable projects Norway and the UK.
include design of the 200m HQ tower for the Bank of China, as well as a luxury We are progressing well with Denmarks hotel and villa complex within the most European Rail Traffic Management System prestigious resort area of Hainan Island.
This is a significant Tourism and leisure are particularly buoyant resignalling design contract extending over and we are working on a variety of projects 15 years.
It is the first time an advanced involving international five-star hotel system like this has been fitted to an entire operators and high-profile golf course countrys strategic rail network and it will designers.
Interest in low carbon design is set the standard for Europe.
We also growing in the public and private sectors, continue to provide consultancy on the enabling us to deploy Group wide skills in transportation package for the Copenhagen urban planning and building design.
continue to focus our effort on enhancing our skills and improving the quality of our People offering in this market.
We continue to invest in and develop our people in a portfolio of markets with very Our Scandinavian businesses, with a total different staff turnover and retention rates.
of approximately 550 staff 2010: 500 The Asia Pacific region has seen staff performed well.
Our acquisition in turnover increase as the economy expands Denmark of Gimsing & Madsen has rapidly, creating recruitment and retention helped us secure new work, including the challenges.
In contrast, in parts of Europe preliminary studies and design work for we have had to adjust staff numbers several new and existing bridge structures downwards in line with prospective as part of a widening programme on workload.
the Kge Bay motorway in Denmark.
Expanding the motorway from six to eight lanes will require the construction of seven new bridges, the extension of nine existing bridges and re-insulation of three.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Reviews 34 Reviews Business Review Segmental performance continued Our Energy business continues to perform well with revenue up more than 20% year on year.
Energy Key performance indicators 2011 2010 change Financial metrics Revenue 98.6m 82.0m 20.2% Operating profit 8.5m 8.4m 1.2% Operating margin 8.6% 10.2% -1.6pp Work in hand 28.5% 28.2% 0.3pp People Staff numbers at 31 March 993 828 20.0% Average staff numbers for the year 970 805 20.5% 9 93 People employed in Energy 98.6m Revenue WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Reviews Reviews 35 What we said What we did Areas such as energy demand investment We acquired Technical Services Scotland, and collaboration across businesses.
adding supplementary skills to our existing We will utilise Group resources to address UK energy business.
We have established the Atkins Training We have a significant focus on the energy Academy, focused on mobilising technical sector reinforced by the new Energy staff from other engineering disciplines into reporting segment.
We have entered into a joint venture with Assystem to exploit nuclear opportunities.
Page 15 Our Strategy Energy Revenue m Operating profit m Average staff numbers 20% 1% 20% 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 Revenue by sector Revenue by client type Oil and gas 43% Public sector: Nuclear 41% national government 9% Power inc. renewables 16% Regulated 46% Private sector 45% 9 93 People employed in Energy 98.6m Revenue WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 31.8 39.0 72.4 82.0 98.6 3.5 4.4 7.8 8.4 8.5 359 424 716 805 970 Reviews 36 Reviews Business Review Segmental performance continued Energy Performance The agreement marks a significant step Operations Our Energy business continues to perform forward in achieving our aspiration to Our nuclear business remains busy on well with revenue up more than 20% be the leading worldwide nuclear existing nuclear generation and year on year and profit up slightly.
The infrastructure consultancy and a number decommissioning work, continuing to build reported margin has been suppressed of active international opportunities are on its established base in the UK.
In the by our significant investment in strategic being pursued.
year we were awarded a framework opportunities, such as the recently contract by Magnox Ltd for the design announced nuclear joint venture with Business drivers of facilities for the retrieval and processing Assystem, n. triple.
a, and acquisitions Our business is underpinned by the of solid intermediate level radioactive waste in the power and oil and gas sectors.
requirements of an energy sector that is ILW across all the Magnox sites in the dealing with increasing demand in areas UK, as well as a framework contract for Business model of high population growth, dwindling decommissioning services at Dounreay The Energy business operates worldwide natural resources and an imperative for Dounreay Site Restoration Ltd. in several home markets, competing both to decarbonise.
in its own right and through several joint We continue to win work for nuclear new ventures against a wide range of High oil prices drive demand to keep build in the UK and we remain confident competition, from large multinational existing facilities operating longer, drawing that recent events in Japan have not engineering consultancies to specialist on our safety and integrity services.
The detracted from the UK nuclear new build niche players.
move towards more deepwater production programme which provides us with also creates opportunities for our advanced significant opportunities.
findings from the UK Governments review We continue to look at investment into safety standards in the nuclear opportunities, selectively extending our The development of a global gas market industry, in the light of the Fukushima geographic footprint through organic has allowed us to win a number of Dai-ichi power station incident, concluded growth, partnering arrangements and challenging projects in liquefied natural that there is no reason why the UK should targeted acquisitions.
We remain focused gas LNG and gas storage and we see not proceed with current policy, namely on nuclear, oil and gas, conventional this trend continuing.
that nuclear should be a significant part generation and renewables and are of the future energy mix.
applying our high-end engineering skills to In nuclear we see a similar trend to oil, assure the integrity of existing operational with increasing focus on keeping existing Outside the UK we are pleased to report facilities and the design of new facilities.
facilities operating safely for longer, with that our work on the International a continuing requirement for technical Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor In February 2011 we announced that we support around nuclear decommissioning.
ITER programme, being built in the south had formed a strategic alliance, n. triple.
a In addition many countries around the of France, is progressing to plan.
ITER the Nuclear Atkins Assystem Alliance, world are turning to new build of nuclear is the next step in a global research and with the French engineering consultancy power plant as part of the long term development programme to harness Assystem.
a is a 50 50 joint venture solution for decarbonisation.
Our valuable nuclear fusion to generate electricity.
targeting nuclear new build opportunities nuclear skills are in high demand across The 150m contract was won by a as well as services for the entire nuclear the entire nuclear lifecycle.
multidisciplinary Atkins team, working fuel cycle.
The alliance will provide in joint venture alongside three other consultancy and engineering services to Across our entire energy portfolio the companies.
As architect engineer, the joint countries developing nuclear power as limitation on growth is the availability of venture is providing full multidisciplinary part of their energy mix, whether they are skills.
We therefore continue to invest in design services for this 3bn capital considering nuclear new build projects or our in-house training academy, which this project.
infrastructure across an existing portfolio.
year welcomed more than 270 staff onto its courses.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Reviews Reviews 37 Atkins and Assystem form strategic alliance, n. triple.
com Energy Our power business has gone through We are currently supporting the People a transformational year with the acquisition development of Singapores first liquefied Our people are highly skilled professionals of the Technical Services Scotland TSS natural gas LNG terminal, and in with world class technical expertise that consultancy and the technical support June 2010, we were appointed as investors is an essential part of the high quality team from RWE npowers Bellshill Technical supervisor for a LNG regasification terminal service we provide to our clients.
This acquisition expands in Swinoujscie, Poland, the first such are frequently called upon to assist with our combined thermal generation offering installation to be constructed in Eastern the industrys greatest challenges.
and is already generating client interest as Europe.
The terminal is recognised as one we use our combined skills to access new of the most strategic investments in Poland This has been illustrated in the past year project opportunities.
This has directly led and will provide energy security for the by our involvement in the aftermath of the to our appointment as technical support country by increasing the diversity of Macondo incident in the Gulf of Mexico framework providers to both Drax and gas suppliers.
Engineers from our Houston Eggborough.
We have, however, lost office were seconded to the BP Incident a follow-on contract for customer services We also continue to build our reputation Response team for several months, support with the Carbon Trust, meaning in supporting the development of difficult providing a range of technical expertise.
that 55 staff will leave the business in the oil and gas fields.
Our relationship with We are now supporting BP with the early part of 2011 12.
Our power business Chevron, for example, spans the globe.
implementation of a number of findings is consequently now more focused on We are supporting its activities in the that arose from its internal investigation our mainstream engineering consultancy North Sea, Gulf of Mexico, Australia, and it is calling on our capabilities to activities.
West Africa and Brazil providing our full support a number of activities as part range of services and capabilities to one of a review of its global drill rig fleet.
A buoyant oil price, and the increased of the largest current capital expenditure focus on integrity management and safety programmes in the oil and gas industry.
In a similar vein we are currently working following the Macondo incident in the with EDF in support of the programme Gulf of Mexico, have driven activity in the Our experience in the offshore oil and gas management of the UK nuclear fleet offshore oil and gas industry, which has industry has allowed us to take a significant following the recent incident at Fukushima increased demand for our teams in the position in the marine renewables sector, in Japan.
UK, North America and the Middle East.
which is a key component of the UK Governments low carbon strategy.
We Our year end staff numbers in this segment On 6 June 2011 we announced the have built significant capability in this include approximately 100 staff transferred acquisition of Pyrys 130-people-strong sector and our multidisciplinary approach from the Middle East as part of an internal oil and gas engineering design and of combining our experience in offshore reorganisation.
This structures, power transmission and acquisition represents a step up in distribution makes us well placed for this Outlook our ability to deliver process-led expanding market over the longer term.
The outlook for our Energy business is multidisciplinary projects on a worldwide very good.
Work in hand is at similar levels scale, adding to our traditional oil and Earlier this year we were awarded a to last year, at 29% 2010: 28%.
Strategic gas consultancy and assurance services.
contract to provide expert engineering investment through acquisitions and joint design advice as part of a high profile wind ventures has strengthened our business power alliance supporting Scottish and and we are well positioned to capitalise Southern Energy plc in its drive to boost on a strong market.
We have also recently been appointed as the designer for the meteorological masts for the Dogger Bank offshore wind farm, potentially one of the largest in the world.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Reviews
