com Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements 13 Phase 2: Operational excellence Phase 3: Organic growth Our ongoing focus on improving the value and quality We are now developing a range of organic growth of our operations has transformed our operations, with projects to transform our portfolio again, reducing each of our commodity businesses positioned amongst average operating costs and increasing volumes by the lowest cost producers in their respective industries.
Industry-leading cost savings Group safety performance % of operating costs per million hours worked 40 0 79% improvement -1 1.0 30 2002-2011 1.9 -2 20 84% improvement 2.7 2002-2011 -3 10 3.4 -4 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 Q Total recordable Q Lost time injury injury frequency rate frequency rate Our decentralised business structure supports nding new and We have successfully completed 22 major projects to expand innovative ways to improve the quality of our assets through year-onexisting mines and construct new operations, including 10 projects year operating cost reductions, productivity improvements, mine life successfully delivered in 2011.
Our project pipeline comprises a extensions and health, safety and environmental improvements.
further 20 approved projects and we are on track to commission seven major expansion projects during 2012.
See page 36 to 39 for 36 progress on our projects Our reserves and resources base continues to grow in scale and certainty the second half of 2011 and between October and the beginning of 2012 and during 2011 we announced particularly significant increases to copper we commissioned a capacity expansion at the Collahuasi joint venture, resources, particularly in South America, animportant region for our future an extension to the Kidd operations mine life, the Black Star Deeps and growth plans.
Intotal, contained copper resources increased by 15%, or Handlebar Hill zinc projects and an expansion at the Antamina copper zinc over 13 million tonnes, to 100 million tonnes.
joint venture, all of which are now contributing to volumes.
But it is from the second half of 2012 that we will start to see the Our strategy transformational impact of our organic growth strategy, in particular on our Our organic growth strategy is ramping up as planned.
Record cash copper and nickel businesses.
The Antapaccay expansion in southern Peru generation of $11 billion together with a successful renancing of our bank will replace production from the Tintaya mine and increase annual output to facilities and $3 billion from a US bond issue during the year bolstered our an average of 160,000 tonnes per annum for the first five years of its 20-year balance sheet to support our growth.
Despite total capital expenditure of mine life.
Antapaccay is an important milestone in developing our interests over $8 billion, we ended 2011 with gearing of 15%.
We commissioned 10 in southern Peru into a major copper-producing division with further growth new projects, five of which came on line in the final quarter.
The Mangoola potential and all the benets of a regional network of operations, logistics, greeneld thermal coal operation was commissioned ahead of schedule and skilled personnel and stakeholder relationships.
The mine is 56% complete, within budget and this new, low cost operation and the successful restart of we have purchased all of the equipment required for the project and the Falcondo ferronickel operation made a significant contribution to volumes detailed engineering is complete.
Our teams are now installing the crusher during the year.
The Kikialik expansion to the Raglan nickel mine, Newlands and conveyor systems and the operation is on track to start production later underground and ATCOM East coal operations were commissioned during this year.
com &KLHI [HFXWLYH 2IFHUnV VWUDWHJLF UHYLHZ continued 14 Progress against our priorities Strategic Progress Priorities Key performance priorities in 2011 in 2012 indicators To deliver a Tier 1 portfolio t 10 projects successfully commissioned t Deliver seven major projects t Targeted 50% volume growth of projects to increase our during 2011, four of which were during the year across five over 2009 levels by the end production volumes and meet delivered ahead of schedule.
of 2014. societys demands t Seven projects approved with t 20% reduction in operating costs a capital spend of $2.6 billion.
To increase the net present value t Real cost savings of $391 million t Ongoing focus on improving t Real costs savings page 31. of our business by improving the delivered, moving all businesses into the quality of our assets t Total recordable injury frequency quality of our assets and by the lower half of industry cost curves.
through year-on-year cost rate page 32. operating safely and efficiently reductions, mine life extensions t 26% improvement in total recordable and productivity and safety injury frequency rate on 2010. improvements.
To maintain our industry-leading t Six fatalities at our managed t Zero fatalities.
standards of health, safety and operations.
t Further reduction in our total t Total recordable injury frequency environmental performance and t 26% improvement in total recordable recordable injury frequency rate page 32. to be viewed as a responsible injury frequency rate on 2010. rate.
partner within the communities t Environmental incidents in which we operate t Zero category 3 environmental t Zero category 3 environmental page 33. incidents.
t Corporate social involvement t Corporate social involvement page 35. of $102 million.
To foster a high-performance, t On average 48 hours of training t Rollout of employment value t Voluntary turnover page 35. entrepreneurial, non-hierarchal provided for each employee.
proposition programme that t Training hours and spend culture that attracts the best supports the retention and t $1,028 spent on training, on average, page 35. people, and empowers them to attraction of high-calibre for each employee 9% more than succeed and build the capabilities individuals.
in 2010. necessary to deliver our strategy t Career development programmes in place that include annual reviews.
To conduct our business activities t Training across all businesses t Ongoing human rights training t Zero incidents of bribery, fraud in an ethical and commercially on our Code of Conduct.
and awareness-raising across or corruption.
t Courses undertaken on human rights training.
t No confirmed transgressions of human rights To maintain a strong and exible t Our syndicated loan facilities t Continued cash generation to t Gearing net debt net debt capital structure capable of were renegotiated into a $6 billion support the development of equity.
supporting our growth plans five-year facility.
t Cash generation from operations t $3 billion bond successfully launched.
page 42. t Net debt position page 43.
To identify and take advantage t We acquired First Coal Corporation in t To continue our disciplined t Successful integration of acquired of opportunities to deliver value Canada, E1 and Monakoff copper approach towards acquisitions assets, realisation of anticipated through strategic partnerships, tenements in Australia, and Hackett and divestments.
acquisitions or divestments River and Wishbone exploration properties in Canada.
com Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements 15 Xstratas approved copper equivalent production growth 170 Antamina expansion Antapaccay Collahuasi Phase II Las Bambas Collahuasi Phase I Lomas Bayas Ernest Henry Cerrejn Phase I II underground mine 160 Kidd mine extension Mount Margaret Fraser Morgan Tweefontein Mangoola Ravensworth 150 Bracemac McLeod Ulan West North ATCOM East Newlands UG George Fisher Ulan open cut Raglan expansion 140 Raglan Kikialik Koniambo Lady Loretta Falcondo 50% Tswelopele 130 Lion II Black Star Deeps Handlebar Hill 120 Key: Copper Coal 110 Nickel Zinc Alloys Commissioned and producing 100 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2009 base.
Year of commissioning The second major project to start up this year, our Koniambo nickel project, the cost of land acquisition and social infrastructure, achallenge we are facing is advancing at a good pace.
Our teams are progressively starting up the around the world, and delays to our permitting process resulting from the key elements of the substantial infrastructure involved in building this remote, wholesale change in the civil service which followed the Peruvian presidential large-scale project ahead of delivering first ore to the furnace later thisyear.
The project remains on schedule for commissioning in the Koniambo will ramp up to full production in 2014 and will transform our nickel second half of 2014. business in terms of volumes, costs and industry position.
We approved a further seven growth projects in 2011 with a total capital The greeneld Las Bambas project will share some of the infrastructure at commitment of $2.6 billion, including a significant expansion to the Cerrejn Antapaccay and early works and detailed engineering started during the thermal coal joint venture in Colombia, and the development of the Ulan second half.
Las Bambas will be a major, low cost new copper mine producing Open Cut coal mine and the greeneld Lady Loretta zinc mine in Australia.
400,000 tonnes per year and will contribute to our projected total copper We also remain alive to prospective opportunities to replenish our growth pipeline and we completed six bolt-on acquisitions in copper, zinc and coal.
production of 1.5 million tonnes by 2015.
Despite some severe cost pressures, and the incorporation of detailed engineering design into the cost estimates, Our strategy to execute the best growth options within our portfolio is now the copper team has contained capital costs to 15% of the original indicative well underway and will reduce average operating costs, increase volumes and $4.23billion budget we approved last year.
Uncontrollable costs of deliver significant value to our shareholders over the coming years to respond $460 million represent over two-thirds of the total and include ination in to the positive market outlook we see for commodities.
