com Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements Technology Services Jameson Cell 77 Financial and operating data The Jameson Cell is a high intensity otation technology that has traditionally Year ended Year ended been very successful in ne coal otation.
During 2011, there was increased $m 31.12.11 31.12.10 demand from base metal applications for copper and gold processing and Revenue 222 153 we anticipate these customers will represent around 50% of future revenue.
EBITDA 34 32 IsaKidd Technology Depreciation and amortisation 7 6 IsaKidd combines the Isa Process and Kidd Process copper rening EBIT 27 26 technologies and offers a comprehensive technology package in electroCapital expenditure 6 2 rening, electro-winning and full solvent-extraction electro-winning plants.
Our Technology Services business provides expertise and technology to Revenue from our IsaKidd technology increased by 19% in 2011 on the support the processes involved in mining and metallurgy.
Technology Services previous year as a result of continued strong demand for our unique comprises Xstrata Technology, based in Brisbane, Australia, a specialist specication stainless steel cathode plates both 316L and Duplex.
Our technology solutions provider, and Xstrata Process Support, based in Sudbury, patented XT Duplex steel has demonstrated superior corrosion resistance Canada, an independent group that provides highly specialised technological and is continuing to gain market share.
The new robotic stripping machine we support both to Xstratas operations and to third-party customers.
successfully commissioned during 2011 has demonstrated improved stripping effectiveness and throughput consistency for single sheet requirements.
Revenue in 2011 increased by 45% compared to 2010, due to increased orders across all our Technology Services businesses, in particular those Orders for our IsaKidd technology continue to be strong from major delivering hydrometallurgical and mineral processing technologies.
Overall, industrial regions including China, Africa, India, South America, Asia and Technology Services EBIT remained at a similar level to 2010, as a result of Europe.
a changing revenue mix and growing competition in some regions.
Xstrata Process Support Xstrata Technology Xstrata Process Support provides expert technical services to the minerals Albion Process sector through four separate groups.
Interest has continued to recover and Our Albion Process technology provides a robust method of treating revenues from external customers for 2011 represented 49% of total revenue refractory concentrates with low capital costs through combining ne grinding compared to 35% in 2010. in the IsaMill with leaching under atmospheric conditions.
Process Mineralogy A number of third-party customers are now implementing our Albion Our Process Mineralogy group, a mineral processing and science business, Process technology, including Bass Metals Hellyer gold project in Tanzania, continues to see strong demand from our operations and projects.
In 2011, and the GeoPro Mining Gold Project in Armenia.
In early January 2012, an the group provided GeoMet unit selection, ore characterisation, plant Albion Process plant to treat refractory gold concentrates in the Dominican optimisation and owsheet development services to Strathcona Mill and Republic began commissioning for Panterra Gold Limited.
Bracemac-McLeod project in Canada and to the Pallas Green project in Ireland.
During the year, a new service focusing on support for plant We are also operating two Albion Process plants at our Nordenham and operations was started and is enjoying strong demand from third-party San Juan fide Nieva zinc smelters, supporting improved zinc recovery from customers.
McArthur River Mines bulk zinc-lead concentrates.
Extractive Metallurgy IsaMill Demand for the expertise provided by Extractive Metallurgy on Our IsaMill technology, originally developed for ultra-ne grinding pyrometallurgy and hydrometallurgy to smelters and reneries continued to applications, is now successfully used for mainstream tertiary and regrind grow for uid bed roasting, thermal analysis and process modelling.
The applications across a broad range of industrial applications.
During 2011, group is expanding its pyrometallurgical capabilities through installation of a we saw strong demand growth from platinum and copper companies.
300kW DC furnace for smelter piloting campaigns.
Demand for a metallurgical An iron ore grinding application has been added to our range of products.
accounting audit package from third-party customers was strong.
ISASMELT Process Control Our low capital cost, rapid startup ISASMELT technology is used to both Demand continues to be strong for Process Control, a group of highly modernise existing operations and to build efficient and clean greeneld experienced engineers based in Sudbury, Canada, and at various Xstrata smelters.
During the last 20 years, over 20 ISASMELT plants have been built operations.
During the year, our engineers delivered best practice control in countries including Belgium, China, Germany, India, Malaysia, Peru, US solutions to Xstrata operations including Xstrata Alloys Eland platinum and Zambia.
concentrator in South Africa, Xstrata Coppers Kidd Mine and concentrator In 2011, a new copper plant was commissioned in Kazakhstan and in Canada and Xstrata Nickels Strathcona concentrator in Canada.
In Sudbury, construction continued on a lead plant in Kazakhstan and a lead plant in at Xstrata Nickels new Nickel Rim South mine and Fraser mine projects, China.
We signed a contract with Kansanshi Mining Plc to supply engineering automation and control, particularly for energy savings in ventilation systems, and equipment for a new greeneld copper smelter in Zambia, which has the is being improved.
In South America, our Process Control engineers are part capacity to treat 1.4 million tonnes per year of copper concentrate.
We also of Xstrata Coppers Standard Concentrator Design team, designing and completed a basic engineering package for a plant to recover zinc metal from building replicable copper concentrators and site facilities for the Antapaccay lead blast furnace slag.
and Las Bambas growth projects in Peru.
Bottom Blown Oxygen Cupel BBOC Materials Technology BBOC, a high intensity, cost-effective silver rening technology was Our Materials Technology team provides asset integrity management services developed and is used at Xstratas Britannia Rened Metals renery in the UK.
during the development and implementation stages of capital projects and on During the year, we delivered a BBOC package to Hindustan Zinc Limited in through the full equipment lifecycle.
Plant inspections are specialised and are India and undertook a number of studies on BBOC for external customers.
vital to minimise unexpected plant shutdowns.
In 2011, Materials Technology worked in Canada with Xstrata Nickel at the Sudbury concentrator and smelter and at Xstrata Coppers Horne smelter.
Several smelter acid plant inspections were also completed for external clients during the year.
Materials Technology continues to experience strong demand for its services from external clients and expanded its workforce and services in 2011.
