com Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements The Board evaluates its performance annually, with an external evaluation recently confirmed by independent credit ratings agencies.
Importantly, 7 undertaken at least every three years.
Following an external assessment Glencores marketing capabilities, logistics network and relationships with in the previous year, I led an evaluation of the Boards performance, the thousands of suppliers and customers will provide the merged group with functioning of its Committees and the performance of individual directors, unparalleled insight and opportunities to grow our business a very exciting through a questionnaire and individual interviews with each director.
All proposition for the future company.
directors were satisfied with the performance of the Board in general, Glencore Xstrata will have, in my view, the most entrepreneurial management although we will be extending the time available for committees of the team in the mining industry, with a proven ability to see opportunities, aligned Board to avoid time constraints impacting our discussions.
In particular, strategies and a claried ownership structure, providing an enhanced set of the assessment highlighted the non-executive directors belief that Xstrata strategic options through which to create superior value.
The proposed benets from an exceptional, entrepreneurial management team, who have governance structure is a critical component of the merger and will protect led the successful creation of a major mining group over the last ten years.
the interests of Xstrata shareholders in the combined entity.
It also reects the earnings prole of the combined group, which will be substantially Merger with Glencore weighted towards the industrial assets and will enable Xstrata management The most important task before your Board in 2011 was our consideration to optimise the value of the mining portfolio while Glencore management will of an all-share merger proposal from Glencore, Xstratas largest shareholder.
focus on marketing the combined companys products and seeking out new Any transaction of this scale warrants careful consideration.
The Board and management structure is intended to remain transaction, in which Glencore management will continue to hold a reduced in place for at least two years, including undertakings by key members of but still significant shareholding, clearly requires an even greater level of Glencores management shareholders to support the governance structure.
scrutiny to assess the fairness of the merger terms, the protections in place The proposed merger ratio is earnings accretive for Xstrata shareholders for Xstrata shareholders and the ability of the merged entity to deliver and provides them with a disproportionate share of the combined company superior returns.
based on a number of historic and forward-looking metrics and the Xstratas prospects as a standalone company are very strong.
Consequently, undisturbed market values of both companies before merger discussions the independent directors decision to recommend unanimously the proposed became public.
Xstrata shareholders will also share in the $500 million of merger to Xstrata shareholders rests on our assessment that the combination annual pre-tax synergies we have announced.
In the judgment of the represents an opportunity to create more value for our shareholders than the independent directors, the proposal is fair to Xstrata shareholders and significant value Xstrata can create on a standalone basis.
represents a significant opportunity to create a distinctive business with very strong prospects to generate superior returns for our shareholders.
We have The combined company will create a unique business model in the mining therefore recommended that shareholders vote in favour of the proposal at sector, positioned to compete in a changing landscape.
Industrialising South the extraordinary general meeting to be held in due course.
Asian and other developing economies have replaced the OECD countries as the dominant consumers of commodities and today account for around three-quarters of global copper demand.
The worlds supply of commodities Conclusion is being produced from a more diverse range of producers from all around Xstratas record year in 2011 was a tting conclusion to an exceptional first the world, many of which are located in more opaque and logistically difficult decade of growth and value creation.
The company enters its second decade regions.
In this more complex environment, the combination of Xstrata and in a strong position, well placed to benefit from ongoing demand growth Glencores respective capabilities in mining, marketing and logistics is best for commodities from Asia and with a robust balance sheet to fund our suited to create value.
substantial organic growth programme and to pursue value accretive bolt-on acquisitions opportunistically.
The proposed merger with Glencore offers Our shareholders will continue to benefit from Xstratas growth projects, a number of benets uniquely available from the combination, with a operational expertise and dynamic management team.
Combining with governance structure that protects the interests of Xstrata shareholders and Glencore will provide exposure to additional high-return, near-term growth harnesses the best of both management teams, a unique business model projects, a broader range of commodities including alumina, agricultural and the entrepreneurial management team to execute the many opportunities products and oil, a portfolio of assets in highly prospective emerging regions we see in the combination.
in which we do not yet have a presence, and the worlds leading commodities marketing business.
Together, Glencore Xstrata will have increased scale, the most diverse earnings in the sector and an improved financial position, as Sir John Bond Chairman
