com Financial review continued We continue to ramp up investment in our portfolio of approved organic After announcing a Letter of Intent earlier in the year, on 1 September, Xstrata 44 growth projects.
Major items of expansionary capital spending in 2011 Copper and Goldcorp Inc reached an agreement with Yamana Gold Inc included: providing our managed joint venture, Minera Alumbrera, the exclusive option to acquire Yamanas 100% interest in the Agua Rica project.
Agua Rica is a t $1.2 billion at the greeneld Koniambo nickel project in New Caledonia feasibility stage project in the province of Catamarca, Argentina, located asit approaches first ore to the furnace in the second half of 2012: approximately 35 kilometres from the Alumbrera mine.
It has the potential to t $777 million at the greeneld Las Bambas copper project in Peru: and substantially expand production from Alumbrera and to extend the mine life by more than 20 years.
Goldcorp and Xstrata Copper made a payment of t $651 million in respect of the Antapaccay browneld expansion to the $20 million to Yamana on execution of the denitive agreements, in addition Tintaya copper mine in southern Peru which is on track to commence to the $10 million paid previously.
production in the second half of this year.
On 4 October 2011, we completed the acquisition of the Hackett River and Our copper business commissioned three browneld projects in late 2011.
Wishbone zinc exploration properties, located in the Western Kitikmeot Expansions at the Collahuasi joint venture in Chile to raise daily processing region of Nunavut, Canada, from Sabina Gold and Silver Corp for a cash capacity to 150,000 tonnes and at Kidd Mine to extend the mine life to consideration of CAD50 million.
2018 were successfully commissioned in October and December respectively.
The commissioning of expanded milling capacity and mining operations at On 13 October, we completed the acquisition of the Lossan metallurgical coal the Antamina copper-zinc operation in Peru commenced in December 2011 deposit from Cline Mining Corporation for CAD40 million.
Lossan is located and is expected to ramp up to full production during the first half of 2012. in the Peace River Coaleld of north eastern British Columbia, Canada, and is Production of the first ore from the Ernest Henry underground mine also surrounded by a group of licences recently acquired by Xstrata Coal through commenced as the open pit operations at the mine closed by the end the acquisition of First Coal in early August 2011. of 2011.
On 2 November, we completed the acquisition of the remaining 23.6% During the second half of 2012, we will commission the major Antapaccay and interest in the Pallas Green property in the Republic of Ireland from the Koniambo growth projects, together with the Lomas Bayas phase 2 expansion current joint venture partner in the project, Minco plc, for $19 million.
in Chile and the Tswelopele pelletizing and sintering plant in South Africa to improve the cost and energy efficiency of our ferrochrome operations.
In 2013 Dividends we expect to commission the browneld George Fisher zinc-lead expansion The Directors have proposed a 2011 final dividend of 27.0 per share, and two greeneld zinc developments: the Bracemac-McLeod project in amounting to $792 million, which will be paid on 23 May 2012.
The interim Canada and the Lady Loretta mine in Australia, together with the Lion phase 2011 dividend of 13 per share, amounting to $381 million, was paid on 2 expansion.
Acquisitions and disposals Dividend dates On 4 February, Xstrata Zinc acquired the outstanding 25% interest in the 2012 Lady Loretta lead and silver deposit in Australia held by Cape Lambert Lady Annual General Meeting 1 May Loretta Pty Ltd for AUD30 million $30 million.
The acquisition increased our Ex-dividend date 2 May ownership of the Lady Loretta assets to 100%.
In July, we started construction on the development of the deposit as a new greeneld underground mine.
Record date 4 May Last date to receive currency election forms and completed On 8 February, we announced the exercise of our option to acquire 50% plus mandate forms 8 May one share in Jumelles Limited BVI in respect to the Zanaga iron ore project Applicable exchange rate date 15 May in the Republic of Congo.
Under the agreement, we will fund a minimum of $100 million towards a feasibility study.
Payment date 23 May On 30 June, Xstrata Copper completed the acquisition of the E1 and From January 2011, Swiss tax resident companies are able to return share Monakoff copper tenements in north-west Queensland, Australia, from Exco premium to shareholders free of Swiss withholding tax 35%.
To enable us Resources for AUD175 million $186 million.
The tenements are located close topay the 2011 final dividend and future dividends without deduction of to our Ernest Henry mine and contain open pit copper mineral resources with withholding tax we expect to seek approval from our shareholders at our completed feasibility studies.
Ore from the projects will be processed through 2012Annual General Meeting to reduce a relevant amount of share premium the existing concentrator at Ernest Henry.
Initial production is anticipated from account, following which we will be required to apply to the Court to obtain the second half of 2012. its consent to this reduction.
As a result, we expect to pay our final 2011 dividend on 23 May.
On 4 August, Xstrata Coal completed the acquisition of First Coal Corporation for CAD141 million $144million providing us with access to coking coal exploration leases in British Colombia, Canada.
