com Board of directors 84 Mick Davis Title and age: Chief Executive aged 54 Appointment: Appointed Chief Executive in October 2001 and then Con Fauconnier Chief Executive of Xstrata plc upon incorporation in February 2002 Title and age: Non-executive director, aged 64 Committee membership: Chairman of the Executive Committee, and Appointment: a member of the Health, Safety, Appointed in May 2010 Sir John Bond David Rough Environment and Community Committee membership: Member Committee Title and age: Chairman, aged 70 Title and age: Deputy Chairman and of the Health, Safety, Environment Senior Independent Director, aged 61 Skills and experience: Previously, and Community and Remuneration Appointment: Mr. Davis was Chief Financial officer Committees Appointed in May 2011 Appointment: and an executive director of Billiton Appointed in April 2002 Skills and experience: Dr. Fauconnier Committee membership: Chairman Plc, appointed in July 1997, and was Managing Director of Iscor Mining of the Nominations Committee and Committee membership: Chairman served as Executive Chairman of in 1999, before being appointed as member of the Remuneration of the Remuneration Committee and Ingwe Coal Corporation Limited from Chief Executive of Kumba Resources Committee a member of the Nominations, Audit 1995.
He joined Gencor Limited in Limited in 2001.
From 2006 until his and Health, Safety, Environment and early 1994 from Eskom, the South Skills and experience: Sir John Bond retirement in August 2007, he served Community Committees African state-owned electricity utility, resigned as chairman and nonas Chief Executive officer of Exxaro where he was an executive director executive director of Vodafone Skills and experience: Mr.
Rough Resources Limited, a newly formed Group plc on 26 July 2011.
He was was a director of Legal & General External appointments: None company from the merger of Eyesizwe appointed to the board of Vodafone in Group Plc before retiring from Legal Mining and the non-iron ore assets of 2005 and became chairman in 2006.
As Group Kumba Resources He is a director of A. P. Moller-Maersk Director Investments, Mr.
Rough External appointments: None A S Denmark, the international headed all aspects of fund shipping and investment company, management within Legal & and Shui On Land Ltd, a Hong Kong General Investments quoted property development External appointments: Director company specialising in China.
He of Land Securities Group plc, Brown, retired as Group Chairman of HSBC Shipley & Co Ltd and LME Holdings plc in 2006, having also Holdings Ltd been its Group Chief Executive from 1993 to 1998.
He holds advisory roles with Northern Trust Corp, US, and with KKR Asia.
He is also a member of various advisory bodies in China: China Development Forum: China Banking Regulatory Commission Ivan Glasenberg International Advisory Board: and Title and age: Tsinghua School of Economics and Non-executive director, aged 55 Management at Tsinghua University.
Claude Lamoureux Appointment: External appointments: None Title and age: Appointed in February 2002 Non-executive director, aged 69 Committee membership: None Appointment: Skills and experience: Mr.
Appointed in May 2008 Glasenberg is the Chief Executive Peter Hooley Committee membership: Member of officer of Glencore International plc, Title and age: Audit and Health, Safety, Environment a leading integrated commodities Non-executive director, aged 65 and Community Committees producer and marketer.
He previously Appointment: worked in the coal department of Skills and experience: Mr. Lamoureux Appointed in May 2009 Glencore in South Africa for three was President and Chief Executive years and in Australia for two years.
Committee membership: Chairman officer of the Ontario Teachers From 1989 to 1990, he managed of the Audit Committee Pension Plan Board until 1 December Glencore Internationals Hong Kong 2007.
Previously he spent 25 years as Skills and experience: Mr. Hooley and Beijing ofces.
In 1991 he a financial executive with Metropolitan was, until 2006, Group Finance became Head of Glencores Coal Life in Canada and the US Director of Smith & Nephew plc, Department and in 2002 Chief a global medical devices business External appointments: Director of Executive officer of Glencore listed on the FTSE 100.
He was Cordiant Capital, Maple Leaf Foods International previously Group Financial Controller Inc. Atrium Innovations Inc. and Other external appointments: of BICC plc Industrial Alliance Insurances and Director of United Company Financial Services Inc External appointments: Director and RUSL plc Chairman of BSNmedical Luxembourg Holding Sarl, a medical textiles business group | Xstrata | Annual Report 2011 | www.
com Strategic Review Performance Review Governance Financial Statements Tor Peterson 85 Title and age: Non-executive director, aged 47 Appointment: Appointed in May 2011 Trevor Reid Committee membership: None Title and age: Skills and experience: Tor Peterson Chief Financial officer, aged 51 is Director of Glencores Coal Coke Appointment: commodity department, a position Appointed in February 2002 he has held since 2002, having joined Glencore in 1992.
He is responsible Committee membership: Member for overseeing the global marketing of the Executive Committee business and industrial assets of the Skills and experience: Mr. Reid department, including strategy and joined Xstrata in January 2002.
Before Glencore, he to joining Xstrata, he was Global Aristotelis Mistakidis worked for five years for PhibroHead of Resource Banking at the Salomon Inc. as a marketer, being Title and age: Standard Bank Group.
He joined based in New York, London and the Non-executive director, aged 51 the Standard Bank Group in 1997 Ivory Coast.
from Warrior International Limited, Appointment: External appointments: None a corporate finance boutique Appointed in May 2011 Santiago Zaldumbide specialising in the minerals sector Committee membership: None Title and age: Executive director External appointments: None Skills and experience: Aristotelis and Chief Executive of Xstrata Zinc, Mistakidis is Co-director of Glencores aged 69 Zinc Copper Lead commodity Appointment: department, a position he has held Appointed in February 2002 since February 2000, having joined Glencore in 1993.
He is jointly Committee membership: responsible for overseeing the Member of the Executive Committee marketing business and industrial Skills and experience: Mr. assets of the department, including Zaldumbide is currently Executive strategy and operations.
He is also Chairman of Asturiana fide Zinc.
He is a director of Katanga Mining Limited a previous Chief Executive officer and Recylex S. A and is chairman of and Director of Union Explosivos Sir Steve Robson CB Mopani Copper Mines Plc.
Before Rio Tinto and of Petroleos del Norte.
Title and age: Glencore, he worked at Cargill for six In 1990, Petroleos del Norte became Non-executive director, aged 68 years, where he worked in and gained part of the Repsol Oil Group where experience in the nonferrous metals Appointment: Mr. Zaldumbide was responsible industry Appointed in February 2002 for establishing the international Ian Strachan External appointments: Director of structure of the enlarged Repsol Oil Committee membership: Member Katanga Mining Ltd, Recyclex S. A.
In 1994, he was appointed of the Remuneration and Mopani Copper Mines plc, and Porto Non-executive director, aged 68 Chief Executive officer of the Nominations Committees Vesme SRL Corporacin Industrial fide Banesto Appointment: Skills and experience: Sir Steve and, in December 1997, Chairman Appointed in May 2003 retired as Second Permanent and Chief Executive officer of Secretary at HM Treasury in January Committee membership: Chairman Asturiana fide Zinc 2001.
He had joined HM Treasury of the Health, Safety, Environment External appointments: None after leaving university.
His early and Community Committee and a career included a period as Private member of the Audit Committee Secretary to the Chancellor of Skills and experience: Mr. Strachan the Exchequer and a two-year was Chairman of Instinet Group from secondment to Investors in Industry 2003 to 2005 and Chief Executive plc 3i.
From 1997 until his of BTR plc from 1996 to 1999. retirement, his responsibilities Mr. Strachan joined Rio Tinto plc included the legal framework for formerly RTZ plc as Chief Financial regulation of the UK financial services officer in 1987, and was Deputy industry, public private partnerships, Chief Executive from 1991 to 1995 procurement policy including the private finance initiative and the External appointments: Director of Treasurys enterprises and growth unit Rolls-Royce plc, Transocean Inc. and Caithness Petroleum Limited External appointments: Member of the Financial Reporting Council and KPMG Chairmans Advisory Board.
Chairman of KPMGs Public Interest Committee
