com &KLHI [HFXWLYH 2IFHUnV VWUDWHJLF UHYLHZ continued 16 Our merger with Glencore, the logical next step for both companies Mick Davis IPO and MIM Cerrejn, Falconbridge Jubilee Commissioned Current market value appointed Duiker Enex acquisition Tintaya acquisition acquisition 22 major organic Chief Executive acquisitions acquisitions growth projects US$56bn 2001 2002 2003 2006 2006 2008 2002-11 Equity value IPO market Xstrata total US$0.5bn value US$3bn shareholder return since IPO 339% FTSE100 TSR 58% S&P Index TSR 38% Prodeco Xstrata First public Formation Katanga Convertible IPO Current market value and Kazzinc IPO bond issue of UC Rusal Nikanor bond issue acquisitions merger US$50bn 1995 7 2002 2004 2007 2008 2009 10 2011 Management buyout MBO Glencore compound annual return equity value 1994 US$1.2bn on equity since MBO 28% We will become a highly diversied major resources group in our sector, Merger with Glencore with a unique business model that could not be replicated in any reasonable On a standalone basis, Xstrata is a strong business with a bright future and timeframe.
Increased scale will improve our risk prole, enhance access to Glencore as a 34% shareholder.
But a combination of Glencore and Xstrata capital markets and allow us to participate in industry consolidation.
With represents an outstanding opportunity tocreate additional value for our access to superior market intelligence, relationships with thousands of shareholders.
Bybringing together two companies that have grown in parallel suppliers and customers and the sustainability and operating expertise to a major global diversied mining company and the leading marketer of operate in emerging producing regions, Glencore Xstrata will be well placed commodities and which have a long-standing relationship, Ibelieve we to capture new opportunities across the globe.
have an exciting opportunity to create a unique business better able to capture value from changing industry dynamics and redene the competitive Positioned for a changingenvironment landscape.
Three questions seem to me to apply.
Is this a value-adding Ten years ago, we positioned Xstrata to capture value in a world that was proposition?
Isthis the best governance structure?
And are these the changing.
As I look ahead to our next 10 years, it seems to me that the best terms?
industry landscape is again evolving in a way that is quite profound and that demands new approaches to value creation, supporting the strategic rationale A value-adding proposition and alogical next step for a combination of these two businesses.
A merger between Glencore and Xstrata is the logical next step for both companies.
This transaction represents a natural combination of two The shift in the locus of global demand growth forcommodities away complementary businesses, each with an outstanding track record of from the OECD to the large developing nations, led by China, has had an shareholder value creation, entrepreneurial management teams and aproven important impact on global trade ows.
The value chain for commodities is ability to see valuable opportunities and execute them.
Glencore Xstrata would becoming longer, in geographic terms, and more complex, with new logistical be positioned to create value from each step of the commodities value chain, infrastructure being required to address new trade ows.
New relationships from resource extraction to customer sales, at a time when demand for our are being developed between suppliers and customers who also face new combined products continues to grow.
A growing world population, a rising risks and therefore have new product and service requirements.
middle class and ongoing urbanisation and industrialisation in emerging economies will underpin demand for our expanded range of products for years to come.
At the same time, supply remains constrained due to historic underinvestment, ageing operations and the challenges of bringing new production to fruition.
com Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements 17 Well placed to benefit from positive industry dynamics Glencore Xstrata is uniquely Demand drivers positioned to capture value Metals Growing commodity intensity, including Leading marketer of Population growth early cycle commodities zinc and copper Energy BRICs still far below developed country Leading trader in seaborne Urbanisation per capita energy consumption thermal coal and oil Agriculture Growing food demand and changing Leading grain exporter Increase in wealth consumption patterns from Europe CIS Australia Supply constraints Metals Mine supply growth constraints.
New supply Top five producer of copper, Industry at full capacity increasingly challenged by infrastructure nickel, zinc, ferrochrome Ageing mines falling grades Energy New resources and reserves situated in challenging Number one export thermal locations and limited infrastructure coal, and a growing oil producer Capital expenditure underinvestment Agriculture Growing imbalance between regional demand Growing production base Challenging new geographies and supply leads to greater seaborne trade At the same time, the sources of supply of commodities are also diverging.
In the medium term, our intention is to review the combined entitys portfolio Producers are looking further aeld for access to new resources to highly of assets and projects with a view to improving overall returns.
We will beable prospective emerging geographies as traditional mining regions approach to diversify further into new attractive commodities and to apply world-class depletion.
New small-and medium-sized producers are rapidly emerging from operational excellence across the entire portfolio of assets.
Greater scale these countries, seeking access to core markets but with limited marketing will facilitate the acceleration of growth in the more prospective emerging capabilities and constrained access to infrastructure, finance and logistics.
regions, while a broader range of acquisition opportunities will become In addition, the social licence to operate and gain access to new resources, available to Glencore Xstrata.
Importantly, the unique market insights gleaned irrespective of the region, will be determined increasingly by companies from the most comprehensive marketing and trading network in our industry sustainability credentials and their relationships with their communities.
will lead to new opportunities to create value which, with an entrepreneurial The convergence of these trends means that our space and Glencores areas and nimble culture, Glencore Xstrata will be well positioned to capture.
of expertise are merging, to create opportunities for those companies that The longer term potential of a combined group is even more exciting.
can position themselves to compete in an integrated way in this evolving Our distinctive competitive positioning will allow Glencore Xstrata to see and environment.
access opportunities from new sources of growth across multiple geographies Our strategy for Glencore Xstrata envisages the delivery of value to and commodities and along an evolving value chain.
We will be able to create shareholders over the short, medium and longer term.
The combination deeper and more responsive customer and supplier relationships, leveraging promises to deliver EBITDA synergies of at least $500 million per year in the the power of an integrated global network, expertise and operational first year, primarily from the marketing all the combined entities production capabilities to provide enhanced security of supply, a broader range of by the marketing business unit.
By combining Glencores more immediate products and qualities, and new services to manage evolving risks, for delivery of organic growth with our industry-leading project pipeline, we example in logistics, nancing or sourcing.
And we will continue to focus on accelerate the overall growth of the combined entity to 11% compound doing this in a way that delivers vital products for society to where they are annual growth rate to 2015, compared to an average of 7% for our peers.
needed in aresponsible manner that creates lasting benets for the countries Increased scale and diversity result in an improved risk prole and greater and communities in which weoperate.
Our customers will gain additional security of supply as we are able to leverage a more diverse range of sources of production and from our improved ability to tailor products to their needs.
com &KLHI [HFXWLYH 2IFHUnV VWUDWHJLF UHYLHZ continued 18 Diversication a key competitive advantage Integrated Global monoliths diversieds Glencore Xstrata Rio Tinto Vale Anglo Glencore American Xstrata BHP Billiton Focused locals Number of commodities Governance and management structure to deliver strategy The right terms The governance structure of the combined group is an essential element Although both companies are of a similar size and trade on similar multiples, of the transaction we are proposing to shareholders.
The agreed structure the terms we have agreed with Glencore provide our shareholders with an protects our shareholders interests and ensures that the merged entity will advantageous share of the merged entity.
be able to execute its strategy to its maximum potential.
Experience tellsus The merger will be earnings accretive to Xstrata shareholders from the first that securing a sustainable governance structure that deploys management year.
Our shareholders will continue to benefit from our organic growth according toits respective strengths and protects both setsofshareholders potential, complemented by Glencores near-term, high-return growth to give interests is one of the most importantfactors in creating lasting shareholder the combined group a compound annual growth rate of 11% per annum in value from mergers.
copper equivalent tonnes from 2011 to 2015.
The combined group will unite two entrepreneurial management teams, While the terms are clearly advantageous to Xstrata shareholders, they do each focusing on their respective strengths to maximise the combined groups not cause a punitive dilution that would be unacceptable to Glencore potential.
The Board of 11 will comprise SirJohn Bond, current Xstrata plc shareholders and would probably be reected in the share price.
Both Chairman, who will be its Chairman with eight additional non-executives companies shareholders will benefit from the value-adding potential of the four from each company plus myself andIvan Glasenberg.
I would assume combination, immediate synergies of $500 million per annum from the first the role of Chief Executive with Trevor Reid as Chief Financial officer and full year post completion and the financial and strategic exibility to pursue IvanGlasenberg, currently Glencore Chief Executive officer, would become opportunities within and external to our expanded business.
I believe these Deputy Chief Executive officer and President.
Key elements of our integration are the best possible terms from a combination of Glencore and Xstrata that approach have already been agreed to retain our decentralised business I could achieve for our shareholders.
When taken together with the superior model and entrepreneurial culture, and to allow both businesses to continue to governance structure outlined above, the terms reect both therigour of operate successfully but now in a joined up way uniquely to create added our negotiation and the universe of the possible.
value for all shareholders of the combined company.
2011A and combined 2011 EBIT by division extracted without material adjustment from the Xstrata unaudited preliminary results for the year ended 31 December 2011 and Glencores unaudited profit estimates for certain financial information in respect of the year ended 31 December 2011.
Information in respect of 2009A and 2010A has been extracted without material adjustment from Glencores IPO prospectus and Xstratas audited financial statements in respect of the year ended 31 December 2010.
Adjustments have been made to eliminate trading and balances between Xstrata and Glencore.
Number of geographies | Xstrata | Annual Report 2011 | www.
"com Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements 19 Full integration through the value chain Production processing Marketing distribution Metals Mine Process Optimisation of produce rene logistics blending Acquire Customers Energy Energy develop and markets Port 3rd party 3rd party Shipping mine process Agriculture Warehouse produce rene Delivery Unique insight Value capture Blending Logistics and Arbitrage Top tier industrial assets tFBEJOH HSPXUI t #SPBEFS SBOHF PG QSPEVDUT infrastructure tPDBUJPO QSPEVDU UJNF t Optimising of upstream and processing t Upgrading of subspec products JOFGmDJFOU GPSXBSE DVSWFT t &YUFOTJWF BOE HMPCBM facilities to increase margins t 1SPEVDU TVCTUJUVUJPO commodity books Economies of scale t ""CJMJUZ UP SFmOF DPNQMFY GFFET t $PTU PQUJNJTBUJPO t 4XBQ BSSBOHFNFOUT tPHJTUJDT TUPSBHF DPTUT t 3FEVDFE TIJQQJOH DPTUT The strategic rationale for combining our companies is both exciting and compelling."
Glencore Xstrata will create a vertically integrated, strategically exible and nimble business.
Our company will have an aligned strategy, a robust board and a highly entrepreneurial and dynamic management team.
Combined with the strategic exibility and capabilities to respond to an industry that is evolving ever more rapidly, Glencore Xstrata will be positioned to continue both companies track record of creating superior shareholder value thewhole will be greater than the sum of its parts.
Xstratas independent directors have unanimously recommended the transaction to Xstratas shareholders.
Mick Davis Chief Executive officer
