com Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements 25 Risk Impact Mitigation Project development Any restriction on our ability to develop our Cost control is the key to project development.
Our pipeline of projects and replace older commodity businesses have an excellent track record Part of our three-pronged business strategy operations with new, lower cost supply will of delivering major capital growth projects both on time rests on organic growth from a pipeline of impact future revenues, costs and the and on budget.
We also benefit from extensive project projects across many countries.
development experience within our management teams.
development can be affected by many factors: some are outside our control.
These Severe shortages of resources required to Each business has a comprehensive project approval include technical uncertainties, availability of complete projects, such as labour, process that governs every stage, from approval to suitable nancing, infrastructure constraints, equipment and raw materials, can create an commissioning, and includes future scenario planning.
This cost overruns, overstretched management inationary environment which would impact ensures that material risks are comprehensively assessed and insufficient skills or resources.
Problems our ability to control associated costs.
and, where possible, mitigated before the project proceeds obtaining, renewing or extending relevant to its next phase.
We have an embedded Internal Audit operating, social or environmental permits focus on project development, which includes an early or other legislative requirements can warning system to ensure projects are on track.
Anti-mining detailed progress reports on each major project are sentiment by local communities and or provided to our Executive Committee.
non-governmental organisations can slow Projects are regularly audited against the specic or halt the development of projects or performance standards of our Sustainable Development influence government processes.
Framework to ensure social, environmental and ethical risks are properly identied and managed.
We regularly communicate and work in partnership with government bodies, communities and stakeholders on project development.
We rigorously evaluate our project pipeline and, if appropriate, earmark specic projects for disposal, postponement or partner introduction.
Such actions depend on risk prole and an assessment of potential value.
Talent management recruitment Our future success as we expand will be We aim to attract and retain the best people at every level and retention dependent on our ability to attract and of our business.
The strategy for how we will meet our retain highly skilled and qualied personnel.
personnel requirements is regularly discussed at Board and Increased demand for commodities and Production and project development will be Executive Committee level.
Our human resource teams meet higher commodity prices have led to greater affected if we are unable to attract the right regularly to increase co-operation among our commodity investment in the mining industry and, as a people to our business.
businesses programmes, to share best practice and to result, increased competition to recruit and further our strategy of achieving a competitive advantage retain a limited number of experienced and Our lean management structure is for attracting and retaining personnel.
We regularly review qualied people.
The development of our dependent on a small number of key and adapt our recruitment and retention programmes to pipeline of organic growth projects requires employees.
The loss of any of these reect changes in the labour market.
large-scale recruitment programmes to individuals could signicantly disrupt attract new employees to our business.
We provide our people with industry-leading career development opportunities, well-structured employment At the corporate centre, as a result of contracts, competitive remuneration and incentives and fair our decentralised structure, we have a and non-discriminatory workplaces.
We believe that our devolved management structure, coupled with our support for entrepreneurial initiative, offers unparalleled career development opportunities and is a key retention feature.
Each of our people can play an active role in our success.
Fast track and executive development programmes are in place and formal succession planning is regularly reviewed.
