com Market outlook 20 China year-on-year changes European Union year-on-year changes United States year-on-year changes 30% 15% 15% 10% 10% 25% 5% 5% 20% 0% 0% 15% -5% -5% -10% -10% 10% -15% -15% 5% -20% -20% 0% -25% -25% 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Q China industrial production Q China leading indicator Q EU industrial production Q EU leading indicator Q US industrial production Q US leading indicator For many European countries, public austerity measures undermined Markets domestic demand and reduced confidence in 2011.
Large-scale monetary Global demand for commodities remained strong during 2011 and is stimulus to the banking system at the end of 2011 and in early 2012 has continuing to grow into 2012, despite mixed economic growth across the eased fears of an imminent implosion of the Eurozone.
However, the regions major markets.
Demand for commodities is closely correlated with global problems of high debt, low growth and uneven competitiveness will take economic growth and in particular, industrial production.
many years to address and low growth is likely to continue, even if the Fast-growing economies, including China and India, experienced high currency union can be preserved.
Germany is the major exception, benefitting ination due to the combination of elevated commodity prices and domestic from a relatively weak euro and strong competitiveness due to the fact that it constraints such as tightening labour markets or insufficient physical undertook its own reforms at a time of buoyant external demand.
Growth in these markets is tempered by government actions in In the US, employment is rising and economic growth has become more response to inationary pressures, but rates of economic growth and demand robust and self-sustaining following the deepest and longest labour market for commodities are expected to remain robust.
Overall the outlook for the slump in post-war US history.
The US property market continues to restructure global economy presents a picture of moderate growth for the coming year.
in response to the huge number of foreclosed properties and its construction In 2011, Chinese industrial production maintained its strong growth trajectory, sector is only likely to recover once this has been accomplished.
despite fears of a drop in export demand.
The Peoples Bank of China began to ease monetary policy as ination receded and economic growth receded from the 10% average annual growth rate of the last few years.
Government initiatives and continued domestic demand will mitigate the slowdown being witnessed in the high-end Chinese property market.
com Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements 21 Average commodity price Revenues and earnings for mining companies depend to a large extent on the commodities produced.
As these commodities are traded 38,000 globally, we do not, in common with our competitors, control the prices we receive for our commodities.
Commodity prices are 28,500 signicantly affected by global economic conditions and, in particular, industrial production, which drives global demand 19,000 for metals and energy.
9,500 0 06 07 08 09 10 11 Q Copper average LME cash price $ t Q Australian FOB export coking coal $ t Q Lead average LME cash price $ t Q South African export thermal coal $ t Q Nickel average LME cash price $ t Q Ferrochrome Metal Bulletin lb Q Australian export thermal coal $ t Q Zinc average LME cash price $ t The longer-term prospects for the world economy are positive and global Outlook demand for commodities remains high and looks set to continue.
The significant short to medium-term uncertainty remains, despite signs that increasing number of middle class consumers and heavy investment in the global economy has managed to avoid another recession.
The massive emerging markets physical infrastructure are important long-term drivers.
monetary stimulus provided by Western central banks has supported financial These should persist regardless of recent developments in emerging markets markets and banking systems, in turn stabilising growth.
Major emerging as government measures to control ination temper growth rates.
In addition, markets are slowing from very high growth rates to more sustainable levels rising living standards mean that large numbers of households are joining and, despite the Eurozone sovereign debt crisis remaining unresolved, the middle class in developing countries.
This trend will support a substantial economic indicators suggest a moderately robust outlook for global growth.
increase in the consumption of basic materials via demand for consumer Our proprietary early-warning tracking shows real economy and industrial goods and for more modern residential and commercial buildings.
production indicators pointing towards stable growth for the two largest The Chairmans statement pages 4 to 7 and Chief Executive Ofcers economies, the US and China.
This, along with rising prosperity in Southeast strategic review pages 10 to 19 include commentary on the outlook for Asian and African countries, will underpin demand for commodities.
More detailed commentary on each of Xstratas key In contrast, the Eurozone faces a deteriorating outlook as the southern commodites is included in the Operating review pages 46 to 77. periphery drifts into recession.
High energy prices could undermine demand in advanced economies and further limit output growth in emerging markets.
The long-term solvency of major economies such as Spain and Italy will depend on their ability to reform labour markets and raise their growth potential.
This slow and difficult process may yet falter, possibly leading to a public debt default with major implications for the global banking system.
