com Chairmans statement 4 Record profits and successful delivery of strategy Dividends Xstrata had an outstanding year in 2011, our tenth year as a publicly listed per share company.
A strong operational performance and robust demand for our products resulted in the Groups best ever financial performance, with net 1 earnings rising to $5.8 billion.
Over $390 million of year-on-year sustainable 40 real cost savings and a 26% reduction in injury rates continued an unbroken 40.0 record of year-on-year improvement.
We made good progress in delivering 30 our organic growth strategy and commissioned ten new operations or expansions within budget, many of which started ahead of schedule.
28.3 Construction of our next phase of major new operations is progressing very 25.0 20 well, including the Koniambo nickel operation and the Tintaya-Antapaccay copper expansion, both of which will commence production later this year.
By 2015, our organic growth strategy will increase copper-equivalent volumes 10 by over 50%, reduce average operating costs and deliver robust returns at 10.2 8.0 conservative long-run price assumptions.
We are also evaluating a range 0 of earlier stage growth options to fuel the next phase of growth.
2 2 07 08 09 10 11 Strong demand for commodities in a challenging economic environment The companys strong performance belies the fact that 2011 was challenging for the global economy.
Economic growth and confidence were buffeted by unrest in the Middle East, the tragic earthquake and tsunami in Japan, slow growth in the US and public spending cuts in many European countries, together with concerns about the future of the Eurozone.
In China, economic growth slowed somewhat from the historical average 10% annual rate, but the significant slowdown of industrial production anticipated by some did not occur, and economic growth continues at a robust rate, supported by export demand, easing monetary policy and continuing investment in infrastructure and social housing.
We understand the symbiotic relationship between our business and the broader society in which we operate and, as a company, we are proud of the role we play in creating shared value.
Sir John Bond Chairman 1 On a pre-exceptional basis 2 Adjusted for the 2009 rights issue
