com Risk management continued 24 Risk Impact Mitigation Security of energy supplies The price of energy greatly impacts our We constantly assess and monitor energy-related risks and operating costs because many of our regularly revisit and revise assumptions.
At the design stage Increasing global demand and limited new operations and facilities are intensive of our projects we assess risks associated with energy supply.
supplies impacts the price and availability users of natural gas, oil and other fuels.
Energy efficiency plans have been implemented across of energy.
Many factors that reduce the Constrained energy supplies may impact our operations.
reliability of energy supply or increase our ability to operate, or threaten planned energy prices are beyond our control.
These We have developed proprietary energy generation facilities, operational expansions or the development include strong demand from the Asia Pacic such as a gas-red power plant at Mount Isa Mines, and of new mines.
Approximately 10% of our region: political, regulatory and economic feasibility studies are currently being conducted into a total operating costs relate to energy.
uncertainties: costs associated with emissions hydro-electric power plant in southern Chile.
We have also from fossil fuels: and problems related to developed energy-efficient technologies.
Xstrata Alloys local generation and transmission of power, proprietary Premus technology reduces the energy such as electricity constraints in South Africa consumption of ferrochrome smelting by more than 20% and natural gas shortages in Chile.
We are compared to conventional processes.
We are also pursuing sometimes dependent on one energy the recovery of existing resources, such as capturing coal company, such as Eskom in South Africa.
methane for electricity generation, and exploring opportunities to use lower-carbon power sources, including renewable energy.
We negotiate long-term energy contracts to reduce dependence on spot markets and continuously seek to diversify power sources and identify alternatives.
Emissions and climate change regulations Climate change related legislation, such as Our management place a high priority on climate change carbon pricing proposals in Australia, issues and are committed to measuring, controlling and We operate in several jurisdictions in which Canada and South Africa, may result in direct reducing our impact.
We continually seek ways to legislation to limit or reduce emissions has financial and production costs, higher energy understand our carbon footprint and reduce the carbon been introduced or is being considered.
costs or even restricted energy supply, which intensity of our operations and activities.
We regularly Climate change related legislation could lead could have a material adverse impact on our undertake studies to better understand potential physical to increased costs for fossil fuels, electricity ability to maintain production or contain and weather related risks of climate change on our and transportation, restricted industrial operating costs.
Failing to meet and exceed operations and logistics, and incorporate those findings into emissions, the imposition of charges for best practice for monitoring and reporting our longer-term planning.
The cost of carbon is also included emissions in excess of permitted levels and our emissions will have a reputational impact.
in our existing business and investment decisions expenditure on monitoring, reporting and accounting.
Our customers and suppliers are As the worlds largest producer of export Our commodity businesses actively develop and implement becoming increasingly aware of their own thermal coal, our financial position will be relevant climate change strategies, which include carbon and water footprints and are materially adversely impacted by any performance targets and time frames to achieve these.
We selecting partners who are actively reducing significant decline in the use of coal as a monitor all our emissions to air.
Operations that emit SO set 2 their impact on the environment.
power source as a result of carbon taxes, annual targets to reduce their emissions and increase the emissions trading or similar legislation.
proportion of emitted gas they capture: their progress is reported annually in our Sustainability Report.
Climate change may lead to weather-related events or other physical threats, such as Xstrata Coal actively invests in and advocates government disruption to transport infrastructure that support for research and development projects to reduce could hamper production or damage assets.
greenhouse gas GHG emissions from the use of coal in power generation.
Increased global demand for energy, particularly in developing countries, and its relative cost position, availability and secure supply should ensure demand for coal is supported.
We participate in industry and regulatory initiatives to address climate change and associated issues, and our executive management team is actively involved in the International Council on Mining & Metals Executives working group on climate change.
We also actively engage with governments through industry associations and independently to discuss the potential implications of proposed legislation and to understand and manage potential impacts.
