com Risk management continued 26 Risk Impact Mitigation Social and community Projects could be delayed without broad We work with affected communities to identify and evaluate local community support, impacting future their needs and concerns at every stage of a projects Our operations and the development operating profit, development costs and development and to assess the likely impact on them.
of our project pipeline can impact local our corporate reputation.
We carry out social and human rights baseline studies communities.
On occasion, communities and risk assessments, and engage with communities in a may need to be resettled or local transparent and culturally appropriate manner, respecting infrastructure moved.
In some regions, local laws, customs and heritage.
communities may oppose mining activities.
Health, safety and environment New or amended HSE regulations and Our commitment to sustainable development, incorporating legislation may lead to increased operating environmental, economic and social performance, is Our operations are subject to extensive costs or, in the event of non-compliance, embedded in our operating philosophy.
Our businesses health, safety and environmental HSE potential fines, penalties or other actions operate in accordance with our Sustainable Development regulations and legislation and community that may adversely affect our financial Framework and aspire to achieve the highest international expectations.
We must comply with current, position.
Rehabilitation costs, which are standards regardless of location.
They are regularly new and upcoming laws and our Sustainable usually estimated and provided for over the audited through our Sustainable Development Assurance Development Framework.
life of operations and based on the best Programme, and health, safety, environmental and social information available, may subsequently performance indicators are reported to our Executive increase affecting earnings.
Any breach of our own best practice We have effective management processes in place that standards on HSE performance and support our businesses and sites in complying with regulations community relations could damage our and legislations in each country in which we operate.
reputation and, as a result, our licence We are in regular contact with governments and regulators to operate.
HSE standards at acquired to ensure we are aware of and able to comply fully with operations may also not meet our standards.
We assess HSE risks and opportunities of acquired operations during integration and implement action plans to address underperformance.
Cost control Cost control can help in the creation of We conduct regular internal audits at operations to identify value and is also a measure of the quality potential efficiencies, and incentivise our managers to reduce We are unable to directly set the prices of our operational management and our their operating costs on a year-on-year basis.
In each of the of our commodities and, as such, our stewardship of assets.
Cost performance past ten years, we have achieved real cost savings within competitiveness and long-term profitability is an important management measure, our operations, including 1.9% in 2011. are largely dependent on our ability to and is regularly reported to our reduce costs and maintain low-cost Our world-leading Xstrata Technology Services develops Executive Committee.
technologies to improve efficiencies and reduce operating costs for mineral processing and metals extraction.
Our The cost of extracting and processing raw commodity businesses also invest in the development of materials is affected by the costs of lower cost proprietary technologies.
consumables, such as reductants and reagents, energy, labour, transport and equipment.
Many of these elements are susceptible to supply and demand forces, which create inationary pressures.
