|| Xstrata | Annual Report 2011 | www Xstrata | Annual Report 2011 | www.
com s t b W e e s e s a d i d d f f f e f a e r i r t s e r r a e e e y h n t v a i t w o D s o e d w e W W W p p p p a W o o o o r r r r r t t t n n k y i e e t t n r r ii s r g g h o o w i O i S h p n W E U i t t t U U R u u L L e h a a a a V V V A A Creating shared value x x Our success depends on our ability to create and deliver shared value to all our stakeholders in a sustainable manner.
Our values define what it means to work at Xstrata.
They are our promise to our stakeholders about how we will behave in pursuing our mission.
Weve always been clear about our way of doing things, of seeing opportunities to create value that others dont.
Over the last ten years we developed our strengths and different way of doing things to create and deliver shared value.
Our philosophy is to effect small Devolved authority Working in partnership xi xi improvements on a continuous basis that Our commodity businesses are accountable We form mutually beneficial partnerships with cumulatively have a decisive impact on the for all aspects of their business and are the stakeholders in our business, including quality of our operations and our performance.
mandated to improve the net present value local communities, government, customers, of their underlying business.
We aim to work Since 2001, we have progressively developed together with our partners to enable us to an extensive range of organic growth options.
Through our decentralised structure we ensure make the substantial long-term investments Our approved and near-term projects will decisions are made where the best information required to develop mineral resources while add 50% to 2009 volumes by the end of 2014 exists, through creating a strong sense of creating lasting benets from our presence and substantially reduce our operating ownership at the local level.
Beyond this, a range of earlier stage management are empowered to take opportunities are being assessed to provide pro-active and prompt decisions on Our ability to attract and retain the best people the next phase of growth.
operational, community, environmental with appropriate skills at every level is vital to and people issues and to build meaningful the successful execution of our strategy.
We Our projects and operations have a substantial partnerships with local stakeholders at a site provide industry-leading career development, mineral reserve and resource base, with an or divisional level.
a non-discriminatory workplace, and fair average mine life in excess of 50 years.
Our and competitive remuneration within a annual Reserves and Resources statement is Our devolved management model encourages decentralised, non-bureaucratic culture.
com the rational risk-taking required to foster an entrepreneurial spirit and supports the Industry-leading approach to Financial strength identication and implementation of sustainable development Our commitment to maintaining a robust opportunities to grow or optimise the We aim to manage our business to balance balance sheet and investment-grade rating value of our business, through acquisitions, economic, environment and social provides access to a broad range of funding divestments, project development and considerations.
We are the fourth largest diversied strategic partnerships.
We seek to embed a management and community engagement mining company globally, with a market value culture that maintains a disciplined approach enable us to gain access to new resources, 1 in excess of $56 billion.
to creating value for all our stakeholders.
maintain a licence to operate, attract and retain At year-end, we had over $6 billion in undrawn the best people, access sources of capital, Our decentralised business model is credit facilities, gearing of 15% and robust identify business opportunities and optimise underpinned by a robust governance operational cash ows, enabling the nancing our management of risks.
framework that incorporates stringent checks of our organic growth pipeline in full from and balances at Group and commodity Our industry-leading sustainable development internally generated funds.
This is supported through assurance programme evaluates the Mining is capital-intensive and new deposits effective internal communication and performance of every managed operation and are increasingly in more challenging regions.
comprehensive risk management and project against our international best practice Scale enables mining companies to invest assurance processes.
standards and policy, with results reported to in multiple large projects without risking a the Board.
Diversied assets substantial portion of capital in any one We aim to deliver more stable returns We aim to operate with zero harm to our region or to any one project.
Size also through our diversied business structure people and prioritise safety at every operation brings an improved ability to access capital, by improving our ability to manage risks and project.
We work to promote a nontalent and new resources and to capture associated with foreign exchange rate discriminatory and equitable workplace to external opportunities.
uctuations, commodity price cycles, operating enable us to attract and retain the best people.
Our commodity businesses are positioned locations and end-use customer segments.
We set aside a minimum of 1% of profit before within the lower half of their respective industry Our portfolio is diversied by commodity, tax each year to fund community initiatives and cost curves.
We are focused on achieving real geography, currency and customer industries.
pro-actively consult with communities about unit cost savings to improve the quality of our The continuous improvement of our assets our operations, with the aim of securing business and in 2011 we achieved operating is an ongoing imperative, including safety broad-based, ongoing support for our cost savings of $391 million.
performance, environmental management and activities.
our contribution to the communities in which 1 As at 14 March 2012.
See how we are a vital viii contributor to society
