com Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements 23 Principal risks Risk Impact Mitigation Commodity price volatility The impact that uctuations in the price of We maintain a diversied portfolio of commodities our commodities had on our operating profit to reduce the impact of price movement in any one Our revenues and earnings are dependent is detailed in the consolidated operational commodity.
We do not typically implement large-scale on prevailing commodity prices which are results section of the Financial review on hedging of price movement initiatives.
Instead, we aim to determined by the supply of, and demand page 40 to 41.
Commodity price trends and continually reduce costs and maintain low cost, efficient for, raw materials and are closely linked to commentary on the outlook for each of our operations while optimising our portfolio and returns global economic growth.
Consequently, commodity markets are provided in the throughout the commodity price cycle.
commodity prices, and particularly those Operating review section on pages 46 to 77. for exchange-traded commodities, may We maintain an investment grade credit rating.
Treasury policy is actively monitored and reported to our Executive Committee on a monthly basis.
All our debt is now covenant-free, which reduces our financial risk during periods of low prices.
Fluctuations in currency Fluctuations in exchange rates, particularly We maintain a diversied portfolio of assets across exchange rates movements in the Australian dollar, Canadian several geographies and operating currencies to reduce dollar and South African rand against the the impact of price movement in any one commodity.
Our products are generally priced in US dollar, may have a material impact on We may use currency cash ow hedging to reduce our US dollars while our operations and our financial results or affect our investment short-term exposure to uctuations in the US dollar operating costs are spread across 20 grade credit rating.
The impact of exchange rate uctuations Information on our foreign currency hedging is provided on our operating profits and average in the Financial review.
We regularly review our financial exchange rate comparisons are detailed in structure, including exposure to interest payments, interest the consolidated operational results section rate changes and amendments to taxation regulations, to of the Financial review on page 41. ensure that we comply with all relevant regulations and to maximise our financial efficiency.
We maintain an investment grade credit rating.
Our Group Treasury policy is actively monitored and reported to our Executive Committee on a monthly basis.
Political and scal intervention Political risk can adversely impact our We manage a broad geographic spread of assets thereby profitability in various geographies or at diversifying political risk.
A thorough risk assessment is Our operations and projects span 20 certain operations.
Changes to the political, conducted on any country where we are considering countries.
Some of these have complex community or scal structure of a country investments or activities.
We also regularly review political, and unstable political or social climates could render it an unsuitable location for regulatory and social risk within the countries in which we and, as a result, present higher risks.
efficient operations or the development of operate to ensure that these have been identied and are Political risks range from changes in new projects and impact investor confidence.
being managed to within acceptable levels.
legislation or regulation: taxes or royalties: expropriation of assets: infrastructure issues: Our business is built on partnerships.
We work in currency restrictions: and renegotiation of, partnership with our people and local communities to or changes to, mining leases and permits.
ensure we all share the benets of our success, thereby earning and maintaining a social licence to operate.
We regularly review investment terms in joint venture and partnership agreements to ensure fairness and reduce the risk of renegotiation.
We maintain an extensive, transparent and open dialogue with regulators and local, regional and national government bodies and, where possible, enter into tax stability agreements.
We also work closely with our competitors and peers to facilitate industry-wide participation in negotiations around tax changes.
We follow and address all changes to legislation and ensure we are compliant at all times with new laws and regulations and with the standards set out in our Sustainable Development Framework.
