Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 What sets us apart A strong service culture Our people take ownership of performance all day, every day.
We do the right thing by our customers and have an outstanding track record: TM we are trusted to deliver.
kkkk A A A r A re re ece ce cen n nttr t r t rev ev evi ii ie ew ew w o of of f B f Bb Ba Ba ab b bc co co oc c ck k k ks s p s pe pe er rf rf f fo o or rm rm ma a an nc nc ce m e e ma ma ak k ke ke es s s kkkk T T T Th he he he T T Te Te er r rm ms ms s o of of f B f B Bus Bus usii ine ine fines ss ss s A A Ag Ag gr r re ee ee em m me ent ent nt w t wi wi iit th th th h t th the the he M Mi Mi Mi in ni ni iis s st t tr tr ry o y y of of f f us thh he hiighhest pllaced c d ompany iin thhM e Miiniistry DDf efence con rms BBb abcockks llong term strategiic rolle.
ofDefence 2010 assessment of their Key Suppliers, This is a fundamental cornerstone of our relationship so far.
with the MoD, providing support to the Royal Navy.
k We were recently presented with the Professional k Babcock took over Volkswagen Groups VWG Services Award at the BBCs Global News Reith UK apprenticeship programme in 2008 with over Awards for our exceptional effort in protecting 800 learners at various stages of progression.
the BBC Asia relay station in Thailand from severe The success of this initial contract resulted in the ooding and maintaining transmission.
Inspirational award of additional contracts to manage the leadership and great teamwork avoided a potential VWGtechnical training around 20,000 training disaster.
Although there was a threat to the homes of man days per year and the Technical Service Centre many staff, they remained on site to lead the efforts.
at the Volkswagen National Learning Centre in The response of the staff was beyond the call of duty Milton Keynes.
and a great re ection of the relationship that the BBC has with the Babcock team.
Their genuine partnership approach with Volkswagen Group United Kingdom Ltd has helped raise the standard of training and has significantly improved the efficiency of our operation.
In the current climate, they have proved a very valuable partner.
Richard Welch Network Learning & Development Manager Volkswagen Group United Kingdom Ltd 10 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Business review Governance Group accounts Company accounts Leadership Complex Ownership Clear A focus on positions integrated of signi cant customer engineering output know-how empathy support in selected contracts and assets markets We hold leadership positions in selected markets that allow us to have the depth of knowledge and economies of scale toserve our customers ef ciently.
kkkk T T T Th he he he l l lar lar arges ges gestts t s t su upp upp ppl li lie lie ier o ro r of s ffs f su upp upp ppo or or rt s t t t se se er rv rv viiiic ce ce es s s kkkk O O O On ne ne e o of of f t f th the the he l le l le ea adi adi d di in ng ng g e eng eng ngii ine ine nee er er rii i in ng ng g s sup sup upp por por ort s tts t se er er rv v vii ic ic ce e es s s to tth theMi Minis i t try of f D Def fence.
companiii es in S Sout th h A Af fri ica.
k Number 1 support provider to the Royal Navy.
k The UKs largest integrated school improvement service provider.
k The largest nuclear support services company in the UK.
k One of two key suppliers in the UK power transmission sector.
k The leading provider of training services totheMinistry of Defence.
k A leading player in the UK rail infrastructure market and the largest conventional track renewals k A leading UK supplier of complex, dispersed company in the UK.
k The leading apprentice training supplier in the UK.
77 77% % Of our business holds market leading positions 11 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 What sets us apart Complex Leadership A strong integrated positions service in selected culture output markets contracts From training delivery to facilities management, the Babcock team at RSME show the agility to deliver andadapt to our continually changing requirements while meeting budgetary targets a challenge dealt with head onwith long-term objectives always front of mind.
Colonel Mark Burnett RE OBE Chief of Staff, Royal School of Military Engineering We deliver complex integrated outputswhile saving our customers money.
We specialise in large, long-term contracts delivering the bespoke needs of our customers.
kkkk W W Wa War ar rs s sh hi hip hip ip M Mo M Mo od d der der ern ni ni iis s sa at at t ti i i io on on n I Ii Ini Ini nit ti tia tia iat ti ti ti iv v five e e C Cl Cl Cl ly y ydd fide fide e e en en nh h han han anc ce ce es s s kkkk R R R RA AF AF AF F Va Vl Va Val l lll ley ley ey M MA MA MA AC a C Ca C an nd nd d H d H Haw Haw awk I kI kI k IO OS OS OS S c co co on n nt t tr tr ra a ac ct ct t e t ens ens nsu ure ure res t st s t th h he he e th he quali lity of o f utputs at H HMN M Naval B lBase C Cl lyd fide.
avai il lab bil iliity of t f h he entiire U UK K-b based H d Hawk T kTM Mk k1 1 fleet Running since 2002, the contract has delivered and provides logistical, air eld and administrative operational savings of 137 million resulting support to RAF Valley delivering signi cant cost in a four-year contract extension signed in 2009. savings to the customer.
k Surface Ship Support Alliance is successfully k 30-year contract with the Royal School of Military sustaining warship availability while improving Engineering brings together the best qualities of the linkage between the cost of support and industry, academia and UK Armed Forces to deliver itsin uenceon outputs.
acclaimed training and infrastructure support.
4,000 31 5, 5 00 300 Soldiers training per year Man training days to 4,000 Royal Engineers freed up for soldiers by 270 instructors frontline duty 12 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Business review Governance Group accounts Company accounts Clear Ownership A focus on of signi cant engineering customer know-how support and assets empathy Our mindset and behaviours focus on listening to our customers, understanding their real needs and offering affordable solutions.
We are willing to take on delivery risk, so our interests are aligned with our customers.
We are easy to do business with.
kkkk S S S Sii inc inc nce 20 e2 e 2 200 00 00 03 3 3 3, w, w weh e h e h have ave ave ma m ma anag nag naged ed ed d a and and nd d m ma ma aiit int int nta ain ain iine ed ed d d kkkk O O O Our ur ur B BM BM BM MW W W W a ap ap ppre pre prent nt nti ti i ice ce ces s sh hi hip hip ip p pr pr ro og og gr r ra amm amm mme w ew e wa as as s r rat rat at te ed ed d a d as as s B Bi rittiish A hAiirways B BA A fleet o tf f 66,30 300 v 0 ehhiiclles tto Gd Grade 1 O 1 Outtsttanddiing iin a 20 201 10 0 OOffstted idinspecttiion.
Throughout the duration Building on this success, we have now introduced of the contract we have maintained 99% critical Leadership and Management Training to the portfolio availability levels, reduced the overall cost of the of training delivered to BMW and are in the process contract year-on-year by 16%, and been part of the ofbidding to supply training to BMW Group worldwide.
BA package delivering 65,000 tonnes of CO savings.
2 New initiatives are introduced each year: we seek k By outsourcing fleet management, customers can toimprove on the prior years performance working transfer the risk of ownership and responsibility in line with our customers business objectives.
associated with the operation and maintenance of vehicles.
In 2011, Babcock was named Emergency k Surrey County Council is promoting our educational Services Supplier of the Year for continual innovation improvement offering to other local authorities and improvement which has delivered improved through Babcock 4S.
Critical to the success of this ef ciency and operational capability for the contract is our strong relationship which sees us Metropolitan Police Service fleet of c 3,700 vehicles.
work with local authorities to nd new ways to improve educational attainment, whilst We enjoy a partnership that encourages simultaneously driving down costs.
uscontinuously todevelop our contract and explore innovative methods and processestodeliver betterfor less.
93.5% 4 hour 10 0% A spokesman for the Metropolitan Police Service Availability Delivering a 4 hour response Successful fleet safety 13 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 What sets us apart Leadership Complex A focus on A strong Clear positions integrated service customer engineering in selected output culture empathy markets contracts support We understand complex engineering.
Our services are critical to our customers output, often in specialist secure environments.
We optimise the solution but are not incentivised to sell more kit.
kkkk S S Suppor Supp uppor ort t t t and an and dr d r re e e tto t o t of6 f6 f 6 f 60% 0% 0% 0% o of of f t f th the the he R Ro R Ro oy ya ya al N l l l Na N Na av vy vy y fleet e fleet et t.. kkkk O O O Ow wn wn ner e ers rs ship h h hi ip ip of of of f a ah a h high hih igh igh-een end nd fide d e engine ngi ngiine nee e eri ri ri in n ng g g consullf tancy often workkiing iin-hhouse to ddelliiver k Over 3,000 nuclear experienced personnel.
k Operation of six nuclear licensed sites sds k Management of Scotlands largest nuclear civil and defence.
clean-up and demolition project at the Dounreay nuclear facility.
Restoring the 140-acre Dounreay site is one of the most complex nuclear decommissioning tasks in the UK and the sites history in fast reactor and fuel cycle development presents significant decommissioning challenges.
The Babcock team includes some of the most highlyexperienced nuclear engineers in the world, giving confidence that the project will be a success.
Mike Brown, Reactors Decommissioning Manager DSRL 14 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Business review Governance Group accounts Company accounts Ownership of signi cant know-how and assets We own unique infrastructure and have extensive know-how of our customers environment, their infrastructure and equipment.
Weunderstand their complex multiple objectives and constraints.
We thrive on managing complexity and uncertainty.
k Chapelcross Power Station, a Magnox North kkkk O O O Own wn wne e er o ro r of R fR fR f Ro os os sy y yt th th th h D D Doc Doc ock k ky ky ya a ar rd rd d w d wh wh h hi i i ic ch ch h h h hl hol hol old d ds ds s t th the the he o on on nll ly ly y kkk C C Ch hap hapelc elc l ros rossP s P Powe owerS r S Stt tat tati ion ion, a a Ma M Magno gnoxN x N Nor ort t th h h dock d kl large enough h t to assemble bl the th next t generat ti ion managed N dND DA A d decommiissiioniing siit te, iis now wel ll l into a three year programme to remove all the fuel Queen Elizabeth Class aircraft carriers.
from the four reactors at the site using bespoke k On the Ministry of Defence C Vehicle contract, we equipment designed and installed by Babcock.
The have introduced procedures for fleet management new process is performing safely and reliably, with a and availability resulting in a signi cant increase in high level ofregulatory and stakeholder con dence.
vehicle availability and a reduction in the total fleet size by over 35%.
k Owner of Devonport Dockyard the only facility in the UK with a nuclear license and the seismically quali ed facilities to refuel nuclear submarines.
10 100 0% % Providing 100% of deep overhaul work on the UKs submarine fleet 15
