Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 A transformational year Q&A with Peter Rogers Delivering our strategy creating a strong platform for future growth.
Peter Rogers, Group Chief Executive, answers questions onthe Groups strategy, how it led to the acquisition of VT Group plc in2010 and how the strategy will support theGroups ambitions for the future.
Our strategy Q Babcock today is a very different company from the one you joined in 2002.
How has We are the UKs leading engineering support services company.
Our objective is to grow from this position in both the UK and overseas thus that transformation come about?
d deli deli eliv vering ver eri in ng g s sup super upe er ri i io o or r a r and and nd s sus su us st t ta ainable ai inable nable v va va al l lue u ue f e fo fo or r o r our our ur s shareholder sh hareholder areholders s. s..
I In In n o order or rd fide er r t to to o A When I joined Babcock in June 2002, the Board had already a ac ch hi ie ev five t e th hi is s w we e w wi il ll l f fo ocu cus o s on n t th he f e fo ol ll lo ow wi in ng s g st tr ra ate teg gy y:: announced its strategy to become a support services company.
Sincethat time we have been consistently pursuing that objective Leading market positions through a series of acquisitions and disposals all of which have met andstrengthened our strategic objectives set out opposite and created our role in our core markets.
The VT acquisition was the largest transaction in this process and it established our position as the UKs Preferred customers leading engineering support services company, reinforcing our platform for future growth.
In addition to changing the shape and performance of the Group Customer focused, long-term relationships through acquisitions, we have achieved significant organic growth, within our core business areas, which has strongly enhanced our financial position over the years.
Integrated engineering and technical expertise Q What does it mean to be the UKsleading engineering support services company?
A Our expertise is vital to our understanding of our customers Balance risk and reward andthe environments in which they operate.
This enables us to developlong-term relationships whilst becoming embedded within their organisations.
Both Babcock and VT had engineering heritages which we wanted to retain and build on.
In an environment where Excellent safety record engineering knowledge and skills are scarce, we have developed an experienced workforce of significant scale and depth that is highly regarded by our customers.
As market leaders we can provide our employees with a wide range ofexperiences for their professional development whilst ensuring ourbroad range of expertise can meet all our customers technical requirements throuwgh the full life cycle of their assets.
08 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Business review Governance Group accounts Company accounts Q How did you select the markets inwhich Q How would you characterise the growth youoperate?
A We perform comprehensive market analysis as we like A Following the acquisition of VT we are now pursuing growth toworkin highly regulated environments where we can support opportunities in three areas: customers who own large assets or infrastructures that are vital to Grow existing contracts thedelivery of critical services.
We have also chosen to enter markets We have a number of large, long-term contracts and agreements, where we believed there would be significant long-term growth such as our training and support contract at the Royal School of opportunities and maximum demand for ourhigh quality engineering Military Engineering and our Terms ofBusiness Agreement with the and technical expertise.
We can use these existingarrangements to deliver additional services whilst continuing to focus ondriving efficiencies.
Q What did the acquisition of VT addtothe Grow existing customers Babcock business?
The new and complementary skills VT has brought to the Group A The acquisition of VT had a clear and compelling strategic logic.
have enabled us to build on the strong relationships we have with We acquired a high quality business with complementary, engineering our existing customers to offer them a broader range of services.
based skills and experience along with a similar business culture to our Grow new customers own.
Together we have a stronger position in our core markets, and in We seek to be leaders in all our chosen markets.
We believe the the current economic climate we are able to offer a broader range of Groups enlarged platform provides many opportunities to create new skills and capabilities to support ourcustomers in both defence and civil outsourcing opportunities in our current markets, transferring existing markets.
We firmly believed the acquisition would create significant capabilities and knowledge to new customers inboth the UK and overseas.
opportunities for the Group, and this has become clearer as we have progressed through the integration process.
In the operational reviews that follow we set out some of the opportunities that we are Q What does the year ahead look like currently pursuing.
A We have seen a steady rise in the bid pipeline to 8.5 billion as Q Many of your customers are operating within newcontracts and outsourcing opportunities come to market.
We will tight financial constraints at the moment.
remain focused on continuously delivering cost savings and efficiencies Howcanyou help them?
to our customers whilst embarking on selective new long-term opportunities.
This year will be an exciting period for Babcock as we A Our customers are seeking to address some of these approach existing and new opportunities with an innate confidence budgetarypressures by outsourcing more of their engineering support inour enhanced capabilities, knowledge base, customers and markets.
All our businesses are focused on helping our customers achieve the financial and operational efficiencies they need and we have a demonstrable track record of delivering these.
In the next few pages we set out our business model and describe what it is that sets us apart.
These pages demonstrate how we meet our Peter Rogers customers requirements in this more difficult economic climate.
