Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Business review Factors that could Governance Group accounts affect the business Company accounts In the course of our day-to-day operations we face a number ofrisks and uncertainties.
The Board considers the matters described in this section to be principal risks that face the Group as it currently stands and that could adversely affect the business, results of operations, revenue, pro t, cash ow, assets and thedelivery of our growth strategy.
Giventhesize, complexity and spread of our businesses and the continually changing environment in which the Group currently operates, this cannot be an exhaustive list of such risks.
Systems and procedures are in place across the Group intended toidentify, assess and mitigate major business risks.
The management of risk is an integral part of our operational review process and is supplemented at Group level by independent challenge and review by the Group Risk Manager and the Audit and Risk Committee.
Introduction Inevitably, though, reliance on a relatively limited number of large customers and contracts carries risks: In this section we describe: Government policy changes and public spending constraints are What the Babcock Board considers to be the key risks and potentially material risks for the Company if they lead to delays in uncertainties facing the Group: placing work, pressure on pricing and margins, withdrawal of projects, The principal elements of our risk management arrangements and early termination of contracts, lower contract spend than anticipated or adoption of less favourable contracting models, but they can also internal controls system for these and other risks.
be sources of material opportunity: Key risks and uncertainties A loss of reputation, either generally or with a specific major customer, could lead to a significant loss of existing or future business: The specific risks and uncertainties mentioned below are those we believe to be of most direct relevance and significance to Babcock Key reputational dependencies include health and safety record, today: its key business risks.
We do not include in this section those business ethics and our record of contract delivery and performance: risks which are likely to affect businesses generally or that are in Our bid success rate is critical to our success and growth: bids the nature of our day-to-day operations.
Instead, we focus on those for large and complex contracts are expensive to compete and, that potentially can materially and adversely impact our growth by their nature, large, longer term contracts are irregularly and less and strategic development.
frequently available: Under each key risk we give a general description of our approach Being unsuccessful in a new bid, therefore, can represent a significant to managing them.
missed opportunity for growth, and losing rebids could mean the loss of a significant existing revenue and profit stream.
Reliance on large contracts with a an unsuccessful bid or rebid can involve the writing-off of significant wasted bid costs.
relatively limited number of major clients Our chosen business model is that we work principally for large, complex customers, typically government departments, public sector bodies or commercially owned entities in sectors typified by regulation.
Many of our important customers rely, to a greater or lesser extent, on public funding.
The contracts we enter into are typically intended to last for five to seven years and many for much longer than that.
We understand these clients and this business model very well and our success in this is, we believe, amply demonstrated by our strong track record to date.
There are many benefits to such a business: strong cash flow: lower customer credit risk, good visibility of order book and pipeline development, relative lack of volatility, scope for innovative pricing and contracting models that allow for revenue and margin growth over the lifetime of the contracts.
39 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Factors that could affect the business continued What we do 2.
Some of our operations carry signi cant At the strategic level, we make it a top priority to maintain an ongoing health and safety or environmental risks general dialogue with our key customers, making sure that we stay Thesafety and wellbeing of our employees andminimising the risk close to them to gain a full and appreciative understanding of their ofouractivities to third parties and the environment are core Babcock thinking, the plans they may have, the direct and indirect influences values and objectives.
It is, however, in the nature of some of our on them and the pressures and constraints under which they must operations that, ifnot properly managed and conducted, they could operate.
In this way we aim not only to be able to look ahead to see cause significant harm to employees, third parties or the environment.
what risks there might be for us and how that might affect our Apart from the adverse impact this could have on our reputation and strategy, but we also seek to ensure that both we and they thewillingness of customers to deal with us see Risk 1 above this could understand what we can do to help them meet their changing needs lead to significant financial loss and claims for damages.
and challenges and how we can, if necessary, adapt or innovate to meet them.
We strive to be proactive in this regard.
The Companys What we do Chief Executive and our Divisional Chief Executives, along with other members of our senior management team, are personally and closely We manage and mitigate these risks through specific governance involved in ensuring the strength of customer relationships.
and management arrangements, involving Group senior management as well as operational staff, that underpin the great importance we At the operational level, we aim, where we can, to structure our attach to them in all ouroperations.
In addition, we carry, to contracts with a view to fostering long-term co-operative working theextent it is available in the market on reasonable commercial relationships with our customers, that share fairly with them the terms, insurance cover relating to such risks subject to compensation financial success or failure of contracts so that they can measure the limits and deductibles, but no insurance can be certain of recovery.
benefits of their working with us and our commitment to them.
Webenefit from statutory or customer indemnities in some of our For matters that affect our reputation, suchascontract delivery, operations for example our nuclear engineering businesses.
health, safety and environmental performance and our ethical conduct, we have specific internal controls and risk management 3.
We require skilled employees, who can mechanisms that seek to reduce the likelihood of these risks materialising and or their impact if they do.
We are fully aware sometimes be in short supply of the potential implications of the new Bribery Act in the UK A number of our businesses for example, our nuclear, technology and and are updating and refining our policiesin the light of its engineering businesses and those with high project management associated guidance.
content are complex and demand skilled personnel to deliver them.
As regards bid success rate, all bids are subject to governance The continuing success of these businesses relies on our ability to requirements, according to size, at Group or Divisional management recruit, train and retain qualified and experienced professionals, level with continuous monitoring and review by senior Group and or technicians, engineers and project management staff.
In recent years Divisional executives to ensure that: resources are appropriately industry demand for employees with these skills has been high and the focused on worthwhile bids: we maximise our chances of being numbers of suitable candidates limited.
This can lead not only to successful: and the financial returns will be acceptable.
The final increasing costs but also potential problems with resourcing contracts submission of any significant bid or rebid requires formal approval and bids, which could in turn threaten growth and reputation.
What we do We aim to make our businesses attractive places to work and offer competitive remuneration packages with long-term employee retention in mind.
We place a great deal of emphasis on and devote significant resources to apprentice and graduate recruitment, training and development, succession planning and on talent management generally.
40 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Business review Governance Group accounts Company accounts 4.
We rely on complex information 5.
The Group has signi cant fide ned technology arrangements bene t pension schemes Like any modern business, Babcocks performance depends to a Defined benefit schemes deliver a specified level of pension benefit significant extent on having reliable IT systems.
Many of our contracts to members, the cost of which is met from member and employer require us to operate our contract-supporting IT either entirely within contributions paid into pension scheme funds and the investment secure customer networks or to be able to interface reliably and returns made in those funds over time.
The level of contributions securely with such systems.
Cyber-security presents an increasing risk required to meet pension obligations is actuarially determined based to us and to our customers.
The challenge for Babcock is to ensure on various assumptions, which are subject to change, as to life that we integrate and run our IT systems in a way that both meets expectancy of members, investment returns, inflation etc.
If, based on demanding customer requirements and enables Babcock as a group the assumptions being used at any time, assets in the pension scheme to operate as securely and efficiently as possible.
This is against a are judged to be insufficient to meet the calculated cost of the background of several major acquisitions over recent years of pension obligations there can be a significant shortfall, which the businesses each with its own specific IT needs and systems.
To this scheme trustees may require to be made up or secured by increased end, and following a complete review of our IT needs after the contributions from employers and or employees, additional cash acquisition of VT Group in 2010, a major IT transformation programme payments from employers and or guarantees or other security to be is underway to update, integrate and rationalise our IT systems, which provided by employers.
This may reduce the cash available to meet will roll out over the coming months.
Any such programme carries the Groups other obligations or business needs.
The most significant anelement of operational and implementation risk.
differences between assets and liabilities of the schemes can occur due to differences between the actual and assumed investment returns and changes in the assumptions as to life expectancy.
What we do Also, the Group must comply with IAS 19 when accounting for its We have a Group Chief Information Officer responsible for the integrity defined benefit schemes.
IAS 19 requires corporate bond related and development of the Groups IT systems and resources.
Businesses discount rates to be used to value the pension liabilities.
This is likely to have detailed disaster recovery plans in place.
The IT transformation lead to valuation variations from year-to-year due to a mismatch with project now underway represents a major investment by the the investments held in the pension schemes and because of Company and aims to establish a rationalised, updated and variations in the yields available on corporate bonds and inflationary standardised system across the Group, with independent systems as expectations.
This in turn can materially affect the pensions charge may be required under customer contracts, with a view to enhancing in the income statement in the Groups accounts from year-to-year the reliability, security and efficiency of the those systems and how as well as the value of the difference between the assets and the they are supported.
It involves the establishment of a new group liabilities shown on the Groups balance sheet, leading to significant datacentre and centralised IT service overseeing and implementing accounting volatility.
ITstrategy, procurement, support and management, with locally distributed services as appropriate.
The project has been devised in association with external expert support and is being monitored What we do and implemented under formal governance procedures designed We aim to have constructive and open relationships with the schemes to foresee and minimise implementation risk so far as possible.
trustees and to work with them to follow appropriate investment policies for the profile of their members as well as seeking other means of eliminating or mitigating risk.
For example: Longevity swaps are in place for our three largest schemes to reduce our exposure to the impact of increasing life expectancy: A consistent long-term investment strategy has been agreed with the trustees of the schemes, intended to mitigate investment risk.
A pan-schemes investment sub-committee is tasked with implementing the agreed investment strategy efficiently.
41 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Factors that could affect the business continued The strategy provides the necessary framework to hedge the schemes At the operational level, the Group also has a Group Risk Manager exposure to changes in inflation and interest rates with a view reporting to the Group Finance Director.
The Group Risk Managers to stabilising the impact on the Groups cash requirements and role is, in conjunction with divisional management, to develop and accounting entries.
keep under review a risk management process for use across the Group in identifying, assessing and evaluating risk, risk controls and risk A governance committee operating across theschemes aims to ensure reporting.
Whilst the Group Risk Manager oversees and coordinates the trustees follow a strong governance regime in running the schemes.
this process centrally and is responsible for risk management reporting to the Committee, it is a key philosophy of the Group that the risk The Group maintains suitable ongoing funding rates based on prudent management process must be embedded within business operations assumptions agreed with the trustees of the schemes.
and clearly owned by managers.
Divisional Chief Executives have A Group Pensions Manager, who reports to the Group Finance Director, primary day-to-day operational responsibility for risk identification and keeps strategic pension matters under close review and reports risk management arrangements and controls within their operations.
The Group Risk Manager facilitates the sharing between Divisions of risk management experience and practice.
Risks arising from acquisitions underway, following the acquisition of VT Group, for each Divisions risk management and monitoring arrangements to be conformed The Group has made a series of significant acquisitions over recent along best practice lines.
years, the most recent being the acquisition of VT Group plc.
There is a risk that expected benefits from acquisitions might not be fully realised.
Risk assessments made at business unit level are subject to regular review and challenge by Group senior management to test There is also a risk of acquiring unknown or understated liabilities.
the thoroughness and robustness of the judgements and evaluations made.
What we do Risk management reports and a group risk register are regular agenda Before we make acquisitions we carry out a detailed valuation exercise items for the Audit and Risk Committee, which also receives regular using various valuation criteria and scenarios to assess potential reports from internal auditors.
We also carry out as thorough a due diligence exercise as we can based on information available and The Groups systems can, however, only in the context of the transaction concerned.
Where possible, we seek to obtain commercially acceptable warranties and indemnities from seekto manage, not eliminate, the risk vendors, though such protections may be restricted in time and or of failure to achieve business objectives, amount and in some cases, such as public takeovers, are essentially as any system can only provide reasonable, not available.
not absolute, assurance against material Risk management misstatement or loss.
in Babcock Further details on our internal control processes are set out on pages The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Companys risk 43 to 45.
These controls underpin our management of these key risks management and internal control system, which are overseen on as well as other risks.
its behalf by the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Committee reviews aspects of the risk management and control system on an ongoing basis at its meetings and at least once a year considers the systems effectiveness on behalf of the Board.
The Committee seeks the views of internal and external auditors on the control system and as to how the Companys practice compares with processes in other companies.
Internal control systems are also monitored operationally by Group management and the internal audit service, which is provided by Ernst & Young LLP, including assessment against operational outcomes.
Ernst & Young acts under the overall control and direction of the Committee.
42 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Business review Governance Group accounts Company accounts Babcocks risk control system includes: Control see also Key Risks above what we do Explanation Example of Risk to which the control is relevant At Group level, a Safety Leadership Team and k Harm to employees and others or to the environment: Health, safety and Corporate Safety Steering Group ensure the development k These are things we wish to avoid for their own and implementation of the Group safety strategy: environmental monitoring, sake, but which also entail the risk of damage to our for more detail see the Corporate responsibility reputation and of substantial civil liabilities and reporting and management report on page 35. criminal penalties.
See also the Corporate responsibility report Each Division has appropriate teams of health, safety onpages34to 38. and environmental professionals responsible for developing and supporting detailed policies and procedures, investigating and reporting on incidents and promoting education and training in these areas.
Divisional Boards and the Group Executive Committee receive monthly reports of health, safety and environmental performance in statistical and narrative form.
The Chief Executive reports regularly to the Board on any significant matters and the Board receives detailed half-yearly reports on health, safety and environmental performance.
External consultants are used to ensure the Group is abreast of best practice and to help in the evaluation and design of management-led initiatives to maintain and improve performance.
Unsatisfactory performance in these areas can lead to reduction or annulment of executive bonuses.
All significant bids have to be approved by Group senior k Bid success rate: inappropriate use of bid resources: Bid reviews management, major bids being the subject of formal too high risk or unacceptable commercial terms: presentations as well as detailed written reports and no assurance of delivery capability.
The Group has a comprehensive financial policy and risk analysis.
These controls are aimed at ensuring that accounting standards manual with authority and bids are made on commercially and legally acceptable approval mandates.
All material commercial and terms and to avoid wasting resources on inappropriate contractual activities are overseen by Group executives bids or bids where the chance of success is low.
and governed by the Group Policy and Procedures manual which sets out the Groups approach to doingbusiness.
Contracts are kept under forward-looking review to k Poor contract performance, which could lead to Contract reviews ensure that they are profit making, required breach of contract, financial penalties under KPI performance is being and will continue to be delivered regimes: damage to customer relationships and loss Customer satisfaction surveys.
and that they are properly accounted for.
Each division ofreputation: has procedures in place to monitor the ongoing k Unpro table contract performance: performance of each contract and these are discussed at operational reviews with Group Executive management.
The financial performance of all significant contracts is regularly reviewed by Group Finance.
Customer satisfaction surveys help us identify any potential threats to our customer relationships so that we can act on them.
43 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Factors that could affect the business continued Control see also Key Risks above what we do Explanation Example of Risk to which the control is relevant The Group has significant defined benefit pension k Pensions exposures.
Pensions schemes, the liabilities and accounting in respect of which can have a material impact on Group results Reporting, monitoring and proactive management from year-to-year.
The Group Pensions Manager reports ofpension liabilities.
quarterly to the Board on strategic issues relating to the schemes and their performance.
He works closely with scheme trustees and advisors to identify and implement risk reduction measures.
The Group Organisation and Development Director k Lack of appropriate employee Succession plans reports to the Board on succession planning, and management resource.
management talent training and development and Graduate and apprentice recruitment, training graduate recruitment.
Management resourcing needs andretention programmes.
are discussed regularly at Board and Group Executive Committee meetings.
Talent and management development plans.
See further on this subject in the Corporate Responsibility report.
Annual budgets and medium-term financial plans are k Threats to strategy: Budgets reviewed by Group management before submission to k Non-delivery of strategy: the Board for approval.
Updated forecasts for the year are prepared at least quarterly.
k Loss of business or financial control: k Breach of reporting obligations: k Financial misreporting: k Operational risks.
The Board receives details of actual financial k Threats to strategy: Management performance each month compared against budget, k Non-delivery of strategy: forecast and the prior year, with a written commentary and nancialreporting on significant variances from approved plans.
k Loss of business or financial control: The Chief Executive reports to each Board k Breach of reporting obligations: meeting on operating performance and on matters k Financial misreporting: of strategic significance.
Group senior management receives a monthly narrative operating report from all business units.
These are made regularly to the Audit and Risk k Threats to strategy: Internal and external Committee see its report on pages 55 and 56 for k Non-delivery of strategy: moreinformation.
auditreports k Loss of business or financial control: k Breach of reporting obligations: k Financial misreporting: k Operational risks.
44 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Business review Governance Group accounts Company accounts Control see also Key Risks above what we do Explanation Example of Risk to which the control is relevant There is a defined set of authority levels as between k Threats to strategy: Clear delegations the Board and Executive Directors, Group management k Non-delivery of strategy: and divisional management, and within divisions, andlimitsof authority setting out which matters require approval at which k Loss of business or financial control: level.
These are published on the Company intranet.
k Breach of reporting obligations: k Financial misreporting: k Operational risks.
The Group has a large and comprehensive insurance k Financial Impact of unforeseen Insurance programme, preferring to place risk in the insurance or unplanned events.
market, where available on acceptable terms, rather than to self-insure or make significant use of captive insurance.
The Group has a full time Insurance Manager who reports annually to the Board on the strategic approach being taken to insurance and on the placing of the programme.
The Board and Group Executive Committee receive k Legal liabilities, including legacy liabilities Disputes and monthly summaries of material disputes and actual from discontinued businesses.
or potential litigation, their progress and potential litigationreporting outcomes.
The Group has an experienced internal legal service deployed at Group and Divisional level, with functional reporting to the Group Company Secretary & General Counsel.
All significant credit risks are reviewed by Group k Credit risks.
Credit controls Finance and an Executive Director and, where appropriate and available, risk limitation actions aretaken.
The Group has written policies and procedures, which k Damage to reputation: Group policies are kept under review, covering a range of matters k Mitigation of legal and commercial risks.
intended to reduce or mitigate risk, such as: health, andprocedures safety and environmental policies: an Ethical Policy covering anti-corruption matters, including procedures for the appointment and use of agents and third parties : contracting requirements and guidelines: legal matters: financial and accounting matters.
These are available on the Group intranet and are supplemented at Divisional level by further business unit specific polices, which are.
