40 BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 REPORTING SEGMENTS continued Platforms & Services International comprises Platforms & Services the Groups businesses in Saudi Arabia, Australia, India and Oman, together with its International 37.5% interest in the pan-European MBDA joint venture.
KEY CHARACTERISTICS OPERATIONAL KEY POINTS Saudi Arabia: Additional budgets approved on the Salam Typhoon programme Royal Saudi Air Force equipment, training and support Salam price escalation negotiations continue into 2012 Support for Royal Saudi Navy minehunter Land vehicles Customer budgets established for the next five years of support on the Saudi British Defence Co-operation Programme Australia: Shipbuilding and electronics capability First Saudi Typhoon squadron operational Land, sea and air support, and defence logistics provision First Royal Australian Navy Landing Helicopter Dock hull launched Cyber and security New UK missile development order received by MBDA India: Long-standing military aircraft programme relationships Typhoon not selected as lowest priced compliant bid for India Recently established land joint venture with Mahindra & Mahindra Request for proposal from Oman for Typhoon and associated MBDA: support Pan-European guided weapons joint venture Oman: Strong in-service base across air and land products Saudi Arabia: Services Tornado maintenance Saudi Arabia: Platforms Typhoon training andsupport.
Australia: Services Sea Hawk maintenance and andupgrade.
As part of the Saudi British Defence The first 24 Typhoon aircraft of an order for 72 have logistics support.
Support services activities in Co-operation Programme, BAE Systems has substantial been delivered to the Royal Saudi Air Force.
Australia include maintenance and logistics support for training and support activities in Saudi Arabia.
both fixed and rotary wing aircraft.
Australia: Platforms Landing Helicopter Dock.
India: Defence Land Systems India Mine Protected MBDA: BAE Systems is a 37.5% participant in MBDA, Manufacture of major blocks for the two Royal Vehicle manufacturing.
With the establishment of a joint now the worlds largest guided weapons business.
Australian Navy Landing Helicopter Dock ships is venture with Mahindra & Mahindra in India, the business progressing well.
is building on a number of new land opportunities.
Reporting segments performance review BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 41 Sales analysis % Sales analysis: Platforms and Services % 45 65 25 35 30 Q Saudi Arabia Q Military & Technical Services Q Australia Q Platforms Q Other 2011 2010 2009 FINANCIAL KEY POINTS 1 KPI Order intake 3,319m 2,694m 4,395m 1 Order book reduced pending multi-year awards in 2012 1 Order book 8.3bn 9.1bn 11.0bn 1 1 Sales reduced by 12% on maturing Tornado upgrade and core Sales KPI 3,794m 4,325m 3,658m 2 support programmes, and completed contract for Tactica vehicles Underlying EBITA KPI 449m 449m 402m Return on sales 11.8% 10.4% 11.0% Return on sales increased to 11.8% 3 Cash inflow KPI 80m 190m 812m 3 Low cash inflow pending contract amendment for Salam Typhoon price escalation 1 Order book reduced to 8.3bn 2010 9.1bn pending award of Saudi Arabia contracts for changes to the Salam Typhoon programme, including The business continues to develop its presence in Saudi Arabia and price escalation, and the next phase of support on the Saudi British remains committed to developing a greater indigenous capability in Defence Co-operation Programme SBDCP.
This strategy is being enhanced by the entry into service of Typhoon aircraft and the subsequent development of the Typhoon 1 Sales in 2011 were 3.8bn, which, on a like-for-like basis, were 14% in-country industrial base.
lower reflecting the maturing Tornado upgrade and core support programmes, and the completed contract for Tactica vehicles.
Of the 72 Typhoon aircraft contracted under the Salam programme, the first squadron of 24 aircraft has now been delivered to the Royal Saudi 2 Underlying EBITA was 449m 2010 449m.
Return on sales Air Force RSAF, including six twin-seat aircraft to allow the RSAF to increased to 11.8% 2010 10.4% on strong performance and risk conduct their own training missions.
The three-year Typhoon support reduction on the Tornado upgrade and core support programmes.
contract is providing increased levels of capability to the RSAF.
3 Operating cash inflow of 80m 2010 190m includes the BAE Systems has been in discussions with its customer regarding anticipated utilisation of programme advances.
A significant cash changes to the Salam programme.
The proposed changes relate to receipt expected on the Salam Typhoon programme has been final assembly of the last 48 of the 72 Typhoon aircraft, the creation of deferred until ongoing negotiations regarding price escalation have a maintenance and upgrade facility in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, been concluded.
initial provisioning for subsequent insertion of Tranche 3 capability in respect of the last 24 aircraft of this order and formalisation of price escalation.
Good progress on these discussions has been made in 2011 with budgets approved in the Kingdom in December on all items other than the price escalation where negotiations will now continue into 2012.
Customer budgets have also been established for the next five years of support on the core SBDCP, including an upgrade of the training environment.
Formal contracts under these budgets are being progressed.
1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
2 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense EBITA excluding non-recurring items see page 47.
3 Net cash inflow from operating activities after capital expenditure net and financial investment, dividends from equity accounted investments, and assets contributed to Trust.
42 BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 REPORTING SEGMENTS: PLATFORMS & SERVICES INTERNATIONAL continued 15,900 57% 1 employees of positions in Saudi Arabia filled by Saudi nationals These budget approvals underpin both the Salam and SBDCP The business has successfully integrated stratsec.
Salam trading performance, originally planned for 2011, acquired to expand the Groups cybersecurity capabilities in the Asia relating to the formalisation of price escalation, including significant Pacific region.
cash payment, has been deferred until ongoing negotiations have MBDA been concluded.
Order intake with domestic customers was strong with new The upgrade of the RSAF Tornado fleet under the Tornado Sustainment development orders received, including for the Future Local Area Air Programme is currently performing ahead of schedule.
A total of 61 of Defence System in the UK air defence sector and for the Milan the contracted 81 aircraft had been delivered back into the fleet at successor programme in the combat surface sector.
The delivery of weapons capability under the was disappointment on the MEADS air-defence programme with the programme, including associated storage facilities, is performing in decision in the US not to pursue the development order beyond the line with expectations.
Memorandum of Understanding ending in 2014.
In the export market, a significant order was received from India in early 2012 for MICA The first of the Royal Saudi Navy Al Jawf class ships entered the Naval air-to-air missiles as part of their Mirage 2000 upgrade.
Minehunter Mid-Life Update programme for re-fit as planned during the year.
Key deliveries during the year included Aster surface-to-air missiles, Mistral short-range ground-to-air missiles, Eryx anti-armour missiles, All 200 Tactica vehicles have been accepted by the Saudi Arabia Exocet anti-ship missiles, Dual-Mode Brimstone air-to-ground missiles National Guard.
The separate support contract for these vehicles and Spada air defence systems.
continues to perform to plan.
Development programmes continue to progress well, with key As at the end of 2011, the customer had instructed BAE Systems to milestones being passed on the MEADS air-defence programme, stop implementing work under the existing C4i Command, Control, MdCN-Scalp naval stand-off missile programme, Meteor beyond visual Communications, Computers and Intelligence programme.
range air-to-air missile and Aster air-defence programme, with six Discussions to agree a mutually acceptable way forward are ongoing.
successful firings on the Aster programme, including one against a Australia ballistic missile target.
Construction of the superstructure blocks for the first of two Landing India Helicopter Docks is now well advanced at the Williamstown shipyard, Typhoon was down selected in 2011 by the Indian government as one with subcontractor Navantia launching the first completed hull in of two remaining competitors for the Medium Multi-Role Combat Spain ahead of schedule.
During the year, the business was awarded Aircraft programme.
Subsequently, the Groups competitor has been a A$115m 76m capability training contract.
advised that it is the lowest priced compliant bidder and, on this basis, On the Air Warfare Destroyer programme, the business has reached it is expected that contract negotiations will be initiated with that agreement in principle with the prime contractor for a reduction in the bidder.
The Group is continuing to support the Indian customer and its Groups work share of hull block construction and orders have been evaluation process which is expected to take some time to complete.
received for construction work on the second ship.
In Defence Land Systems India, the Groups 26% joint venture with In November, it was announced that the business was to be awarded a Mahindra & Mahindra, sales of the first new vehicle, the Mine A$267m 176m contract to upgrade seven Royal Australian Navy Protected Vehicle India, commenced in 2011.
The joint venture awaits ANZAC class frigates with anti-ship missile defence capability.
The the results of the competition to be one of the design authorities for contract was signed in January 2012. the Future Infantry Combat Vehicle programme.
During the year, the business was awarded contract extensions for The Group continues to pursue an opportunity to supply M777 A$116m 77m on the Over-The-Horizon Radar system for five years howitzers to the Indian Army.
and A$135m 89m for Hawk Lead-In Fighter support for two years.
During the year, the Group commenced the establishment of The business was also selected to provide interim basic flying training homeland security and technology operations in India to expand local for a further six years under an A$87m 57m contract.
These capability, and support indigenous research and development activity.
awards demonstrate the Groups success in identifying efficiencies in These operations are expected to develop during 2012. response to the Australian Strategic Reform Programme SRP.
The Over-The-Horizon Radar system contract was the first new Oman performance-based contract negotiated under the SRP.
Activity continues towards securing a contract award for the supply of Typhoon aircraft and associated support to the Royal Air Force of In adjacent markets, the business successfully secured a position as Oman.
A request for proposal was received in January 2012 and one of the Department of Defense Chief Information Officers Group contract award is expected during 2012.
CIOG Preferred Industry Partners on the Applications Managed Services Partnership Arrangement AMSPA panel.
The business will act as lead for the Warfighter and Intelligence domain.
The AMSPA arrangement is for at least five years, with potential extensions to 15years, and represents a key change in the way CIOG will engage with industry to fast track the delivery of Information Communications Technology projects.
Reporting segments performance review BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 43 NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Safety Diversity and inclusion Performance in safety across the business has improved against 2010.
Diversity and inclusion has progressed with the businesses This is reflected in a marginal decrease in the Lost Work Day Case Rate.
implementing programmes that reflect their individual starting points Safety improvement plans are in place to help support continued and cultural context.
progress against the Safety Maturity Matrix SMM and factor in safety Female employment within the Saudi business is low due to regulatory risks associated with the fulfilment of new contracts.
and security clearance requirements currently restricting opportunities An engagement programme has been launched in Saudi Arabia to for the recruitment of females within military-related fields.
To progress facilitate greater co-operation with the customer regarding on-base support in this area, the business has established its first female office safety programmes.
To support continued progress on the SMM, the Australian In Australia, work has been done to create a flexible and inclusive management team has introduced safety, health and environmental workplace culture in line with feedback from the annual flexibility survey metrics, focused on risk mitigation, and injury prevention and and work-life balance focus groups.
To help improve gender diversity, reduction.
targets have been set for the executive population.
These 2015 targets will help to increase womens representation at senior levels.
Lost Work Day Case Rate KPI KPI The Indian business has focused on developing a pipeline of per 100,000 employees leadership within its local resource pool to increase the number of 1,200 local nationals and females that it employs.
Environmental sustainability 1,000 Initial environmental objectives have been met, with reduction targets 887 872 set in energy, water and waste.
800 People The businesss Saudisation programme is crucial to the long-term 600 sustainability of its business.
The business remains committed to recruiting and training local nationals.
Local employees currently fill 400 57% of positions in-Kingdom, significantly ahead of the government interim requirement of 30%.
200 During 2011, the Australian business continued to invest in the development of its employees, including training to support its 0 employee talent pipeline, and the introduction of mentoring and 10 11 coaching frameworks.
For more information on the For more information on the Groups 59 55 corporate responsibility matrices corporate responsibility activities LOOKING FORWARD In the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the Group seeks to sustain its long-term In India, significant armoured vehicle and artillery opportunities are being presence through delivering current programmes and industrialisation, pursued.
and developing new business in support of the Saudi military and In Oman, the Group is making good progress towards capturing paramilitary forces.
The budgets approved in the Kingdom in December significant opportunities to address the future requirements of 2011 underpin both the SBDCP and Salam programmes.
customers, in new product and support activities.
In Australia, the Group will continue to support the Department of In MBDA, whilst domestic budgetary pressures continue, export markets Defense in its efforts to achieve its Strategic Reform Programme by are anticipated to grow, potentially benefiting from significant platform delivering cost and service improvements across all contracts as well as procurements.
targeting further growth opportunities in the security services market.
It is also exploring expansion into adjacent maritime markets, including commercial sustainment, and offshore oil and gas industry support and fabrication services.
44 BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 GROUP PERFORMANCE REVIEW Financial review 46 Corporate responsibility review 55 Risk management 60 Principal risks 62 Agile, adaptable and capable, Typhoon is the complete combat aircraft.
Currently in service with the Royal Air Force, and the air forces of Germany, Italy, Spain, Austria and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Typhoons unrivalled combat capability, coupled with improved situation awareness, high survivability and the most advanced array of integrated sensors, make Typhoon a totalsolution for the modern air force.
Image taken over Abu Dhabi.
Group perf Group perfor ormance re mance revie view w BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 45
