20 BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 REPORTING SEGMENTS OVERVIEW The Group has revised its reporting segments to align with the Groups strategic direction and improve visibility in areas of recent development of the business.
BAE Systems now has five principal reporting segments.
1,2, 3 Sales by reporting KPI Electronic Cyber & segment % Systems Intelligence 14 7 Electronic Systems has advanced Cyber & Intelligence comprises the Groups 20 technology, high integrity, electronics USand UK-based cybersecurity activities.
The business comprises a The businesses comprise short-cycle and large number of relatively small, short-cycle multi-year man-hour-based consulting contracts.
Production activity is typically arrangements, including Indefinite Delivery, contracted on a fixed-price basis.
Indefinite Quantity IDIQ contracts and sales of software licences.
Electronic Combat combines the Electronic 32 Protection, Electronic Warfare and Intelligence & Security has four businesses: Electronic Attack product lines, and Information Technology & Cybersecurity provides a depth of capability in integrated Solutions develops, deploys and Q Electronic Systems electromagnetic systems for airborne maintains mission applications focused Q Cyber & Intelligence applications.
on information sharing, knowledge Q Platforms & Services US Q Platforms & Services UK management and enhanced enterprise Survivability & Targeting includes situational Q Platforms & Services International mission IT solutions for the US federal, awareness, targeting and survivability civilian and defence intelligence systems, such as electro-optic sensor communities.
products, guidance systems, handheld GEOINT-ISR develops and supports targeting and infrared countermeasures software systems for geospatial analysis, systems for soldiers and vehicles.
mission planning, ISR, precision targeting, Communications & Control has a strong and command and control for the defence footing in radio frequency communication and intelligence communities.
and datalinks, and provides military aircraft Global Analysis provides mission-enabling controls and displays, together with analytic solutions and support to platform integration capabilities.
operations across the US homeland security, law enforcement, defence, Intelligence, Surveillance & intelligence and counterintelligence Reconnaissance ISR addresses the communities.
market for airborne persistent surveillance, SpecTal provides government customers identification systems, signals intelligence with specialised security and intelligence and space products.
Commercial Aircraft avionics addresses the BAE Systems Detica collects, manages and commercial aircraft electronics market, exploits information to enable government including fly-by-wire flight controls, full and commercial clients to reveal authority digital engine controls, cockpit intelligence, maintain security, manage risk controls, head-up displays, cabin and strengthen resilience.
It provides a HQ management systems and power range of specialist services and products, management systems.
including development, delivery and HybriDrive delivers power and energy support of both hardware technology and management solutions, including vehicle sophisticated software products.
its secure government-focused business, Detica is a major supplier of information HQ comprises the Groups head assurance capabilities to the financial office activities, together with a services sector.
For more information visit www.
com businesses 1 Including share of equity accountedinvestments.
Reporting segments performance review BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 21 Platforms Platforms Platforms & Services & Services & Services US UK International Platforms & Services US comprises the Platforms & Services UK is the focus for Platforms & Services International has US-headquartered Land & Armaments the Groups large prime contracting businesses in Saudi Arabia and Australia, business and the US-based services and platform contracts with a large order book as well as shareholdings in MBDA and sustainment activities.
The Land & of typically multi-year contracts.
Armaments business typically includes Military Air & Information includes In Saudi Arabia, the business provides funded development activity and mediumprogrammes for the production of the operational capability support to the term fixed price production contracts.
Typhoon combat aircraft, support for countrys air and naval forces on UK Saudi Support activities may be contracted over Tornado and Hawk aircraft, and  contracts.
multi-year arrangements, including IDIQ development of new generation Unmanned Services contracts, such as the Saudi contracts.
British Defence Co-operation Programme BAE Systems has a strong position as a and Typhoon support, tend to be multi-year, Maritime programmes include the Type 45 major supplier of ship sustainment including fixed price elements.
Platforms anti-air warfare destroyers, the Astute class services to the US Navy.
The business also business includes multi-year, fixed-price nuclear-powered attack submarines and provides fixed and rotary wing aircraft contracts, often with price variation the two new Queen Elizabeth class aircraft support services to US special operations formulae, such as the Salam Typhoon carriers for the Royal Navy.
Other support activities in the US contract in Saudi Arabia.
include complex facilities management, To mitigate risk on substantial UK Ministry In Australia, the business delivers such as for the Holston explosives facility.
of Defence programmes, development production, upgrade and support programmes are normally contracted with Land & Armaments is engaged in the programmes for the Australian government appropriate levels of risk being initially held design, development, production, support across the air, maritime, land and security by the customer due to the customers and upgrade of armoured combat vehicles, domains.
Services contracts include the involvement in agreeing requirements at tactical wheeled vehicles, missile provision of support and upgrades.
Subsequent production launchers, artillery systems and Platforms contracts include naval ships, programmes are priced when a platforms munitions.
such as the Landing Helicopter Dock development has reached sufficient programme for the Navy and land vehicle Tracked vehicle programmes include reset maturity for specifications to be stabilised programmes.
Contracts are often and upgrade of Bradley fighting vehicles in and costs known to a high degree of multi-year and fixed price with price the US, and manufacture of CV90 combat certainty.
When entering production variation formulae applied.
Wheeled vehicle contracts, a variety of contract structures programmes include Mine Resistant are used to mitigate risk, such as, incentive In India, the Group continues to develop its Ambush Protected MRAP vehicles.
arrangements, whereby the customer and land systems and software joint ventures, Artillery & Munitions includes the contractor share cost savings and cost and build on its long-standing relationship manufacture of artillery systems, such as overruns against agreed target prices.
with Hindustan Aeronautics Limited, which the M777 howitzer, naval guns, where the is manufacturing Hawk aircraft under The significant Military & Technical business is the leading supplier to the US licence in India.
Services business for air and maritime Navy, and munitions, where the business is programmes is also usually contracted The business is developing its position in the principal supplier to the UKs armed over multi-year periods, and includes Oman, building on a long history of forces.
Individual Protection includes the business where the Groups service relationships with the Omani armed provision of protective products, such as offering underpins the availability and forces, with significant current and new body armour, for military, law enforcement capability of customers equipment.
contracts may also have incentivised profitability, the customer and contractor sharing cost savings.
For more information on the Groups 2 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs 46 financial performance and taxation expense EBITA excluding non-recurring items see page 47.
3 Net cash inflow outflow from operating activities after capital expenditure net and financial investment, dividends from equity accounted investments, and assets contributed to Trust.
4 Restated following the classification of the Regional Aircraft line of business as a discontinued operation see note 7 to the Group accounts and changes to the Groups reporting segments.
Reporting segments performance review BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 23 ORDER BOOK ORDER BACKLOG 6,8 5,6 Order backlog by reporting Order book by reporting Top 15 orders in the 5,6 segment bn segment % order book % 39.3bn 10 5,6 The Group has a 36.2bn 51% of the order book is 1,8 total order backlog 1 8.9 orderbook.
represented bythe Groups top 15 programmes with the 8 remaining 49% spread across the five reporting segments.
6 3 9 31 2 17 4 3.6 22 2 1.1 50 0 17 49 Q Order book Q Unfunded customer orders Electronic Systems Munitions Acquisition The Groups US businesses are engaged in significant multi-year Cyber & Intelligence Supply Solution contracts.
Performanceon many contracts beyond the first year is Platforms & Services US Queen Elizabeth Class contingent upon the receipt of funding, whichthe US government Platforms & Services UK Aircraft Carriers typically authorises on an annual basis.
TheGroups order book Platforms & Services International Astute Class Submarines excludes the unfunded element of these multi-year contracts.
At the Type 45 Destroyers 2011 half-year, the Group introduced a new performance metric, Typhoon Tranche 3A Aircraft order backlog, to provide visibility of the total value of contracts won, Typhoon Tranche 2 Aircraft not just the funded value as recorded inthe order book.
In the US Tornado ATTAC businesses, this metric givesa more meaningful measure of the Hawk India Aircraft Typhoon Support sustaining business levels.
An example oforder backlog is the ship F-35 repair business within Platforms & Services US.
Multi-Ship, 7 Saudi Typhoon Aircraft Multi-Option contracts for five years aresecured, but then only Saudi British Defence funded by the customer incrementally.
Theorder backlog recognises Co-operation Programme the remaining period of the contracts awarded, but yet to be funded.
Landing Helicopter Dock 36.2bn Saudi Tornado Role Equipment From 2012, the order backlog metric will be formally reported to Saudi Tornado Upgrade 1 theBoard.
total order book Remaining order book 5 Excluding HQ.
6 Including share of equity accounted investments order books and before the elimination of intra-group orders.
7 The appropriate work share of the Saudi Typhoon Aircraft contract is reported within Platforms & Services UK.
8 Order backlog comprises both the order book, which includes unexecuted, funded customer orders only, and unfunded customer orders.
Electronic Systems Cyber & Intelligence Platforms & Services US
