6 BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 STRATEGY The Executive Committee focuses on evolving and delivering the Groups strategy.
For 2012, the Group Strategic Framework has been refreshed.
Our Vision is to be the premier global defence, aerospace and security company Our Mission is to deliver sustainable growth in shareholder value through our commitment to Total Performance Customer Focus Programme Execution F inancial Performance Responsible Beha viour Our Values are Trusted, Innovative and Bold Our Strategy Support our customers in safeguarding their vital interests Drive shareholder value by improving financial performance and competitive positions across the business Strategic Actions Grow our Cyber, Drive value from Increase our Improve profit and Intelligence and Grow Electronic our Platforms and international cash generation Security Systems Services positions business business Integrated Business Plans Executive Committee Key Objectives 1.
Financial Performance Meet 2012 financial targets 2.
Electronic Systems Be agile, sustain revenues and deliver strong bottom line performance 3.
Cyber, Intelligence and Security Establish a leading position in Cyber, Intelligence and Security 4.
Platforms & Services US Drive value from our land portfolio and deliver sustainable, profitable growth in the Services sector 5.
Platforms & Services UK Deliver in the UK sustainably profitable through-life businesses in the air and maritime sectors 6.
Platforms & Services International Increase our Platforms & Services International business 7.
Customer Focus and Programme Continued focus on improving customer satisfaction and programme execution Execution 8.
Responsible Behaviour Progress towards recognised leading positions Strategic review BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 7 Vision Mission BAE Systems Vision provides a clear definition of the future state we The Groups Mission describes the overall goal and philosophy that wish to attain.
Given the significant changes we see in our core underpins our activities.
Meeting the Mission is key to achieving the defence markets and upon reviewing our strategic options, we made a Vision.
decision to develop our growing commercial aerospace electronics Shareholder value is defined as share price appreciation and dividend business, as part of our portfolio.
growth, driven by increased earnings per share and strong cash generation.
Whilst the Vision defines the destination, a commitment to Total Total Performance is demonstrated in every aspect of the way the Performance guides the actions for the benefit of all of the Groups Group does business Customer Focus, Programme Execution, stakeholders.
This is embedded in the Groups Mission.
Financial Performance and Responsible Behaviour.
We believe that by embodying the four elements of Total Performance wherever we operate, we will deliver growth in shareholder value, and become the premier global defence, aerospace and security company.
Strategy Drive shareholder value by improving financial performance and The Strategy provides the framework which defines the direction and competitive positions across the business shape of the Group over the long term.
This enables us to prioritise The current environment is increasingly competitive and, to deliver the deployment of our resources in an increasingly challenging growth in shareholder value, the Group will focus on generating strong environment.
Improving efficiency in the Groups operations will also make it more competitive to win future business.
All the We anticipate that defence budgets in certain of our major markets Groups operations in the defence, aerospace and security markets will experience a significant reduction.
As governments seek to must strive to increase value and eliminate non-value-added activity, reduce fiscal deficits, we have reviewed and adjusted the Strategy to whilst maintaining a commitment to Total Performance.
We have ensure we continue to perform well.
already demonstrated good performance in terms of reliable The key elements of the Groups Strategy are as follows: programme delivery, customer focus and efficiency, including determined steps on cost reduction.
This must continue in 2012 Support our customers in safeguarding their vital interests andbeyond.
We operate in the defence, aerospace and security markets, which inturn have their own unique market drivers.
The Groups Strategy istodeeply understand the needs of our customers in each of these Strategic Actions markets and recognise that their needs will be subject to rapid The Group Strategic Framework contains five Strategic Actions.
We need to be agile as an organisation, to enable us to flow directly from the Groups Vision, Mission and Strategy, and are identify our customers vital needs, and prioritise capabilities which designed to shape the business portfolio and strengthen support their vital interests, creating demand for our products and performance over the long term.
These actions translate the Groups services.
overarching strategy into operational plans that are delivered through our lines of business.
Integrated Business Plans The Integrated Business Planning process is an annual, two-stage process that culminates in a BAE Systems Board and Executive Committee approved five-year strategic and financial plan, which is Executive Committee Key Objectives used to shape the Strategic Actions.
For more information on the The Executive Committee Key Objectives focus on specific deliverables process see page 105. in support of delivery of short-term results and the overall strategy.
The Executive Committee has set the objectives shown opposite for 2012.
The aim of these objectives is to provide focus for the leadership and engagement of people at all levels of the Group.
A review of performance against these objectives will be contained in the2012 Annual Report.
Performance against the 2011 objectives is summarised on page 13.
For more information on the performance 20 ofthe Groups reporting segments
