28 BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 REPORTING SEGMENTS continued Cyber & Intelligence comprises the Groups Cyber & Intelligence cyber, secure government, and commercial and financial security activities within the US-based Intelligence & Security business, and the UK-headquartered BAESystems Detica business.
KEY CHARACTERISTICS OPERATIONAL KEY POINTS Multiple, fast-execution contracts The US-based business continues to perform well on legacy programmes while securing strategic contract awards with Excellent customer intimacy existingcustomers Building strong positions in cyber capabilities and network The US-based business continues to invest in differentiating protection technologies, such as activity-based intelligence and cybersecurity, Large and diverse US customer base including a leading edge network, operations and security centre environment, tomaintain the relevance of its service offerings Detica repositioning towards solutions integration and managed services Successful integration of acquired L-1 Intelligence Services Group, Norkom and ETI businesses Detica expanding into growing commercial markets Growth of commercial sales in Detica offsetting lower UK government volume Investment in UK Security Operations Centre Information Technology & Cybersecurity Solutions: GEOINT-ISR: The Group develops geospatial and ISR Global Analysis: The business provides missionBAESystems provides critical cybersecurity and hardware and software platforms, and mission enabling analytic solutions supporting a number of network defence solutions in support of the US applications for the defence and intelligence government departments in the US.
SpecTal: The business provides specialised security Detica: The UK-based Detica business provides a range Detica: Detica manufactures specialist equipment for and intelligence consulting services to the US of cyber, security software and consulting services to telecommunications security applications.
Reporting segments performance review BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 29 Sales analysis: activity % Sales analysis: government and commercial % 35 91 9 9 12 6 20 18 Q Information Technology Q SpecTal Q Government & Cybersecurity Solutions Q Detica government Q Commercial Q GEOINT-ISR Q Detica commercial Q Global Analysis 2011 2010 2009 FINANCIAL KEY POINTS 1 KPI Order intake 1,443m 1,300m 1,286m 1,4 Order backlog grown 1 Order book 0.8bn 0.6bn 0.6bn 1 1,4 Increase in sales of 16% Order backlog 1.1bn 0.9bn n a 1 Sales KPI 1,399m 1,201m 1,302m Margin increased to 9.7% 2 Underlying EBITA KPI 136m 108m 107m 1 US sales growth of 13% Return on sales 9.7% 9.0% 8.2% 3 Detica decline in government business largely offset by growth in Cash inflow KPI 123m 89m 74m commercial 3 2 Cash flow conversion of underlying EBITA at 90% 1,4 Order backlog increased to 1.1bn 2010 0.9bn mainly reflecting In 2011, the business was awarded three competitive task orders the impact of business acquisitions during the year.
under the Solutions for the Information Technology Enterprise programme Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Quantity IDIQ contract 1 Like-for-like sales increased by 4% primarily reflecting higher volumes worth $466m 300m over a five-year period.
These task orders for on legacy programmes in the US Global Analysis business.
the US Defense Intelligence Agency address requirements to 2 Underlying EBITA was 136m 2010 108m.
Return on sales transform IT service delivery worldwide.
Orders totalling $122m increased to 9.7% 2010 9.0%, after expensing costs of integrating 78m were received in the year under these contracts.
acquired businesses and Security Operations Centre investment.
The business was awarded an initial task order over 18 months under 3 Operating cash inflow increased to 123m 2010 89m.
the Next Generation Desktop Environment Programme IDIQ contract.
This task order for the US Defense Intelligence Agency is to deploy over Intelligence & Security 12,000 analyst workstations across the intelligence community, with The US-based Intelligence & Security business is structured into four over 6,000 workstations successfully installed at 31 December 2011. key business areas that each provide specific domain expertise, whilst working closely together to provide enterprise-wide support to a GEOINT-ISR develops and supports software platforms and mission range of customers, and key agencies in the intelligence, defence, applications for geospatial tasking, collection, processing, exploitation homeland security and civilian markets.
This enables the business to and dissemination, as well as mission planning, Intelligence provide products, people and expertise to meet customers needs in a Surveillance and Reconnaissance ISR, precision targeting, and cost-effective way.
command and control for the defence and intelligence communities.
Information Technology & Cybersecurity Solutions develops, The business was awarded several key task orders under the Total deploys and maintains mission applications focused on information Application Services for Enterprise Requirements IDIQ contract with sharing, knowledge management and enhanced enterprise mission IT the US National Geospatial Agency.
These task orders have an solutions for the federal, civilian and defence intelligence awarded value of $123m 79m for the provision of engineering communities.
The business also provides analytics, cyber analysis services.
Programme performance is meeting the customers and real-time network forensics.
1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
2 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense EBITA excluding non-recurring items see page 47.
3 Net cash inflow from operating activities after capital expenditure net and financial investment, dividends from equity accounted investments, and assets contributed to Trust.
4 Order backlog comprises both the order book, which includes unexecuted, funded customer orders only, and unfunded customer orders see page 23.
30 BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 REPORTING SEGMENTS: CYBER & INTELLIGENCE continued 8,900 1 employees Other sensitive programmes with the National Geospatial Agency BAE Systems Detica continue to provide value to this important customer.
The business continues to develop and deliver information intelligence solutions to government and commercial customers, and Global Analysis provides mission-enabling analytic solutions and grow its business in the areas of cybersecurity, information assurance support to operations across the homeland security, law enforcement, and information intelligence products.
defence, intelligence and counterintelligence communities.
The acquisitions of Norkom and ETI have strengthened the product The business has experienced significant sales growth driven by the portfolio for tackling fraud and delivering intelligence.
The integration Counter Improvised Explosive Device C-IED programme awarded in of these businesses has progressed well.
The C-IED programme provides mission analytical support to operations in the UK, Denmark and Ireland, and has an international forward deployed defence personnel.
Performance on this programme reach.
has exceeded customer criteria, with a highly skilled team of approximately 450 analysts deployed in Afghanistan.
A follow-on Financial Crime and Compliance The Detica NetReveal business, option award on the C-IED programme for approximately $200m which has been combined with Norkoms market-leading anti-money 129m was secured during the year.
laundering products, provides solutions used globally to reduce financial loss, fight crime, and manage risk and compliance, and In 2011, the business was awarded two US government IDIQ received orders of 69m during the year.
contracts for full-motion video and geospatial imagery analysis.
Multiple task orders under these contracts have been awarded for a Global Communications Solutions Detica has established a Global total contract value, including options, of $391m 252m over Communications Solutions business, combining ETI software various performance periods, the longest being for five years.
In products with existing products, to provide a range of communications 2011, funding of $48m 31m was received for these task orders.
monitoring and intercept solutions for the law enforcement communities.
During the year, orders of 42m were received from SpecTal provides government customers with specialised security customers in 22 countries for these products and services.
and intelligence mission support, including intelligence analysis, engineering, operations support, training and information technology Cybersecurity Detica continues to build a portfolio of offerings, development.
including specialist cybersecurity and secure communications solutions.
Deticas cyber business is growing rapidly across both SpecTal was a business unit within L-1 Identity Solutions, Inc. s government and commercial sectors with a range of new clients and Intelligence Services Group L-1 ISG, which was acquired in February contracts in 2011.
Detica is also investing in a state-of-the-art 2011.
Security Operations Centre, building on Detica Treidan, that can The acquisition of L-1 ISG expands and complements the businesss detect and remediate advanced cyber attacks for both government existing presence in the US intelligence community, and provides a and business.
Orders were received from two customers in the UK for greater capability base to secure upcoming re-competed contracts, this service during 2011. whilst providing a broader, more attractive offering to meet the needs UK Core Mission The UK business continues to be repositioned.
the volume of consulting activity with the UK government customer The business continues to invest in capability development to ensure declines, so growth is being generated in commercial sales from a market-focused evolution of its portfolio of offerings, and is systems integration and managed services, and security solutions to advancing several core and discriminating capabilities, including: the financial services, retail, energy and telecommunications sectors.
Activity-based intelligence: Capability within GEOINT-ISR which The business is investing in a new Delivery Centre to provide focuses on developing solutions to predict when and where threats customers with a highly secure environment to deliver their critical will strike with a high degree of probability.
business services more effectively and economically.
Cybersecurity: A leading edge network, operations and security International Secure Government Detica has continued to develop an centre environment deployed at the gateway of BAESystems own international consultancy, system integration and managed services 50,000 node North American network.
This offers a real-time business, initially focusing on the Middle East region.
Detica has seen forensics toolset that places current and historical information at a positive response, winning its first orders in two countries.
an analysts fingertips, providing clarity regarding what is happening in the network.
These initiatives have contributed towards strengthening the bid pipeline and potential level of future contract awards.
Reporting segments performance review BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 31 NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Safety Changes have taken place to give health and safety sufficient priority During the year, Cyber & Intelligence continued to progress against within the recently acquired businesses to ensure they reach the global safety objectives.
The reporting segment achieved a 42% target of achieving SMM Level 4 by the end of 2012. reduction in its Lost Work Day Case Rate.
Diversity and inclusion In the Intelligence & Security business, progress has been made During 2011, Intelligence & Security launched a diversity and against the Safety Maturity Matrix SMM, with one site achieving inclusion steering group which developed and implemented a diversity Level 5 during 2011. and inclusion strategy.
This strategy is directly linked to the overall business strategy, and its principles and tactical actions are Detica has been working towards achieving SMM Level 5 in the UK in embedded across executives personal development plans and 2012, with a number of new initiatives to engage staff with the safety objectives for the year.
To support diversity and inclusion, Detica has appointed a Detica board sponsor and set up a working group to define an action plan to Lost Work Day Case Rate KPI KPI promote and improve diversity and inclusion with a view to achieving a per 100,000 employees good level of awareness across the business by the end of 2012.
60 Initiatives include reviewing mentors for senior women, gathering detailed recruitment statistics for analysis and review, and embedding 50 diversity and inclusion concepts into management training.
40 Environmental sustainability 38 Initial environmental objectives have been met, with reduction targets 30 set in energy, water and waste.
People 22 20 To support the talent pipeline for the US business, Intelligence & Security embarked on a focused, month-long cyber jobs campaign 10 that integrated radio and social media recruiting channels.
The programme resulted in successful recruitment in this very competitive 0 talent market.
10 11 To support the continued growth and expansion of its cybersecurity business, Detica invested in a Security Operations Centre within the new UK Delivery Centre.
A focused recruitment drive was initiated to boost and increase capability around Information Security Assurance, for which the business sees significant customer demand.
For more information on the For more information on the Groups 59 55 corporate responsibility matrices corporate responsibility activities LOOKING FORWARD Intelligence & Security Intelligence & Security market is experiencing delays in procurement Whilst efforts to reduce the US governments budget deficit are likely to awards and fide-scoping of existing contracts as US government require reductions across all areas of government spend, cybersecurity agencies look for cuts in their IT budgets.
The business expects a is expected to remain a priority.
Based on its customer intimacy, increased innovation and the ability to offer a competitive Growth opportunities remain, particularly in critical, mission-focused price, the business is well positioned in this challenging environment.
areas, such as Full Motion Video, Multi-INT fusion the seamless synthesis of the individual intelligence disciplines to enable more BAE Systems Detica complete situational awareness, enterprise solutions for big data Detica expects continued demand for its intelligence and problems and cybersecurity.
In particular, Detica targets opportunities to grow in commercial markets through its cross selling of software The business seeks to grow market share in 2012 with fewer new and capability to its expanded customer base following the Norkom programmes expected through its positioning to compete as a result and ETI acquisitions.
of the structural, cost and investment actions previously taken.
