110 BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 OTHER STATUTORY AND REGULATORY INFORMATION Principal activities The Group is committed to giving full and fair consideration to BAE Systems is a global defence, aerospace and security company.
applications for employment from disabled people who meet the The BAESystems Group delivers, through its subsidiaries and equity requirements for roles, and making available training opportunities and accounted investments, a full range of products and services for air, appropriate accommodation to disabled people employed by the Group.
land and naval forces, as well as advanced electronics, security, Principal customers information technology solutions and support services.
The Groups most significant customers are the governments of the Company registration US, UK, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Australia.
In the US, BAE Systems plc is registered in England and Wales with the BAESystems is subject to a Special Security Agreement that registered number 1470151. safeguards US national security interests, as a result of which BAESystems is allowed to supply products and services of a highly Directors sensitive nature to the US government.
Agreements between the The current directors who served during the 2011 financial year are governments of the UK and Kingdom of Saudi Arabia relating to listed on pages 70 and 71.
Of those directors, Peter Lynas and Paula defence co-operation programmes remain essential to the Rosput Reynolds were appointed to the Board on 1 April 2011, and development of the Groups business in Saudi Arabia.
In Australia, LeeMcIntire on 1 June 2011.
In addition, George Rose, Ravi Uppal BAESystems is subject to an Overarching Deed with the and Roberto Quarta served as directors during the period up to their Commonwealth of Australia that protects their national security and respective retirements from the Board on 31 March 2011, 1 April other interests, and allows the Group to own certain Australian 2011 and 31 December 2011. defence-related industrial assets.
Dividend Indian government policy on Foreign Direct Investment mandates that An interim dividend of 7.5p per share was paid on 30 November 2011. foreign partners can hold a maximum of 26% equity in defence The directors propose a final dividend of 11.3p per ordinary share.
Subject to shareholder approval, the final dividend will be paid on 1June 2012 to shareholders on the share register on 20 April 2012.
Charitable donations During 2011, the amount donated for charitable purposes in the UK Annual General Meeting AGM was 1.4m 2010 1.5m.
In line with the Company Giving strategy, The Companys AGM will be held on 2 May 2012.
The Notice of Annual this included: General Meeting is enclosed with this Annual Report and details the resolutions to be proposed at the meeting.
911,000 given to armed forces charities, with major donations being made to ABF The Soldiers Charity, Combat Stress, Erskine Office of Fair Trading undertakings Hospital, Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen and Families Association As a consequence of the merger between British Aerospace and the SSAFA Forces Help, and The Royal British Legion: former Marconi Electronics Systems businesses in 1999, the Company gave certain undertakings to the Secretary of State for Trade 461,000 donated to education charities, including donations to and Industry now the Secretary of State for Business, Innovation and Arkwright Scholarships Trust, Engineering Development Trust, Skills.
In February 2007, the Company was released from the majority Furness Academy, Smallpeice Trust, Enthuse Charitable Trust and of these undertakings and the remainder have been superseded and The Princes Trust: with varied by a new set of undertakings.
Compliance with the the remaining 71,000 donated for other charitable purposes, undertakings is monitored by a compliance officer.
Further including the advance of health and culture heritage.
information regarding the undertakings and the contact details of the compliance officer may be obtained through the Company Secretary Political donations at the Companys registered office or through the Companys website.
No political donations were made in 2011.
Research and Development R&D Issued share capital The Groups R&D activities cover a wide range of programmes, and As at 31 December 2011, BAESystems issued share capital of include technological innovations and techniques to improve the 89,689,008 comprised 3,587,560,298 ordinary shares of 2.5p manufacturing and service of products.
each and one Special Share of 1.
In 2011, R&D expenditure was 1,149m 2010 1,298m of which Treasury shares 222m 2010 270m was funded by the Group.
During the year, 184,393,049 ordinary shares of 2.5p each were repurchased under the buyback programme announced on 28 July Supplier payment policy 2011 and such repurchased shares are held in treasury.
The total It is Group policy that suppliers should be paid in accordance with the consideration for the purchase of the shares, including commission payment terms and conditions stated in the applicable purchase and stamp duty, was 503,128,215. order.
In the UK, the Group is a signatory to the governments Prompt Payment Code see www.
uk, under which it As at 1 January 2011, the number of shares held in treasury totalled has undertaken to pay suppliers on time, give clear guidance on 178,377,628 having a total nominal value of 4,459,441 and payment procedures and encourage the adoption of the code representing 4.97% of the Companys called up share capital at throughout its supply chain.
During 2011, the Company used 11,013,823 treasury shares having a total nominal value of 275,346 and The average number of days credit provided in 2011 by suppliers was representing 0.31% of the Companys called up share capital at 35 days 2010 34 days.
31December 2011 to satisfy awards under the Free and Matching Employees elements of the Share Incentive Plan 8,130,818 shares in Regular internal communication, including newsletters and the aggregate, awards vested under the Performance Share Plan intranet, keeps employees involved and motivated.
1,441,347 shares and the Share Matching Plan 1,366,377 shares, and options exercised under the Executive Share Option Plan The Group has constructive relationships with trade unions, and 75,281 shares.
The treasury shares utilised in respect of the Share regularly communicates and discusses business developments Incentive Plan, the Performance Share Plan and the Share Matching which impact the Group and its employees.
Plan were disposed of by the Company for nil consideration.
The The Group welcomes employees becoming shareholders in 75,281 shares disposed of by the Company in respect of the BAESystems, and offers a number of employee share plans to Executive Share Option Plan were disposed of by the Company for an support this.
As at 31 December 2011, the Governance BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 111 number of shares held in treasury totalled 351,756,854 having a the directors may, in their absolute discretion, refuse to register any total nominal value of 8,793,921 and representing 9.8% of the transfer of shares which are not fully paid up but not so as to Companys called up share capital at 31 December 2011. prevent dealings in listed shares from taking place : The rights to treasury shares are restricted in accordance with the the directors may also refuse to register any instrument of transfer Companies Act and, in particular, the voting rights attaching to these of shares unless the instrument of transfer is in respect of only one shares are automatically suspended.
class of share and it is lodged at the place where the register of members is kept, accompanied by a relevant certificate or such Rights and obligations of ordinary shares other evidence as the directors may reasonably require to show the On a show of hands at a general meeting every holder of ordinary right of the transferor to make the transfer: shares present in person and entitled to vote shall have one vote, and every proxy entitled to vote shall have one vote unless the proxy is the directors may refuse to register an allotment or transfer of appointed by more than one member in which case the proxy has one shares in favour of more than four persons jointly: vote for and one vote against if the proxy has been instructed by one or where a shareholder has failed to provide the Company with certain more members to vote for the resolution and by one or more members information relating to their interest in shares, the directors can, in to vote against the resolution: or if the proxy has been instructed by certain circumstances, refuse to register a transfer of such shares: one or more shareholders to vote either for or against a resolution and by one or more of those shareholders to use his discretion how to certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and vote.
On a poll, every member present in person or by proxy and regulations for example, insider trading laws : entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
restrictions may be imposed pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Subject to the relevant statutory provisions and the Companys Financial Services Authority whereby certain of the Groups Articles of Association, holders of ordinary shares are entitled to a employees require the Companys approval to deal in shares: and dividend where declared or paid out of profits available for such purposes.
Subject to the relevant statutory provisions and the awards of shares made under the Companys Share Incentive Plan Companys Articles of Association, on a return of capital on a are subject to restrictions on the transfer of shares prior to vesting.
winding-up, holders of ordinary shares are entitled, after repayment of The Company is not aware of any arrangements between its the 1 Special Share, to participate in such a return.
There are no shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares redemption rights in relation to the ordinary shares.
Rights and obligations of the Special Share Significant direct and indirect holders of securities The Special Share is held on behalf of the Secretary of State for As at 31 December 2011, the Company had been advised of the Business, Innovation and Skills the Special Shareholder.
Certain following significant direct and indirect interests in the issued ordinary provisions of the Companys Articles of Association cannot be share capital of the Company: amended without the consent of the Special Shareholder.
These Percentage provisions include the requirement that no foreign person, or foreign Name of shareholder notified persons acting in concert, can have more than a 15% voting interest in AXA S. A. and its group of companies 5.00% the Company, the requirement that the majority of the directors are Barclays PLC 3.98% British, and the requirement that the Chief Executive and any executive Chairman are British.
BlackRock, Inc. 5.16% Invesco Limited 12.00% The holder of the Special Share is entitled to attend a general Franklin Resources Inc. and affiliates 4.92% meeting, but the Special Share carries no right to vote or any other rights at any such meeting, other than to speak in relation to any Legal & General Group Plc 3.99% business in respect of the Special Share.
Subject to the relevant Silchester International Investors LLP 3.01% statutory provisions and the Companys Articles of Association, on a Subsequent to 31 December 2011, Invesco Limited has made the return of capital on a winding-up, the holder of the Special Share shall following notifications of its direct and indirect interests in the issued be entitled to repayment of the 1 capital paid up on the Special ordinary share capital of the Company: 11.98% on 3 January 2012 Share in priority to any repayment of capital to any other members.
The holder of the Special Share has the right to require the Company Exercise of rights of shares in employee share schemes to redeem the Special Share at par or convert the Special Share into The Trustees of the employee trusts do not seek to exercise voting one ordinary share at any time.
rights on shares held in the employee trusts other than on the Restrictions on transfer of securities direction of the underlying beneficiaries.
No voting rights are The restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company are as exercised in relation to shares unallocated to individual beneficiaries.
follows: Restrictions on voting deadlines the Special Share may only be issued to, held by and transferred to The notice of any general meeting shall specify the deadline for the Special Shareholder or his successor or nominee: exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be proposed at the general meeting.
The the directors shall not register any allotment or transfer of any number of proxy votes for, against or withheld in respect of each shares to a foreign person, or foreign persons acting in concert, resolution are publicised on the Companys website after the meeting.
who at the time have more than a 15% voting interest in the Company, or who would, following such allotment or transfer, have Appointment and replacement of directors such an interest: Subject to certain nationality requirements mentioned below, the Company may by ordinary resolution appoint any person to be a the directors shall not register any person as a holder of any shares director.
unless they have received: i a declaration stating that upon registration, the share s will not be held by foreign persons or that The majority of directors holding office must be British.
Otherwise, upon registration the share s will be held by a foreign person or thedirectors who are not British shall vacate office in such order that persons: ii such evidence if any as the directors may require of those who have been in office for the shortest period since their the authority of the signatory of the declaration: and iii such appointment shall vacate their office first, unless all of the directors evidence or information if any as to the matters referred to in the otherwise agree among themselves.
Any director who holds the office declaration as the directors consider appropriate: 112 BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 OTHER STATUTORY AND REGULATORY INFORMATION continued of either Chairman in an executive capacity or Chief Executive shall with the duties relating to conflicts of interest.
The procedure adopted also be British.
by the Board for the authorisation of conflicts reminds directors of the need to consider their duties as directors and not grant an The Company must have six directors holding office at all times.
If the authorisation unless they believe, in good faith, that this would be number is reduced to below six, then such number of persons shall be likely to promote the success of the Company.
As required by law, the appointed as directors as soon as is reasonably practicable to potentially conflicted director cannot vote on an authorisation reinstate the number of directors to six.
The Company may by ordinary resolution or be counted in the quorum.
Any authorisation granted resolution from time to time vary the minimum number of directors.
may be terminated at any time and the director is informed of the At each AGM of the Company, any director who was elected or last obligation to inform the Company without delay should there be any re-elected at or before the AGM held in the third calendar year before material change in the nature of the conflict or potential conflict so the then current calendar year must retire by rotation and such further authorised.
The Nominations Committee has been asked to review on directors must retire by rotation so that in total one-third of the an annual basis any authorisations granted and to make directors retire by rotation each year.
A retiring director is eligible for recommendations to the Board as appropriate.
It is the Boards intention that all directors will stand for Directors indemnities election or re-election in 2012 in compliance with the UK Corporate The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity with all its current Governance Code.
directors and those persons who were directors for any part of 2011 Amendment of the Companys Articles of Association which are qualifying indemnity provisions for the purpose of the The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a Companies Act 2006. special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
Where class The directors of BAESystems Pension Funds Trustees Limited, rights are varied, such amendments must be approved by the BAESystems 2000 Pension Plan Trustees Limited, BAESystems members of each class of shares separately.
Executive Pension Scheme Trustees Limited and Alvis Pension In addition, certain provisions of the Articles of Association cannot be Scheme Trustees Limited benefit from indemnities in the governing amended without the consent of the Special Shareholder.
These documentation of the BAESystems Pension Scheme, the provisions include the requirement that no foreign person, or foreign BAESystems 2000 Pension Plan, the BAESystems Executive persons acting in concert, can have more than a 15% voting interest in PensionScheme and the Alvis Pension Scheme, respectively, which the Company, the requirement that the majority of the directors are are qualifying indemnity provisions for the purpose of the Companies British, and the requirement that the Chief Executive and any Act 2006. executive Chairman are British.
All such indemnity provisions are in force as at the date of this Powers of the directors Directors report.
The directors are responsible for the management of the business of Change of control significant agreements the Company and may exercise all powers of the Company subject to The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the applicable legislation and regulation, and the Articles of Association.
counterparties to exercise termination, alteration or other similar At the 2011 AGM, the directors were given the power to buy back a rights in the event of a change of control of the Company: maximum number of 340,993,986 ordinary shares at a minimum The Group has entered into a 2bn Revolving Credit Facility dated price of 2.5p each.
The maximum price was the higher of i an amount 8December 2010 which provides that, in the event of a change of equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations of the control of the Company, the lenders are entitled to renegotiate Companys ordinary shares as derived from the London Stock terms, or if no agreement is reached on negotiated terms within a Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately certain period, to call for the repayment or cancellation of the preceding the day on which such ordinary shares are contracted to be facility.
The Revolving Credit Facility was undrawn as at purchased, and ii the higher of the price of the last independent 31December 2011. trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange as stipulated in Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and The Company has entered into a Restated and Amended Stabilisation Regulation.
This power will expire at the earlier of the Shareholders Agreement with European Aeronautic Defence and conclusion of the 2012 AGM or 30 June 2012.
A special resolution Space Company EADS N. V. EADS and Finmeccanica S. p. A. will be proposed at the 2012 AGM to renew the Companys authority to Finmeccanica relating to MBDA S. A. S. dated 18 December 2001 acquire its own shares.
In the event that control of the Company passes to certain specified third-party acquirors, the agreement allows EADS At the 2011 AGM, the directors were given the power to issue new and Finmeccanica to exercise an option to terminate certain shares up to a nominal amount of 28,413,323.
This power will executive management level nomination and voting rights, and expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the 2012 AGM or 30 June certain shareholder information rights of the Company in relation 2012.
Accordingly, a resolution will be proposed at the 2012 AGM to tothe MBDA joint venture.
Following the exercise of this option, the renew the Companys authority to issue further new shares.
At the Company would have the right to require the other shareholders to 2011 AGM, the directors were also given the power to issue new issue purchase its interest in MBDA at fair market value.
shares up to a further nominal amount of 28,413,323 in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue.
This authority too will expire on The Company and EADS have agreed that if Finmeccanica acquires the earlier of the conclusion of the 2012 AGM or 30 June 2012, and a a controlling interest in the Company, EADS will increase its resolution will be proposed at the 2012 AGM to renew this additional shareholding in MBDA to 50% by purchasing the appropriate authority.
number of shares in MBDA at fair market value.
Conflicts of interest The Company, BAESystems, Inc. BAESystems Holdings Limited As permitted under the Companies Act 2006, the Companys Articles and BAESystems Holdings Inc. entered into a Special Security of Association contain provisions which enable the Board to authorise Agreement dated 8 November 2010 with the US Department of conflicts or potential conflicts that individual directors may have.
Defense regarding the management of BAESystems, Inc. in order to comply with the US governments national security requirements.
To avoid potential conflicts of interest the Board requires the In the event of a change of control of the Company, the Agreement Nominations Committee to check that any individuals it nominates for may be terminated or altered by the US Department of Defense.
appointment to the Board are free of potential conflicts.
In addition, the Boards procedures and the induction programme for new In July 2009, BVT Surface Fleet Limited now BAESystems Surface directors emphasise a directors personal responsibility for complying Ships Limited and the UK MoD entered into a definitive Terms of
