32 BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 REPORTING SEGMENTS continued Platforms & Services US comprises the USPlatforms & headquartered Land & Armaments business, with operations in the US, UK, Sweden and South Services US Africa, together with US-based services and sustainment activities, including ship repair and modernisation services.
KEY CHARACTERISTICS OPERATIONAL KEY POINTS Support Solutions combines positions in: Increases in orders and sales in the Support Solutions business US naval ship repair and modernisation Support business awarded a ten-year contract to manage, operate Operations support and maintain the US Armys Radford Army Ammunition Plant Complex infrastructure services Fixed and rotary wing military aircraft modification Sales reduction in the land business due to lower Bradley reset remanufacturing activity and completed Family of Medium Tactical Land & Armaments combines positions in: Vehicles programme Tracked combat vehicles Continued restructuring and efficiency activity in the land business Tactical wheeled vehicles Artillery, ammunition and naval armaments Participating in the technology development phase of the US Armys Soldier survivability products Ground Combat Vehicle programme Business disposals of Swiss-Photonics, Advanced Ceramics and Composite Structures complete, and Safety Products disposal announced Services: BAE Systems is a leading provider of ship Services: The Group undertakes aircraft modernisation Tracked Vehicles: The CV90 family of vehicles, repair and modernisation services to the US Navy.
services at its Albertville, Alabama, facility in the US.
manufactured in Sweden, is in service with six nations.
Wheeled Vehicles: Deliveries of Caiman vehicles Artillery & Munitions: The M777 howitzer is in service Individual Protection: In addition to its large land continued in 2011, with upgrades to the Multi-Terrain with US, Canadian and Australian armed forces.
systems platform programmes, BAE Systems supplies Vehicle standard.
Production continues and further orders are anticipated.
a range of individual soldier protection products.
L Reporting segments performance review a n d & A r m a m e n t s BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 33 Sales analysis: activity % Sales analysis: Platforms and Services % Sales analysis: markets % 14 68 81 7 10 19 9 17 32 22 21 Q Ship Repair Q Wheeled Vehicles Q Military & Technical Services Q US Q Other support services Q Artillery & Munitions Q Platforms Q UK Q Tracked Vehicles Q Individual Protection Q Rest of World 2011 2010 2009 FINANCIAL KEY POINTS 1 KPI Order intake 5,077m 5,605m 5,493m 1 Sales in: 1 Order book 6.5bn 7.0bn 8.7bn Land & Armaments business decreased 40% to 3.5bn 1,4 Order backlog 8.9bn 9.1bn n a Support Solutions business increased 1% to 1.8bn 1 Sales KPI 5,305m 7,671m 8,414m Return on sales in: 2 Underlying EBITA KPI 478m 728m 747m Land & Armaments business reduced to 9.3% Return on sales 9.0% 9.5% 8.9% Support Solutions business increased to 8.4% 3 Cash inflow KPI 410m 967m 566m 1,4 Support business delivered an increase in order backlog and 3 strong operating cash flow 1 1 Like-for-like sales reduced by 30%.
At Land & Armaments, sales Support Solutions reduced to 3.5bn $5.7bn, primarily reflecting the anticipated lower In the maritime environment, the US Navy awarded the business level of Bradley reset remanufacturing activity on a reduced level of $1.5bn 1.0bn in follow-on Multi-Ship, Multi-Option MSMO military operations, and the completed Family of Medium Tactical contracts for the planning, modernisation, maintenance and repair of 1 Vehicles FMTV programme.
Sales at Support Solutions increased vessels at Norfolk, Virginia and San Diego, California.
bring the total value to approximately $3bn 1.9bn over five years and represent a 100% re-compete MSMO win rate for the ship repair 2 Underlying EBITA was 478m 2010 728m.
Return on sales at Land & Armaments was 9.3% 2010 10.2% reflecting self-funding of the costs on the The business was selected by the US Navy under a contract valued at Ground Combat Vehicle GCV team during the award protest, and a $148m 95m to provide the external communications systems for ten short-term under-recovery of overheads from the delayed placement additional Littoral Combat Ships to be built by an Austal US-led team.
of Caiman and GCV contracts.
The rationalisation programme in Land The fleet will be a new generation of high-speed warships, designed to & Armaments, which commenced in 2009, has reduced net carry out a range of operations in shallow waters close to shore.
The win headcount including contractors by some 47% to date.
Efforts to further demonstrates the Groups position as an industry leader in align the cost base to the reduced activity at Land & Armaments systems development and integration for US Navy ships.
Return on sales at the Support Solutions business In April 2011, the Mobile, Alabama shipyard was contracted to finish increased from 7.1% to 8.4%.
the construction of the American Phoenix, a product chemical tanker 3 2 Cash flow conversion of underlying EBITA at Land & Armaments was and, in August 2011, Weeks Marine, Inc. selected BAESystems to 2 84%.
Conversion of underlying EBITA atSupport Solutions was 91%.
build an 8,500 cubic-yard capacity twin screw trailing suction hopper dredge at the shipyard.
Building on C4ISR Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance work that BAESystems has been performing for more than 25 years, often deploying with military units overseas to ensure their readiness, the USNavy awarded the business a $132m 85m task order to provide C4ISR technical services for military operations around the world.
This order covers the provision of maintenance, upgrades, logistics and other services for military structures, vehicles, ships and small boats.
1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
2 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense EBITA excluding non-recurring items see page 47.
3 Net cash inflow from operating activities after capital expenditure net and financial investment, dividends from equity accounted investments, and assets contributed to Trust.
4 Order backlog comprises both the order book, which includes unexecuted, funded customer orders only, and unfunded customer orders see page 23.
S u p p o r t S o l u t i o n s 34 BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 REPORTING SEGMENTS: PLATFORMS & SERVICES US continued 24,100 183m 1 employees of research and development 2 expenditure in 2011 The US Army awarded the business the contract to manage, operate During the year, the business sold its Swiss-Photonics, Advanced and maintain the Radford Army Ammunition Plant in southwest Ceramics and Composite Structures businesses for an aggregate Virginia.
Valued at approximately $850m 547m over ten years, consideration of 30m.
withan additional three five-year options, the contract represents a UK significant win.
Following an unsuccessful protest, the US Army A new high-technology production facility was opened in Washington, confirmed its award to BAE Systems in January 2012.
UK, and the first 150 105mm forgings were successfully produced The Group has been selected by the US Department of Defenses during September.
In March, a new laboratory complex opened at Joint Improvised Explosive Device Defeat Organization to compete for Glascoed and a new small arms ammunition facility was completed at task orders worth a total of $900m 579m for all awardees over five Radway Green in September.
The business continued to perform well years on a new Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Quantity contract for under its 15-year partnership with the UK Ministry of Defence MoD research, analysis, training, operations support and sustainment of to deliver small arms ammunition.
information technology to aid its efforts to counter the use of An amendment to the Terrier armoured engineer vehicle contract was improvised explosive devices.
agreed with the UK MoD in March, and deliveries of production Land & Armaments vehicles commenced in late 2011.
US The US Army placed two additional M777 howitzer orders for 116 In August 2011, the business was awarded a $450m 290m guns, bringing the total orders since product launch to 1,071 contract to participate in the 24-month technology development systems, worth in excess of 1.2bn.
phase of the US Armys Ground Combat Vehicle programme.
An award protest by competitor SAIC, which was subsequently rejected by the Other markets and joint ventures US government, resulted in a temporary funded work stoppage in The business won a competitive selection to provide the Swedish 2011.
The programme is now moving forward.
Defence Materiel Administration, FMV, with armoured all-terrain vehicles.
The initial 65m contract for 48 BvS10 vehicles and The business advanced its Heavy Brigade Combat Team positions, support, together with options for additional vehicles and enhanced supporting customer requirements across the Bradley and Paladin support, was awarded in January 2012.
In 2011, the business received several contracts worth $677m 436m to provide vehicle The contract for the supply of new and upgraded CV90 vehicles to and survivability upgrades, and field support for the Bradley family of Norway was delayed from 2011 to 2012. vehicles.
The business delivered seven test vehicles on or ahead of The business is progressing a Canadian combat competitive pursuit, schedule for the PIM programme and, in January 2012, received a the Close Combat Vehicle.
Testing is complete and contract awards $313m 201m contract modification for additional engineering are expected in 2012. design, logistics development and test evaluation support to complete the engineering and manufacturing development phase.
The development of the Archer 155mm self-propelled artillery gun systems for the Swedish and Norwegian armed forces has progressed The business is continuing to prepare its response to a US Marine through qualification testing, with production commencing in 2012.
Corps Assault Amphibious Vehicle upgrade request for proposal.
Submission is expected in the last quarter of 2012, with contract The Sweden-based weapons business was selected to supply 57mm award in the first quarter of 2013.
Mk 110 naval gun systems for the US Navy Littoral Combat Ships programme.
Further options are expected through to 2015.
In May 2011, the businesss two teams completed the technology development phase of the US Armys Joint Light Tactical Vehicle In South Africa, the business received mobility upgrade contracts for a programme.
Both teams plan to compete for the engineering and total value of $193m 124m in support of the RG31 Mine Resistant manufacturing development phase.
The business received several contracts for RG31 and RG32M vehicles for customers in Spain, The upgrade of 1,700 Caiman Multi-Terrain Vehicles under the $629m Sweden, Finland and the United Arab Emirates for a total value of 405m contract awarded in 2010 continues.
The business completed its last chassis under the US Army FMTV In June 2011, FNSS, a 49% owned joint venture with Nurol Group of contract in May 2011.
Turkey, received and signed a $559m 360m agreement with The business was awarded a $42m 27m contract to work with its DEFTECH of Malaysia for the design, development and manufacture of Brazilian Army customer to upgrade 150 M113 armoured personnel 257 wheeled armoured vehicles and integrated logistics support for carriers.
The business is progressing a major competitive pursuit in Canada, the Tactical Armoured Patrol Vehicle.
Testing on this vehicle is complete and contract award is expected in 2012.
In naval armaments, the business received a one-year, $32m 21m contract to deliver 40 Mk38 Mod 2 gun systems as part of a larger effort to secure a four-year contract, worth over $176m 113m for mounts, spares, and technical and professional services.
The US Navy awarded four additional contracts for over $63m 41m to upgrade seven Mk 45 gun systems.
2 Includes both Group-funded and customer-funded expenditure.
Reporting segments performance review BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 35 NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Safety Diversity and inclusion Focused safety programmes in Platforms & Services US businesses During 2011, Platforms & Services US continued to support US-wide supported continued progress against performance on the Safety diversity and inclusion activities, including supporting the diversity Maturity Matrix.
and inclusion champions network across its business and the development of a US-wide diversity and inclusion strategy.
There was an increase in the Lost Work Day Case Rate of 22% reflecting a change in profile of operational facilities and activities.
At Support Solutions, activities focused on developing strategies for The Group is working hard to bring standards of safety in acquired increasing female and minority representation in senior leadership businesses up to those expected by BAE Systems.
Another priority was improving the pipeline of females and minorities for leadership positions by extending supervisory The Anchored in Safety programme in the ship repair business is responsibilities and tactical development plans for the next tier of helping to embed a culture of safety throughout the business.
In the ship repair business, a highlight was the Jacksonville and Mayport shipyards celebrated their one-millionth implementation of an accredited apprenticeship programme with a man-hour without a lost-time injury.
In Land & Armaments, there were targeted activities, including training Lost Work Day Case Rate KPI KPI sessions on unconscious bias, and the business took the lead for a per 100,000 employees cross-sector, two-day Diversity and Inclusion Symposium that provided 600 internal and external expertise on multiple dimensions of diversity, and lessons on resiliency in leadership and driving innovation through 500 diversity.
414 400 Environmental sustainability Initial environmental objectives have been met, with reduction targets 340 set in energy, water and waste.
300 People 200 To support development of leadership capability, both Support Solutions and Land & Armaments launched new leadership 100 programmes.
To meet the leadership development needs in the services market, Support Solutions launched a new programme targeted at supervisors and managers.
At Land & Armaments, training 0 was introduced placing emphasis on programmes to develop 10 11 capabilities needed for success in a challenging market.
In the UK, the Radway Green munitions facility received the North West Health Work and Wellbeing Excellence award for wellbeing.
For more information on the For more information on the Groups 59 55 corporate responsibility matrices corporate responsibility activities LOOKING FORWARD Efforts to reduce the US governments budget deficit are likely to require In order to offset these pressures, increased focus is placed on reductions across all areas of government spend.
capturing export opportunities and key new domestic programmes.
Simultaneously, the business continues to drive rationalisation, In the near term, the Land & Armaments business faces a challenging efficiencies and cost reductions in order to adapt and remain market environment and a further decline in sales, specifically for competitive.
completing FMTV and Caiman contracts, and lower Bradley volume.
It is expected that pressures on defence budgets and shifting national Although budget cutbacks continue to exert downward pressure on priorities, combined with a reduction in military operations, will the services market as a whole, the increasing age of US and allied continue.
government equipment is expected to lead to opportunities in the near term for lifecycle support services.
