8 BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 BUSINESS MODEL BAE Systems is a global defence, aerospace Who we are and security company.
The Groups business model is to deliver sustainable growth in shareholder value through Total Performance.
This guides actions for the benefit of all its stakeholders.
OUR GLOBAL DEFENCE MARKET POSITION $BN 60 In 2010, BAE Systems was the second largest global defence supplier.
This represented a continuation of the Groups strong 50 position in its domestic and international markets overall.
42.8 40 33.1 31.2 30.9 30 26.6 23.4 20 16.3 14.4 13.1 11.6 10 0 Top ten global defence companies based on 2010 defence revenue Source: Defense News BAE Systems delivers a full range of products What we do and services for air, land and naval forces, as well as advanced electronics, security, information technology solutions and support services.
OUR REPORTING SEGMENTS The business is reported through five principal reporting segments, recognising the focus on the services nature of the Groups business and the broad geographic base of its operations.
Electronic Cyber & Platforms Platforms Platforms Systems Intelligence & Services & Services & Services US UK International For more information on the activities 20 of the Groups reporting segments Lockheed Martin BAE Systems Northrop Grumman Boeing General Dynamics Raytheon EADS Finmeccanica L-3 Communications United Technologies Strategic review BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 9 BAE Systems is committed to developing a How we do it culture of Total Performance, which encompasses Customer Focus, Programme Execution, Financial Performance and Responsible Behaviour.
The Groups priority to all its customers is to The Groups performance is dependent on Customer Programme understand their needs and expectations, the successful execution of its projects.
It is Focus Execution and deliver on its commitments throughout important that the Group wins and contracts the life of the products and services it for high quality new programmes, and delivers.
Schedule adherence metrics, delivers on those projects within tight relating to milestone performance across tolerances of quality, time and cost the Groups major contracts, together with performance in a reliable, predictable and customer satisfaction, are key indicators of repeatable manner.
Key indicators of Customer Focus.
performance include outturn projections of, and movements in, margin of key customerfunded projects, and customer satisfaction.
The Group sets itself challenging financial Responsible Behaviour is embedded within Financial Responsible targets through its Integrated Business the business.
The Groups Code of Conduct Performance Behaviour Planning process.
Financial Performance is is a summary of the principles and measured through a range of key financial standards of business conduct expected of salients derived from the Groups all employees.
Together with the Groups consolidated financial statements, including Responsible Trading Principles, the Code of 1 1 2 order intake, sales, underlying EBITA, Conduct underpins its business activities.
3 underlying earnings per share and Metrics exist to measure safety, diversity 4 operating business cash flow.
For more information on the 14 Groups KPIs OUR OPERATIONAL FRAMEWORK OUR APPROACH TO RISK MANAGEMENT The Operational Framework sets out how the Group does business, Effective management of risks and opportunities is essential to the wherever it operates in the world.
The Operational Framework is delivery of the Groups strategic objectives, achievement of based on principles of good governance, and outlines the Groups sustainable shareholder value, protection of its reputation and values, policies and processes.
meeting the requirements of good corporate governance.
The Groups risk management policy is set out in the Operational Framework.
For more information on the Groups For more information on the Groups approach 105 60 Operational Framework to risk management and principal risks 1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
2 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense EBITA excluding non-recurring items see page 47.
3 Earnings excluding amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, non-cash finance movements on pensions and financial derivatives, and non-recurring items see note 8 to the Group accounts.
4 Net cash flow from operating activities after capital expenditure net and financial investment, dividends from equity accounted investments, and assets contributed to Trust.
