24 BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 REPORTING SEGMENTS continued Electronic Systems comprises the USand Electronic Systems UK-based electronics activities, including electronic warfare systems and electro-optical sensors, military and commercial digital engine and flight controls, next-generation military communications systems and data links, persistent surveillance capabilities, and hybrid electric drive systems.
KEY CHARACTERISTICS OPERATIONAL KEY POINTS Broad base of programmes, with more than 5,000 active contracts Sustained a leadership position in the electronic warfare market No programme greater than 5% of sales Increasing position in high growth commercial aircraft electronics market Over 65% of 2011 sales were fixed price-based Winning key development contracts in the airborne persistent Cutting edge technology and capabilities, with significant  funded research and development invested in the business Integration of the acquired Fairchild Imaging and OASYS businesses 14% of total sales are to commercial customers Continued focus on increasing productivity and efficiency Business recovery in process following disruption due to flood damage at the Johnson City facility Electronic Combat: BAE Systems is responsible for a Survivability & Targeting: High technology electronic Survivability & Targeting: The Group produces a range of number of subsystems and equipment on the F-35 Joint systems and sensors include the Groups capabilities in advanced electro-optical systems and sensors, including Strike Fighter, including the electronic warfare suite.
Thermal Weapon Sights for the US armed forces.
Communications & Control: Electronic Systems has Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance ISR : Commercial Aircraft avionics: Many of the worlds developed the helmet-mounted display and targeting BAESystems is a leading provider of ISR capability commercial aircraft employ BAE Systems engine and system for Typhoon.
The Groups helmet technology is producing tactical identification, sensing and flight controls.
intelligence exploitation systems for airborne, maritime, land and space-based applications.
Reporting segments performance review BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 25 Sales analysis: activity % Sales analysis: defence and commercial % 22 86 14 14 27 18 19 Q Electronic Combat Q Defence Q Survivability & Targeting Q Commercial Q Communications & Control Q ISR Q Commercial Aircraft avionics & HybriDrive 2011 2010 2009 FINANCIAL KEY POINTS 1 KPI Order intake 2,620m 2,894m 2,811m 1,4 Order backlog slightly increased in challenging business 1 Order book 3.2bn 3.2bn 3.1bn environment 1,4 Order backlog 3.6bn 3.5bn n a 1 1 Sales performance impacted by programme award delays due to Sales KPI 2,645m 2,969m 2,899m the extended period of Continuing Resolution and Johnson City flood 2 Underlying EBITA KPI 386m 455m 348m Return on sales reduced on completion of certain production Return on sales 14.6% 15.3% 12.0% 3 programmes Cash inflow KPI 268m 367m 226m 3 2 Cash flow conversion of underlying EBITA at 80%, before pension deficit funding 1,4 Order backlog increased to 3.6bn 2010 3.5bn despite some In July 2011, the US-headquartered Electronic Systems business was impact of contracting delays as the US administration operated federal created by combining the Electronic Solutions and Platform Solutions budgets under Continuing Resolution limitations for seven months of businesses.
The new reporting segment spans the commercial and 2011. defence electronics markets, and brings together a strong portfolio of products, technology and know-how to serve its customers.
1 On a like-for-like basis, sales reduced by 10% on 2010 reflecting thecompleted F-22 and Advanced Threat Infrared Countermeasures In April 2011, BAE Systems completed the acquisition of Fairchild ATIRCM production programmes, the impact of the delayed Imaging, a company that designs and manufactures solid-state programme awards, and the disruption caused by the Johnson City electronic imaging components, cameras and systems.
components have potential uses across diverse aerospace, industrial, medical and scientific imaging applications, including night 2 Underlying EBITA was 386m 2010 455m.
Return on sales vision systems, aerial mapping, electron microscopy and DNA reduced to 14.6% 2010 15.3% reflecting risk retirement on mapping.
completion of the F-22 and ATIRCM programmes.
During the year, operations at two US sites were consolidated into 3 Operating cash inflow was 268m 2010 367m reflecting a larger facilities in order to maximise efficiencies and performance.
2 3 conversion of underlying EBITA to cash flow of 80%, before pension Work at the affected sites, in Ontario, California, and Irving, Texas, is deficit funding.
being transitioned to other locations.
Electronic Combat The business maintains its leadership position in electronic warfare primarily through its involvement in the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter programme as the provider of the electronic warfare suite.
The F-35 programme has been aligned to support the US Defense Secretarys programme restructuring announcement in January 2011.
In 2011, the business met its key milestones on the Systems Design and Development programme and was awarded a contract for Low-Rate Initial Production LRIP Lot 6 on the F-35 Production programme.
1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
2 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense EBITA excluding non-recurring items see page 47.
3 Net cash inflow from operating activities after capital expenditure net and financial investment, dividends from equity accounted investments, and assets contributed to Trust.
4 Order backlog comprises both the order book, which includes unexecuted, funded customer orders only, and unfunded customer orders see page 23.
26 BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 REPORTING SEGMENTS: ELECTRONIC SYSTEMS continued 13,400 169m 1 employees of research and development 2 expenditure in 2011 The US Navy has requested a proposal to extend the current Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance The business has been technology maturation contract for the Next Generation Jammer NGJ selected to provide Wide Area Airborne Surveillance capability on until 2012.
BAESystems is one of four competitors bidding for the several key development programmes for multiple US Air Force and technology development contract to be awarded later in 2012.
The US Army airframes, based on two wide-area, high-resolution imaging NGJ will replace the ageing ALQ-99 jammer currently on certain US sensor systems.
The Autonomous Real-time Ground Ubiquitous Navy aircraft.
Surveillance Imaging System ARGUS-IS was recognised by Aviation Week and Space Technology as one of the top ten new technologies In December, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia reached agreement with for 2011.
The Airborne Wide Area Persistent Surveillance System the US government to purchase 84 new F-15SA aircraft and upgrade AWAPSS received an Army Research and Development Award in its existing fleet of 70 aircraft.
Good progress has been made in the 2010.
These systems provide the war fighter with the ability to development of the Groups digital electronic warfare system for the observe very wide areas of interest with sufficient imagery resolution aircraft.
to meet intelligence and surveillance needs.
Survivability & Targeting Using its Boldstroke system technology, Commercial Aircraft avionics Key wins have been secured on new the business provided the US Army with a proposal for the Common programmes, including high integrity flight controls for regional and Infrared Countermeasures CIRCM programme.
The Boldstroke transport aircraft, such as the Bombardier CSeries and Embraer system is an integrated aircraft survivability system for protecting KC-390.
The business is well positioned to support the growth in aircraft from infrared-guided missiles and other threats.
It provides demand for commercial aircraft.
increased system capability in a smaller and more energy efficient package.
In early 2012, the USArmy awarded the business one of two In the year, the business has successfully renewed long-term supplier contracts to develop the CIRCM capability.
The contract is worth agreements with aftermarket airline customers.
The award is under protest and the General Electric has signed a memorandum of understanding with the Group is awaiting further direction from the US government.
businesss joint venture, FADEC International, to develop and produce BAE Systems, as a subcontractor to Alliant Techsystems, is the Full-Authority Digital Electronic Control FADEC for CFM supporting a $109m 70m US Navy contract for the engineering and Internationals next generation engine, the LEAP-X.
The fuel-efficient manufacturing development of the Joint and Allied Threat Awareness LEAP-X turbofan engine is designed to power future narrow body System JATAS, the next-generation warning system designed to commercial aircraft.
The engine has been selected for the Boeing 737 enhance aircraft survivability against man-portable air-defence MAX, Airbus A320neo and Comac C919 aircraft.
systems, small-calibre weapons and rocket-propelled grenades.
HybriDrive Buses powered by the HybriDrive Series hybrid electric In 2011, Electronic Systems was awarded a $17m 11m US Navy propulsion system have recently driven their one millionth mile of follow-on LRIP contract for an additional 600 Advanced Precision Kill clean, reliable revenue service.
Since the first of these vehicles Weapon Systems, bringing the total to 925 units under contract.
entered service in late 2008, the environmentally friendly propulsion Deliveries continue in 2012. provided by BAESystems has saved operators well over 126 million litres of diesel fuel and prevented the release of more than 420 The 100,000th Thermal Weapon Sight was delivered to the US Army tonnes of CO. 2 in support of military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan.
The business has been In September 2011, the electronics facility at Johnson City, New York, producing the sights since 2004 under contracts valued at more than experienced severe flood damage to offices, laboratories and $1bn 0.6bn.
The technology enables soldiers to see deep into the equipment.
Whilst critical business operations have been battlefield, and enhances their situational awareness by allowing re-established, some sales have been deferred and recovery efforts them to see in darkness, and through smoke and fog.
The business delivered 4,000 units of the StalkIRnight vision product, a clip-on or hand-held thermal viewer device featuring a dual-band aiming laser, module rail interface and one-touch menu options.
The product was developed by the OASYS Technology business acquired in 2010.
Communications & Control In defence avionics, Lockheed Martin has selected the Groups Fighter Helmet-Mounted Display, using BAESystems Q-Sight waveguide technology, for the F-35s Night Vision Goggle Helmet programme.
This initial award continues the Groups success in helmet-mounted displays.
The contract awarded in 2010 to provide the Slovak Ministry of Defence with a mobile military communications system MOKYS that enables secure voice, data and internet protocol communication is nearing successful completion.
The business continues to pursue significant opportunities in the tactical radios and networking markets to meet the need for the modernisation of battlefield communication systems.
2 Includes both Group-funded and customer-funded expenditure.
Reporting segments performance review BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 27 NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Safety Diversity and inclusion During 2011, safety remained a priority across Electronic Systems.
Electronic Systems supported US-wide activities on diversity and The business continued to make progress regarding external inclusion, including supporting the diversity and inclusion champions assessments of safety operations, and against the Safety Maturity network.
Senior leaders continue to advocate diversity as one of the Matrix.
The business achieved a 39% reduction in its Lost Work Day keys to unlocking innovation and driving employee engagement.
A Diversity Council has been established which is responsible for developing and driving objectives in diversity and inclusion.
Activities in 2011 included the roll-out and launch of leadership training and Lost Work Day Case Rate manager training kits to help increase the awareness of employees KPI KPI per 100,000 employees across the business.
300 Environmental sustainability Initial environmental objectives have been met, with reduction targets 250 set in energy, water and waste.
208 People 200 Electronic Systems continued to invest in the capability development of its employees.
An Engineering Talent Database was launched, 150 containing engineering skills and competencies linked to learning and 126 development opportunities.
A component of this is the Engineering 100 University Portal, which includes internal courses, links to programmes offered through collaborations with colleges and 50 universities, and access to resources for self-directed learning.
Within the former Electronic Solutions business, a Global Business 0 Culture training programme was launched to further develop and 10 11 support cultural understanding.
For more information on the For more information on the Groups 59 55 corporate responsibility matrices corporate responsibility activities LOOKING FORWARD Efforts to reduce the US governments budget deficit are likely to The business expects to benefit from its incumbent positions on core require reductions across all areas of government spend.
Whilst likely platforms and from positions in areas that are forecast to grow faster funding reductions and the resultant slow-down or cancellation of than the overall market, such as Intelligence, Surveillance and ongoing and new programmes could impact the business, Electronic Reconnaissance, commercial avionics, and electronic warfare.
Systems remains well positioned with a balanced electronics portfolio The business is well positioned to benefit from the growth in that will enable it to respond to changing customer priorities.
commercial aviation through its engine and flight controls activities.
