70 BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Past appointments: Non-executive director of 1.
Linda Hudson Thomson Reuters plc.
Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc. Committee membership: Chairman of the Appointed to the Board: 2004 Nominations Committee and member of the Appointed to the Board: 2009 Nationality: British Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee Nationality: US Skills and experience: A chartered civil engineer with extensive experience of managing complex Skills and experience: Appointed to the Board as 2.
Ian King international engineering projects, he held a President and Chief Executive Officer of Chief Executive variety of senior management positions in the oil BAESystems, Inc. Linda Hudson was previously Appointed to the Board: 2007 industry culminating in his appointment to the President of the Companys US-based Land & Nationality: British board of BP p. l. c. as CEO of Exploration and Armaments business.
She joined the Company Production in 1998.
Subsequently appointed Skills and experience: Appointed as Chief in 2006 from General Dynamics where she had Deputy Group Chief Executive of BP in 2003, Executive in 2008 having been originally worked since 1992 in a variety of roles stepping down from that role when he assumed appointed to the Board as Chief Operating culminating in her appointment as Corporate the chairmanship of BAE Systems.
Officer, UK and Rest of the World.
He was Vice President and President, Armament and previously Group Managing Director of the Technical Products.
Other appointments: Member of the Prime Companys Customer Solutions & Support Ministers Business Advisory Group, Business Other appointments: Member of the United business and, prior to that, Group Strategy and Ambassador for UK Trade & Investment, and Service Organizations Worldwide Board of Planning Director.
Prior to the BAe MES merger member of the Prime Ministers India UK CEO Governors, the Blue Star Families Board of he was Chief Executive of Alenia Marconi Forum.
Also a member of the Multinational Directors, the Executive Committee of Aerospace Systems, having previously served as Finance Chairmans Group and the Trilateral Commission, Industries Association, and engineering advisory Director of Marconi Electronic Systems.
a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering, boards for engineering programmes at the Chairman of the Education for Engineering E4E Other appointments: Non-executive director and universities of Maryland and Florida.
Policy Group, and adviser to HSBC and Clayton, Senior Independent Director of Rotork plc.
Committee membership: Non-Executive Dubilier & Rice.
Committee membership: Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee Directors Fees Committee Governance BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 71 exposure to mergers and acquisitions activity.
Past appointments: Non-executive director of 4.
Peter Lynas Prior to that he held senior finance and Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. and Air Products and Group Finance Director operational positions with a number of Chemicals, Inc.
Appointed to the Board: 2011 manufacturing companies.
He served as Committee membership: Audit Committee Nationality: British Chairman of the Companys Audit Committee for Skills and experience: Peter Lynas, a qualified a number of years, stepping down from that 11.
Nick Rose accountant, was appointed to the Board as committee in July 2011.
Non-executive director Group Finance Director in April 2011.
He Past appointments: Non-executive director of Appointed to the Board: 2010 previously served for a number of years as Lonmin plc and Elementis plc.
Nationality: British Director, Financial Control, Reporting & Treasury.
He joined GEC-Marconi in 1985 having previously Skills and experience: Nick Rose was, until 8.
Lee McIntire worked for other companies in the UK and October 2010, Chief Financial Officer of Diageo Non-executive director Europe.
After progressing through a number of plc.
He held the position for over ten years and, in Appointed to the Board: 2011 positions he was appointed Finance Director of addition to his finance responsibilities, he was Nationality: US GECs Marconi Electronic Systems business, also responsible for supply, procurement, which was subsequently acquired by British Skills and experience: Lee McIntire is Chairman strategy and IT on a global basis.
His financial Aerospace in 1999 to become BAESystems.
and Chief Executive of CH2M HILL, a leader in experience has encompassed a number of roles consulting, design, design-build, operations, risk since joining Diageos predecessor company, 5.
Paul Anderson management and programme management for Grand Metropolitan, in 1992, including group Non-executive director public and private clients.
Prior to joining CH2M treasurer and group controller, having spent his HILL, he was an executive at Bechtel Group Inc. earlier career with Ford Finance.
He assumed the Appointed to the Board: 2009 where he served on the board of directors and chairmanship of the Companys Audit Committee Nationality: US was Executive Vice President for the parent in August 2011.
Skills and experience: Paul Anderson has company.
Other appointments: Non-executive director of BT extensive global business experience in the Committee membership: Remuneration Group plc and Williams Grand Prix Holdings plc.
He spent more than Committee Past appointments: Non-executive director of 20 years in two spells at Duke Energy Mot Hennessy SNC and Scottish Power plc.
Corporation and its predecessor companies, 9.
Sir Peter Mason KBE culminating in his appointment as Chairman, Committee membership: Chairman of the Audit Non-executive director and Senior Independent President and Chief Executive Officer.
He was Committee and member of the Remuneration Director subsequently Chairman of Spectra Energy Committee Appointed to the Board: 2003 Corporation until 2009 and in the intervening period he served as Managing Director and Chief Nationality: British 12.
Carl Symon Executive Officer of BHP and, subsequently, of Non-executive director Skills and experience: Chairman of Thames the newly merged BHP Billiton.
Water and Senior Independent Director of Appointed to the Board: 2008 Other appointments: Non-executive director of Subsea 7 S. A. an international offshore Nationality: US British Spectra Energy Corporation and BP p. l. c. engineering, construction and services Skills and experience: Carl Symon has an contractor.
Formerly Chairman and Chief Past appointments: Non-executive director of extensive background in global business Executive of Balfour Beatty Limited, and Chief BHP Billiton plc and Qantas Airways Limited.
operations and management, retiring in 2001 Executive of AMEC plc, Sir Peter has extensive Committee membership: Chairman of the after a long career at IBM during which he held experience in engineering, construction and Corporate Responsibility Committee and senior executive positions in the US, Canada, long-term contracting.
member of the Nominations Committee Latin America, Asia and Europe, including that of Past appointments: Executive director of BICC plc Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of IBM UK.
and Chief Executive of Norwest Holst Group PLC.
Harriet Green OBE Past appointments: Non-executive director of BT Non-executive director Committee membership: Audit Committee, Group plc, Rexam PLC and Rolls-Royce Group plc, Corporate Responsibility Committee and Appointed to the Board: 2010 and Chairman of HMV Group plc.
Nominations Committee Nationality: British Committee membership: Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Skills and experience: Currently Chief Executive 10.
Paula Rosput Reynolds Officer and executive director of Premier Farnell Non-executive director plc, a leading, high service, multi-channel Appointed to the Board: 2011 technology distribution group, Harriet Green has Company Secretary Nationality: US significant global business experience having David Parkes run volume distribution businesses in four Skills and experience: Paula Rosput Reynolds is continents including Asia Pacific for Arrow Chief Executive Officer and President of the Electronics as well as having functional business advisory group, PreferWest, LLC.
She responsibility for worldwide marketing, suppliers had previously spent over 20 years in the energy and strategy.
sector in a variety of operational roles, culminating in her appointment as President and Other appointments: Non-executive director of Chief Executive Officer of AGL Resources in Emerson Electric Co. 2002.
She subsequently served as President Committee membership: Corporate and Chief Executive Officer of Safeco Responsibility Committee Corporation, an insurance company located in Seattle, Washington, until its acquisition by 7.
Michael Hartnall Liberty Mutual Group in 2008.
She was then Non-executive director appointed as Vice Chairman and Chief 12 8 9 7 11 Appointed to the Board: 2003 2 Restructuring Officer of American International 5 10 6 3 Nationality: British Group Inc. AIG from October 2008 to September 2009, overseeing AIGs divestiture of Skills and experience: A Fellow of the Institute of assets and serving as chief liaison with the Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, 4 Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
1 Michael Hartnall is a former Finance Director of Rexam PLC where, in addition to his finance Other appointments: Non-executive director of responsibilities, he gained considerable Delta Air Lines, Inc.
