36 BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 REPORTING SEGMENTS continued Platforms & Services UK comprises the Platforms & Groups UK-based air and maritime activities, and certain shared services activities, including Services UK the UK-based Advanced Technology Centre.
KEY CHARACTERISTICS OPERATIONAL KEY POINTS Multi-year prime contracting and support programmes Settlements reached on terminated Nimrod and Harrier programmes Full spectrum of military aircraft capabilities, including: Rationalisation and efficiency activity ongoing within Military Air Design, development, manufacture and support &Information Combat aircraft 45 Typhoon Tranche 2 aircraft delivered to partner nations and first Trainer aircraft F-35 production aircraft accepted by the US Air Force Unmanned Aircraft Systems Block construction continued on the first aircraft carrier and first Full spectrum of maritime systems capabilities, including: steel cut on the second Naval ships Submarines Fourth Type 45 destroyer accepted off contract Radar and combat management systems Brazilian Navy to acquire the three cancelled Trinidad and Tobago Underwater systems Offshore Patrol Vessels OPVs Higher than planned costs to complete the Omani OPVs Ambush, the second Astute-class submarine, undertaking commissioning Platforms and Services: BAE Systems has delivered Platforms: BAE Systems has a significant airframe and Platforms: The Groups Military Air & Information more than 100 Typhoon aircraft of the 300 aircraft now electronics production content on the F-35 Joint Strike business is developing next generation autonomous in service with six air forces, and provides availability Fighter combat aircraft.
Platforms: Major block assemblies are in-build for the Platforms: Production of the Royal Navys Astute-class Services: In 2011, BAE Systems opened the Maritime Royal Navys new Queen Elizabeth class aircraft carriers.
nuclear-powered submarines continues, with the Composite Training System, a shore-based training second of class, Ambush, undertaking commissioning, system for the Royal Navy.
and boats three, four and five under construction.
Reporting segments performance review BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 37 Sales analysis: activity % Sales analysis: Platforms and Services % Sales analysis: markets % 65 32 81 12 7 35 68 Q Military Air & Information Q Military & Technical Services Q UK Q Maritime Q Platforms Q US Q Rest of World 2011 2010 2009 FINANCIAL KEY POINTS 1 KPI Order intake 4,355m 3,968m 8,633m 1 Order book reduced reflecting the continuing high level of trading 1 Order book 18.7bn 21.0bn 24.3bn on Typhoon against orders received in prior years 1 Sales KPI 6,258m 6,529m 6,153m 1 2 4% like-for-like reduction in sales reflects the impact of the Underlying EBITA KPI 658m 522m 661m terminated Nimrod MRA4 and Harrier programmes Return on sales 10.5% 8.0% 10.7% 3 Return on sales improved to 10.5% Cash inflow KPI 69m 191m 251m 3 Cash inflow of 69m in 2011 includes the anticipated utilisation of programme advances 1 Order intake in the year of 4.4bn 2010 4.0bn includes a 0.9bn Military Air & Information contract amendment on the aircraft carrier contract.
Settlement agreements with the UK MoD were completed following changes to the programmes impacted by the SDSR in 2010, including 1 Sales in 2011 were 6.3bn, which, on a like-for-like basis, were 4% those for the terminated Nimrod MRA4 and Harrier programmes, and below 2010 reflecting the impact of the terminated Nimrod MRA4 and recovery of rationalisation costs charged to the income statement in Harrier programmes following the Strategic Defence and Security prior years.
In line with the continuing focus on cost reduction and efficiency, there 2 Underlying EBITA of 658m 2010 522m includes: was a net headcount reduction of 2,400 during the year.
In addition, a 160m charge in the first half on the Omani Offshore Patrol Vessel as part of these efficiency improvements, and to address programme OPV programme: changes, including a planned reduction in the Typhoon production rate, the business announced in September 2011 approximately a 125m benefit from a UK Ministry of Defence MoD settlement 2,700 further potential job losses.
agreement: and Deliveries of Typhoon Tranche 2 aircraft to the four partner nations a 60m benefit from the increase in the carrying value of the Trinidad totalled 45.
The global Typhoon fleet achieved the significant and Tobago OPVs upon signature of a contract for sale of these milestone of 100,000 flying hours during the year.
vessels to the Brazilian Navy.
The Group continues to support its UK customers Typhoon aircraft 2 Underlying EBITA in the prior year included a charge of 100m taken and their operational commitments through the Typhoon Availability in respect of the terminated Trinidad and Tobago OPV contract.
Service contract with 89m of sales in the year.
3 There was an operating cash inflow of 69m 2010 191m, which The business continued to support the operational requirements of includes the anticipated utilisation of programme advances.
the UK Tornado fleet under an availability-based support contract.
Flying hours across the Tornado fleet are expected to reduce as additional Typhoon aircraft enter service.
During the year, Typhoon and Tornado GR4 aircraft conducted in excess of 1,000 sorties as part of Operation Ellamy in support of UNSCR 1973 authorising the use of military force to protect civilians in Libya.
1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
2 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense EBITA excluding non-recurring items see page 47.
3 Net cash inflow from operating activities after capital expenditure net and financial investment, dividends from equity accounted investments, and assets contributed to Trust.
38 BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 REPORTING SEGMENTS: PLATFORMS & SERVICES UK continued 29,000 862 755m 1 employees apprentices employed in of research and development 2 the business expenditure in 2011 Lockheed Martin, the Groups customer, delivered the first production The arbitration process between the Group and the Government of the standard F-35 aircraft to the US Air Force.
The Group has delivered 21 Republic of Trinidad and Tobago, in respect of the cancelled OPV development and production aircraft fuselage assemblies to Lockheed programme, continues and the tribunal hearing is scheduled for the Martin.
Funding of 162m for the fourth Low-Rate Initial Production first half of 2012.
In December 2011, the Brazilian Navy signed a LRIP contract was secured in the year and negotiations with the contract worth 120m with BAESystems to purchase the three OPVs.
customer continue in respect of funding for the fifth LRIP contract.
The contract also contains a Manufacturing Licence to enable further vessels of the same class to be constructed in Brazil.
Support continues to be provided to users of Hawk aircraft across the world and orders for Indian Hawk packages worth 133m were Following sea trials, engineering reviews and customer discussions, received in the year.
The contract to supply products and services to the Group expects to incur significantly higher than planned costs to enable 57 Hawk aircraft to be built under licence in India awarded in complete the Omani OPV programme, and took a pre-tax charge of 2010 is now fully mobilised, with material deliveries commencing in 160m in the first half of the year.
Progress is being made on the December 2011.
Initial discussions have now commenced on the re-baselined schedule, and deliveries to the customer are expected in technical requirements for an additional 20 aircraft.
In March, a Memorandum of Understanding was signed with Dassault The Maritime Composite Training System MCTS, a shore-based Aviation to bid jointly for new Unmanned Aircraft Systems UAS for the warfare operator training solution, was opened by the Royal Navy in UK and French Ministries of Defence in response to the UK-French August.
Defence Co-operation Treaty announced in 2010.
Negotiations are HMS Astute, the first of class attack submarine for the Royal Navy, anticipated in 2012 regarding the initial technology requirements for continues to undertake sea trials and is making good progress, aMedium-Altitude Long-Endurance UAS.
including the demonstration of Tomahawk Land Attack Missile In December, the Group signed a four-year, 40m Future Combat Air capability.
Ambush, the second of class, was launched in January System research contract with the MoD to sustain and develop the 2011 and is progressing through the commissioning phase.
UKs critical technology and skills in UAS.
Construction continues on the third and fourth boats, and construction of the fifth boat is now underway.
Long lead procurement In the defence information domain, the Group was one of three has commenced on the sixth boat in the anticipated seven boat companies down selected to bid for the UKs Joint Military Air Traffic programme.
Services contract and, in December, the FALCON secure deployable communication system programme for the British Army and RAF The UK government has formally announced the approval to develop achieved an important milestone by concluding a network build-up the Vanguard class replacement submarine.
The business has agreed over a planned number of customer sites.
a contract with the UK MoD for the design and development phase.
Maritime The Advanced Radar Target Indication Situational Awareness The construction of the Royal Navys new aircraft carriers continued.
Navigation ARTISAN 3D radar successfully achieved the Anumber of blocks for the first ship, Queen Elizabeth, arrived at the demonstration of antenna technology progression milestone.
The Rosyth dockyard, and the first steel was cut in May for the second programme continues towards full production.
A 0.9bn contract amendment was received A number of combat system support contracts have been secured in reflecting the revised programme schedule and final pricing the year, including a 46m long-term contract to provide in-service arrangements.
support to the Sampson multi-function radar.
The major long-term The fourth Type 45 destroyer, HMS Dragon, was accepted off contract in-service support contracts for ships, radar, torpedoes and combat by the Royal Navy in August and the support contract is delivering mission systems continue to meet or exceed contracted availability of the four ships now in service.
Cumulative savings to March 2011 of 194m have been reported to The Sting Ray lightweight torpedo delivery contract for the Norwegian the MoD against commitments made under the Terms of Business government is ahead of schedule with three of five batches delivered.
The remaining two batches are to be delivered in 2012.
2 Includes both Group-funded and customer-funded expenditure.
Reporting segments performance review BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 39 NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Safety Diversity and inclusion Performance in safety across the businesses has improved against In 2011, a five-year diversity and inclusion strategy was launched, and 2010.
This is reflected in a 27% decrease in the Lost Work Day Case each business has initiated activities to address talent diversity from Rate.
Ongoing proactive employee safety campaigns have supported a local and business perspective.
Initiatives include mentoring, the safety first approach across the business.
awareness briefings, executive sponsors with a supporting steering group, enhanced learning facilities, creating baseline information and an intranet site, and establishing networks and forums.
Lost Work Day Case Rate KPI KPI per 100,000 employees Environmental sustainability 600 Initial environmental objectives have been met, with reduction targets set in energy, water and waste.
500 During 2011, the business participated in the Carbon Reduction 426 Commitment CRC and was ranked in the top half of UK listed 400 companies in the CRC ratings.
309 People 300 The business continues to develop the capability of employees through Developing You schemes and e-learning modules.
200 Leadership development programmes and assessment centres support succession and development planning, together with an 100 annual 360 feedback for the management population.
0 The business provides over 500 work experience placements throughout the UK, and is committed to continuing and expanding its 10 11 substantial apprenticeship programme.
Employee engagement initiatives in 2011 included an employee opinion survey, businessspecific recognition schemes, leadership briefings and the launch of a leadership engagement programme.
Acknowledging the level of rationalisation activity in the business, a best practice rationalisation guide and UK redeployment site were launched during the year.
For more information on the For more information on the Groups 59 55 corporate responsibility matrices corporate responsibility activities LOOKING FORWARD Platforms & Services UK has a strong order book of long-term In Maritime, sales are underpinned by the Type 45 destroyer, Queen committed programmes, an enduring support business and cost Elizabeth class carrier and Astute class submarine manufacturing reduction programmes in place.
programmes, the 15-year ToBA, and the design of the Vanguard class successor submarine and Type 26 global combat ship.
Additionally, In Military Air & Information, sales are underpinned by combat aircraft such programmes can generate Services business throughout the production on Typhoon and F-35, and in-service support in the UK and in-service life.
on export programmes for existing and legacy combat and Hawk trainer aircraft.
There are a number of significant opportunities to secure future Typhoon export sales, including to Oman and Saudi Arabia.
