Our business Our strategy Our strategic objectives Grow in new markets 1. and vertical sectors We are already one of the largest global players in infrastructure by revenue.
To achieve further growth we are working to develop our position in new geographies and resource-rich economies such as Brazil, India, Australia and Canada and we are intensifying our focus on high-growth sectors such as power, rail, mining and transportation.
Our strategy, which Deliver greater value 2. tothe customer evolves with our Many of our customers own complex and critical assets that competitive landscape, enable societies to function by providing transport, energy, water, natural resources, schools, hospitals and local services.
sets our direction For them, providing an asset is not an end in itself.
They are anddetermines our concerned to provide education rather than schools, healthcare rather than hospitals, mobility rather than roads or railways.
Wehelp them achieve their true goals by working in partnership with them bringing together teams that have the know-how and talent to understand the underlying issues and solve the It is crucial that we are toughest infrastructure challenges.
ableto measure the achievement of our key Improve operational strategic objectives and 3. performance and cost-effectiveness toreport on our key Our unique breadth of capabilities and our wide geographical performance indicators reach are the results of a sustained period of expansion.
Much of this expansion has come through acquisitions, and we will forour own benefit as continue to acquire businesses that enhance our capabilities orexpand our territorial coverage as described in objective 1 wellas the benefit of above.
But it is not enough to build the platform: we must also operate it as efficiently and profitably as possible.
Continue to show 4. leadership in values For more information on our strategic objectives and key performance and behaviour indicators go to P16 P21 To be recognised as the leading provider of infrastructure services and to secure a sustainable, long-term future for theGroup wemust also be a leader in areas such as ethics, safety and the environment.
14 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 Our business Our key performance indicators Principal risks Order book and revenue are good indicators of top-line Economic environment growth, with order book growth leading revenue growth Changes in general economic bysix to 12 months in our business.
Increased revenue in conditions and the impact on higher-growth markets outside Europe and North America customers investment plans is evidence of our focus on new geographies.
In a difficult Expansion into new territories year overshadowed by governments austerity measures, andbyacquisition we kept our order book stable and increased our revenue, Failure to address associated risks particularly in higher-growth markets.
Legal and regulatory Breaches of local law and regulations 0% 5% 12% Business conduct 1 1 Order book Revenue Revenue in higherNot observing the highest standards growth markets ofintegrity and conduct in dealing withcustomers, supply chain and Every year, Roads and Bridges magazine in the US surveys otherstakeholders 10,000 government officials and asks them which design People firm they prefer to work with.
In the industry, this is called Failure to recruit and retain the Go-To List.
appropriateskilled people to deliver While they only cover our professional services business, specific contracts and the Groups these rankings are a good example of the strength of our future growth track record and reputation with our customers.
In 2011, Bidding there was a slight deterioration in the rankings, although we Not adequately estimating risks and are still in an enviable No.
costs associated with contract terms Go-To List rankings for Parsons Brinckerhoff and conditions Project execution No.
4 Not executing projects to customers in the Road & in the Bridge and in the Design-Build requirements and on a timely basis Highway and Mass Transit category Health, safety and sustainability Airport categories categories Failure to manage risks associated withhealth, safety and sustainability We aim to increase Group operating margin to a level of and hence exposing our people and 3.5%4% by 2015 mainly through better utilisation of thepublic to injury or harm resources, efficiency savings and improved business mix.
While our 30m cost reduction programme is on course, our margin progress in 2011 was hindered by difficult Go to P58 P62 for more market conditions in our major established markets.
information on how the Group manages risk 3.0% 1,2 Group operating margin The safety of our people and everyone we come into Reward contact with remains a key priority although our safety performance was disappointing in 2011.
A world-leading infrastructure business We have challenged ourselves to reduce our impact on differentiated by asset knowledge theenvironment.
In 2011, we made good headway in Superior growth and value for water and waste, but our CO e emissions made little 2 stakeholders progress due toenergy-intensive projects.
6% -1% Accident Frequency Greenhouse gas Rate AFR emissions tonnes CO e m revenue 2 1 Including joint ventures and associates.
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 15
