Our business Operating review continued We have started 2012 well, with prestigious new business wins in Looking forward FM including a 10-year contract to run services and facilities for the We expect 2012 to be another year of progress for Support future Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park in East London, and contracts Services, with the current order book supporting good revenue for UK Power Networks and EDF Energys offices estate.
We expect the continuation of reductions in rail and highways volumes to have a negative impact on margins, although Our PPP operation and maintenance activity continues to grow as this is expected to be offset by the positive impact on margins the Group completes construction of new schools and hospitals fromrecent contracts which will have bedded down.
During the year we added six hospitals and nine schools to the portfolio, taking the total to 20 We will continue to target segments of the UK public sector market hospitals and 191 schools.
This means that we now generate where an integrated model delivers attractive solutions to complex 126m of FM revenue from hospital and school assets, a 26% challenges.
We are one of only a handful of companies with the increase on 2010. ability and capacity to offer this approach to complex customers such as local authorities.
Our rail renewal activities for Network Rail were adversely impacted by a 24% planned reduction in volume.
Efficiency The utilities sector works through regulatory cycles.
We are improvements and gain-share payments offset part of this impact.
working on implementation of the water industrys current 20102015 asset management plan as well as ramping up to the In highway maintenance, our contract for Area 2 was not renewed electricity work for the recently extended National Grid contract.
We are currently bidding to secure the contract for Area 10. International power transmission and distribution remains an area where technical resources are scarce.
We are mobilising the Balfour Beatty WorkSmart, which manages our UK shared service Groups resources and using our global footprint to develop other centre for transactional accounting, payroll and procurement, is a service opportunities.
keyelement in our strategic aim of increasing operational efficiency.
From a standing start in August 2010, it is now issuing 17,700 We will also leverage our capabilities in energy by finding new payslips per month, and providing transactional processing for 50% ways to make our customers assets more energy efficient.
This of UK revenue and supply chain management for 300m of spend.
calls for innovation both in the way we deploy technology and in The implementation of Oracle was successfully completed in the the way we structure our relationships to help customers balance fourth quarter.
The savings realised are summarised on page 19. capital and operating costs.
Infrastructure Investments What do we do?
How we performed Operate a portfolio of long-term PPP concessions in the UK, Revenue including JVs and associates primarily in the education, health, roads street lighting and renewables sectors 11 756m Operate a portfolio of long-term military accommodation 11% PPPconcessions in the US 10 682m Have interests in non-PPP assets at Blackpool and Exeter International airports 09 744m Whats happened?
Disposal of a 60% interest in the A50 road and our stake in # Pre-tax result before non-underlying items Blackburn hospital, realising 20m of disposal gains Disposal of Barking power station 11 71m Award of all three remaining military housing projects in the US 137% Developments in energy with preferred bidder positions won 10 30m for the Greater Gabbard OFTO and an energy-from-waste project 09 29m Whats next?
Diversify into new geographies such as Canada KPI Broaden into new sectors such as energy Continue with the developer model by crystallising value in the Directors valuation current portfolio and investing in new projects While there are numerous factors that contribute to the movement in Directors valuation of PPP concessions it isagoodindicator of the value we create in our portfolio.
We invest principally in infrastructure, and in geographies where the Group has a presence.
11 743m We apply skills available within the Group to 10 671m make investments that deliver superior returns: 09 605m our strength lies in being a knowledgeable and intelligent owner.
Re-presented to reflect the classification of Barking Power Ltd as a discontinued operation from 2 March 2011.
# Including subordinated debt interest income and net interest income from PPPsubsidiaries see Notes 6 and 7.
40 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 Our business Our strategy Financial performance We started our investments business some 15 years ago in At 31 December 2011, Balfour Beatty had 64 PPP projects, eight response to opportunities in the UK public sector.
Over time ofwhich were at preferred bidder stage.
thebusiness has become a major value generator for the Group.
Infrastructure Investments delivered a sharply increased underlying Our strategy is to earn fees and returns from activities that pre-tax result from continuing operations up to 71m 2010: 30m, complement and integrate with other Group activities.
So we invest including net interest income.
The growth in the portfolio in recent principally in infrastructure, and in geographies where the Group years has started to provide increased returns in the PPP operating has a presence.
We apply skills available within the Group to make profit results but also in thesubordinated debt interest income, investments that deliver superior returns: our strength lies in being reflecting the increased investment.
In addition to this, the more a knowledgeable and intelligent owner.
active recycling of the portfolio delivered disposal gains of 20m.
Bid costs were down in the year, partly reflecting a move away We seek projects where we have the asset knowledge to from the more complex bids, suchashospitals, but also reflecting determine and influence asset performance, and hence to control increased crystallised bid costrecoveries.
We focus on projects where income is based on availability taking demand risk only when we are well We sold two mature assets in line with our strategy of realising placed to assess demand, as with our investments in airports.
value from the PPP portfolio.
The disposal of a 60% interest in Connect A50, reducing our holding to 25%, yielded proceeds of In November 2010 we announced our intention to recycle our 16m.
The sale of our 50% stake in Blackburn Hospital yielded portfolio on a active basis and use the proceeds to help fund future proceeds of 12m.
Both interests realised proceeds in excess of investment.
These more regular asset disposals will release some Directors valuation.
The total 20m book gain has been accounted of the accumulated value in our portfolio, generating additional for as part of our underlying profits and supports our progressive income and cash for the Group.
We sold interests in two PPP dividend policy.
assets in 2011 in excess of Directors valuation.
Following our previously announced decision to dispose of our Our marketplace 25.5% effective interest in Barking Power, we sold the asset UK totheBalfour Beatty Pension Fund at its 55m book value in Our principal market remains the UK.
In 2010 a change of December 2011. government led to a re-examination of the role of private finance Overall, despite the sale of assets, the Directors valuation of the inUK infrastructure development.
The UK Chancellor has since PPP portfolio rose in the year to 743m 2010 restated: 671m.
reaffirmed the importance of public private partnership PPP and other forms of private finance, but we recognise that priorities may change and we will adjust our focus accordingly.
Go to P44 P45 for the Directors valuation of PPP concessions We see opportunities both in social and civil infrastructure projects.
We look forward to an announcement from the Government for the PFI Priority Schools Programme and expect continued focus on Operational performance renewable and sustainable energy, particularly offshore, where The division had an excellent year in 2011 in business wins, wehave already achieved considerable success.
project completions and progress towards its strategic goals.
The projects won in 2011 secured future investment of 70m, as well Although there is plenty of equity financing looking to invest in as generating around 700m of construction work and a number infrastructure assets, debt financing is more constrained than in ofFM contracts.
Against this background, we remain confident that there is sufficient liquidity to finance our investments going forward.
One of our strategic goals is to generate more income from the skills accumulated in the Investments business and the asset Secondary markets remain strong and we expect to continue our knowledge in the Group, which has been significantly enhanced programme of selective UK PPP asset disposals this year.
bythe addition of Parsons Brinckerhoff.
To that end we have North America established an infrastructure funds management business, In the US we have been among the most successful participants in whichmade good progress in the year.
the privatisation of military housing.
The family housing programme UK is now in its final stages although we hope that opportunities will In education, despite the Governments abandonment of the open up in single soldier housing in the next few years.
The wider Building Schools for the Future BSF programme, projects we PPP P3 environment remains fragmented, although there are signs havesecured continued into the next stages of development.
that a number of transportation projects will emerge at state level Hertfordshire Schools BSF reached financial close and four schools over the coming year.
We do not expect accommodation projects across Islington, Southwark and Blackburn were completed and to emerge along UK lines, but do see scope to apply our military handed over.
housing skills in other markets, including student accommodation.
In February 2012, we disposed of our 50% interest in the North In Canada, where the procurement model more closely Lanarkshire schools PPP concession for 18m, resulting in a resemblesthe UKs, the market remains buoyant.
We are currently disposal gain of 8m.
pursuing accommodation opportunities in Ontario, Alberta and British Columbia.
In the healthcare market we completed four hospitals Pinderfields, Pontefract, Salford and Fife on time and to budget.
Rest of the world The buildings have been handed over to clients, with our Support In line with the Groups strategy of expansion into new markets, Services division taking responsibility for maintenance and operation.
weare actively looking at projects in Australia and India, where we anticipate significant future opportunities.
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 41 Our business Operating review continued Northwest Fire and Rescue and street lighting projects in North America Cambridgeshire and Northamptonshire also reached financial close.
In 2011 we were chosen as highest-ranked offeror preferred The latter brought our total of PPP street lighting concessions to bidder for three more family housing projects for the US Air Force: six: the four existing projects in Sunderland, South Tyneside, Derby Western Group: Northern Group: and ACC Group.
With these, the and Coventry are all proceeding successfully.
final projects in the military housing privatisation programme, we will have reinforced our market leadership and broadened our In 2010 we were chosen as preferred bidder to acquire the footprint across the US to 55 military installations in 25 states.
transmission assets of the Thanet offshore wind farm, the last and While the ending of the programme makes it unlikely that we will largest of nine lots in the UKs first competitive tender of Offshore add any further bases, we will be managing the development, Transmission Owner OFTO licences.
In 2011 we were also construction, renovation, operation and maintenance of the assets named as preferred bidder for Greater Gabbard, the last and largest in this portfolio for many years to come.
Combined with Thanet, Greater Gabbard makes us the leading investor by value in this new and growing Our responsibilities extend beyond the bricks and mortar to the market, with responsibility for 480m of OFTO transmission residents.
Our exclusive LifeWorks @Balfour Beatty Communities assets.
The UK regulator, Ofgem, has also selected us to programme an important differentiator for us in the US military participate in the next round of bidding for three further OFTO housing market helps military personnel and their families to get assets with a combined capital value of around 1bn.
fit, live healthily, develop their mental skills and share social activities.
Energy-from-waste is another growth area we have been targeting In 2011 we made significant progress in transferring our successful in the last two years.
It fits with the Groups strategic focus on military housing model to other accommodation investments.
We power and plays to the investment strengths we have been are pleased to have attracted experienced and skilled people to developing in renewables.
We have been selected as preferred help us address the higher education market.
With work now bidder for an energy-from-waste project for Gloucestershire completed on our first student accommodation project in Florida, Council as well as a waste treatment project for Essex Council.
we are bidding for further projects and expect these efforts to bear fruit in 2012.
Using waste to generate power brings local authority clients a double benefit: less landfill and a cut in the use of fossil fuels.
Balfour Beattys approach to the waste sector is a great example of how we harness knowledge and skills from different parts of the Group to meet our customers requirements and break into a key target area for new business.
But we cant do it all on our own despite project capabilities which include development and investment support: management and planning services: as well as engineering, construction and supply chain expertise.
Our strategy recognises the importance of partnering to create a winning offer.
So weve teamed up with waste specialist Urbaser and, together, we have won preferred bidder status on two waste projects in England: a major waste treatment scheme in Essex, and Gloucestershires ambitious scheme to generate energy from waste, while recovering recyclable materials such as aggregates and metals.
The energy More power, generated from this project alone is sufficient to power 25,000 homes in the community.
less landfill We see these wins as forerunners of things to come.
Balfour Beatty is already working in partnership on other exciting opportunities such as power generation projects which use renewable biomass fuels to deliver green energy.
42 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 Our business Were building a reputation for the way we engage with local communities.
And in US military housing, where were one of the market leaders, thats been recognised and welcomed.
Our LifeWorks programme makes a significant contribution to the wellbeing of service families.
And our non-profit Balfour Beatty Communities Foundation is dedicated to honouring military personnel active, disabled and fallen.
We do this because we feel it is the right thing to do.
At Fort Bliss, for example, the new Field of Honor Memorial has become a focal point for reflection marking a lasting tribute to soldiers from the base killed in Iraq and Afghanistan.
The Foundation supports military personnel and their families in practical ways, reflecting the wider engagement across the military housing estate we manage.
Founded on respect Looking forward Our focus for the future is on diversification.
We operate in complex markets and are continually developing our skills to address them effectively.
We aim to generate an increasing proportion of income outside thepublic sector and to partner with a wider range of organisations to meet increasingly complex client demands.
University accommodation is a good example of this strategy both in the USand the UK.
Over time, we expect this broadening of horizons to reduce our reliance on traditional sectors such as education, health and transportation.
In line with overall Group strategy we are also broadening our geographical reach.
Our ability to manage and invest in PPP projects is an increasingly valuable differentiator for the Group inmany of the markets it is now targeting.
The success of our disposal programme so far and the active secondary markets we are currently experiencing have led to thedecision to accelerate our disposal programme with a target of40m of gains on disposals in 2012.
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 43
