Our business Strategic performance This is how we addressed our four strategic priorities in 2011: In emerging economies, infrastructure markets are driven by economic growth and changing demographics, and also by Grow in new markets government-led market reforms.
We are focusing on those with sufficient scale, a good competitive environment and appropriate 1. and vertical sectors ethical standards, and approach them cautiously as we consider the implications for health and safety and corruption risk.
We are already one of the largest global players In 2011 we began making inroads into India and Brazil, our priority in infrastructure by revenue.
To achieve further emerging markets.
Both countries represent larger infrastructure markets than the UK, are allowing private capital to play a growing growth we are working to develop our position role in infrastructure provision, and are making determined efforts innew geographies and resource-rich to reduce corruption.
economies such as Brazil, India, Australia and The Indian government aims to invest 8% of GDP in infrastructure.
Canada, and we are intensifying our focus on It targeted a total spend of US$494bn in the five years to 2012, andaims to spend double this amount over the next five years.
high-growth sectors such as power, rail, mining Tomaintain this pace of investment it is actively promoting and transportation.
In 2011 Brazil began a four-year Growth Acceleration Programme to Why is this important?
invest over US$500bn in logistics including transportation, energy We do not want our growth to be constrained by the pace of and social development.
It is also encouraging for us to see the growth in our traditional markets.
The breadth of our capabilities governments endeavours to ensure the financing of this growth.
and the extent of our international reach give us access to an Brazil has been letting infrastructure concessions since 1995 and exceptionally broad range of markets and customers.
We will introduced PPP in 2004. exploit this by increasing the focus of our activity in markets Inevitably our entry into these markets is a long-term proposition, whereopportunities are bigger and growth rates higher.
but the prospects are very attractive.
The developed economies tend to commit a reasonably Infrastructure markets around the globe are growing at different consistentproportion of GDP to maintaining and developing their rates.
We are harnessing our unique combination of capabilities, infrastructure.
However, we expect an increase in the proportion particularly in professional services and project finance, to build ofGDP committed to their infrastructure over the next 1015 years ourposition in selected geographic markets and sectors that have as the need to renew ageing post-war assets becomes critical.
With infrastructure spending expected to reach nearly 10% of GDP over the next five years, India is one of the principal markets where we are looking to expand our presence andearnings.
The challenge for us is to turn this market potential into a Gaining a substantial business.
While we do not have downstream construction activity in India, we have a valuable bridgehead head start through Parsons Brinckerhoffs established presence.
We can complement our professional services capability with PPP project finance and development expertise, offering in India technical and financial solutions to infrastructure challenges.
And in October 2011 we took an important step forward bycollaborating with Tata, the infrastructure engineering and construction arm of one of Indias largest and most respected companies.
In partnership with Tata we will jointly identify and pursue infrastructure opportunities in India and sub-Saharan Africa.
Our initial focus will be on the power transmission, railways, mining infrastructure and water wastewater markets allareas where we have transferable expertise across theGroup.
16 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 Our business We also anticipate some changes in the pattern of spending.
theUK, for example, we expect a shift of emphasis from social In the year ahead, we aim to: infrastructure such as schools and hospitals to civil infrastructure.
leverage our US footprint in US construction to gain This includes utilities such as water and power, and segments such marketshare as nuclear and renewable energy that will be boosted by developed exploit opportunities in regulated power and rail markets, economies increasing concerns about sustainability.
andin commercial property in the UK Resource-rich countries, buoyed by rising demand for commodities, develop our presence in Australia and Canada present clear opportunities for us.
Australia and Canada in particular pursue opportunities in India and Brazil have the scale, economic growth rates and market structure that develop our capabilities in power, rail, mining, water and suit our model.
We are working to expand ourexisting position in transportation in geographies where we see opportunities.
In addition to these geographic targets, we have identified target vertical sectors such as power, rail and mining amongst others in Deliver greater value certain geographies.
Growth in all three of these is being driven by current trends such as sustainability, urbanisation and globalisation.
2. tothe customer The power market has three strong drivers: asset renewal: demand growth: and carbon reduction.
Many developed countries need to Many of our customers own complex and renew transmission lines built in the 1960s that are reaching the end of their useful lives.
In the case of the UK, some 20% of power criticalassets that enable societies to function generation capacity has to be retired by 2020.
Emerging countries byproviding transport, energy, water, natural need to generate more power to support their growing economies.
resources, schools, hospitals and local services.
And the carbon agenda is driving demand for more clean energy plants including nuclear, biomass and renewables and new transmission lines to connect them to the grid.
For them, providing an asset is not an end in Carbon concerns are also stimulating the rail market favouring itself.
They are concerned to provide education railover roads, encouraging electrification of existing lines and rather than schools, healthcare rather than increasing the pressure for mass transit systems that support urbanisation while minimising congestion.
hospitals, mobility rather than roads or railways.
We help them achieve their true goals by In resource-rich countries, there is a synergy between all three sectors.
Increased extraction activity to support economic growth working in partnership with them bringing leads to growing demand for power to mine the resources and rail together teams that have the know-how and to transport them.
We are ideally placed to meet this demand particularly since the customers are typically multinationals talent to understand the underlying issues and whoexpect their specialist suppliers to work withthem in solve the toughest infrastructure challenges.
For more information on our markets Our large and complex customers view their assets strategically go to P24 P27 and holistically.
They often want to work with people who can share the big picture with them, understand their strategic objectives, marshal the appropriate resources and deliver a solution How are we performing?
rather than just an asset.
For them, that is what adds true value.
Order book Our ability to work this way can give us real competitive advantage.
Few companies can do it to the extent that we can.
By capturing, 11 15.2bn 0% sharing and deploying asset knowledge across the Group, we 10 15.2bn differentiate ourselves from competitors and maximise value both for our customers and for the Group.
We have built a group of differentiated people businesses on a 1 Revenue global scale.
These give us unrivalled ability to put together teams uniting diverse talents across all aspects of asset ownership from 11 11,035m development and delivery through to operation.
5% 10 10,473m The key to adding real value for customers is not just breadth of knowledge but the ability to share and deploy that knowledge 09 10,254m effectively.
So that, for example, what we learn from operating and maintaining existing assets informs the way we design new ones.
1 We are continuing to make progress in managing and enhancing Revenue in higher-growth markets these information flows.
11 1,374m 12% 10 1,224m 09 930m 1 Including joint ventures and associates.
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 17 Our business Strategic performance continued Commuters and rail travellers to Melbourne share a problem.
Their trains local and regional have to use the same tracks.
Solate-running fast trains get stuck  metro trains: and one late metro train can clog the Taking the fast regional network.
Adding an extra line to separate the services will clear the track in Australia bottleneck, increasing the capacity and reliability of public transport around the city.
But making it happen, with minimal disruption to crucial services, will be tricky.
By combining the resources of Parsons Brinckerhoff in Australia and our global rail business, weve won a position in an alliance with construction partners Thiess and design partners Sinclair Knight Merz to design and construct an AUS$835m key section of the new line.
In the Australian rail market our combination of skills is seen as unique, and our ability to integrate design with delivery brought real value to our partner.
The win shows the effectiveness of integrating Group capabilities to manage complexity for customers, and accelerates our progress in Australias buoyant rail market.
Putting together teams for ever more complex bespoke projects How are we performing?
has highlighted the need for better processes to capture, share anddeploy asset knowledge routinely and systematically.
Over Go-To List rankings for Parsons Brinckerhoff thepast couple of years we have invested significant time and money in Building Information Modelling BIM to capture and utilise our knowledge of assets through their lifecycle.
4 nowamong the leaders in using BIM to facilitate knowledge in the Road & in the Bridge and in the Design-Build sharing and provide insight for creating and managing building and Highway and Mass Transit category Airport categories categories infrastructure projects faster, more economically, and with less environmental impact.
Customers are becoming increasingly alert to the promise of BIM, and the UK Government plans to require its Whats next?
use on public building projects from 2016.
In the year ahead, we aim to: In late 2011 we formed a 7.5m strategic partnership with improve our asset knowledge by developing platforms Autodesk, the world leader in 3D design technology, that will tocapture, share and deploy it expand our use of BIM to set the pace in project integration.
develop a culture to aid collaboration and delivery Thispartnership, the first of its kind and size in the infrastructure tocustomers industry, sets us apart from our competitors.
leverage our customer relationships across divisions andgeographies.
We can only collaborate fully with our customers to help them reach their goals if we really understand what they want, and havereal insight into the needs of their end-customers and other stakeholders.
Increasingly, we will be organised, managed and incentivised to understand customers assets and needs, and to use our expertise to collaborate constructively towards better solutions.
The next steps will be to define and foster a customercentred culture across the Group by building our performance metrics, incentives and management around customer outcomes and delivery performance.
18 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 Our business What are we doing?
All our divisions have margin targets appropriate to the Improve operational characteristics of their business.
These targets are backed by cost and efficiency plans and recognise changes foreseen in the mix of 3. performance and their business.
However, there were some headwinds in 2011. cost-effectiveness In Professional Services, deteriorating market conditions in the UK reduced volume, and operating margins.
The large number of new contracts in Support Services, one of our highest organic growth Our unique breadth of capabilities and our wide areas, meant considerable start-up costs.
As a result, the progress geographical reach are the results of a sustained our teams made with active management of cost in these divisions period of expansion.
Much of this expansion has was partly offset by these adverse impacts.
come through acquisitions, and we will continue In Construction Services margins deteriorated, primarily due to verycompetitive markets in the US, where we suffered a marked to acquire businesses that enhance our reduction in the number of niche higher-margin projects.
The capabilities or expand our territorial coverage business has reached a level of margin which we are protecting asdescribed in objective 1 on page 16.
But it is with financial discipline and underpinning with the cost reduction measures we announced at the end of 2010. not enough to build the platform: we must also So, while it is not easily apparent in the movement in margins, operate it as efficiently and profitably as possible.
theGroup-wide cost efficiency programme made good progress in2011.
Operational efficiency has benefited from the opening Why is this important?
ofour UK shared service centre SSC in early 2011.
The SSC Generating good profits and converting them to cash is an nowhas over 230 employees and provides eight of our operating imperative for us, not least because we have big aspirations.
We companies, representing 3.0bn or 50% of UK revenue, with their want to be able to fund organic growth and future acquisitions accounting and employee transactional services.
On the when attractive opportunities arise as well as maintain our procurement side, we are now delivering benefits by managing progressive dividend policy.
Our goal set in 2010 remains to raise 300m of spend centrally.
Operational cost savings reached an margins to 3.5%4.0% by 2015.
To achieve this in challenging annual run-rate of some 15m by the end of 2011, and we are on economic and market conditions, with competition intensifying, target for 30m of gross savings by 2013 as forecast.
wemust work systematically to enhance our cost-effectiveness The achievements of 2011, and what we have learned, give us across the board.
confidence to broaden these programmes this year into other backoffice functions and into territories outside the UK.
We are targeting to deliver a further 50m of savings per annum by 2015 The best place for 21st century precision building engineering work isnt a construction site.
Its a factory, like this one that we operate in the English Midlands.
Weve pioneered the use of prefabricated modules, built offsite, because they offer efficiency and cost benefits.
Quality control is tighter, onsite health and safety risks are reduced, and we can cut the time we spend onsite.
In the UK weve been refining our modularisation capability for some years.
We built complete bathroom pods for hospitals and bedhead units with all the electrical equipment and medical gas systems preinstalled and tested, resolving several challenges related to quality control and commissioning.
Then, drawing on our experience of operating hospitals and of building modelling, we developed complete prefabricated operating theatres.
Were currently using similar techniques in buildings ranging A smarter way from schools to airport terminals.
Were also transferring our expertise internationally.
After to build successful trials with a facility in Dubai, weve opened a factory in Abu Dhabi that services mechanical and electrical engineering installations in the Middle East.
And in the US our first facility is already using modularisation on hospital and airport projects.
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 19 Our business Strategic performance continued for a one-off cost expected to be in a range of 1 to 1.5 times the annual savings.
We aim to see some modest savings in 2012 with Continue to show a major portion coming through in 2013 and the residual element in2014.
4. leadership in values How are we performing?
andbehaviour 1 Group operating margin To be recognised as the leading provider of 15 3.5%4% infrastructure services and to secure a 3.0% 11 sustainable, long-term future for the Group wemust also be a leader in areas such as ethics, 10 3.1% safety and the environment.
09 2.5% 1 P rofit from continuing operations before non-underlying items as a percentage of Why is this important?
revenue including JVs and associates.
Our reputation is crucial to winning new business, attracting andretaining the best people, and building high-quality business partnerships.
To build and protect a reputation, we have been on Whats next?
ajourney to embed our ethical and sustainable approach among In the year ahead, we aim to: our own 50,000 people and our wider 500,000-strong community continue to implement procurement and back office initiatives of partners, subcontractors and suppliers.
In addition, the enhance margins further at Parsons Brinckerhoff by focusing emergence and increasingly aggressive enforcement of antion better utilisation of resources corruption legislation with global reach makes ethical rigour a expand the cost efficiency programme by broadening critical risk management issue.
As we grow into new markets, itsscope.
wemust workharder to maintain our high standards.
In the UK alone, we work with a substantial number of supply chain partners every year and they are key to our success.
And what better way to do that than by sharing the way we train the next generation of workers?
Through our Balfour Beatty Apprenticeships scheme, were pioneering a shared apprenticeship model in which we employ young trainees and place them with companies in our supply chain.
By moving around different sites and host employers, Balfour Beattys apprentices can be sure of sufficient continuous employment to become fully qualified.
And for smaller companies that cant easily commit to providing such a longperiod of continuous employment, its a low-risk way of participating in apprenticeship training.
Last year the scheme recruited 27 apprentices alongside the 450 already working in Balfour Beatty and we expect the numbers to rise significantly this year as more suppliers join in.
In this way, were taking a lead in developing a future skilled workforce thats grown up with the quality and safety standards we set for our own people.
Setting standards for a new generation 20 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 Our business What are we doing?
We have a major ethics, values and compliance programme, Accident Frequency Rate AFR centred on the Code of Conduct we published in 2009 and two online training modules that all office-based and supervisory staff 1 Target 0.10 are required to take.
In 2011 we published a Code of Conduct for 6% subcontractors, suppliers and partners, as part of an ongoing drive 11 0.17 to embed appropriate procedures and controls in the supply chain.
10 0.16 Since 2008 our Zero Harm programme has been working towards our safety goal of eliminating deaths and permanently disabling 09 0.17 injuries to employees and contractors, injuries to members of the public and long-term harm to anyones health.
This has had a real impact, and our overall accident frequency rate is already down Greenhouse gas emissions tonnes CO e m revenue 2 bysome two-thirds compared with 10 years ago.
2 Target 37.5 However, in 2011 the pace of improvement stalled.
There were fivefatalities in our Hong Kong joint venture, Gammon the same 11 41.4 unacceptably highfigure as we saw in 2010, and our accident frequency rate marginally increased.
In 2012 we are redoubling our 3 10 41.7 efforts to ensure that we return to the steady progress required by our Zero Harm vision.
09 36.3 It is almost three years since we set out our vision for sustainability, 1 Or lower by end of 2012. with a roadmap outlining where we want to be by 2020.
All our 2 10% reduction by 2012 and 50% by 2020, both against the 2010 baseline.
3 operating companies have drawn up action plans and in 2011 we Restated due to more comprehensive data.
asked KPMG to conduct an independent review of their progress inimplementing these plans.
The review has identified some Whats next?
180examples of good practice which we have shared across In the year ahead, we aim to: theGroup.
We continue to raise our employees sustainability refresh our sustainability roadmap, developing new targets awareness, and in 2011 over 15,000 of them received online for2015 sustainability training.
continue to roll out sustainability training to involve an In 2011, we made little progress in reducing our CO e emissions 2 increasing number of employees in our 2020 vision due to the increase in more energy-intensive projects in our Hong participate in Business in the Communitys corporate Kong joint venture.
We achieved our water reduction target in 2011. responsibility index for the first time We are also on track to halve our waste to landfill by 2012 and have sponsor Ecobuild 2012, the construction sectors largest procured 34% of our UK major materials from recognised event, to share our knowledge on BIM, offsite construction, responsible sourcing schemes.
energy efficiency and whole-life carbon modelling continue to embed our ethics, values and compliance For the fourth consecutive year, we asked an external stakeholder programme and leverage it to support the Groups growth panel to review our reporting practices and provide an independent strategy as we enter new and sometimes higher-risk markets.
opinion of our sustainability performance and recommendations forwhere we could improve.
This panel of 10 experienced sustainability and corporate responsibility practitioners comprises both public and private sector customers, an investor, supplier, trade association and third sector organisations.
We believe that this approach to assurance is unique for our sector.
We help to influence the market to adopt more sustainable outcomes.
From thought leadership on the natural environment, and industry partnerships, through to the development of innovative water footprinting and climate change adaptation tools, we are playing our part.
For the UK Governments Natural Environment White Paper in 2011, we provided both written andoral evidence to the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Committee and encouraged the Government to use the procurement process to move from ecological protection to enhancement.
We also sponsored the development of the UK Green Building Councils leadership course for a sustainable built environment which was launched last year for senior executives.
You can read more about our efforts to demonstrate leadership in values and behaviour in the way we work and in our sustainability report 2011 available online at www.
Go to P48 P51 for more information on the way we work Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 21
