Our governance Board of Directors Chairman and executive Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 1 Steve Marshall asenior assistant director at Morgan Grenfell.
He was appointed Non-executive Chairman anon-executive director of Colt Group S. A. in July 2011.
Appointed a Director in 2005 and Chairman in May Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants and a barrister.
He is a non-executive director of Halma p. l. c. and 4 Andrew McNaughton wasappointed non-executive chairman of Wincanton plc in Chief Operating Officer December 2011.
He is a former chairman of Delta, Torex Retail Age 48.
Appointed to the Board as Chief Operating Officer in and Queens Moat Houses.
He was chief executive of Thorn 2009.
He joined Balfour Beatty in 1997, having spent 12 years and ofRailtrack Group, having also served as group finance withthe Kier Group, and held the position of managing director director at each company.
His earlier career included a wide ofBalfour Beatty Civil Engineering from 2004 to 2007, when range ofcorporate and operational rolesat Grand Metropolitan, hebecame Group managing director with responsibility for civil Black&Decker, BOC and Burton Group.
He is a Fellow engineering in the UK and the Groups interests in the Middle East.
oftheChartered Institute of Management Accountants.
He is a Fellow of the Institution of Civil Engineers, a Liveryman in 2 Ian Tyler the Worshipful Company of Engineers and a Vice-President of the Chief Executive Institution of Civil Engineers.
A Director since 1999, he became Chief Executive in 5 Duncan Magrath January 2005, having been Chief Operating Officer since 2002 Chief Financial Officer and prior to that, Finance Director.
He joined Balfour Beatty in Age 47.
Appointed to the Board in 2008 as Finance Director.
1996 from the Hanson Group where he was finance director Hejoined Balfour Beatty in 2006 as Deputy Finance Director from ofARC, one of its principal subsidiaries.
He spent 13 years at Exel in a number of senior finance roles director of VT Group, he is a non-executive director of Cable & in both the UK and US, latterly as director of investor relations and Wireless Communications Plc and president of Construction financial strategy.
Prior to this he worked at Price Waterhouse.
Industry Relief, Assistance and Support for the Homeless Ltd, Heis a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants, and was the construction and property industry charity for the homeless.
appointed a non-executive director of Brammer plc in March 2012.
6 Peter Zinkin 3 Anthony Rabin Planning and Development Director Deputy Chief Executive Age 58.
Joined the Group in 1981 and became Planning and Age 56.
A Director since 2002, he became Deputy Chief Development Director in 1991 after a series of senior positions Executive in 2008, having previously been Finance Director.
He is responsible for the Groups merger, Heis responsible for the Groups worldwide infrastructure acquisition and divestment activities as well as the development investments business, and before 2002 had been managing ofGroup strategy.
Previously, he worked at the London Business director of Balfour Beatty Capital.
Prior to joining the Group in School and UMIST.
He is a governor of Birkbeck College, 1995, he was a partner at Coopers & Lybrand and before that, University of London.
66 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 Our governance Non-executive Directors 7 8 9 10 11 12 7 Robert Amen 10 Hubertus Krossa Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Age 62.
Until 2008, he was chief chairman and chief executive officer of International Flavors & executive officer of KION Group GmbH, a leading international Fragrances Inc IFF.
Prior to joining IFF in 2006, he spent material handling equipment manufacturer.
Prior to that, he spent over 25 years at International Paper Company in a succession seven years on the main board of Linde AG, the worldwide ofroles culminating in his appointment as president and producer and supplier of industrial and medical gases.
He was member of the board.
He was also a director of Wyeth, the previously a member of the European management board of USpharmaceutical and healthcare company, until its acquisition Whirlpool Europe and was also chairman of its German operating byPfizer in October 2009.
A US national, he currently serves company, and has previously held non-executive directorships asan  at Columbia Business School.
inthe UK for Wassall and Thorn Lighting Group.
He is currently chairman of the supervisory boards of Eckelmann AG and 8 Mike Donovan Bauknecht Hausgeraete GmbH and deputy chairman of United Non-executive Director Power Technology AG.
He was chief operating officer of Marconi from 2001 to 2005.
Prior to that, he was 11 Graham Roberts chief executive officer of Marconi Systems and was previously Non-executive Director responsible for managing major divisions of British Aerospace, Age 53.
He was finance director Vickers and the Rover Group.
ofThe British Land Company between 2002 and 2011.
Prior tothat, he spent eight years at Andersen, latterly as a partner 9 Iain Ferguson CBE specialising in the real estate and government services sectors.
Non-executive Director Heis a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Until 2009, he was chief executive of Tate & Lyle.
Prior to joining Tate & Lyle in 2003, he 12 Robert Walvis spent 26 years at Unilever in a succession of roles culminating Senior Independent Director in his appointment as senior vice-president, corporate Age 65.
He was previously with development.
He is a non-executive director of Greggs plc theRoyal Dutch Shell Group, latterly as chairman of the Global andalso Berendsen plc, where he will become non-executive Corporate Centre.
He is a non-executive director of Associated chairman in April 2012, and is chairman of Wilton Park, an British Ports Holdings Limited, and chairman of the supervisory independent and non-profit making Executive Agency of the board of Allianz Nederland Groep NV.
British Foreign and Commonwealth Office.
He is also lead independent director at the Department for Environment, Foodand Rural Affairs.
He was formerly a non-executive director of Sygen International.
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 67
