Our governance Directors report Shareholding Compliance with the Code At 31 December 2011, Mr Walvis held 14,285 Balfour Beatty The UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 the Code took ordinary shares, and this interest is not considered substantial.
effect from 29 June 2010, replacing the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2008 as the standard of good corporate Conflicting interest governance practice in the UK.
The Financial Services Authority None of his disclosed interests were thought to conflict with requires listed companies to disclose whether they have complied hisrole as a member of the Balfour Beatty Board.
with the provisions of the Code throughout the financial year.
Further information on the Code is publicly available on the Other Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
The None of the other independence measures listed in the Code, Company hascomplied with the requirements of the Code other than his term of office, were considered relevant by the Board.
throughout the accounting period, other than in respect of: At its Board meeting in March 2012, as part of its annual audit The effectiveness of the Groups whistleblowing procedures is ofcorporate governance, the Board considered the independence kept under review by the Business Practices Committee and not of the non-executive Directors against the criteria specified in by the Audit Committee.
The principal reason for this is that the theCode and determined that each of them, including Mr Walvis, Business Practices Committee, in particular, focuses on the continues to beindependent.
Companys business conduct, its ethics and values, ensuring thatprocedures exist for employees to raise concerns in The Board confidence and isan integral element in its overall remit.
However, theAudit Committee is kept informed of any allegations of fraud The Board currently comprises 12 Directors, of whom seven, orpoor financial controls and internal audit participates in the including the Chairman, are non-executive.
There were no changes investigations into such claims and reports to the Audit Committee to the composition of the Board during the year.
The Directors on the outcome.
believe that the Board continues to include an appropriate balance of skills and retains the ability to provide effective leadership to theGroup.
Directors independence Having considered the position of Robert Walvis, who has Matters reserved for the Board completed more than 10 years on the Board, the Directors The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the specifically considered those factors which they believed were Company and has a formal schedule of matters reserved for relevant in determining whether Mr Walvis should continue to be itsdecision which includes the matters summarised below: regarded as being independent.
The following factors were taken into consideration.
determining the Groups strategic direction approving annual budgets and financial reporting, including the Constructive challenge annual and half-year results and interim management statements The Board considered the strength of his engagement and the robustness of his challenge and critique around the boardroom approving interim, and recommending final, dividends table.
As Senior Independent Director, Mr Walvis has provided an approving major acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditure effective sounding board for the Chairman and the other Directors who value the insight he brings to a range of topics.
ensuring the necessary financial and human resources are in place to achieve objectives and reviewing management During his period as chairman of the remuneration committee, performance MrWalvis also displayed independent leadership in the development of the executive remuneration policy and in its application on a fair setting the Companys values and ethical standards and consistent basis.
approving policies and systems for risk management andassurance.
Remuneration Mr Walviss fees as a Director are disclosed in the remuneration The Board reviewed its list of reserved matters in 2011 and, most report on page 88 and his remuneration is not considered excessive recently, at its meeting in March 2012.
The terms of reference of in the context of directors fees paid in FTSE 250 companies.
the Board and the Board Committees are available on request from the Company Secretary and are also displayed on the Companys website www.
Descriptions of the specific responsibilities which have been delegated to the principal Board Committees are also provided on pages 72 to 77.
68 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 Our governance Board composition The names of the Directors at the year-end are shown on pages 66 and 67 together with brief biographical details.
Full details ofDirectors service agreements, emoluments and share interests are shown in the remuneration report starting on page 82.
The following blend of skills is exhibited by the Directors through their respective professional backgrounds: Strategic Operating Mergers and Business development performance acquisitions integration and delivery Ethics, values Financial and culture management and planning Stakeholder HR Risk Health and Experience of engagement management management safety international and assurance markets Chairman and Chief Executive Chief Executive The two roles are complementary.
The Chairman is responsible for managing the business of the Board, whilst the Chief Executive Strategy development and the stewardship of physical, actually runs the business.
As the senior executive officer of the financial and human resources Company, the Chief Executive is responsible to the Chairman and Board for directing and prioritising the profitable operation and Group operational and financial performance development of the Group.
The Chairman and Chief Executive keep Executive leadership each other appropriately informed on the others current activities.
Health, safety and environmental performance Specifically, their roles comprise the following principal responsibilities: Corporate values and ethics Objective setting for the senior management team Chairman Organisational structure and talent management Ensuring effective strategic planning is undertaken by the Major capital expenditure prioritisation executive Directors Consideration of acquisitions, disposals and financing Ensuring corporate governance is properly maintained Stakeholder management Formally appraising the performance of the Chief Executive and reviewing with the Chief Executive his views on the performance of the other executive Directors Senior Independent Director Robert Walvis is the Senior Independent Director, and his principal Providing leadership to the Board responsibilities are to ensure that the views of the other nonActing as senior ambassador for the Company executive Directors are properly considered and to provide an additional communication channel between the non-executive Considering Board balance, composition and succession Directors and the shareholders and other stakeholders, as Ensuring the smooth operation of the Board and required.
Mr Walvis meets with the other non-executive Directors itsCommittees without the Chairman or executive Directors being present at least once a year.
Providing effective communication between the Board and itsshareholders Directors interests No Director had any material interest in any contract of significance with the Group during the period under review.
The Directors have Steve Marshall spends an average of two days a week on the put in place procedures to ensure the Board collectively and the business of the Company.
The Board is satisfied that his recent Directors individually comply with the disclosure requirements appointment as non-executive chairman of Wincanton plc, and his onconflicts of interest set out in the Companies Act 2006.
At its other commitments, can be accommodated without hindering his meeting each January, a formal declaration of interests is reviewed ability to carry out his duties as Chairman.
The interests of Directors in the share capital of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings and their interests under the long-term incentive scheme the Performance Share Plan, the deferred bonus plan and share options, are set out in the tables in the remuneration report commencing on page 82.
There have been no changes in their respective interests since 31December 2011.
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 69 Our governance Directors report continued Directors indemnities Finance The Company grants an indemnity to all of its Directors to the extent permitted by law.
These indemnity amounts are uncapped Budget 2011 in relation to losses and liabilities which Directors may incur to third parties in the course of acting as a Director of the Company, Annual and half-year results or in any office where such duties are performed at the request Corporate broking review ofthe Board, or as a result of their appointment as Directors.
Pensions Board meetings Tax and treasury policies Procedures for Board meetings remain largely unchanged from previous years.
Since the beginning of 2011, the Board has Operational performance beenusing an electronic portal to receive papers and to share information.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising Business reviews, including: the Board on appropriate governance matters, ensuring good information flow and for ensuring that Board procedures are Infrastructure Investments UK and US followed.
He also provides updates on legal matters of relevance Construction Services UK to the Group and is available to individual Directors for advice onBoard procedures.
Support Services including the UK shared service centre inNewcastle 2011 meeting programme In 2011 nine Board meetings were held at the Companys head office, whilst two meetings were held outside London.
These Strategy latter meetings provided the Directors with the opportunity to meet management and other staff at Balfour Beatty WorkSmarts Group strategy development a recurring topic offices in Newcastle and at Balfour Beatty Capital.
Included during throughout2011 each visit were presentations on each of these businesses and the Offshore wind principal strategic issues they were facing.
In the case of Balfour Beatty Capital, the Board also visited one of the Building Schools for the Future projects in west London, which was then under Mergers, acquisitions and divestments construction, to see the integrated capability of the various Balfour Beatty businesses who were engaged in the delivery of this project.
Acquisition of Howard S. Wright in the US Each Board meeting normally lasts four to five hours but can Sale of UK specialist rail manufacturing business belonger.
Disposal of interest in Barking Power to Balfour Beatty On the evening preceding a Board meeting, the Directors generally PensionFund meet for dinner and sometimes take the opportunity to discuss predetermined developmental themes, led by one of the executiveDirectors, other senior managers or a specialist external Corporate governance speaker.
For example, in 2011, the themes included public affairs, the Balfour Beatty infrastructure fund and investor relations.
One HR planning, talent and succession management of the dinners each year is attended by the Chairman and the non-executive Directors only, whilst a second includes the Chief Re-election of Directors at 2011 AGM Executive, but none of the other executive Directors.
Board Committees terms of reference Each meeting addresses two or more key strategic topics which Board evaluation enable the Directors to engage in in-depth reviews.
The Board also reviews at each of its meetings monthly updates from the Chief Diversity and the Davies Report Executive, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
Legal matters including litigation and the UK Bribery Act Regular reports are also provided on health, safety and environment, risk management and assurance and investor relations.
The following topics were also addressed by the Board during 2011 under each of the themes shown opposite.
70 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 Our governance 2011 Board and Board Committee meetings Professional development Details of the number of meetings and attendance at the Board In discussion with the Directors each year, the Chairman meetings and meetings of the Audit, Business Practices, determines whether there are any specific training needs Nomination and Remuneration Committees during the year are identified by the Directors which can be addressed either by the setout in the following table: topic being included at a future Board meeting or on a one-to-one basis.
Directors are also automatically enrolled in the Deloitte Business Name of Director Board Audit Practices Nomination Remuneration Academy, a seminar-led programme which provides regular R M Amen 11 11 4 4 2 2 3 3 updates throughout the year on the principal governance and M J Donovan 11 11 4 4 2 2 3 3 othermatters of which directors of a listed company should be I G T Ferguson 11 11 2 2 3 3 4 4 fully aware.
G E H Krossa 11 11 4 4 2 2 3 3 4 4 The Directors induction programme also provides the foundation D J Magrath 11 11 for continuing professional development.
This takes place S Marshall 11 11 2 2 3 3 4 4 throughout the year by way of a series of internal and external A J McNaughton 10 11 updates, including visits to operating companies to meet local A L P Rabin 10 11 management and visits to Balfour Beatty projects, both in the G C Roberts 11 11 4 4 3 3 4 4 UKand overseas.
I P Tyler 11 11 3 3 Normally, such meetings take place for each non-executive R J W Walvis 11 11 4 4 3 3 4 4 Director four times each year, although some Directors have not P J L Zinkin 10 11 been able to attend all the sessions whilst others have been able The number shown in brackets is the total number of meetings the Director could toparticipate in more meetings.
attend during the year including as a result of changes to Committee memberships.
During 2011, the non-executive Directors visited the following Non-attendance at meetings was due to illness and prior business businesses and undertook detailed strategic business reviews of: commitments.
In each case, where the Directors have not been Rail International including Balfour Beatty Rail GmbH, Germany able to attend a Board or Committee meeting, they have reviewed the papers circulated for that meeting and provided their comments Parsons Brinckerhoff International including the power market directly to the Chairman, or the Committee chairman, as appropriate.
Construction Services US including US Rail and Infrastructure Any Director who is not a Committee member has an open strategic reviews invitation to attend any Committee meeting and a number of the Construction Services UK incorporating a focus on Balfour Beatty Directors take this opportunity.
Major Civil Engineering and Balfour Beatty Construction Further information about the work of each of the Boards Scottish & Southern Committees may be found on pages 72 to 77 and 82 to 92.
Support Services including Balfour Beatty Living Places and its partnership with North East Lincolnshire Council.
Board portal Since the beginning of 2011, Board papers have been distributed Board evaluation by way of a secure electronic portal.
Documents are made Introduction available on the portal at least three business days in advance of In keeping with the Code, the Board receives external evaluations the meeting.
The portal has helped to improve Board operating normally every three years with internal evaluations in the efficiencies by enabling the Directors to receive papers quickly intervening two years.
The last external evaluation was carried andto review these at any time convenient to them.
It houses a outin 2010. secure reading room in which key data and documents are kept.
This reading room is maintained by the Company Secretary and 2011 evaluation regularly updated.
Information held in the reading room includes For 2011, the Board conducted its own internal evaluation using audit, market and competitor data, strategy papers, investor anonline structured questionnaire covering the operation of the relations and analysts reports, as well as the Groups principal Board and its principal Committees.
Questionnaires were also policies relating to HR, legal, and health and safety.
issued, in the case of each of the Board Committees, to those other participants who regularly attend these meetings.
The Board development questionnaires were supplemented by individual interviews withthe Directors carried out by the Company Secretary, where Induction appropriate, and the findings were summarised and presented Directors undertake a thorough induction programme and receive tothe Board in March 2011. a range of information about the Company when they join the Board, including access to the Board portal, which includes BalfourBeattys Code of Conduct and ethics, processes for dealing in Balfour Beatty shares and Board procedures, as well asthe minutes and papers of past Board and Board Committee meetings.
In addition, they also take part in a series of one-to-one meetings with other members of the Board and senior executives which include briefings on the Companys business strategy, financial procedures, business development, legal and other keyissues.
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 71 Our governance Directors report continued The principal themes arising from the 2011 evaluation comprised: Board Committees Board size and composition Marginally on the large size, but this was not thought to be an Audit Committee issue.
From the mix of skills currently represented on the Board, a background in infrastructure and professional or support services could be useful adjuncts, as would more significant emerging markets experience.
Introducing greater diversity onto the Board would be addressed when a vacancy occurred.
Status: These points would be considered when the next non-executive director recruitment was under way.
The Boards diversity statement was published in September 2011 and incorporated into Board succession plans.
Board papers The agenda and supporting papers were judged to be appropriate although in some instances these could be made more concise, focused on key issues and oriented towards action points.
There were no deficiencies highlighted in the advisory support received by the Board.
This year, the Committee has focused on Status: In progress.
risk management and assurance in the Strategy divisions.
Our programme of in-depth A focus on developing the Group strategy through 2011. reviews has started and will be continued Status: Completed.
Committees Committee chairmen should be provided with a regular Graham Roberts chairman opportunity to feed back to the other Directors on recentmeetings.
Meetings in 2011: 4 Status: Completed standing Board agenda item.
Members Conclusions Graham Roberts chairman Board strategy meetings allow Directors to receive in-depth reviews on topics crucial to the development of the business and Robert Amen organisation.
The non-executive Director visit programme focused Mike Donovan on the principal strategic issues, was considered to be a positive development.
Hubertus Krossa The output from the evaluation also revealed that, in the opinion Robert Walvis ofthe Directors, the acquisition of Parsons Brinckerhoff had been well handled by management, as had the introduction of the new Responsibilities divisional structure.
Financial statements The following matters were identified where Directors believed Financial controls adifferent approach could have been followed and possibly where External audit more progress could have been made: the development of the Group strategy after the Parsons Brinckerhoff acquisition and Internal audit Board diversity.
Risk management and assurance The top three priorities identified for 2011 were Group strategy development, succession planning and people development in particular around diversity in its broadest sense, and embedding The terms of reference for the Committee are based on the the divisional organisation structure.
Guidance on Audit Committees issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
The terms of reference were updated in December 2011.
During the course of 2011, each of the three priorities was The main responsibilities of the Audit Committee are addressed.
The Board has received regular progress updates summarisedbelow: andis satisfied significant progress has been made.
monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the For each of the Board Committees a list of emerging key themes Groupand any formal announcements relating to the Groups was discussed at the Board meeting in March 2011 and although financial performance none of these were significant in themselves, each of the Committee chairmen have determined to address the matters review the Groups internal controls established to identify, during the year.
For example, the Audit Committee identified assess, manage and monitor risks, and receive reports from theneed to gain greater insight into the risk management and management on the effectiveness of the systems they have assurance policies and procedures within each of the new divisions.
established and the conclusions of any testing carried out by This process has already started with Rail and Support Services.
theinternal and external auditor 72 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 Our governance monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit August function including its work programme 2011 half-year financial report make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the external auditor and approve the The UK shared service centre in Newcastle and the operation remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor ofaccounts payable assess the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of December theexternal auditor and develop and implement policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services.
Group litigation and insurance Graham Roberts, a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants External audit plan for 2012 and audit fees and a former finance director of The British Land Company PLC, Internal audit plan for 2012 has been identified by the Board as having recent and relevant financial experience.
At the Board meeting following each meeting Risk management and assurance review: Support Services division of the Committee, the Committee chairman provides an oral Committee terms of reference report on the work of the Committee and any significant issues that may have arisen.
The minutes of Committee meetings are Although the above provides an outline of the topics on which the circulated to all members of the Board.
Committee focused its attention during the year, at its meetings the following topics were reviewed in detail: At the invitation of the Committee, partners from the external auditor, the Head of Group Risk Management and Assurance, the Goodwill Deputy Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer regularly A comprehensive assessment of the composition of goodwill attend each meeting.
In addition, any independent non-executive across the Group.
Director who is not a Committee member has an open invitation Significant contracts toattend meetings.
The Committee also invites other executives The key contract valuations and judgements including from within the Group to participate in Committee discussions, monitoring progress of the principal projects, as well as most notably in 2011 the Chief Executive and Finance Director accounting controls and territory risks.
ofeach of the Rail and Support Services divisions.
Revenue recognition In 2011, the Committees work programme included the following The Groups approach which was in line with market principal topics in addition to the standing agenda items which practiceand the impact of the IASBs revenue recognition comprise reports on: accounting standard.
accounting, financial and regulatory issues Pensions review of non-audit work carried out by the external auditors, IAS19 accounting assumptions survey, benchmarking the and their fees Balfour Beatty Pension Fund against a significant number ofother pension schemes and valuation judgements.
risk management activities and compliance Throughout 2011, the Committee has continued to review the implementation and progress against the Group assurance plan.
Groups risk management and internal control systems and processes.
As a result, the Committee recommended to the Board February that it could properly conclude that the Group continued to maintain sound systems of risk management and internal control and that a 2010 annual report and accounts and preliminary results review of the effectiveness of these systems had been completed.
announcement Key contract valuation and accounting judgements External auditor independence and effectiveness The Committee carries out a formal review each year to assess Quality of earnings review the independence and effectiveness of the external auditor, Directors valuation of PPP concessions Deloitte LLP.
The Committee has recommended that the Board proposes to shareholders that Deloitte LLP continue as the Going concern review Companys external auditor having satisfied itself of their Commissions report independence.
In reaching its conclusion, the Committee took intoconsideration the following matters: Incidents of dishonest acts Non-audit work Annual review of internal audit work and findings Compliance with the Companys policy is tested each year.
At Impact of the new divisional structure on the internal each meeting, the Committee also reviews the non-audit work auditfunction which has been carried out by the external auditor and that planned, together with the associated fees.
The objective set out Directors expenses in the Companys policy is to ensure that the external auditor is not placed in a position where its independence is, or might be seen June to be, compromised.
Under no circumstances will any assignment External audit and interim review plan for 2011, audit fees, be given to the external auditor, when the result is that: assessment of 2010 audit process as part of the statutory audit, it is required to report directly Risk management and assurance review: Rail division onnon-audit work it makes management decisions on behalf of the Group Results of the external review of the effectiveness and resourcing of the internal audit function conducted by a third it acts as advocate for the Group party which confirmed that the function was fit for purpose the level of non-audit fees is such, relative to audit fees, as to raise concerns about its ability to form objective judgements.
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 73 Our governance Directors report continued The Companys policy identifies the various types of non-audit services and determines the analysis to be undertaken and level Nomination Committee ofauthority required before the external auditor can be considered to undertake such services.
Included within such analysis is consideration of the cost and efficiency benefits as well as the realor perceived threats to auditor independence.
There is no inconsistency between the Accounting Practices Board APB standards and the Companys policy.
The Committee considered the changes to the APBs ethical standards for auditors published in 2010 and concluded that no adjustments were required to the existing policy and that there were appropriate checks and balances in place.
In 2011 the external auditor was appointed to carry out various non-audit related work, including the provision of tax and compliance advice in Australia, Europe, India and the US, together with advice on fiscal restructuring following the acquisition of Parsons Brinckerhoff.
The Committee considers that the Company receives particular Diversity has been on the Committees benefits, including those relating to cost, quality and consistency, agenda this year and will remain so as from the advice provided by its external auditor, given its wide and thecomposition of the Board continues detailed knowledge of the Group and its international operations.
There can also be savings in management time and accelerated tobe assessed.
delivery of work in situations where rapid turnaround is required.
The majority of non-audit related work was carried out using the Steve Marshall chairman services of other major international audit firms.
Annual internal assessment Meetings in 2011: 3 A detailed internally prepared assessment of the previous years external audit process, together with any identified improvement Members recommendations.
In carrying out this assessment, each division Steve Marshall chairman and operating company within the Group is required to evaluate Robert Amen the performance of the assigned external audit team and to compare that performance against the previous year.
Mike Donovan External auditors assessment Iain Ferguson An assessment was carried out by the external auditor in Hubertus Krossa consultation with the operating companies using a structured questionnaire.
Graham Roberts The external auditors annual transparency report for the year Ian Tyler ended 31 May 2011 was reviewed.
This was prepared in Robert Walvis accordance with the provisions of the Statutory Auditors Transparency Instrument 2008 made by the Professional Responsibilities Oversight Board POB of the Financial Reporting Council.
The Structure and composition of Board report addresses all the elements contained in the POBs audit quality framework.
Appointment of non-executive Directors External auditor rotation Succession planning and talent management Audit partners are rotated every five years.
The advisory partner changed in 2010 and the audit engagement partner changed In 2011, the Committees work programme comprised the in2011.
following principal topics: A number of circumstances would lead to consideration being review of the skills and experience requirements for nongiven to carrying out an audit tender review.
For example: executive Directors, including developing an approach to in circumstances where the external auditors performance had diversity, in light of the Davies Report been called into question, or where, through the audit partner assessment of the current status and internal succession rotation process, no suitable replacement had been identified options for executive Directors and senior operational and where value for money considerations had arisen functional leaders, including external benchmarking.
where there was a real or perceived threat to independence where conflict of interests had been identified where issues had been raised about audit quality by a regulator.
74 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 Our governance Remuneration Committee Business Practices Committee Embedding the new remuneration policy Corporate reputation is a precious asset has been a key agenda topic for the and maintaining it is a key obligation of Committee.
Ensuring the policy and the theDirectors and management alike.
underlying incentive arrangements Mike Donovan chairman continue to do their job as the organisation develops will remain a focal point.
Meetings in 2011: 2 Iain Ferguson chairman Members Mike Donovan chairman Meetings in 2011: 4 Robert Amen Iain Ferguson Members Iain Ferguson chairman from 14 July 2011 Hubertus Krossa Hubertus Krossa Steve Marshall Steve Marshall Responsibilities Graham Roberts Corporate values, ethics and Code of Conduct Robert Walvis chairman to 14 July 2011 Health and safety Stakeholder management Responsibilities Remuneration strategy and policies Sustainability Remuneration packages Whistleblowing Incentive plans Community engagement Information about the work of the Committee during the financial The Committee focuses significant attention on health and safety, year is set out in the remuneration report starting on page 82. values, ethics and compliance.
The Committee also addresses the Groups Code of Conduct and the training which ensures that the Groups business principles are properly embedded throughout the business.
In addition, a review of stakeholder and community engagement and operational excellence was a particular area of focus for the Committee in 2011.
At each of its meetings, the Committee receives detailed updates on health and safety performance and specifically the current status of the Groups Zero Harm initiative, including statistical data and trends, accident reporting, and high-potential incidents as well as occupational health.
The Committee also reviews the output from the independent health and safety audit carried out across the Group.
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 75 Our governance Directors report continued In addition to the standing agenda items, the following principal topics were considered at Committee meetings during the year: Group Tender and Investment Committee March Consideration of the fatality review carried out in 2010, lessonslearned and actions taken An update on the UK Bribery Act, a review of the external monitors anti-corruption compliance report for 2010 and embedding the Code of Conduct Reputational risk issues and the relationship between the Company and its key stakeholders A review of the draft sustainability report 2010 October High-potential incidents and the associated reporting procedures Key considerations typically include Zero Harm progress and plans to expand beyond 2012 programme and resources, risks including Progress on the 2020 Sustainability Vision and the 2012 workplan ethical conduct, safety, joint venture A review of the assurance processes and the findings of the arrangements, cash flows and margins.
external monitor on the output of his monitoring activities across Ian Tyler chairman each of the businesses Consideration of the role of the Committee in relation to the Meetings in 2011: Numerous policies, processes and behaviours exhibited across the Group and their consistency with the Group strategy Members Approval of the charity and community engagement proposals Ian Tyler chairman John Moore for 2012 following an in-depth review during 2011 from 1 February 2012 Duncan Magrath The Committee will continue to monitor its terms of reference Brian Osborne Andrew McNaughton todetermine whether it should expand its remit.
Mike Peasland Anthony Rabin George Pierson Peter Zinkin Robert Van Cleave Kevin Craven Manfred Leger Responsibilities Major contract approvals Acquisitions and disposals Capital expenditure This Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive, or in his absence by one of the other executive Directors.
Its main purpose is to review all major proposed contracts with projected values above specified levels.
The Committee also has authority to approve capital expenditure applications and any proposed acquisitions or disposals over certain specified limits determined by the Board.
For example, currently the Committees terms of reference require contracts for construction or services in the UK of a value exceeding 100m to be submitted for review, whilst other limits vary according to geography and nature of the contract.
In addition, irrespective of the financial scale of the contract, the Committee also reviews tenders in territories which are classified as high risk above 35 in Transparency Internationals Corruption Perceptions Index or where there may be a security risk to employees in that territory.
Minutes of Committee meetings are made available to all the Directors.
76 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 Our governance The Groups systems of internal control operate through a number of different processes, some of which are interlinked.
These include: Finance and General Purposes Committee the annual review of the strategy and plans of each division Meetings in 2011: Numerous andof the Group as a whole in order to identify the risks to theGroups achievement of its overall objectives and, where Members appropriate, any relevant mitigating actions Ian Tyler chairman monthly financial reporting against budgets and the review Duncan Magrath ofresults and forecasts by executive Directors and line management, including particular areas of business or project Andrew McNaughton risk.
This is used to update managements understanding of Anthony Rabin theenvironment in which the Group operates and the methods used to mitigate and control the risks identified Peter Zinkin individual tender and project review procedures starting at Responsibilities operating company and divisional levels, progressing to Board Banking facilities and other treasury matters Committee level if value, or perceived exposure, exceeds certain thresholds Share options regular reporting, monitoring and review of health, safety andenvironmental matters The Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive, or in his the review and authorisation of proposed investment, absence by one of the other executive Directors.
Its principal divestment and capital expenditure through the Boards purpose is to approve various routine banking and treasury Committees and the Board itself matters, grants and exercises of employee share options and othermatters relating to share capital.
A summary of the business the review of specific material areas of Group-wide risk and conducted at the meetings is provided to all the Directors.
theformulation and monitoring of risk mitigating actions the formulation and review of properly documented policies Risk management and assurance andprocedures, updated to address the changing risks of The Board takes ultimate responsibility for the Groups systems thebusiness ofrisk management and internal control and reviews their specific policies set out in the Group Finance Manual, effectiveness.
The Groups principal risks and how they are coveringthe financial management of the Group, including mitigated are summarised on pages 58 to 62.
The Board continued arrangements with the Groups bankers and bond providers, to assess the effectiveness of the risk management processes and controls on foreign exchange dealings and management of internal controls during 2011 and to the date of this report.
Such currency and interest rate exposures, insurance, capital assessment is based on reports made to the Board, the Audit expenditure procedures, application of accounting policies Committee and the Business Practices Committee, including: andfinancial controls the results of internal audits reviews of internal financial controls a Group-wide risk management framework which is embedded a Group-wide certification that effective internal controls had throughout the Group.
Under it, key risks are identified and been maintained, or, where any significant non-compliance or assessed and action plans are developed to mitigate or eliminate breakdown had occurred with or without loss, the status of unwanted exposures.
The results of these reviews are placed corrective action onrisk registers and aresubject to regular review a paper prepared by management on the nature, extent reviews and tests by the internal audit team of critical business andmitigation of significant risks and on the systems of financial processes and controls and specific reviews in areas internalcontrols.
ofperceived high business risk The Groups systems and controls are designed to ensure that the the Groups policy in relation to staff being able to raise Groups exposure to significant risk is properly managed, but the concerns, in confidence, about possible improprieties on Board recognises that any system of internal control is designed to matters of financial reporting and other issues.
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business These systems are extended, as soon as possible and as objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute appropriate, to all companies joining the Group.
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In addition, not all the material joint ventures in which the Group is involved are The Head of Group Risk Management and Assurance is treated, for these purposes, as part of the Group.
Where they are responsible for ensuring that a comprehensive framework not, systems of internal control and risk management are applied ofassurance including internal audit exists within operating as agreed between the parties to the venture.
companies and for co-ordinating the risk management activities across the Group.
No significant failings or weaknesses have Central to the Groups systems of internal control are its processes beenidentified by the Board in carrying out its review of the and framework for risk management.
These accord with the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems.
Turnbull Guidance on internal controls and were in place throughout the year and up to the date of signing this report.
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 77 Our governance Directors report continued Share capital and shareholders Other disclosures Details of the share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2011, Business and financial review including the rights attaching to each class of share, are setout in The Chairmans message on pages 10 and 11, the Chief Executives Note 28 on pages 143 and 144.
During the year to 31December strategic review on pages 12 to 21, the Chief Operating Officers 2011 no ordinary or preference shares were repurchased for review on pages 24 to 27, the operating review on pages 28 to 45, cancellation.
665,516 ordinary shares were issued following the the way we work on pages 48 to 51 and the Chief Financial exercise of options held under the Companys savings-related share Officers review on pages 54 to 57 are incorporated byreference option scheme and 302,586 ordinary shares were issued following into the Directors report.
the exercise of options held under the Companys executive share option scheme.
Results and dividends The results for the year are shown in the audited financial At 31 December 2011, the Directors had authority under statements presented on pages 95 to 161 and are explained shareholders resolutions approved at the AGM and at the Class morefully in the Chief Executives and Chief Operating Officers Meeting of preference shareholders held in May 2011 to purchase reviews, the operating review and the Chief Financial Officers through the market 68,649,797 ordinary shares and 16,775,968 review.
An interim dividend payment of 5.3p net per ordinary preference shares at prices set out in those resolutions.
This share was approved by the Board on 16 August 2011 and a final authority expires at the conclusion of the Class Meeting of dividend of 8.5p net per ordinary share will be recommended preference shareholders which will follow the 2012 AGM or atthe Annual General Meeting giving a total of 13.8p net per on1July 2012 whichever is earlier.
ordinary share, which compares with a total dividend per ordinary Throughout the year, all the Companys issued share capital was share of 12.7p net in 2010.
Preference dividends totalling 10.75p publicly listed on the London Stock Exchange and it remains so as gross per preference share were paid in 2011 2010: 10.75p at the date of this report.
There are no specific restrictions on the gross per preference share.
size of a shareholding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both The Directors continued to offer the dividend reinvestment plan, governed by the Articles of Association and the prevailing law.
The which allows holders of ordinary shares to reinvest their cash Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the dividends in the Companys shares through a specially arranged Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer share dealing service.
ofshares or on voting rights.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in the Innovation, research and development remuneration report starting on page 82.
Shares held by the The Group remains committed to enhancing stakeholder value Balfour Beatty Employee Share Ownership Trust are not voted.
through thought leadership and innovation.
Developed with our strategic partner, Imperial College, a co-ordinated and strategic No person has special rights of control over the Companys share innovation approach directs investment to meet our customers capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
needs, encourages a culture of entrepreneurship and knowledge As at 31 December 2011, the Company had been notified in sharing and leverages our relationships with partners and accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the suppliers.
The growing importance of integrated design, Financial Services Authority of the following interests in its construction and operation and Building Information Modelling ordinary share capital: isat the heart of the Groups innovation strategy, as evidenced Number Percentage byits relationships with the University of Bristol and the University of ordinary of ordinary of Salford, as well as the Groups success on the Heathrow shares held shares held Terminal 2B project.
Standard Life Investments Limited 41,130,821 5.98 Prudential plc 35,103,707 5.11 The Groups innovation forum will continue to evolve through 2012 BlackRock, Inc 33,808,307 4.92 into targeted centres of excellence, developing thought leadership Legal & General Group plc 26,889,659 3.91 and building on the existing integration between operating companies.
An innovation outreach programme will engage our Since 1 January 2012, the Company has received further customers, equipping the Group with the deep understanding of notifications advising that the interest of Standard Life the issues they face, to better meet their current and future needs.
Investments Limited has reduced to 4.94%.
This will be underpinned by a single technology platform that will provide the Group with the channels it needs to access its Auditor comprehensive lifecycle knowledge of infrastructure assets.
Deloitte LLP has indicated its willingness to continue as auditors Details of the Groups 2011 research and development expenditure tothe Company and a resolution for its re-appointment will be are given in Note 4.1 on page 110. proposed at the AGM.
Honorary President Viscount Weir is Honorary President of the Company.
He was appointed to this position in May 2003, following his retirement asChairman after 26 years on the Board.
78 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 Our governance The website www.
com is an important source Relations with shareholders ofinformation on the Group, including financial press releases, The Board attaches great importance to maintaining good shareholder documentation, annual and half-year results relationships with all shareholders and ensures that shareholders presentations and the terms of reference of the principal Board are kept informed of significant Company developments.
The website was relaunched in the third quarter The Company has continued its long-established programme of of2011 to enable it to become an even more effective source communication with institutional investors and brokers throughout ofinformation for investors.
Presentations of the half-year and annual results were made in accordance with the practice of previous years.
Through the Political donations year 220 meetings were held at regular intervals 2010: At the AGM held on 12 May 2011, shareholders gave authority for approximately 200 with institutional shareholders, brokers and the Company and its UK subsidiaries to make donations to political analysts including five hosted events.
These comprised: organisations up to a maximum aggregate amount of 25,000 in a presentation to analysts on Support Services at the National the European Union.
This approval is a precautionary measure in Operations Centre in Manchester view of the broad definition of these terms in the Companies Act.
No such expenditure or donations were made during the year and an informal meeting in the UK with US management for shareholder authority will be sought again at the 2012 AGM.
investors and analysts In the US and Canada, donations totalling 182,000 were made by a site visit to the ongoing Heathrow Terminal 2B project to operating companies during 2011.
Most of these donations were which analysts and major investors were invited made by Parsons Brinckerhoff Group Inc: they were small and all two conferences for existing and prospective investors.
In the main, they relate to support given for local campaigns, public bond financing or similar referenda to The Chairman held three meetings with major investors on promote investment in infrastructure.
Any political contributions or corporate governance matters and five further meetings were donations are tightly controlled and must be approved in advance heldwith major shareholders by senior executives as part of our in accordance with the Companys internal procedures and must ongoing engagement.
also adhere strictly to the Companys policies on probity set out We will maintain this communications programme and expand inits Code of Conduct.
A review of existing practices was itwhere appropriate, subject to the constraints of regulation and undertaken during 2011. practice.
The 2012 investor programme will focus on ensuring Parsons Brinckerhoff Group Inc sponsors a Political Action ourinvestors and the analyst community fully understand the Committee PAC.
A PAC is an independently administered strategic direction of the Group following completion of the committee which receives voluntary contributions from Parsons Boards strategy review.
Brinckerhoffs US employees and allocates the funds received, Given the recent growth of the Group and the broadening whatever they may be, to US political candidates and other eligible shareholder base, the Board reviewed the Companys broking stakeholders who support investment in infrastructure markets arrangements in order to evaluate the qualifications of other generally.
Contributions are entirely voluntary from employees and brokers in the market alongside the corporate brokers with whom are kept completely separate from company funds.
Decisions the Company had enjoyed an excellent relationship over many taken by the PAC are independent of influence by Balfour Beatty.
At the conclusion of the process in June, the Board decided Total PAC contributions in 2011 were 79,062. to appoint Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Goldman Sachs International as joint corporatebrokers.
Corporate responsibility Care is exercised to ensure that any price-sensitive information is A full description of our approach to sustainability, including released to all shareholders at the same time in accordance with information on the Groups community engagement programme, UK Listing Authority requirements.
Executive Directors report regularly to the Board on meetings or The Groups published policies on health and safety, the other contact with shareholders or their representatives.
The environment, business conduct and ethics remain in place and non-executive Directors continue to believe that, through their aresubject to regular reviews.
direct and ready access to, and contact with, the Chairman and Further information on each of these policies and the progress theSenior Independent Director and through the regular reports which has been made during the year is provided in the tothe Board, they are kept fully aware of the views of the sustainability report 2011 at www.
largershareholders in the Company and the investment community generally.
The Board continues to retain the services of independent external corporate and investor relations consultants who provide advice on the relationship between the Company and its institutional investors.
The Board regards the Companys general meetings as an opportunity to communicate directly with private investors and actively encourages participative dialogue with all the Companys shareholders.
The chairmen of the Board Committees attend the AGM each year as well as the other Directors and are available to answer questions from shareholders.
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 79 Our governance Directors report continued Employment Change of control provisions As the Group operates across a number of business sectors The Groups bank facility agreements contain provisions that, on indifferent environments, it has evolved a decentralised 30 days notice being given to the Group, the lender may exercise management structure, with employment policies designed to its discretion to require prepayment of the loans on a change of suitthe needs of individual businesses.
However, each employing control and cancel all commitments under the agreement concerned.
company is expected to comply with certain key principles in A number of significant joint venture and contract bond itsdesign and practice of employment policy.
agreements include provisions which become exercisable by These are: acounterparty on a change of control of the Company.
These include the right of a counterparty to request additional security to provide an open, challenging and participative environment and to terminate an agreement.
to enable all employees to use their talents and skills to the full, Some other commercial agreements, entered into in the normal through appropriate encouragement, training and development course of business, include change of control provisions.
to communicate a full understanding of the objectives and The Groups share and incentive plans include usual provisions performance of the Group and the opportunities and challenges relating to change of control.
facing it There are no agreements providing for compensation for the to provide pay and other benefits which reflect good local Directors or employees on a change of control.
practices and reward individual and collective performance to ensure that all applicants receive equal treatment regardless Payment of creditors of age, origin, gender, disability, sexual orientation, marital In the UK, the Companys policy is to settle the terms of payment status, religion or belief with suppliers when agreeing the terms for each transaction or to ensure that all employees similarly receive equal series of transactions: to seek to ensure that suppliers are aware  in relation to training, development of the terms of payment: and to abide by these terms of payment andcareer progression.
as and when satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods or services in accordance with the agreed terms.
At 31 December Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully 2011, the year-end creditors days of the Company were 28 considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant 2010:27. concerned.
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
It is Financial instruments thepolicy of the Group that the training, career development The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies and andpromotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, its exposure to the following risks foreign exchange, interest beidentical to that of other employees.
rate, price and credit are detailed in Note 21 on pages 124 to 130.
Throughout the Group we use a variety of methods to communicate key business goals and issues to employees and Statement of Directors responsibilities also consult and involve employees through local publications, The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report briefing groups, consultative meetings, training programmes and andthe financial statements in accordance with applicable law working groups to assist the process of continuous improvement andregulations.
in the way business is conducted.
Regular publications inform employees of major business and technical achievements.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors are required toprepare the Group financial statements in accordance with Events after the reporting date International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted Details of events after the reporting date are set out in Note 35 by the European Union EU and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation onpage 151. and they have also chosen to prepare the parent company financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless Contractual arrangements they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of The Group has contractual arrangements with numerous third affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for parties in support of its business activities.
Disclosure in this that period.
In preparing these financial statements, International report of information about any of those third parties is not Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: considered necessary for the understanding of the development, performance or position of the Groups business.
80 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 Our governance properly select and apply accounting policies Statements of Directors as to disclosure present information, including accounting policies, in a ofinformation to auditors mannerthat provides relevant, reliable, comparable and Each of the Directors at the date of approval of this report understandable information confirmsthat: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users information of which the Companys auditors are unaware tounderstand the impact of particular transactions, other events the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken and conditions on the Companys and the Groups financial as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit position and financial performance information and to establish that the Companys auditors are make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy, at any time, Directors report the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure By order of the Board that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act Chris Vaughan 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of Chief Corporate Officer and Company Secretary theCompany and for taking reasonable steps for preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities.
7 March 2012 The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of Registered Office: the corporate and financial information included on the Companys 130 Wilton Road website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the London SW1V 1LQ preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ Registered in England Number 395826 from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole the operating review and Chief Financial Officers review, which are incorporated into the Directors report, include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 81
