Our business Support Services What do we do?
How we performed Upgrade and maintenance of water, gas and electricity Order book networks Total facilities management, business services outsourcing 11 5.1bn and energy services 13% Highways network management, operation and maintenance 10 4.5bn Rail renewals Whats happened?
09 4.5bn Significant organic growth Local authority order book up by some 60% Revenue including JVs and associates Awards of power transmission and utilities contracts Acquisition of an energy consultancy to enhance skills 11 1,584m Excellent customer retention rates with extensions to Royal 10% Mail and National Grid contracts 10 1,443m Whats next?
09 1,452m Benefit from contract liquidity in public sector outsourcing Expand internationally in power transmission and distribution Profit before non-underlying items Continue to fill gaps in capability 11 67m 8% We will continue to target segments of the 10 62m UKpublic sector market where an integrated 09 65m model delivers attractive solutions to complex challenges.
We are one of only a handful of KPI companies with the ability and capacity to Customer retention offerthis approach to complex customers Retained customer revenue is a key measure for Support suchas local authorities.
Services, as it shows how well we have leveraged our existing customer relationships.
11 108.2% 13% 10 95.2% 09 87.0% Defined as the revenue from existing customers retained from one year to the next.
Based on Balfour Beatty WorkPlace and Utility Solutions revenue: includes Balfour Beatty Living Places in2010 and 2011.
R e-presented to reflect the change in the group management structure see Note 38.3.
Our strategy our customers stakeholders is an everyday part of our business, Support Services helps customers to maximise their organisational and part of our strategy is to increasingly draw capabilities from efficiency and the value they generate from their infrastructure other parts of Balfour Beatty.
while maintaining continuity of service.
We maintain and enhance The majority of our business comes from the public and regulated all aspects of social and civil infrastructure assets, delivering a sectors in the UK.
Pressure on spending in these areas is driving broad range of services including facilities management FM innovation and creating new opportunities with central and local andthe construction, upgrading and maintenance of utility and government as well as other public entities.
provider we aim to benefit from the continuing trend towards Our customers trust us to deal directly with their end-users and integrated contracts, where we are competitively advantaged.
The quality and closeness of customer relationships Support Services is at the forefront of the Groups offering to underpin our organic growth by enabling us to extend the length thepower sector.
Its leading capabilities in extra high voltage and breadth of successful contracts.
transmission and distribution networks are in increasing demand As a services integrator we bring together a diversity of capabilities internationally, and its other areas of expertise include helping to meet customer needs.
Integrating our teams with suppliers and clients to meet their energy reduction targets.
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 37 Our business Operating review continued Our marketplace Internationally, all markets are seeing significant investment Although the UK Governments Comprehensive Spending Review inelectricity networks to support a shift towards renewable aimed to reduce public sector spending overall, it has opened up generation and to meet rising energy demand from consumers and new kinds of opportunity.
Local authorities are changing the way the resources sector.
This applies particularly in emerging markets, they work in order to be more cost efficient.
They are bringing where robust energy networks are seen as a cornerstone of more services into the marketplace, integrating contracts and economic growth in which energy-intensive resource mining is lengthening contract terms.
This has created a window of often a key factor.
We have power network contracts in the US, opportunity to build order books.
As a strongly differentiated Australasia, Hong Kong and Indonesia, where we operate domestic full-service supplier with a wide range of capabilities, we are businesses in joint ventures.
We are now reviewing opportunities particularly well placed to benefit.
in these and other international markets such as Canada where wehave past experience and there is a demand for our skilled A similar pattern is evident in the outsourced facilities management resources and capabilities in managing supply chain relationships.
While the reduction in discretionary spend since the 2008 financial crisis has made this market extremely competitive Financial performance atthe single-service end, there is significant potential for profitable The order book grew to a record level in the year in all activities work in the bundled FM and total FM segments that we target.
except in water where we are working through the AMP5 water The regulated utilities sectors in the UK and elsewhere have cycle.
Our order book of 5.1bn, up 13% from 2010, promises substantial investment programmes driven by rising energy goodgrowth for the future.
demand and the need to renew ageing assets.
Growing consumer Revenue improved in transport, power and buildings, each of demand and the privatisation of network ownership mean that whichrepresents around 30% of the division, while water revenue much of this investment is insulated from government spending recovered from the low level last year with over 40% growth.
As well as asset renewal and construction we also Overall, revenue reached 1,584m, up 10% from that in 2010. undertake asset maintenance, providing a steady business stream alongside the investment cycles.
Underlying profit from operations increased by 8% to 67m in the year, resulting in an underlying operating margin of 4.2% compared Utility contracts are typified by long-term frameworks, with clients to 4.3% in 2010.
This was a good result in view of numerous new now letting longer-duration contracts that span investment cycles.
contracts which are typically less profitable at the start of the The UK water sector is currently mid cycle, with investment levels contract period due to mobilisation costs.
The energy regulator, Ofgem, has ratified ongoing investment in replacing the UKs gas distribution network work for which we hold two UK frameworks.
UK business costs for gas and electricity are up 77% since 2004, and we forecast afurther 81% increase over the coming decade.
For the public and private sectors combined, that will push up the annual energy bill by 8.4bn to 18.7bn.
Rising prices have made energy management a board-level issue.
And Government plans to cut emissions and improve energy security will increase this trend.
Small wonder that more and more organisations are turning to us for advice and support in cutting their energy costs and carbon footprint.
To broaden our capability, in 2011 we acquired Power Efficiency, a leading player in carbon consultancy, energy management and procurement.
Integrated with our WorkPlace facilities management business, it enables us tooffer a complete energy service from carbon footprint planning to procurement, project implementation, operation and maintenance.
The benefits can be startling: for a London Docklands client, Power Efficiency saved 6.3m in its first four years.
Its skills gain further value when combined with our ability to improve or replace inefficient energy-consuming assets Rising to and further strengthen the business case for clients to form long-term strategic partnerships with us.
the challenge of energy costs 38 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 Our business As the athletes and media depart, Londons Olympic site will start preparing for its reopening in 2013 as the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park.
It will be no ordinary park, and our custodianship will be no ordinary estates and facilities management job.
To do it, weve formed a Community Interest Company with environmental regeneration charity Groundwork London When the and community-led economic development specialist Renaisi.
games end, Our aim is to manage a park thats a sustainable, worldclass amenity for the communities that live around it.
But the park begins theres more.
It will actively engage local residents in the way it is run.
It will provide opportunities to learn about sustainability and launch environmental initiatives both in the park and in local neighbourhoods.
It will provide training and work experience for local job seekers who need particular help in preparing for long-term employment.
Some of the funding for these activities will come from managing commercial concessions and events in the park.
Attractions will include the 114 metres tall ArcelorMittal Orbit the UKs tallest sculpture, offering views across the city.
And our own charitable foundation, Building Better Futures, has also pledged 90,000 of support.
Operational performance To enhance our full-service energy offering, we acquired UK energy Power is an area of strategic focus for the Group, and Support consultant Power Efficiency in March 2011.
This companys work Services has a major part to play both in our current core inrisk-managed energy procurement, invoice validation, carbon marketsand internationally.
During the year we won power-related management and technical services gives us an exciting additional contracts with a significant impact on the scale of our operations, offer to our existing FM clients, who are increasingly concerned to our international reach and the capabilities we deploy.
These included a 290m contract from Scottish and Southern Through Balfour Beatty Living Places we provide managed services Energy to replace the electricity transmission line between Beauly to local authorities and other public sector bodies.
During the year and Wharry Burn, 20km north of Denny.
This involves the project this business progressed extremely well, gaining contracts worth development, design and construction of a 200km double-circuit 475m half in highways and half in integrated contracts.
With a 400kV overhead line and associated civil and access works, win rate better than 1 in 2.5, it increased its order book by some including construction of temporary access roads and 60% to over 800m.
improvements to some private roads.
In a competitive environment for FM, we demonstrated our ability Our international utilities business took an important step forward to create bespoke solutions offering quality, innovation and value with a 414m nine-year contract, in joint venture, from Bord Gais for money built around talented people and national capability.
This covers the installation and maintenance Ina record year for both revenue and order intake, new clients of vital gas transmission and distribution networks across Ireland, included Care UK, BBC Wales, Crossrail, Greenwich Leisure, including the delivery of new construction, emergency response Camden and Islington NHS Trust, University of Salford and the and planned maintenance services.
North of the Thames Region of the London Fire and Emergency Planning Authority.
For over a decade we have worked with the UKs National Grid on its capital programmes and the long-term maintenance of its gas We extended our relationship with Royal Mail in a new deal worth and electricity networks.
In December, National Grid extended our up to 900m over 10 years.
This involved restructuring Romec, our electricity alliance for another five years under a contract potentially joint venture with Royal Mail, in a way that deepens our relationship worth 750m.
This contract involving design, programme to provide solutions in areas that include energy, FM and the cost management, construction and technical support draws on a of change in a reducing estate.
wide range of skills and resources.
It provides convincing evidence As part of this new agreement we acquired Romecs external trading of the breadth of the Groups infrastructure capabilities, particularly business, which provides mobile engineering and maintenance in areas where clients face large and complex challenges.
services to third-party customers such as Sainsburys, Asda, BBC, Building on this work, we are seeking opportunities to deploy British Museum and Camelot.
This gives us a highly-skilled technical ourcombined capabilities in other markets, both in the UK services business with scale and a nationwide footprint, significantly andinternationally.
enhancing our ability to serve customers and achieve our growth plans.
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 39
