Our business Operating review continued Construction Services What do we do?
How we performed Civil and ground engineering Order book Rail engineering Building 11 8.5bn Refurbishment and fit-out -8% Mechanical and electrical services 10 9.2bn Whats happened?
Difficult market conditions leading to lower volumes and 09 8.2bn competitive pricing Completion of a number of iconic projects in the UK such Revenue including JVs and associates asthe Olympic Aquatics Centre and A3 Hindhead tunnels anddual carriageway 11 7,050m Won two waste contracts in the UK working with Investments 5% Award of Britains Most Admired Company in the heavy 10 6,734m construction sector Acquisition of Howard S. Wright in the US 09 7,482m 44th place for our US business in Fortune magazines 100 Best Companies to Work For list Profit before non-underlying items Record order book in Hong Kong for the second year running Whats next?
11 169m -16% Continue to develop private and regulated market opportunities 10 201m in the US and the UK Leverage customer relationships and capabilities in the 09 197m contextof our expanded footprint in the US Build on position in Hong Kong and adjacent markets KPI Secured orders and ABNC as % of revenue Over the past year we have made good The secured order book and the awarded but not contracted progress in differentiating Balfour Beatty as an orders ABNC are leading indicators of future revenue.
integrated construction provider with superior 11 177% asset knowledge.
In 2012 we aim to build on -11% this positioning in the UK and internationally 10 188% seeking in particular large and complex 09 156% projects while continuing to serve our current customers effectively.
Re-presented to reflect the change in the group management structure see Note 38.3.
Our strategy During 2011 we completed our desired footprint in US construction The strength of our construction business lies in our ability to by acquiring Howard S. Wright in the Northwest.
There are clear integrate and manage local supply chains to deliver projects on opportunities to leverage our capabilities from one region into budget and on time.
Our asset knowledge, supplemented by another, particularly now we have combined our building, rail Parsons Brinckerhoffs professional services capabilities, is crucial andcivil businesses across the country.
We have launched in meeting the complex needs of infrastructure customers.
We see programmes to achieve synergies and efficiencies while our knowledge of customer assets and our integrator capability differentiating ourselves in a very competitive market.
ascompetitive advantages that differentiate us from our peers.
Rail is a significant component of our integrated offering.
Our rail Our strategy for the UK construction business is to seek growth business has always been a strong contender in infrastructure right across the available market by deploying the collective projects as main contractor or supplier of rail systems including strength of the division rather than working in silos.
To this end we signalling and electrification: now, working jointly with Parsons have already joined up the management structures of the divisions Brinckerhoff, we are emerging as a significant player in the operating companies: and this also makes it easier to deliver an integrated design and construction of complex rail projects.
even broader range of capabilities by joining forces with other We will continue to develop our business where we see growth divisions.
This approach is particularly relevant in vertical markets opportunities, particularly in the Groups focus markets such as such as power and rail, where projects and customers are large and Australia, Canada, Brazil and India.
To maintain margins we manage risk carefully and focus closely on cost and operational performance.
32 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 Our business Our marketplace competition.
Throughout the year there have been signs of UK recovery in parts of the commercial marketplace, but it is still At the start of the year expectations had been dampened by the tooearly to point to a trend.
UK Governments 2010 Comprehensive Spending Review.
As International expected, the overall UK market has been contracting although We have a 50% interest in Gammon Construction, the marketsome sectors have fared better than others.
leading contractor in Hong Kong.
Gammon has seen a continuing The volume of work has been lower particularly in health and shift of spend from Hong Kongs weak private building market to education.
This has increased competition in the market, with the public sector.
This has been buoyant in both social and civil aconsequent adverse impact on margins.
In these conditions, infrastructure segments, particularly in mass transit rail, roads, ourdiversity has been a particular strength enabling us to shift andsewerage schemes.
This trend plays to our strengths and resources into more promising sectors such as energy-from-waste, weexpect continued growth.
nuclear new build and Crossrail.
Gammon also has a presence in Singapore, where opportunities However, during the year the Government made a series of have been reasonably good but very competitive market conditions encouraging announcements about its commitment to have constrained our growth.
Macau continues to provide infrastructure as a key component of economic growth.
This found opportunities for Gammon and Vietnam remains a target market expression in additional spending and new policy measures forgrowth.
announced in the Autumn Statement.
While Dubai and Abu Dhabi remain quiet, there are growth US opportunities in Qatar, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait where US construction markets, where our strength is in building, were governments are increasing spending on infrastructure to support adversely impacted throughout the year by the lack of federal and their growing economies.
Nevertheless, we increased our revenue while US In the rail sector the German market remained stable.
However, public construction contracted by 7% according to the US Census asin the previous year, conditions in Southern Europe continued Bureau, gaining market share and achieving organic growth in our tobe difficult.
We are strongly differentiated from competitors in the delivery of Financial performance major projects such as large data centres, hospitals and vertical Performance was impacted by the full-year effect of the reduction housing.
However, current constraints on federal spending and in public spending as well as low volumes in commercial property bank financing have reduced the number of such projects, focusing development in our major markets.
Against this background, our order the market on smaller projects which are subject to intense book declined by 8% to 8.5bn, including 0.4bn from acquisitions.
For decades, planners were bedevilled bythe UKs A3 trunk road at the DevilsPunch Bowl.
Passing through the peaceful Surrey hills, traffic sliced through an environmentally sensitive beauty spot, cut the village of Hindhead in half and ground to a timewasting halt in perpetual queues around a set of traffic lights.
But a succession of proposed solutions proved too costly, too difficult or environmentally unacceptable.
Now peace has returned to the Punch Bowl and the old road is being restored to the heathland byway it was before 1830, creating a new natural wilderness for all to enjoy.
Community engagement at every level was critical to successful delivery of the scheme, alongside effective teamwork between our client the Highways Agency, the consultant Mott MacDonald and Balfour Beatty.
Building the 1.8km twin-bored tunnel through sandstone rock began in February 2008 and three and a half years later the new route was opened to acclaim from drivers, neighbours and visitors alike.
Giving back Some of the project site sits on National Trust land and itwas vital to ensure great care and sensitivity was the Devils maintained in planting, general landscaping and the right environment for wildlife, while 85% of site waste in total Punch Bowl was recycled.
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 33 Our business Operating review continued Travelers, get ready for seven-plus years of yellow tape, orange cones and detours at Dallas Fort Worth International Airport, where four terminals are overdue to get upgraded out of the disco era.
So said the Dallas Morning News last year, at the launch of a US$1.9bn programme to update the original terminals of the second largest airport in the US all dating from the 1970s.
Its forebodings were doubtless shared by many travellers familiar with the chaos of airport expansion.
But the airports management is determined to minimise passenger inconvenience.
This is a key concern for our joint venture, currently at work on a US$900m pre-construction and construction management contract ontwo of the terminals.
The project involves radically modernising both terminals and building a station for futurerail connections toboth Dallas and Fort Worth metrosystems.
To minimise impact on passenger flows and facilities, work Delivering is being carefully phased to affect only small parts of each terminal at any time.
Also, we are applying our UK expertise by prefabricating sections in an offsite factory for quick Dallas from installation onsite.
the disco era Revenue grew overall by 5% to 7.1bn for the year.
This was made We completed the construction of 42 education projects across the up of mixed performances from different parts of the business and UK with a total value of almost 500m, continued to win academy can be summarised by very good growth in Hong Kong and the US, contracts under the national framework agreement and secured which was partly offset by a 1% decline in the UK, particularly in further student accommodation contracts.
This positions us well civil infrastructure.
for the PFI Priority Schools Programme which we will be bidding with the Investments division.
We have made a very determined The reduction in underlying margins from 3.0% to 2.4% is due to move into the student accommodation market and Multi-build, anumber of factors.
Margins in US construction, which had been ourhotel and leisure fit-out contractor, plans to diversify into this buoyed in the past by higher-margin niche projects, have come market in 2012. down to market levels in 2011 due to fierce competition for lower levels of available work.
In the UK, the market was competitive and In healthcare we handed over major construction phases of four average project sizes were smaller relative to those in the recent hospitals in Tameside, Salford, Pinderfields and Kirkcaldy.
In this difficult environment, margins in UK construction held Roger Frost, Project Director for the Queen Elizabeth Hospital up reasonably well at 2010 levels.
This performance was helped Birmingham, won the Construction Manager of the Year award for bythe cost reduction initiatives we have been implementing in his stewardship of this mighty hospital.
The hospital took 14 million back office and procurement in parts of the UK business.
Our rail man-hours to build and all 34 sectional handovers were completed business had a solid performance overall, although a small number on or ahead of time.
of projects in Germany and Scandinavia held back overall profitability.
Our in-house mechanical and electrical M&E manufacturing Operational performance facility, Modular Systems, delivered many of the M&E UK components for Kirkcaldys Victoria Hospital in Fife including over Our operational delivery was excellent during the year.
We see modular systems completed and handed over a number of projects most notably asapowerful differentiator that enables faster, cheaper and the Olympic Aquatics Centre, finished and delivered on time to the saferconstruction.
Olympic Delivery Authority in July.
We are also very proud to have received Britains Most Admired Company award in the heavy construction sector from Management Today magazine for the sixth year running.
34 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 Our business In the transportation sector the 6.5km A3 Hindhead road project, In nuclear new build, another energy market with high potential including a 1.8km twin-bore road tunnel, opened to the public in value, we have a joint venture with Vinci and are Arevas May with a community walk-through for 7,000 people.
The project construction partners in the UK.
We are currently one of three was hailed as a success for congestion relief and an environmental bidders for the main civil works at Hinkley Point C, one of the UKs breakthrough that reunites the Devils Punch Bowl Site of Special eight designated sites for nuclear power.
Our customer, EDF, is Scientific Interest bisected by the previous road.
expected to reduce the number of bidders in early 2012.
Our consortium with Areva is one of two bidders to Horizon a joint A further six major road construction schemes are due for full venture between E. ON UK and RWE npower for the Wylfa B handover in 2012, including sections 1 and 4 of the M25 widening.
A selection is likely to be made in the near future.
We have hit all the major project milestones on time for this crucial project, which is on track to be handed over in time for the London Balfour Beatty won a Big Tick award from Business in the Olympics.
Our work has achieved the highest-ever CEEQUAL Community for its role in Get Into Construction, a five-year CivilEngineering Environmental Quality Assessment and Award programme which has supported over 2,000 young people with Scheme score for a highways project, and 99.5% of all materials employment and training opportunities.
on the project have been recycled.
US Balfour Beatty came first out of 21 contractors in the sustainability After several years of acquisitions, culminating with Howard S. category of the Highways Agencys Strategic Alignment Review Wright HSW in June, we completed our target US construction Tool StART assessment.
We were very pleased to be footprint.
This allowed us to undertake a significant year of commended for demonstrating clear understanding of a key reorganisation and consolidation while successfully pursuing customers agenda and influencing their thinking.
growth in a very competitive market.
Our redevelopment of Blackfriars Station part of Thameslink and Having restructured the business to leverage our construction, rail the first rail station to span a bridge over the River Thames was and civil engineering capabilities across the US, we organised our completed in February 2012 on schedule, despite the challenge of management into regions.
SpawMaxwell, Barnhart and Charter keeping the rail station operational throughout the project.
now trade as Balfour Beatty Construction in their respective regions and HSW covers the Northwest.
Crossrail provided two additional high-profile wins for us during 2011.
In January we secured the Whitechapel and Liverpool Street HSW operates across a wide range of sectors including corporate Station tunnels contract in joint venture, and construction has offices, healthcare, education, data centres and multi-family started.
In November we added the Whitechapel Station contract.
It has a reputation for quality and is a leader in sustainable building.
Its strong presence in northern California and the Pacific At Londons Heathrow Airport we are delivering the 592m Northwest now emerging from the downturn makes a perfect Terminal 2B satellite pier for BAA which draws on the skills and geographic fit, and the addition of HSW makes us the third largest know-how from across the Group.
We recently completed the construction business in the US general building market according ground engineering element of T2B, Europes largest ground to 2010 revenues.
Just before the acquisition, Engineering engineering project.
We are using advanced collaborative working News-Record had ranked us fourth in its US General Building techniques and information technology to improve efficiency, Top400.
decision making and safety visualisation the project is currently one of the UKs best examples of applying Building Information HSWs integration has gone smoothly and our combined team Modelling BIM technology.
We have had a number of wins and prequalifications which are evidence of the revenue synergies Signs of recovery in the UK commercial sector, particularly in weexpected from the acquisition.
We have recently announced commercial awards totalling 100m.
In the City of London we won We completed the acquisition of Fru-Con in June, significantly a two-phase contract to construct AXA Real Estates Sixty London enhancing our strength in the US water sector.
prime office development and a contract to deliver an 11-storey Important completions during the year included Florida Atlantic office building.
In Glasgow, Land Securities awarded us a contract University Stadium delivered through PPP and Lady Bird Johnson for a new five-storey residential and retail scheme.
On both London Middle School the first public school in Texas and largest in the schemes, a high percentage of the building services engineering US to be net zero, generating all the energy it needs without will be delivered using BIM and offsite prefabrication to reduce fossil fuels.
Significant business wins included the contract to design and build We made great progress in generating revenue from framework the new US$221.5m San Diego County Womens Detention agreements.
Over the year we secured or renewed places on Facility.
The 1,216-bed complex will comprise 34 buildings across 14frameworks, offering revenues worth an estimated 2bn over 45 acres.
Completion is scheduled for October 2015.
will incorporate building techniques and materials to meet the US In the pursuit of future growth, the energy sector is as much Green Building Councils LEED Gold standard.
afocus for the Construction division as it is for the Group as a We continued to extend our LEED credentials in 2011 receiving whole.
We aim to support a broad range of power generation Platinum certification for Wounded Warrior Barracks in California, options and continue to develop our capabilities in new and cleaner and Gold and Silver certification for our own environmentally technologies.
In recent years we have dedicated particular resource friendly new office buildings in Fairfax, Virginia and Charlotte, to waste-to-energy projects.
In 2012 we won preferred bidder NorthCarolina respectively.
status for a waste-to-energy project for Gloucestershire Council aswell as a waste treatment project for Essex Council.
These We also continued to raise our profile as an employer of choice.
projects, in joint venture with Urbaser, are together worth 1.3bn.
InFortune magazines 100 Best Companies to Work For list we ranked 44th in 2011.
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 35 Our business Operating review continued International Signalling Solutions Limited SSL, our joint venture with Alstom, In Hong Kong, 2011 was a heavy tendering period that ended in secured involvement in seven of the eight geographical regions arecord order book for the second year running.
Gammon won covered by Network Rails seven-year New Signalling itsfourth major contract from public transport operator MTR Frameworks.
In three of these regions, SSL is primary supplier.
The 724m contract, in which Gammon has a 50% In the US, we made significant progress in the design, share, covers the construction of a major terminus in the West procurement and utility relocations on the Eagle P3 commuter Kowloon district and part of the Hong Kong section of the railproject in Denver.
 Kong Express Rail Link, which formspart of Chinas strategic national express rail network.
In April we sold our UK trackwork manufacturing business to a subsidiary of Caterpillar.
The business designs and manufactures As we sought new opportunities in the Middle East, we had manganese steel castings, track panels, turnouts and crossings particular success in winning M&E work in Qatar despite intense atfive sites in the UK.
Changes in our major UK rail clients competition from other international companies.
Historically, our procurement model over recent years had eliminated the core markets in the region have been Dubai and Abu Dhabi.
There competitive advantage of owning our own manufacturing are early signs of improvement in the Dubai market in terms of capability, decreasing the strategic importance of the business awards.
Abu Dhabi has grown less than expected but we remain forus.
active, both in M&E and construction.
In Indonesia, the World Trade Centre has progressed well and is Looking forward due for completion in the second quarter of 2012.
In West Java, Over the past year we have made good progress in differentiating Indonesia we are also building a cosmetics factory that will be Balfour Beatty as an integrated construction provider with superior LOrals largest facility in the world.
In 2012 we aim to build on this positioning in the UK and internationally seeking in particular large and complex In line with the Group strategy of extending into new growth projects while continuing to serve our current customers effectively.
markets, we started two new ventures in the year.
In India we opened a new office to complement Parsons Brinckerhoffs With public sector spending likely to continue shrinking in many existing presence by bringing the Groups full capability to the developed countries, we will look for growth in the regulated and country.
We also signed a Memorandum of Understanding private sectors as well as economies where governments are withTata Projects to jointly identify and pursue infrastructure spending on infrastructure to support their economic development.
opportunities in India and sub-Saharan Africa.
The initial focus In the UK we are pursuing growth particularly in the power, rail and willbe on power generation and transmission, railways, mining, commercial sectors.
We also see continuing opportunity in parts of and water and wastewater sectors.
the public sector, such as the new PFI priority schools programme.
Our second key target was Brazil, where we appointed a In the US we can now compete from a position of strength as one countrymanager to promote Balfour Beattys capabilities in of only a few players with national capability.
We are looking to mining, power and rail.
Our aim is to build on our relationships capitalise on this position by leveraging customer relationships and withmining companies that have already worked with us in our capability from one region to another.
The public sector infrastructure market in Hong Kong is expected Rail toremain strong.
While the private sector building market remains Tendering opportunities for our rail business have continued to be subdued, public sector spending on residential, leisure and plentiful.
Although traditional work in southern Europe has been government buildings will take up the slack to some extent.
constrained by project delays, PPP activities in Spain started with Balfour Beatty Rail participation.
We expect the reduction in the US margin to continue in 2012.
Given the increasing proportion of our business from the US, We have formed a discrete business unit to develop major rail thiswill reduce the overall margin for the division.
The UK should projects globally typically those requiring integration of remain reasonably steady, benefiting from the cost reduction resourcesfrom across the Group.
We believe this is a market planswe announced in 2010. offering considerable opportunity, and the combination of our construction and professional services capabilities gives us a strong competitive position.
In December an alliance in which Balfour Beatty has a 35% share was awarded an AUS$835m 535m contract for works on the Footscray to Deer Park section of the Regional Rail Link project in Melbourne, Australia.
We will play a vital role in the alliance, with Thiess and Sinclair Knight Merz, by combining our rail infrastructure capabilities with Parsons Brinckerhoffs professional services.
In January 2012, our joint venture with Thales signed the signalling contract for west Denmark with a value to the Group of 90m.
Balfour Beattys role in the contract involves us adopting an integrated approach to the project by combining signalling installation and programme management services from ParsonsBrinckerhoff.
36 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
