Our business The way we work Trust in business has declined in recent times.
At Balfour Beatty we are committed to operating responsibly and have developed significant programmes of activity in five key areas which are embedded across our whole organisation.
Ethics and values Ethics and values Our values Values-based businesses are high 1.
We have embedded our values across the business to ensure that performing businesses, and our all our people act consistently and make the right decisions, day in day out.
Integrity requires us to be honest and transparent and values underpin everything we do.
Teamwork means seeing ourselves as We live by these values.
part of a bigger picture in the way we work with colleagues across the Group and with customers and suppliers.
Respect shapes the way we treat people inside and outside the business and the Sustainability wider community and environment.
Excellence is the standard We have a clear vision for operating ofperformance people are entitled to expect from a leader.
You Our commitment to integrity will find evidence of this throughout Our ethics, values and compliance programme is designed to this report and in more detail within embed ethics and integrity across our business.
It covers not only bribery, fraud and competition law, but also data protection, human our sustainability report 2011 at rights and other areas addressed in our Code of Conduct.
the confidence and trust of clients and other stakeholders, and tosupport our business strategy, we must conduct our business ethically and with integrity across all these activities and at all People times.
We must play our part in helping to eradicate corruption Our business is a people business.
anduphold good business practices wherever we work.
And we 3. must ensure that, wherever we operate, we comply with local Recruiting and retaining the best andapplicable international laws orour own ethical standards, people is a key focus for us.
In 2009 we published our comprehensive Code of Conduct.
Health and safety During2011 we continued to embed this, building on the two We passionately believe that every online training modules that all office-based and supervisory staff 4. are required to take.
We also continued a series of visits to our employee has the right to go home business units to assess and raise awareness of ethical risks without injury and that no member associated with specific sectors and countries.
To date 30,000 employees have completed the first module of the training and ofthe public should be harmed as a wewill report on completion of the second module in next years result of our work.
In2012 we are also rolling-out an ethical training programme for site operatives.
programme has delivered good results, but as ever, we must We continue to encourage employees and others to report actual or suspected unethical behaviour to their managers or via our continuously seek out improvements Ethics Helpline or other channels.
As expected, last year we saw across the business.
another significant increase in the number of cases of potential breaches of the Code of Conduct whether reported or through such channels or detected by management, from 176 in 2010 Respecting our communities to284 in 2011.
We touch many communities all 5.
We have many thousands of subcontractors and suppliers, over the world, wherever we consultants, and joint venture and consortium partners.
We engage directly with third-party risk and protect both suppliers and ourselves, we launched a new Code of Conduct for Subcontractors, Suppliers those communities and in particular andPartners in 2011. have a strong commitment to get Our priorities for 2012 and beyond are to continue embedding young people into the job market appropriate procedures and controls for managing the supply chain and other third-party risks to support our growth strategy in new through skills training.
Our charitable and often higher-risk markets.
activities are geared towards this goal.
Independent review of anti-corruption measures During 2011, the Global Infrastructure Anti-Corruption Centre GIACC continued its detailed review of the anti-corruption compliance programme across our operating companies.
This included sample risk and commercial management assessments, and interviews with senior management and compliance officers.
48 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 Our business GIACCs main conclusions in its 2011 report are as follows: overall, Balfour Beatty has developed and is implementing a best practice anti-corruption compliance programme throughout the organisation the leadership from the Board and senior management in relation to the importance of ethical compliance is clear and unequivocal major steps have been taken during 2011 to improve the compliance programme, and good momentum is being maintained there are differences in the strength and level of implementation of the programme between different operating companies.
However, these have been identified, and appropriate action isbeing taken GIACC believes that Balfour Beatty is committed to continuing toimplement and improve its compliance programme on a long-term basis.
Balfour Beatty are to be commended on At the end of 2011 GIACC completed its detailed review of all our their approach to stakeholder engagement operating companies apart from Parsons Brinckerhoff, whose and the reporting of sustainability review will be complete at the end of 2012. performance.
They have set out a challenging roadmap on sustainability and 2.
Sustainability are clearly committed to open dialogue Sustainability respecting the bigger picture with their stakeholders on their As a business we have set out a clear path to embed sustainability sustainability journey.
There is always into everything we do by 2020.
Our Vision and Roadmap defines more that can be done and the where we want to be in 10 key focus areas: customers, influence, our people, our supply chain, the communities we serve, climate stakeholder panel have set out further change, waste, water, materials and ecology, and how we intend recommendations on where Balfour toget there.
We have made significant progress in 2011.
This is timely given Assessing our progress the revision process underway to develop During the year KPMG completed its independent review of our new roadmap targets for 2015. operating companies progress in implementing their sustainability action plans.
Its consultants visited more than 20 operating Paul Edwards, companies in seven countries.
They interviewed 380 managers and Head of Sustainability, Hammerson plc senior leaders, and identified 180 examples of good practice which and chair of the 2011 stakeholder panel we shared across the Group.
Parsons Brinckerhoff completed and launched its own action plan during the year.
We continued our programme to engage employees on sustainability through awareness training and appraisals.
Over This is a natural field for collaboration between our businesses 17,000 employees completed our comprehensive e-learning andwe have been strengthening the teamwork involved in our module in 2011.
We also received over 60,000 pledges of personal approach to winning new business.
During the year we held commitment to change behaviour for more sustainable outcomes.
workshops in Atlanta and London for our business development To be considered a leader in sustainability we need to be seen to and sustainability teams to share best practice and experience in be benchmarked against other companies.
To that end we will exploiting these new growth opportunities.
participate in the Business in the Community Corporate Our Group-wide approach is enabling us to develop innovative new Responsibility Index in 2012. tools that sharpen our competitive edge.
For example, we have developed a cutting-edge water footprinting tool to measure the Delivering sustainability for our customers amount of water embedded in building materials, and a climate For us, sustainability is not only a business goal.
It is also a product change adaptation framework which allows us to assess adaptation that we can offer our customers, by helping them to make more measures right across the infrastructure lifecycle.
We are also applying our expertise to play a more influential role The green economy presents growing opportunities for us.
Our inheightening market awareness of sustainability issues.
Examples capabilities across the infrastructure lifecycle mean we are well in 2011 included responding to the UK Governments Natural positioned to provide more sustainable solutions for our customers, Environment White Paper to encourage biodiversity enhancement and we are winning increasing amounts of business in this area.
through better infrastructure procurement, and our involvement in We are making particular progress in three areas: the Strategic Forum for Construction and UK Contractors Group todisseminate best practice on saving water in construction renewable energy infrastructure, particularly offshore wind andpiloting the Environment Agencys carbon calculator on municipal waste management facilities buildingprojects.
greening existing buildings through energy consulting services and retrofitting low-carbon technologies.
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 49 Our business The way we work continued Already, our commitment to individual and team development Global equivalent tonnes CO per m revenue 2 hasenabled us to share a range of efficiency improvements excluding air travel data withcustomers, introduce more flexible working arrangements, promote transparency in the way we work, understand our 45 2012 target 2020 target customers and develop innovative, value-add solutions.
Our focus 40 41.7 41.4 on the whole picture, the full lifecycle of the asset, means we can 39.1 deliver more complete and sustainable solutions for our customers 36.3 35 and we intend to take this further.
In the future, we want all our 33.9 people tounderstand that they are part of a broad community 30 ofinterest across the Group, unconstrained by the boundaries of 25 ourexisting business and ways of working.
We are committed toevolving a culture in which everyone actively promotes the free 20 exchange of knowledge and openly demonstrates collaboration 15 with colleagues and customers.
And we will support this with technology, implementing an integrated platform that allows the 10 Group to share information across the business and work together effectively to common goals.
0 07 08 09 10 11 Supporting our people in realising their potential and maximising the know-how, skills and capability available to the organisation is central to the delivery of our growth strategy.
Our demonstrable, Environmental performance ongoing commitment to high-quality development and leadership We have made good progress against a number of environmental will help us to attract and retain the high-quality skills and attributes targets in our roadmap.
We reduced our use of water, are on track we need in the business.
to halve our waste to landfill by 2012 and in the UK procured 34% Unlocking this potential and realising the value of our people also ofour major materials from recognised responsible sourcing requires a more progressive approach to diversity and inclusion.
Reducing our energy consumption continues tobe Building on a strong platform of local activities and accreditation, challenging, but overall in 2011 our CO emissions decreased 2 the Group is now looking to define its standing as an employer and, slightly to 41.4 tonnes m 2011: 41.7 tonnes m following working with partners like Opportunity Now and Global Diversity restatement due to more comprehensive data.
Improvements in Practice, to promote our strong commitment to diversity internally our UK businesses were partially offset by a growth in more and in the market.
We recently approved a broad range of measures energy-intensive projects in Hong Kong.
Further details are covering the way in which we attract, recruit, develop and promote available in our sustainability report 2011 online.
people to support the progression of under-represented groups inthe organisation.
The global scale and scope of our business Environmental governance and compliance creates a growing range of exciting opportunities for personal and Strategic environmental issues are reviewed by the sustainability career development for our people, offering more of them the working group.
An environmental managers forum also reviews chance to work across industry, geographic and cultural boundaries.
key topics and shares best practice across the Group.
Environmental performance is audited regularly.
In 2011, we continued to enhance our graduate proposition and development programmes and improved our standing as a Times Six minor environmental incidents resulted in enforcement action best graduate employer from 69th to 66th.
We also refreshed our and fines in 2011 across the Group 2010: five totalling 18,800 suite of management and leadership development programmes to equivalent.
These ranged from exceeding noise limits, to waste support a more integrated approach to career development.
Finally, violations and a minor oil spill.
Corrective actions have been we improved our comprehensive annual Group-wide Succession completed for each violation.
and Talent Review clarifying the link between identifying potential We are currently developing our approach to responsible and the provision of opportunities for development.
The application procurement, and intend to implement a global procurement model of a broad diversity lens to the review is just one of the measures in 2012.
During the year we also intend to finish refreshing our in place to both accelerate the progression of our most talented sustainability roadmap with new targets for 2015, to embed people and ensure appropriate and tailored support is in place.
sustainability into our leadership framework, and to introduce a measurement tool for assessing the impact of our community 4.
Health and safety investment programme.
We will also be able to report progress against the key safety and Ensuring peoples health and safety environmental targets set for 2012 in the roadmap and our Zero The health and safety of all our people and everyone affected by Harm vision.
Our vision is to achieve Zero Harm with zero deaths, zero injuries 3.
People tothe public and zero ruined lives among all our people.
This means no seriously disabling injuries, no long-term harm to health and the Working together, fulfilling potential and enhancing goal of a zero accident frequency rate by the end of 2012. capabilities A bold vision like Zero Harm does not come easily: it demands real At the heart of our strategy is recognition that the skills and leadership, a consistent focus on risk elimination and unrelenting potential of our people and their ability to team effectively with attention to detail.
each other, our customers and the supply chain will be a crucial differentiator for the Group.
As well as enhancing the quality of the solutions we develop, building and sustaining strong relationships will help us improve our services and drive operational efficiency.
50 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 Our business For the most part the campaign made good progress in 2011.
Respecting our communities Ouroverall Group performance improved, with most businesses making further strides towards Zero Harm.
Respecting the communities around us Of the 189 major injuries reported in 2011, five were permanently By its nature, our business is centred on communities and brings disabling, compared with two in 2010.
The Group Accident them significant benefits: we improve peoples everyday lives Frequency Rate AFR increased to 0.17 in 2011 from 0.16 in 2010 around the world by creating and caring for efficient, high-quality which is disappointing but driven by the particular safety challenges civil and social amenities.
There were significant improvements in many parts However, we also recognise the importance of engaging more ofthe Group with 16 out of 27 businesses showing either an directly with the communities where we operate.
Because our improved AFR or remaining at zero AFR in 2011 compared with operations are so widely dispersed, we do this in a decentralised 2010 and the overall Group AFR has reduced by 67% since 2001. way through local initiatives that fit with the individual objectives There were 158 injuries to members of the public in 2011, ofour businesses and provide motivation and engagement for compared with 159 in 2010. theiremployees.
Across the Group there is a high degree of commitment to and activity in community investment.
However, we regret that, tragically, there were five worker fatalities during the year, all in our Hong Kong joint venture business, At Group level we work, often in partnership with customers, Gammon Construction.
Every fatal accident is subject to a thorough tosupport organisations and activities that aim to improve social investigation and review by the Balfour Beatty Board.
These have included the London Youth plan is in place.
Further details are available in our sustainability Games and the Princes Trust with its Get Into Construction report 2011 online.
We also donate cash and the energies of our employees to selected charitable causes.
In late 2008 we formed our own In 2012 we are re-energising our approach to ensure that we charitable trust, Building Better Futures, which has donated over achieve our Zero Harm vision.
This will include a focus on planning 1.5m to disadvantaged young peoples charities.
work through a Zero Harm lens Zero Harm thinking needs to permeate all aspects of design and planning well before work In 2011 we carried out a strategic review of our community starts onsite.
We seek to eliminate risk early in the design and objectives and policies to take account of the Groups increasing planning process as only then can we be sure that people will not size and geographical spread and to fulfil our desire to align our be harmed.
community programmes more closely with key social issues and our core business activities.
As a result of this we are developing Leadership aGroup-wide programme branded as Balfour Beatty Building Zero Harm has brought some encouraging results and this is Better Futures.
It will focus on three themes: young peoples always where individuals at any level have gone the extra mile to employability and employment: helping the most disadvantaged make Zero Harm a reality on their patch.
They take real ownership, young people in society: and health, sport and wellbeing.
live Zero Harm and actively drive out risks.
Our priority is to We also want to build a volunteering culture and will be conducting re-energise our leadership of Zero Harm and focus on risk a Group-wide review to help us achieve this.
We will also extend our Leading Change: Driving the review of divisional HR policies to encourage volunteering, as well Safety Agenda programme to the next layer of management.
as working with our business and charitable partners to identify opportunities for our staff to become involved.
As Balfour Beatty continues to grow and become more international, so do the opportunities for our employees to work indifferent countries and cultures.
Alison has worked for Balfour Beatty for four years.
Duringher day job on the M25, Londons orbital motorway, she is advising on the implementation of the 2020 sustainability vision and roadmap in terms of its maintenance and operation.
Alison completed a four-month secondment during 2011 working for Gammon Construction, our Hong Kong-based joint venture business.
Not only was Alison able to work on some major road schemes on the other side of the world such as the Tolo Highway, she also shared some of the sustainability tools used in the UK such as carbon Alison Rothnie footprinting and CEEQUAL.
Working in Hong Kong was the experience of a lifetime.
secondment to Opportunities such as this are a great way to share sustainability knowledge around the Group.
Hong Kong AlisonRothnie, Sustainability Manager, Connect Plus Services Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 51
