understanding our business our business performance How we govern our business our financial statements DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their Annual Report, The rules governing the appointment and The proposed final dividend will be paid on and the audited financial statements for the replacement of Directors are contained in the 21June 2012 to shareholders whose names are year ended 31 December 2011.
Companys Articles and uK legislation.
In on the register at 18 May 2012. compliance with the uK Corporate Governance principal business activities capital structure Code, at the 2012 Annual General Meeting all The Group manages and develops a portfolio Details of the Companys issued ordinary the Directors will retire from office and will of property investments concentrated in West share capital, including details of movements offer themselves for re-election.
in the issued share capital during the year and cOmpensatiOn fOr lOss Of Office authorities to issue or repurchase shares, are business review The Company does not have any agreements shown in note 31 to the financial statements Information fulfilling the requirements of the with any Executive Director or employee that on page 104.
Each share carries the right to Business Review is contained within the would provide compensation for loss of office one vote at general meetings of the Company.
following sections of the Annual Report: or employment resulting from a takeover There are no specific restrictions on the except that provisions of the Company share the Chairmans statement on pages 8 and 9: transfer of shares beyond those standard schemes may cause options and awards to vest the Chief Executives review on pages provisions set out in the Articles of on a takeover.
The terms of appointment of 10 to 11: Association.
No shareholder holds shares the Non-executive Directors provide for a Our business model and strategy on carrying special rights with regard to control payment equal to their basic annual fee in the page12: of the Company.
Details of significant event of change of control in recognition of Key performance indicators on page 13: shareholdings are shown on page 70. the additional time involved in such an event.
Principal risks and uncertainties on pages cHange Of cOntrOl prOvisiOns directOrs cOnflicts Of interest 14 to 17: There are a number of agreements which take The Company has procedures in place for the Operating Review on pages 18 to 37: effect, alter or terminate upon a change of managing conflicts of interests.
Should the Financial Review on pages 38 to 43: control of the Company.
The only agreement aDirector become aware that they, or a the Corporate Responsibility review on considered significant is the 300m Covent connected party, have an interest in an pages 44 to 49.
Garden debt facility which would terminate existing or proposed transaction with the following a change of control.
Group, they should notify the Company directOrs Secretary before the next meeting or at The Directors of the Company who held office substantial sHareHOldings themeeting.
Directors have a continuing during the year were as follows: The significant holdings of voting rights in obligation to update any changes to the share capital of the Company notified and chairman: theseconflicts.
disclosed in accordance with Disclosure and I. C. Durant Transparency Rule 5, as at 28 February 2012, directOrs indemnities and are shown on page 70. executive directors: insurance I. D. Hawksworth In accordance with the Companys Articles, emplOyees S. Das the Company has indemnified the Directors The Group employees are employed by C&C G. J. yardley to the full extent allowed by law.
The Management Services Limited, Earls Court Company maintains Directors and Officers &Olympia Limited, Olympia Limited and non-executive directors: liability insurance which is reviewed annually.
The Groups I. J. Henderson employees are kept informed of its activities G. J. Gordon articles Of assOciatiOn and financial performance through head A. J. M. Huntley Changes to the Articles of Association must be office briefings at key points during the year H. E. Staunton approved by shareholders in accordance with and the circulation of corporate announcements A. D. Strang the Companies Act 2006. and other relevant information to staff.
D. A. Fischel resigned 4 February 2011 dividends Certain of the Groups employees are eligible G. R. Fine acted as G. J. Gordons permanent The Directors have proposed the following to participate in discretionary annual bonus alternate between 1 January 2011 and 27 dividends: arrangements.
These arrangements, which September 2011 when the role was discontinued.
Interim Dividend may include awards under the Groups Biographies of each Director can be found on paid on 20 September 0.5 p per ordinary Performance Share Plan, help to develop pages 50 and 51 and details of each Directors 2011 share employees interest in the Companys interests in the Companys shares are set out Proposed Final performance.
Full details of the Performance on page 113. Dividend to be paid 1.0 p per ordinary Share Plan are contained in note 38 to the on 21 June 2012 share accounts on pages 107 to 110.
The powers of the Directors are determined Total dividend 1.5 p per ordinary by uK legislation and the Companys Articles for 2011 share of Association together with any specific authorities that shareholders may approve from time to time.
com 69 How we govern our business DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINuED substantial shareholdings shares held at time percent held at time nature date of last of last notification of last notification of holding notification BlackRock, Inc. 129,375,413 18.92% Indirect interest 05-Dec-2011 Gordon Family Interests 92,143,203 13.47% Direct interest 17-May-2011 Coronation Asset Management pty Limited 54,710,390 7.99% Direct interest 21-Feb-2012 Norges Bank 34,237,648 5.01% Direct interest 23-Sept-2011 Legal & General Investment Management Limited 24,034,330 3.51% Direct Interest 12-May-2010 The Company operates a non-discriminatory creditOr payment pOlicy disclOsure tO auditOrs employment policy and full and fair The Groups policy and practice is to pay So far as the Directors are aware, there is no consideration is given to applications for creditors in accordance with agreed terms relevant audit information of which the employment from disabled applicants where ofbusiness.
auditors are unaware and each Director has they have the appropriate skills and abilities, taken all reasonable steps to make himself The ratio, expressed in days, between the and to the continued employment of staff aware of any relevant audit information and amounts invoiced to the Company by its who become disabled.
to establish that the auditors are aware of suppliers in the year ended 31 December 2011 thatinformation.
The Company encourages the continuous and the amounts owed to its creditors as at development and training of its employees 31 December 2011 was nil days 2010: nil.
independent auditOrs and the provision of equal opportunities for The auditors,  LLP, Overseas brancH register the training and career development of have indicated their willingness to continue For the purposes of its listing on the JSE, disabled employees.
in office and a resolution seeking to reappoint the Company maintains an overseas branch them will be proposed at the forthcoming Information relating to employees is given register in South Africa.
The Group provides gOing cOncern retirement benefits for the majority of its annual general meeting Economic conditions remain challenging, employees.
Details of the Group pension The 2012 Annual General Meeting of the however the Group has a prudent balance arrangements are set out in note 39 on Company will be held from 11 am on 20 April sheet and sufficient cash reserves to meet both pages 110 to 112.
The Notice of the Meeting, together its ongoing and future commitments.
The with an explanation of the business to be tHe envirOnment Group negotiated a new 300m debt facility dealt with at the Meeting, is included as a Details of the Groups Corporate Responsibility to refinance its 2013 Covent Garden loan and separate document sent to shareholders who policy and its aims and activities are has significant headroom against its financial have elected to receive hard copies of described on the Companys website covenants, as disclosed on page 118.
Shareholder information and is also available www.
An overview on the Companys website.
Having made due enquiries, the Directors of the Groups Corporate Responsibility have a reasonable expectation that the activity is set out on pages 44 to 49.
By Order of the Board Company and the Group have adequate The Group recognises the importance of resources to continue in operational existence minimising the adverse impact of its for the foreseeable future.
operations on the environment and the Accordingly they continue to adopt the going management of energy consumption and concern basis in preparing the annual report waste recycling.
Ruth Pavey The Company strives continuously to Company Secretary improve its environmental performance.
29 February 2012 The environmental management system isregularly reviewed to ensure that the company maintains its commitment to environmental matters.
During the year the Group made charitable donations amounting to 118,217 2010: 119,495.
Further information on charitable donations can be found in the Corporate Responsibility report on page 48.
There were no political donations made during the year.
