REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The Groups financial and operational performance is subject to a number of KEEPING CONTROL risks.
The Board seeks to ensure that appropriate processes are put in place tomanage, monitor and mitigate these risks of which the principal risks are OF OUR BUSINESS identified in the table below.
The Group recognises that the management of risk is fundamental to the achievement of Group targets.
As such management throughout the Group are involved in thisprocess.
Risk and description Relevance to strategy Mitigation Market The majority of homes built by the Group are A weekly review is undertaken of key trading Changes in the macroeconomic purchased by individuals who rely on the indicators, including reservations, sales environment including availability of mortgages.
The confidence of rates, visitor levels, incentives, competitor unemployment, buyer confidence, buyers and their ability to obtain mortgages activity and cash flow projections and, availability of mortgage finance, or other forms of financing are impacted where possible, appropriate management interest rates, competitor pricing, by the macroeconomic environment.
falls in house prices or land values Accordingly, customer demand is sensitive The Groups internal systems clearly or a failure of the housing market to to changes in economic conditions.
identify the impact of sales price changes recover further, may lead to a fall in The Groups ability to grow its business on the margins achievable and as a the demand for houses which in turn partly depends on securing land oroptions minimum the Group performs asset could result in impairments of the over sites and having adequate resources impairment reviews twice a year.
Groups inventories, goodwill and to build sufficient homes to meet demand.
The Group works with key mortgage intangible assets.
The Groups ability to do this can be lenders to ensure that products are Cost reduction measures may impacted by cash and profit constraints appropriate wherever possible for adversely affect the Groups business see also the Liquidity, Land and itscustomers.
or its ability to respond to future Construction risks sections below.
The Group has developed a Planning improvements in market conditions.
forRecovery programme to seek to ensure that appropriate systems are in place for when market conditions further improve, keeps its cost base tightly controlled and manages cost reduction measures via the stewardship of the Executive.
Liquidity The Group maintains committed facilities The Group has agreed its debt refinancing Unavailability of sufficient borrowing ofdifferent duration that are designed to which provides around 1 billion of facilities to enable the servicing of ensure that it has sufficient available funds committed facilities and private placement liabilities including pension funding for operations.
The Groups borrowings are notes to May 2015. and the inability to refinance facilities cyclical during the financial year and peak The Group has in place a as they fall due, obtain surety bonds, around April May and October November comprehensive regular forecasting process or comply with borrowing covenants.
each year as, due to seasonal trends in encompassing profitability, working capital Furthermore there are risks to income, these are the calendar points and cash flow that is fully embedded in the management of working capital such whenthe Group has the highest working business.
These forecasts are regularly as conditional contracts, build costs, capital requirements.
stress tested to ensure that adequate joint ventures and the cash flows The Group maintains sufficient facility headroom within facilities and banking related to them.
committed debt headroom and in addition covenants is maintained.
On a normal has a number of trade finance and surety operating basis the Group has a policy facilities that are designed to ensure that the ofmaintaining facility headroom of up Group has sufficient bonds available.
32 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 Risk and description Relevance to strategy Mitigation Liquidity continued The Group has a comprehensive regularforecasting process for bondrequirements.
The Group is in compliance with its borrowing covenants and at the date ofapproval of the 2011 Annual Report and Accounts, the Groups internal forecasts indicate that it will remain in compliance withthese covenants for the foreseeable future being at least twelve months from the date of signing of the 2011 Annual Report and Accounts.
People The Group aims to attract, retain and The Group has a comprehensive Human Inability to recruit and or retain develop a sufficiently skilled and experienced Resources policy which includes apprentice employees with appropriate skill workforce in order to maintain high schemes, a graduate programme, setsor sufficient numbers of standards of quality and customer service.
succession planning and training schemes suchemployees.
The Group continues to target a fully Construction SkillsCertification Scheme carded and qualified workforce.
Subcontractors and suppliers The Group uses subcontractors to perform The Group adopts a professional approach Shortages or increased costs the majority of work on sites.
This retains to site management and seeks to partner ofmaterials and skilled labour, flexibility to commence work on new sites and with its supply chain.
The Group has a thefailure of a key supplier or the enhances the Groups build cost efficiency.
policy of having multiple suppliers for both inability to secure supplies upon labour contracts and material supplies appropriate credit terms could andcontingency plans should any key increase costs and delay construction.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 33 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW Risk and description Relevance to strategy Mitigation Land The Group needs to purchase sufficient Potential land acquisitions are subject Inability to secure sufficient land quantities of good quality land at attractive toformal appraisal, with those approved ofappropriate size and quality prices in order to be in a position to required to achieve an overall Group defined toprovide profitable growth.
commence construction and enhance hurdle rate of return and to meet the theGroups ability to deliver strong profit Companys strategic criteria for growth.
growth as the housing market recovers.
Each division produces a detailed site-bysite monthly analysis of the amount of land currently owned, committed and identified.
These are consolidated for regular review atsenior management and Board level.
Inaddition, each operating division holds weekly land meetings.
Government regulation The Groups land portfolio consists of land The Group consults with the Government Inability to adhere to the increasingly for the short and medium term as well as both directly and through industry bodies stringent and complex regulatory strategic land.
tohighlight potential issues and has environment, including planning and The Group seeks to meet regulatory considerable in-house technical and technical requirements affecting the andplanning requirements to obtain the planning expertise devoted to complying housing market and regulatory planning permission required to develop with regulations and achieving requirements more generally.
The Group has appropriate policies andtechnical guidance manuals in place toassist employees to achieve regulatory compliance and the standards of business conduct expected of them.
Construction The Group builds homes and communities The Groups weekly reporting identifies Failure to identify and achieve key inBritain ranging from houses to large scale thenumber of properties at key stages construction milestones, including: flatted developments.
Projected construction the impact of adverse weather rates are evaluated as part of the monthly conditions, the failure to identify cost forecasting cycle.
Development projects, overruns promptly, design and including returns and cash flows, are construction defects, and exposure monitored regularly by divisional toenvironmental liabilities could management teams and the Group delay construction, increase costs, obtainslegal and other professional reduce selling prices and result advicewhen required.
The Group regularly monitors a number In addition, large development ofenvironmental impact indicators, the projects, including commercial results of which are disclosed in the developments, are complex and GroupsSustainability Report.
capital intensive and changes may Appropriate insurance cover is negatively impact upon cash flows maintained for the Groups main risks.
34 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 Risk and description Relevance to strategy Mitigation Health and Safety Health and safety is a key issue in the The Group has a dedicated health Health and safety breaches can housebuilding sector.
Given the inherent and safety audit department which is resultin injuries to employees, risks associated with it and management independent of the management of the subcontractors and site visitors, ofit, it is of paramount importance to the operating divisions.
Health and safety delays in construction, increased Group.
Senior management and the Board auditsare undertaken on a regular basis costs, reputational damage, criminal review health and safety matters on a andprocesses are modified as required prosecution and civil litigation.
regular basis and aim to reduce injury witha view to seeking continuous incidence rates by implementing policies improvement.
Performance is reviewed and procedures aimed at keeping staff bythe Safety, Health and Environment andvisitors free from injury.
Each month, health and safety reports are cascaded by each division, for review by theExecutive Committee and Board, whichalso receives a direct report every sixmonths from the Safety, Health and Environment Director.
Information Technology The ability to be able to optimise prices and A dedicated IT team regularly monitors Failure of the Groups IT systems, ensure operational efficiency is essential andmaintains Group IT systems to ensure inparticular those relating to to the Groups performance.
A fully tested surveying and valuation, could integrated management systems enable the disaster recovery programme is inplace.
adversely impact the performance Group to maintain tight control especially ofthe Group.
with regards to surveying and valuation.
Details of the Groups management of liquidity risk, market risk, credit risk and capital risk in relation to financial instruments are provided in note 25 on pages 101 to 106 of this report.
Details of the Groups contingent liabilities are provided in note 33 on page 119.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 35
