Remuneration Committee Committee, HNBS also provided the Company with advice on The Committee operates within terms of reference and governance implementing decisions made by the Committee and remuneration policies approved by the Board.
The full Terms of Reference are available benchmarking.
HNBSs fees for providing such advice amounted to from the Companys website at www.
HNBS and Aon Hewitt Limited did not provide any other services to Principal responsibilities the Company during the year except for certain broking services related Theprincipal responsibilities of the Committee are: to employee benefits provided by another subsidiary of the Aon Hewitt determining and reviewing the overall remuneration policy of the Group, Aon Consulting Limited.
In line with best practice, the Company with regard to attracting, retaining and motivating directors Committee assesses, from time to time, whether the appointment and senior managers of the experience and calibre required by the remains appropriate or should be put out to tender as part of its Company having regard to remuneration paid to employees and an effectiveness review.
The Committee undertook such an assessment external comparative group of companies: during the year and remains satisfied with HNBSs appointment as determining, reviewing and making recommendations to the advisers to the Committee.
Mercer Limited has advised the Company Boardonthe remuneration package and letter of appointment inrelation to various pension issues and has been appointed actuary oftheChairman: tothe Barratt Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme since agreeing targets and benefits in respect of performance related pay 2004.
Slaughter and May are the corporate legal advisers to the schemes, including long-term performance plans, for all participating Company and have provided advice in respect of the operation of employees which are sufficiently challenging, fair and highly the Companys share incentive and share option plans and the motivating, commensurate with sector practice, and consistent with Groups debt refinancing.
maximising shareholder value and the interests and expectations ofshareholders: In addition to advice from external consultants, the Committee agreeing severance arrangements or other compensation for loss received input to their decision making from the Group Chief Executive, of office or early retirement for the Chairman, Executive Directors the Group People and Customer Experience Director and the Group and other senior executives: General Counsel and Company Secretary.
None of these individuals determining, after consultation with the Chief Executive, the total were present at any time when their own remuneration was individual remuneration package of each Executive Director and beingconsidered.
other senior executives including bonuses, incentive payments and share options awards and pension arrangements: and Remuneration policy undertaking consultations with institutional investors on remuneration The Groups remuneration policy aims to attract, retain, motivate and policy and or other aspects of senior remuneration, as appropriate.
reward Executive Directors and senior managers who are fully focused and incentivised to sustain the growth and profitability of the business.
The Committee is also responsible for appointing consultants to advise Each year the Committee reviews the policy on executive remuneration on executive remuneration.
Details of the consultants appointed during in the context of the business environment, regulation and best practice, the financial year ended 30 June 2011 are set out below.
and market trends for the current and subsequent financial years.
The Committee believes that executive remuneration should: Membership and proceedings of the Remuneration Committee be fully aligned with the performance and strategic objectives The members of the Committee during the financial year were Bob oftheCompany: Davies Chairman, Bob Lawson, William Shannon until he resigned be aligned with the interests and expectations of shareholders: asaDirector of the Company on 21 October 2010, Rod MacEachrane take account of pay and employment conditions of employees across and Tessa Bamford.
The Group General Counsel and Company the Group: Secretary, Tom Keevil, acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The reward the sustained growth and profitability of the business: and Committee met on five occasions during the financial year and conform with market-leading best practice and regulations.
attendance at each of these meetings is described in Table 1 on page39 of the Corporate Governance report.
All Committee members The executive remuneration package for the following year is therefore are considered to be independent with no financial interest in the based on the following principles: Committees decisions, other than as shareholders and the fees performance-related remuneration should be linked to the paid tothem as Non-Executive Directors.
No material issues arose achievement of demanding performance targets: currently from theannual effectiveness exercise that the Committee undertook approximately 70% of the total executive remuneration potential during the year although its Terms of Reference were updated as part is performance based see Chart 1 on page 50 : of that process.
Details of Directors shareholdings can be found on performance-related remuneration should align the interests of page 56 ofthis Remuneration report.
executives with those of shareholders by setting performance targets based on measures of shareholder return.
With the exception of the Advice Advisers share options granted in 2008, which were based on a return on During the year the Committee has taken advice from independent capital employed performance metric, the Committees policy is advisers, Hewitt New Bridge Street HNBS, a division of Aon Hewitt to use a combination of TSR and EPS performance conditions Limited.
HNBS was appointed by the Committee as remuneration to achieve alignment: and consultants in 2008 and is a founder signatory to the Remuneration total remuneration for outstanding performance is competitive with Consultants Groups Code of Conduct.
In addition to advising the that available elsewhere in the sector.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 49
