REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY e have identified and of business and decisions assessed the key affecting sustainability issues COMMITTED sustainability risks canbe implemented swiftly at W facing the business, anoperational level.
This process which include Environmental, ensures that adequate information Social and Governance ESG in relation to ESG matters is TOOUR risks, and have grouped these into available to the Board.
Significant four key philosophies so that we ESG risks that could impact on can manage them effectively.
the future of the business are PHILOSOPHIES The four philosophies: People, included in the principal risks Partners, Planet and Customers and uncertainties section.
are underpinned by our We publish a sustainability commitment to financial report each year that explains our We have previously reported under the performance and Health and approach and our management of Safety.
Each is led by a member sustainability, governance and risk, titleofCorporate Responsibility.
However, of the Executive Committee who and includes the actions we have during the year we have moved to operating is responsible for developing and taken during the year to improve under a sustainability policy which is implementing sustainability related sustainability performance.
objectives and targets to achieve Sustainability disclosures in this available atwww.
co. uk the overall sustainability strategy Report and the Sustainability and therefore this year we report under set by the Board.
This ensures Report, including disclosures that sustainability issues are onESG matters, are based on thatheading.
embedded in the normal course information collected annually 22 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 andfrom regular management of their project management We work with bespoke voluntary surveys allow information.
Our current graduates us to develop engagement plans Government subject to independent review are working on projects with the throughout our business to seek agencies and andinternal audit.
homeless charities Centrepoint to drive further improvement.
private landowners continue to recognise outstanding People In addition we offer specialist performance of our employees to identify and One of our key strengths is skills training in core areas, such through quarterly and annual bring forward land our people.
Despite the current as health and safety, construction divisional awards and annual economic environment it is and design and deliver a suite of national awards for Site for development, important to continue to develop internally designed and delivered Managers, Sales Advisers, often improving their expertise.
Accordingly, we management and leadership Apprentices, Individual Excellence itsenvironmental have continued to invest in our training courses.
These are and Team Excellence.
In addition, vocational and leadership training designed to assist employees we continue to operate an instant condition in programmes as well as employee to develop the skills required recognition scheme and in the theprocess.
development, engagement toprogress from middle year ended 30 June 2011 have andrecognition.
management through to senior given 1,200 prizes or an extra The Barratt Academy the management and other high days holiday to some employees.
Left: Simon Jones, Regional NHBC award winner 2010.
Academy combines professional performance leadership roles.
The expertise of our Below top: Luke Rawlins and Lauren Davis training on-site and in the During the year, we have construction teams has again purchased at Lancaster Gardens, Witham classroom across three separate remained focused on employee been recognised externally, with StHughs with the help of our armed forces discount scheme.
roles: apprentices: site managers: engagement with our fourth 80 2010: 82 of our Site Managers Below bottom: Children from Oakwood and technical commercial annual engagement survey winning Pride in the Job quality Community Play Group watching a disciplines.
The core elements being undertaken in 2011.
These demonstration by machine operators.
awards from the National of the Academy include: a House-Building Council.
This is dedicated coach for each more than any other housebuilder delegate: departmental rotations: for an unprecedented seventh and support for continuous consecutive year.
professional development, which Our target is to have a leads to a nationally accredited fully certified Construction Construction Skills award.
Skills Certification Scheme The apprenticeship scheme CSCS workforce, including comprises both trade and subcontractors.
97% 2010: 97% ofthe Groups Apprenticeships last for two workforce, including years.
The quality of our subcontractors, was fully apprenticeship scheme was CSCScertified.
recognised in June2011, when it was highlycommended in the Partners Apprenticeships National Awards We recognise that we cannot 2011 for Large Employer of the achieve our long-term goals Year.
We are delighted that one actingindependently from of our 2010 apprentices was ourstakeholders and therefore awarded Apprentice of the westrive to create and maintain Year for the North East region.
partnerships with stakeholders built We have a graduate on trust, loyalty and mutualrespect.
development programme which We work with Government aims to recruit high potential talent agencies and private landowners into the business.
The programme to identify and bring forward land lasts for two years and graduates for development, often improving are given the opportunity to spend its environmental condition in the time in each of our operational process.
We work with suppliers departments, whilst attending to help them bring forward the business and personal new technologies that we need development courses.
Alongside to meet increasingly challenging the formal training programme, building standards and with graduates are encouraged to subcontractors to help them undertake voluntary projects in improve their environmental their local community and as part and safety standards.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 23 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW We aim to create communities Joint venture and where people aspire to live  Construction waste segregated on site for recycling andwe can only achieve this We continue to explore JV and % byworking with existing partnership opportunities which 09 73 communities.
We engage in allow us toaccess projects that 10 91 dialogue with local people and may otherwise not be available, 11 95 local authorities in order to seek orreduce substantially the to address any impact that our investment required.
developments may have on Work on site at Barratts first thelocal environment and major partnership with London & infrastructure.
We regularly Quadrant, the 27-storey residential holdpublic exhibitions for our tower at Alie Street on the edge of developments where we invite the City of London, started earlier the community and local this year.
This development will authority to talk to our specialist deliver 235 units of which 64 will planners and architects about be affordable housing.
their concerns and aspirations We are pleased to have fordevelopments.
We also recently announced our second holdan internal annual design major 50:50 JV with London & competition which promotes Quadrant to build 375 new private highstandards of design focused homes beside Arsenals Emirates on the layout ofdevelopments, stadium.
The development will the creation of places where comprise three residential towers ourcustomers wantto live with units ranging from studios andcompliance withour own topenthouses.
We are committed We monitor the proportion and national designstandards.
Barratt will receive a fee ofconstruction waste segregated to offering the We have always been for construction and marketing for recycling on site, which this highest standards concerned with housing services as well as 50%of the year improved to 95% 2010: affordability issues and have netprofit.
In addition, all divisions worked closely with financial within the Group continue to customer service.
institutions and Government for Planet operate an environmental We seek to develop anumber of years to improve Our development activities have management system certified access to mortgage funding for the potential to impact significantly toISO14001 which is subject our quality and customers.
As a result we are on the environment and we are toregular monitoring and audit.
service standards currently working with a number subject to a stringent regulatory by listening to of partners to help people gain regime, including planning and Customers access to appropriate housing.
We follow We are committed to offering the customers, We believe the Governments an environmental agenda which highest standards of quality and monitoring recent announcement of its focuses on managing our customer service.
We seek performance and intention to increase the release environmental impact, by helping to develop our quality and of public land to build up to our customers to understand this service standards by listening adopting best 100,000 new homes is a positive and improving the environmental to customers, monitoring practice throughout step.
Barratt has a good track standards of what we build and performance and adopting best the Group.
record of working with public making our supply chain more practice throughout the Group.
sector partners and should be sustainable.
well positioned to capitalise on During 2010 we worked with Policies this initiative.
We are already The Carbon Trust to review how We seek to listen to our working on a number of public we control energy consumption customers needs, whilst providing sector partnership sites including and following this review have the highest standards ofservice North Prospect in Plymouth, introduced an energy efficiency and quality, as well as providing Heritage Park in Silverdale, programme to seek to reduce value for money.
This, along with Staffordshire and Elba Park theenergy use of our business our 10 point Customer Care nearSunderland.
without impacting upon Charter, ensures we maintain our We continue to build the production.
Our recently launched commitment to understand our majority of our developments on Green Team aims to focus all customers throughout their brownfield sites, with 67% 2010: ofour divisions and offices in this journey with us.
70% of our legal completions in area with the aim of reducing our the year being on brownfield land.
24 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 Proportion of construction waste segregated New product range such as more indulgent kitchens, and technology at our sales for recycling on site We have carefully considered en suite bathrooms with larger centres and we continue to customer preferences in the baths and the use of multiple upgrade this to seek to ensure development of the Barratt and roof lights in bedrooms.
that our Sales Advisers can make David Wilson product ranges.
the sales process as smooth and 95% Both brands have been updated Communicating with our simple aspossible.
in the last year with internal layouts customers Percentage of our customers who would designed with modern living in Our sales and marketing team has Assisting with mortgage recommend us to a friend mind, providing free flowing living continued to promote our brands products areas and natural light.
The new throughout the year using focused We also recognise the importance designs were well received by marketing campaigns.
This of assisting customers to seek to consumers and we are starting included use of the internet, find suitable financial products to 98% to roll out both new ranges.
radio and direct mail, targeted purchase their new homes.
Customer feedback indicates incentives and discounts for TheGroups Lender Relations Number of our site managers winning NHBC that Barratt homes remain value customers as well as tools such Manager works closely with Pride in the Job Quality Awards for money and offer customers as shared equity products and mortgage lenders in order to high quality practical living space.
assure them that the homes built The room proportions have been We recognise that the online by the Group are of a high quality designed to ensure that they are market continues to change which they can confidently lend on.
80 large enough to accommodate atarapid pace.
We will continue All our divisions and brokers our typical customers furniture to enhance our online user have implemented our Group requirements whilst ensuring our experience and quality of wide processes for dealing with external designs are aesthetically content through greater use of lenders and surveyors.
These Left: Work begins at North Prospect, pleasing.
Due to smart, e-brochures, video, 360 degree ensure that we provide them with Plymouth, a major regeneration project ergonomic design a Barratt tours, imagery of planned transparency in relation to our inpartnership with Plymouth Community Homes and Plymouth City Council, customer can expect a wide developments and house types, products and the financial part-funded by the HCA.
range of features, creating great inaddition to comprehensive arrangements between the Group Above: The Fairways, Biddenham Vale the value for money.
information about the local area.
These winner of our internal design competition inthenon-standard category, 2010.
Following customer feedback, Inthe last year we have standards exceed the industry Above right top: A team of our graduates our David Wilson family homes significantly increased the requirements as specified by the reach the summit of Ben Nevis, the first have been provided with more information provided online and Council of Mortgage Lenders mountain inthe Three Peaks 24 hour challenge whilst raising money for charity.
generous circulation space that this approach is set to continue.
and the processes are subject Above right below: Ben and Vikki Dale used delivers an overall sense of We have already invested to regular internal audit.
our part-exchange scheme in their move to Ashdown Place, Uckfield, East Sussex.
grandeur and includes features heavily in our online capabilities In addition to existing lenders, BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 25 CASE STUDY REGENERATION ELBA PARK: WORKING INPARTNERSHIP At Elba Park, Sunderland we are working, in partnership, with Competitive Dialogue Process where the Group demonstrated its the Homes and Communities Agency HCA, Sunderland City commitment to the development and its partners by sharing their Council, and Isos Housing Group to deliver a groundbreaking, visions in terms of Design, Build Standard, Health and Safety, sustainable, mixed community.
The site is located on the former Materials Procurement, Training and Employment Initiatives, Lambton Cokeworks, a 65 hectare site that was incontinuous Community Engagement, Ecology and Sustainable Living, heavy industrial use for over 360 years and is the home to the Programme Delivery and Performance.
finest preserved example ofone of the worlds oldest railways.
We are currently on site with this groundbreaking partnership As part of the National Coalfields Regeneration Scheme delivering a total of 359 contemporarily designed new homes the HCA invested 25m in reclaiming the land to create not only under the David Wilson brand.
These comprise of a mix of 2, 3, 4 the development platform but a new 52 hectare Country Park and 5 bedroom houses including executive homes, family homes containing water features, 77,000 new trees, public artworks and affordable homes.
All homes are constructed to HCA Space and memorials and 3,700 metres of new footpaths.
Standards, Lifetime Homes Standard and at Level 4 of the Code We were chosen as the HCAs preferred partner via the for Sustainable Homes.
26 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW Injury Incidence Rate per 100,000 persons employed 08 656 09 571 10 582 11 539 We consider health and safety to be of paramount importance for our employees, customers and the public.
All our divisions are certified to the health and safety standard OHSAS 18001... we actively pursue relationships us to a Friend.
We monitor the anaverage of 96% compliance one person and left another with new lenders to the UK new results of the survey on a monthly 2010: 96%.
We build market in order to support basis throughout our business.
We use our reportable Injury continue towork closely with the development of new financial Incidence Rate IIR as a key theauthorities.
Most recently this Five-year warranty performance indicator to measure has taken the form of affordable We are the only volume health and safety performance on top up loans on a secured and housebuilder to offer a five-year a monthly and yearly basis.
During unsecured basis which give warranty which covers fixtures the financial year ended 30 June customers access to alternative and fittings that is additional to 2011 our IIR reduced by 7.4% means of bridging the deposit gap.
the ten-year NHBC warranty to539 2010: 582 per 100,000 on the fabric of the building.
We are Customer satisfaction committed to seeking to reduce Our high quality homes have been Health and safety the IIR year-on-year and we are recognised independently by the We consider health and safety to working with our suppliers, achievement for the second year be of paramount importance for partners and local communities running of Five Star builder status our employees, customers and tominimise the risk of injury.
in the HBF annual customer the public.
All our divisions are At the NHBC Health and Safety satisfaction survey.
This shows certified to the health and safety Awards 2011 our site managers that over 90% of our customers standard OHSAS 18001 which were recognised for high health questioned were satisfied with the isverified by a programme of and safety performance 14 site quality of their new home and internal and external audits.
managers received commended would recommend us to a friend.
Thisensures that we have awards of whom seven received We monitor customer consistent and appropriate highly commended awards and satisfaction with all of our standards in place and is Tony Bird, Site Manager from our customers being independently complemented by our own BristolDivision, was also awarded contacted nine weeks after legal comprehensive Safety, Health theRegional Award for the completion and asked to andEnvironmental Management CentralRegion.
We continually monitor The prosecution is proceeding five years these surveys have our performance by carrying out against third parties arising from shown increases in customer regular compliance audits on all the incident at Bedfont, London satisfaction and we are pleased sites and by regular management inFebruary 2008, where carbon Above: A stunning mixed-use regeneration project, transforming the 1930s Art Deco that in the year ended 30 June and Board reviews.
During the monoxide poisoning from a Wallis House, and creating 787 homes, 2011 98% 2010: 97% of our year we carried out over 4,000 gas heating system installed by shops, offices, hotel and a landscaped customers would Recommend monitoring visits and achieved contractors caused the death of piazza, in Brentford, Hounslow.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 27
