R RE EP PO OR RT O T OF T F TH HE D E DI IR RE EC CT TO OR RS S G GR RO OU UP P O OV five ER RV VI IE EW W GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW e have achieved a 50%increase in profit from operations before W operating exceptional items, agreed terms on 8,861 plots of land, were awarded HBF Five Star status for a second consecutive year, and refinanced our business until 2015.
We are well placed to secure further margin growth although thehousing market is likely to remain challenging.
Performance We increased profit from operations before operating exceptional items by 50% from 90.1m to 135.0m with a significant improvement in operating margin before operating exceptional items to 6.6% 2010:4.4%.
Our second half housebuild operating margin before operating exceptional items improved to 8.0% against 5.9% the previous GOOD PROGRESS year, demonstrating the strength ofour margin improvement over the period.
The Group returned to INCHALLENGING profitability in the year with a profit before tax and exceptional items of42.7m 2010: loss of 33.0m.
TIMES Our improved operational efficiency and continued tight control over the timing of land expenditure and working capital, enabled us to This has been a year of good progress reduce net debt to 322.6m at 30June 2011 30 June 2010: against a challenging backdrop, 366.9m.
particularly in the first half of our Our priorities financial year.
Our overriding objective is to rebuild profitability and we have set out three clear priorities to achieve this: optimising selling prices: improving operational efficiency: and targeted land buying.
We have made considerable progress in each of these areas.
Our intent is to deliver these priorities, whilst tightly controlling the balance sheet, thereby managing overall levels ofdebtgiven the uncertain economic environment.
6 6 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 Optimising selling prices Comprehensive Spending Review We increased during the prior year.
Improvements During the year we have focused in October 2010.
The net private in our marketing capability have profit from on securing the best price for reservation rate per active site been animportant factor in driving operations every sale.
Across the Group perweek for the first half was sales.
New leads generated from wehave focused on maximising 0.39 H12010: 0.49.
In the before operating our websites have continued to value ratherthan driving volumes.
second halfof the year we saw increase and our centralised call exceptional items Procedures are in place to ensure a significant improvement with centre, which was established in by 50% from strict pricing disciplines in a net private reservation rate per the last financial year, is operating every development.
active site per week of 0.48 H2 well.
At the point of sale, further 90.1m to 135.0m Average selling price excluding 2010: 0.52.
Asaresult, the net resources have been invested with a significant joint ventures rose by 2.3% to private reservation rate per active inimproving conversion rates improvement in 178,300 2010: 174,300, with site perweek during the year through the enhanced private average selling prices reduced from anaverage of presentation of our sales centres operating margin increasing by 7.4% to 198,900 0.50 to an average of0.44.
These increases We are building a higher Our unique five-year warranty exceptional items were mainly as a result of changes proportion of houses to satisfy continues to provide a point of in mix including from flats customer demand and in the difference from our competitors.
lasttwelve months we have This covers fixtures and fittings The first half of the year was redesigned both our Barratt and and is additional to the ten-year significantly affected by weak David Wilson house types.
In the NHBC warranty on the fabric of consumer confidence, particularly year, 66% ofcompletions were thebuilding.
During the year this around the Governments houses compared with 60% feature has been working A clear set of priorities to rebuild profitability Our overriding objective is to rebuild profitability and we have set out three clear priorities to achieve this.
Optimising Operational Targeted selling prices efficiency land buying We remain focused upon We continue to focus We are investing in land margin improvement upon improving operational fromwhich we expect to through optimising efficiency including deliver attractive returns sellingprices.
controlling costs throughout inthe future.
Delivering our priorities is summarised on page 12.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 7 7 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS GROUP OVERVIEW effectively as anincentive for lending restrictions which still We remain upand have continued to adopt thecustomer.
an acquisition strategy that is not committed to During the year we continued unduly focused on any specific working closely Operational efficiency toinvest in land which met our geographic area.
Driving operational efficiency clearly defined hurdle rates in with local For the full year we agreed terms has remained a significant terms of profitability and return on 454.1m of land purchases, the communities and focus for the Group.
Our supply oncapital, providing attractive majority of which we will acquire on councils to ensure contracts for materials continue to returns at current selling prices.
the basis of deferred payment.
This be reviewed and renegotiated as Recently acquired higher margin equates to88 sites and 8,861 plots that we canprovide appropriate and we purchase an land is now driving margin of which 86% are for houses.
The their required increasingly significant proportion improvement.
The Groups forecast average selling price on housing to high of our materials centrally.
strategy is focused on acquiring thisland is c. 205,000 based on We continue to review our land in prime locations, for current prices.
environmental and supply chain to create efficiencies example with excellent transport Total cash expenditure on design standards.
by introducing new suppliers and links, and on land that is relatively landin the year was 261m altering build specifications where advanced in terms of gaining 2010:253m.
We have Land creditors as at 30 June costs are benchmarked across seenprices for land firming in 2011 were 700.7m 2010: the Group every six months to theSouth East as other 566.8m.
The year on year ensure the lowest cost is achieved housebuilders are targeting this increase in land creditors reflects whilst maintaining the quality area.
We have maintained our the significant proportion of newly ofour homes.
Overall, we have discipline of not chasing prices acquired land that has been seentotal housebuilding costs including infrastructure reduce by1.4% per square foot in the year.
Going forward, it is likely thatsome pressure will continue to be felt as raw material prices rise due to underlying commodity price increases.
Further efficiency savings and reductions in operating costs havebeen achieved through the ongoing focus on our Quality and Cost programme which promotes and shares best practice in the build process across the Group.
We have further reduced our administration expenses in the year and will continue to review these going forward.
Land and planning Our strategy continues to be tooptimise our existing land holdings by getting the best possible prices for our products whilst replanning sites and reducing build and associated costs.
In the last twelve months we have replanned a further 60sites.
In particular, we have continued to besuccessful at replacing flats with new purpose-designed house types.
This ensures that weare building the right mix ofproducts for our customers, particularly given the 8 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 acquired on deferred terms.
We Landcreditors due within the anticipate reducing our owned nexttwelvemonths total 349.1m and unconditional land bank, 2010: 266.6m, with 351.6m based on prior year completion 2010: 300.2m due thereafter.
volumes, over the nextcouple of Inthe period to 31 December years to around four years supply 2011, we expect land creditors and the conditional land bank will remain fairly constant, to around one years supply.
dependent upon the satisfaction Of the Groups owned and of contractual conditions, for unconditional plots 47,917 plots, example planning permission.
less than 24% by value is made At 30 June 2011, the Groups up of impaired land.
47% by owned and unconditional land valueconsists of non-impaired bank stood at 47,917 plots 2010: land where the average gross 50,948 plots with an additional margin isc.
10% and the 12,166 plots 2010: 11,392 plots remaining 29% consists of land under conditional contracts, acquired since re-entering the givinga total of 60,083 plots land market in mid-2009 with 2010: 62,340 plots.
This equates anaverage gross margin of to approximately 5.4 years more than 20% based on 2010:5.6years of owned current house prices.
andcontrolled land based on Our underlying assumptions Left: The Maythorns is a scheme of 95 new for impairment calculation years.
In the next few years homes that lies on the north east side of the purposes are for low single digit planning consents are expected popular market town of Biggleswade in selling price and cost inflation.
In onsites containing around Bedfordshire.
Top right: Harry and Audrey Van fide Noort the past year, we have only seen 15,000units.
purchased a four bedroom detached house at asmall improvement in underlying the David Wilson Homes Hartswood Mews prices, but we have continued to Government policy development in Takeley, Essex.
This was the second home that they had purchased from deliver further cost reductions.
We In May 2010 the Government the Company in six years.
recognise that the Group is not announced proposals to change immune to future pricing trends in significantly the planning process the wider housing market and we and implement localism thereby will continue to review the trading empowering the local communities environment and our impairment to have more control over and assumptions during the year to consequently derive financial 30June 2012. benefit from local development.
At the end of June 2011, Atthe same time, it was confirmed theGroup had detailed planning that there would be cuts in public consent for 96% of budgeted expenditure in areas such as social volumes for the current financial housing.
Against this backdrop year, with a further 3% having there has been some disruption outline planning consent.
For tothe planning and housing FY2012 13 70% of forecasted development landscape but the volumes has detailed planning short-term impact on our business consent, with a further 12% has been limited.
A high having outline planning consent.
percentage of our land bank In addition, we have c. 11,400 hasoutline or detailed planning 2010: c. 11,000 acres of strategic consent and we have asignificant land which are regularly level of contracted Government reassessed until the necessary funding for affordable housing.
More recently, the They are carried at the lower Governmenthas focused ofcost and net realisable value ongrowth strategies and in minimising our exposure to risk.
recognising the economic Strategic land is expected to multiplier effect of housing produce an increasing proportion development they have of our operational land in future encouraged local development, BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 9 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS GROUP OVERVIEW with a move towards a planning underlying housing demand.
The The outlook for positioned to capitalise on this presumption in favour of level of mortgage approvals has initiative.
We are already working thehousing sustainable development.
reduced dramatically in the past on a number of public sector marketremains The 2011 Budget four years from the peak seen partnership sites including North announcements contained a in2007.
challenging as a Prospect in Plymouth, Heritage number of positive measures for The mortgage market for new Park in Silverdale, Staffordshire result of continuing housebuilders.
The introduction build housing is dominated by a and Elba Park near Sunderland.
constraints on the ofa new Government backed limited number of lenders.
There shared equity scheme, FirstBuy, have been some changes in the Joint venture and partnership availability of provides an important selling tool respective market shares during opportunities mortgage finance for the industry given the limited the year primarily driven by the We continue to explore joint and overall availability of higher loan to value return of Building Societies and venture JV and partnership LTV mortgages, particularly for the changes in lending criteria opportunities which allow us economic the new build sector.
The Group from certain lenders.
Some to access projects that may not uncertainty.
has a strong track record of lenders still provide a lower LTV on otherwise be available or reduce maximising the benefits of the new build houses when compared the investment required and previous HomeBuy Direct scheme to second hand houses.
There is improve the return on capital and this new initiative is likely to typically a LTV of90% on second employed through construction Top: The Fairways, Camberley, Surrey.
reduce the requirement for our hand but only 80% on new build.
Acollection of ten 5and 6 bedroom homes own shared equity products going There does not appear to be any We have established JVs with backing onto Camberley Heath GolfCourse.
Bottom: Garden room extension offering a forward.
We have received an justification for this differential London & Quadrant, one of the light and spacious addition to the Woodbridge allocation of24.9m of funding and it clearly disadvantages countrys largest Residential at Saffron Gardens, Sawbridgeworth, under the FirstBuy scheme which housebuilders and their Hertfordshire.
Social Landlords, to develop will fund the purchase of around customers.
This discrepancy is 1,400 homes, with Barratt and the adriver of lower demand for new Homes and Communities Agency homes.
Shared equity schemes HCA jointly providing up to 20% including Government schemes shared equity on each home such as HomeBuy Direct and the purchased from us.
new FirstBuy scheme have proved The 2011 Budget also included popular due to this discrepancy.
proposals to increase the supply of new housing through the Partner of choice accelerated release of public land, During the year we have made the reduction of regulatory cost progress in securing land through and improvements in planning.
innovative arrangements and We have already been successful partnerships.
in securing land through the Our specialist Urban existing Delivery Partner Panel Regeneration team, working with DPP initiative and expect this our divisions, contracted 1,147 further commitment to be an units on six sites through public important source of land for sector partnerships with a gross theGroup goingforward.
We remain committed to We have been actively bidding working closely with local for sites through the three area communities and councils based DPPs that were established toensure that we can provide in2010 by the HCA.
To date, their required housing to high wehave been successful on four environmental and design bids accounting for up to 734 plots standards.
This will need genuine and are actively involved in ten partnerships and new ways of ongoing bids.
collaborating, many of which are We believe the Governments already emerging.
We are recent announcement of its determined to be at the forefront intention to increase the release of of any changes.
public land to build up to 100,000 new homes is a positive step.
The mortgage market Barratt has a good track record The availability and affordability ofworking with public sector ofmortgages is a key catalyst for partners and should be well 10 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 twoLondonresidential sites: by our customers both through discuss with Government the most seasonal trends.
Given the a 27-storey residential tower our internal survey where 98% cost-effective way of meeting the increase in active sites this has atAlie Street on the edge 2010: 97% of customers would environmental challenges meant we saw weekly net private oftheCity of London.
This recommend us to a friend and facingthe industry.
reservations increase by 10.2% development will deliver ourachievement of HBF Five Star over the previous year.
Net private 235 units of which 64 will housebuilder status for a second Refinancing reservations have averaged 0.49 be affordable housing: and successive year.
High quality We undertook a complete debt 2010: 0.48 per active site per 375 new private flats beside products have contributed to refinancing inMay 2011.
Cancellation rates have Arsenals Emirates stadium.
the drive for profitability through provides the Group with around remained low at an average of Thedevelopment will comprise achieving optimum selling prices 1 billion of committed facilities 12.4% 2010: 12.1% for the year three residential towers with and reducing costs.
and private placement notes todate.
units ranging from studios toMay 2015, with some of the We are targeting an increase in topenthouses.
Health, safety and the Groups arrangements extending total completions for this financial Barratt will receive a fee for environment as far as 2021.
The effective cost year, driven by increasing construction and marketing We continue to place a high of borrowing willbe reduced as a numbers of outlets rather than services as well as 50% of priority on the safety of our result of improving the balance of higher sales rates.
employees, contractors, the facilities between term debt average active site numbers to We have also established two customers and the wider and that needed to meet our be around 400 2011: 364 for the additional JVs, in East Grinstead community within which we working capital requirements, year as a whole.
Forward sales at and Worthing, with the Wates operate.
During the financial year with the term debt reducing from 11 September 2011 were 855.7m Group Wates, one of the UKs our Injury Incidence Rate IIR 903m to 311m.
2010: 865.1m representing largest building and construction was 539 2010: 582 per 100,000 The covenant package is 5,541 plots 2010: 5,404 plots.
This brings our total persons employed which is a similar to before, and the facilities Our primary focus continues JVs with Wates to four.
7.4% decrease on last years provide appropriate headroom to be on optimising selling prices.
We remain committed above ourcurrent forecast debt We expect to see a further shift in Commercial developments to improving health and safety requirements.
Net debt as at product mix, with houses likely Commercial development revenue andhave an Executive Health 30June 2011 was 322.6m to represent around 70% of total was 49.2m 2010: 35.1m.
This and Safety Committee, which 2010:366.9m.
Exceptional volumes, resulting in a further included revenue from the design reports to the Board, to drive costs of 46.5m, relating to the increase in private average selling and build for a major retailer of further improvement.
refinancing and the cancellation price.
In addition, the percentage an 867,000 sq ft distribution We aim to secure aposition ofinterest rate swaps, have been of our completions that will be centre inRochdale.
This project as the lowest cost provider charged tothe income statement.
delivered from newer higher was completed in April 2011. complying with the Codefor margin sites is set to increase to The Groups commercial Sustainable Homes the Code.
Outlook around 35% this year which will development operations made During the year we built 3,071 The outlook for the housing enable us to continue to drive a profit from operations of 0.8m homes to Code Level 3 or above market remains challenging as a margins higher.
and we are already starting to result of continuing constraints on The Groups commercial build developments at higher the availability of mortgage finance development operation was Code levels where required.
We and overall economic uncertainty.
Mark Clare also successful during the year are establishing improved and Whilst we saw greater stability GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE in securing a redevelopment lower cost methods which are in the second half, trading agreement forBasildon town allowing us to reduce the cost conditions remain challenging in centre, in partnership with our ofcompliance.
We are well some areas outside the South housebuilding operations.
advanced with the development East.
Our London business of ways of building a Code Level 4 continues to perform particularly Quality, service and design house to satisfy the criteria well, reflecting its strong position During the last year we have without the need for renewable across the capital.
updated both the Barratt and sources of energy.
We will continue to drive David Wilson Homes brands with We are progressing our profitability through optimising internal layouts designed around development at Hanham Hall, thevalue of the homes we sell, modern living.
The new designs theUKs first large-scale zero delivering additional outlets were well received by consumers carbon housing development.
from our new higher margin and we are starting to roll out Wehave cleared the site, built the land whilst maintaining a tight both new ranges County and first two zero carbon houses and control over costs and improving Classic.
Our commitment to commenced the renovation of the operational efficiency.
delivering the highest quality original listed Hanham Hall building.
Since the end of the last product and excellent customer As well as seeking technological financial year, sales performance service has been acknowledged solutions, we willcontinue to has been in-line with normal BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 11
