REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Introduction from the Chairman and mitigation against them.
Theprincipal risks and The Board believes that, in terms of the overall direction uncertainties of the Group, their relevance to the Groups and control of Barratt Developments PLC the Company, business and the Boards mitigation strategies are set out effective corporate governance comes principally from the atpages 32 to 35. establishment and maintenance ofvalues, standards and disciplines the Company seeks to apply in dealings with The Company has a clear focus on identifying and managing shareholders, customers, employees, suppliers, contractors risk.
To enhance this, the management risk committee, and other stakeholders.
The Boards stewardship of these established during the 2009 10 financial year, undertook a matters and itsrole in providing appropriate guidance is review of a number of specific risks affecting the business pivotal to this ethos.
Many ofthe Companys core values and andreported its findings to the Audit Committee, who took standards are set out in a range of procedures and practice into account these findings when carrying out its review of guidelines communicated throughout the Barratt Group of the effectiveness of the Companys risk management and companies the Group.
External governance codes also internal control systems on behalf of the Board.
set the framework for the Groups internal standards and it therefore seeks tocomply with established best practice Shareholder engagement in all areas of corporate governance.
In July 2010 the FRC introduced the UK Stewardship Code which aims toenhance the quality of engagement between Statement of compliance with Code provisions the Company and its institutional investors to help improve The Company recognises the importance of seeking to long-term returns to shareholders and the efficient exercise maintain the highest standards of corporate governance of governance responsibilities.
The Board recognises the in all areas of its business.
InJune 2010, theFinancial importance of maintaining an ongoing relationship with Reporting Council the FRC published the new UK the Companys shareholders and achieves this through Corporate Governance Code the Code, a copy of which regular dialogue with shareholders on issues such as the is available from the FRCs website www.
The macroeconomy, the availability of mortgage lending to Code applied to the Company with effect from 1July 2010. customers, strategy, performance and governance.
Being committed to operating in accordance with the highest standards of corporate governance, theCompany The Board has now implemented the requirements of the Code, In January 2011 the Board met for its annual strategic review including those relating to the submission of all directors for to discuss the Companys growth plans and a number annual re-election at the annual general meeting to be held of strategic issues.
The continuing reluctance of financing on 16November 2011 the 2011 AGM.
Throughout the institutions to provide third party debt forhousebuilding and year ended 30 June 2011 the Company complied with commercial projects, the issues created by constraints on Section 1 of the Code, details of which can be foundbelow.
mortgage lending and alternative financing structures were amongst the matters explored.
Risk management and internal controls A key focus of the Code is risk management and the The challenges facing the housing market continue but responsibility of boards to determine the nature and extent Ibelieve that the Companys senior management and ofthe risks they are willing totake in achieving strategic employees remain totally committed to delivering corporate objectives, as well as including anexplicit obligation improving performance and shareholder value.
for boards to review the effectiveness of risk management systems and internal control.
For the Group, risk appears in many forms and can fall into any one of several categories Robert Lawson such as: market: liquidity: people: subcontractors and CHAIRMAN suppliers: land: Government regulation: Construction: Health and Safety and IT.
As there is no single solution for managing such a diverse range of risks, the Board dedicates considerable time todiscussing the risks affecting the Group 38 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
