R RE EP PO OR RT O T OF T F TH HE D E DI IR RE EC CT TO OR RS S G GR RO OU UP P O OV five ER RV VI IE EW W CHAIRMANS STATEMENT he housing market in theUK has remained constrained.
The key T restriction on the new build industry remains the availability of adequate mortgage finance, particularly with higher loan to value products.
With continuing low levels of new build activity, there remains a fundamental imbalance between annual housing demand and supply which will continue to widen unless the underlying causes are addressed.
There is considerable demand for housing but the mortgage market is not supporting this and it will clearly take time for the market to function in a more normal way.
As a result of Government policy, we are seeing changes inthe planning process and the implementation of localism, empowering communities to havemore control over local FOCUSED ON OUR development.
We have responded positively to these changes and each of our businesses continues to engage directly with their PRIORITIES local communities.
We welcome the introduction of the Governments FirstBuy scheme, designed to stimulate This has been a further year of recovery the market by providing equity share loans to first-time buyers, for the Group.
We have remained focused in the absence of more normal on our key priorities and have delivered mortgage lending.
asignificant improvement in the profitability of the Group whilst continuing to see further progress in quality andcustomer service.
With continuing low levels of new build activity, thereremains afundamental imbalance between annual housing demand and supply... 4 4 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 Our response 2010.
This was driven by the We were pleased relationships with land vendors, and Our response to the current market business actively changing the also developed new relationships, tocomplete our restrictions has been clear and profile of the products we build through a very difficult period for the debt refinancing consistently pursued.
Our priorities more family houses and less flats.
Wehave maintained a have been optimising selling prices, inMay 2011. disciplined approach.
Wherever improving operational efficiency Longer term financing possible we are acquiring land on This provides and targeted land spend.
As a arrangements deferred terms and during the year theGroup with result, we have driven significant We were pleased to complete our we increased our hurdle rates to margin improvement ineach of debt refinancing in May 2011.
This ensure that we are increasingly around 1 billion the last two years.
provides the Group with around selective about the opportunities ofcommitted Importantly, improvements in 1billion of committed facilities we secure.
facilities and operational efficiency have not and private placement notes to been at the expense of quality.
May 2015, with some of the Our employees private placement The Group has, for the second Groups arrangements extending In the year I have visited many notes toMay 2015, consecutive year, achieved Home as far as 2021. ofour local offices and housing with some of Builders Federation HBF Five Our improved operational developments.
This is the highest performance and strong cash impressed by the enthusiasm theGroups achievable level in terms of management contributed to a and ability ofour employees.
It is arrangements customer satisfaction and whether further reduction in debt levels through their efforts that we lead extending as they would recommend us to bythe year end.
the industry on service, quality a friend.
Additionally, under No dividend will be paid in and the standard of our sites.
the National House-Building respect of the 2011 financial year.
The efficiency and quality of our Council NHBC Pride in the However, the Board remains operation would not be possible Job scheme, our site managers committed to reinstating the without the skills and commitment have won more quality awards payment of dividends when of our employees and I do wish to than any other housebuilder for itisappropriate to do so.
record the Boards thanks to all the seventh year running.
This high level of quality New land to improve is central to our pricing policy.
marginsfurther The future We are committed to achieving Since we re-entered the land We have returned to profit an appropriate return for the market in mid-2009, we have before exceptional items which outstanding homes that we had two good years of land buying is an important milestone.
buildand we have the right and invested a total of 981.3m.
We recognise that economic salesand marketing capabilities We have secured terms on around uncertainty and mortgage toachieve this.
22,000 plots and this will represent availability will continue to Private average selling price the foundation of our future influence the housing market.
Below: The Old Cider Works, near Taunton.
increased by 7.4% to 198,900 business and margin growth.
However, we have a skilled The regeneration of a former cider plant at during the year compared with We have maintained our long-term the foot of the Quantock Hills.
workforce, an evolving land bank and a strengthened financial position.
We are at the forefront ofaddressing many of the changes that will shape the industry in future years: evolving customer demand: design and environmental standards: and changes in planning.
With these strengths we remain well equipped to compete now andinthe future.
Bob Lawson CHAIRMAN BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 5 5
