Auditor objectivity and independence Remuneration Committee The Committee reviews the policy the Company has implemented on All members of the Remuneration Committee, as set out in Table 1 Auditor Independence and Non-Audit Fees the Policy as part of its onpage 39, areconsidered by the Company to be independent in annual work programme.
The Policy sets out the duties of the Audit accordance with Code provision D. 2.1.
William Shannon stepped down Committee and the limited range of services which the auditor may as a member of the Remuneration Committee on 21 October 2010. provide without requiring prior approval of the Audit Committee.
Any The Remuneration Committee met on five occasions during the financial services outside this scope must be approved by the Audit Committee year.
Attendance at each of these meetings is set out in Table 1 on page in order to maintain auditor independence and monitor non-audit fees 39.
The full Terms of Reference for the Remuneration Committee are incurred by the Group.
The Policy also sets out a number of services available from the Companys website www.
which the external auditor is excluded from providing to the Group, these include: Principal responsibilities bookkeeping or other services related to the accounting records The Remuneration Committees principal responsibilities include: orfinancial statements: determining and reviewing the overall remuneration policy of the financial information systems design and implementation relating Company with regard to attracting, retaining and motivating directors tothefinancial statements or accounting records: and senior managers of the experience and calibre required by the appraisal or valuation services or fairness opinions: Company having regard to remuneration paid to employees and actuarial services: an external comparative group of companies: internal audit outsourcing services: and determining, reviewing and making recommendations to the Board management functions, legal services or executive recruiting.
onthe remuneration package and service contract of the Chairman: agreeing targets and benefits in respect of performance related pay Under the Policy the Company is required to, and does, obtain written schemes, including long-term performance plans, for all participating confirmation from the auditor that they remain independent on an employees which are sufficiently challenging: fair and highly motivating: annual basis.
commensurate with sector practice: and consistent with maximising shareholder value and the interests and expectations of shareholders: During the 2010 11 financial year Deloitte were appointed as the Groups agreeing severance arrangements or other compensation for loss of tax advisers following a competitive tender process in which four of the office or early retirement for the Chairman, Executive Directors and leading audit firms took part.
In making its decision, the Audit Committee other senior executives: took into account, amongst other factors, the impact of the appointment determining, after consultation with the Chief Executive, the total on: i the ratio of audit to non-audit fees: and ii auditor independence.
individual remuneration package of each executive director and The Audit Committee, having consulted with the Group Finance Director, other senior executives including bonuses, incentive payments concluded that the audit to non-audit fees ratio remained proportionate and share options awards and pension arrangements: and and in line with best practice guidelines and, given that the tax advisory undertaking consultations with institutional investors on remuneration services are managed by a partner who has no involvement with the policy and or other aspects of senior remuneration, as appropriate.
audit of the Group, it was satisfied that the appointment of Deloitte as tax advisers did not impair their independence as auditor to the Group.
The Remuneration Committee is also responsible for appointing Confirmation of independence was also received from Deloitte prior to consultants to advise on executive remuneration.
Details of the their appointment.
consultants appointed during the 2010 11 financial year can be found onpage 49 of the Remuneration report.
The Audit Committee confirms that the guidelines described above were followed throughout the year: that there are no independence Employment policy and involvement issues in respect of the auditor: and that the Policy has been The Group is committed to seeking to develop the talents of its appropriately complied with throughout the year under review.
employees so that they can maximise their career potential and Details ofthe audit related and non-audit fees incurred by the to attempting to provide rewarding careers in an atmosphere that Group can be found on page 82. engenders equal opportunities for all.
Selection for employment and promotion is based on merit, following an objective assessment of ability and experience of candidates after giving full and fair consideration to allapplications including individuals with disabilities.
The Group is also committed to ensuring that its workplaces are free from unlawful discrimination of any sort.
The Group strives to ensure that its policies and practices provide equal opportunities in respect of issues such as training, career development and promotion for all existing or potential staff irrespective of gender, race, ethnic origin, colour, religion, physical disability, marital status, sexual orientation or age.
Every effort is made to retain and support employees who become disabled whilst working within the Group.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 45
