REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Introduction from the Chairman and mitigation against them.
Theprincipal risks and The Board believes that, in terms of the overall direction uncertainties of the Group, their relevance to the Groups and control of Barratt Developments PLC the Company, business and the Boards mitigation strategies are set out effective corporate governance comes principally from the atpages 32 to 35. establishment and maintenance ofvalues, standards and disciplines the Company seeks to apply in dealings with The Company has a clear focus on identifying and managing shareholders, customers, employees, suppliers, contractors risk.
To enhance this, the management risk committee, and other stakeholders.
The Boards stewardship of these established during the 2009 10 financial year, undertook a matters and itsrole in providing appropriate guidance is review of a number of specific risks affecting the business pivotal to this ethos.
Many ofthe Companys core values and andreported its findings to the Audit Committee, who took standards are set out in a range of procedures and practice into account these findings when carrying out its review of guidelines communicated throughout the Barratt Group of the effectiveness of the Companys risk management and companies the Group.
External governance codes also internal control systems on behalf of the Board.
set the framework for the Groups internal standards and it therefore seeks tocomply with established best practice Shareholder engagement in all areas of corporate governance.
In July 2010 the FRC introduced the UK Stewardship Code which aims toenhance the quality of engagement between Statement of compliance with Code provisions the Company and its institutional investors to help improve The Company recognises the importance of seeking to long-term returns to shareholders and the efficient exercise maintain the highest standards of corporate governance of governance responsibilities.
The Board recognises the in all areas of its business.
InJune 2010, theFinancial importance of maintaining an ongoing relationship with Reporting Council the FRC published the new UK the Companys shareholders and achieves this through Corporate Governance Code the Code, a copy of which regular dialogue with shareholders on issues such as the is available from the FRCs website www.
The macroeconomy, the availability of mortgage lending to Code applied to the Company with effect from 1July 2010. customers, strategy, performance and governance.
Being committed to operating in accordance with the highest standards of corporate governance, theCompany The Board has now implemented the requirements of the Code, In January 2011 the Board met for its annual strategic review including those relating to the submission of all directors for to discuss the Companys growth plans and a number annual re-election at the annual general meeting to be held of strategic issues.
The continuing reluctance of financing on 16November 2011 the 2011 AGM.
Throughout the institutions to provide third party debt forhousebuilding and year ended 30 June 2011 the Company complied with commercial projects, the issues created by constraints on Section 1 of the Code, details of which can be foundbelow.
mortgage lending and alternative financing structures were amongst the matters explored.
Risk management and internal controls A key focus of the Code is risk management and the The challenges facing the housing market continue but responsibility of boards to determine the nature and extent Ibelieve that the Companys senior management and ofthe risks they are willing totake in achieving strategic employees remain totally committed to delivering corporate objectives, as well as including anexplicit obligation improving performance and shareholder value.
for boards to review the effectiveness of risk management systems and internal control.
For the Group, risk appears in many forms and can fall into any one of several categories Robert Lawson such as: market: liquidity: people: subcontractors and CHAIRMAN suppliers: land: Government regulation: Construction: Health and Safety and IT.
As there is no single solution for managing such a diverse range of risks, the Board dedicates considerable time todiscussing the risks affecting the Group 38 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 The Board Board independence and balance Composition At the end of the financial year the Board comprised nine members, The names, responsibilities and other details of the Board Directors are including the Chairman, four Non-Executive Directors and four Executive set out on pages 36 and 37.
The Board met on 11occasions during the Directors.
The Board therefore believes that it has the appropriate financial year.
balance of Executive and independent Non-Executive Directors having regard to the size and nature of the business and continuing need to Board responsibilities keep its cost base under tight control.
In addition, the combination of the The Company is led and controlled by the Board which has overall make-up and calibre of the Non-Executive Directors collectively, having responsibility for the conduct of the business of the Group.
TheBoard is regard to their diverse backgrounds and experience and their varying responsible for setting the strategic direction of the Group and ensuring lengths of service, further enhances this balance.
that it has adequate resources and appropriate controls, values and standards in place to deliver its strategy.
Each Board Director is aware of The Board believes that all of the Non-Executive Directors are his her responsibilities, individually andcollectively, to promote the long independent in that they have no business or other relationship with term success of the Company.
There are a number of matters that have the Group that might influence their independence or judgement.
been specifically reserved for the Board and these include: approval Details of their interests as shareholders are contained in Table 6 of the strategy and management of the Group: ensuring adequate onpage 56 of the Remuneration report.
financial resources are available: half-yearly and annual results: interim management statements and trading updates: dividend and treasury Bob Lawson was appointed Non-Executive Chairman of the Company policies: internal control and riskmanagement systems and processes: with effect from 1 July 2008 and was considered to be independent material investments transactions: and approval of core policies relating on his appointment.
Bob Lawsons other significant commitments, his to, amongst other matters, Health and Safety and Employee Conduct.
Non-Executive Chairmanship of Genus plc and his directorship of The Federation of Groundwork Trusts, do not impinge upon his availability Board Committees tofulfil his duties to the Company.
Bob retired from his position as The Board has established three standing Committees to which it has Non-Executive Chairman of Hays plc in November 2010. delegated specific responsibilities: the Audit Committee pages 44 and 45 : the Remuneration Committee pages 48 to 59 : and the Nomination Roles of Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director Committee pages 42 and 43.
Each Committee is provided with The division of responsibility between the Chairman of the Board and sufficient resources to undertake the duties delegated to them and is the Group Chief Executive is clearly defined in writing and has been able to seek advice from the Group General Counsel and Company approved by the Board.
Secretary and external advisers, as appropriate.
Membership and attendance of the Board and of each of its Committees are shown in The Chairman, Bob Lawson, leads the Board in the determination of Table 1.
Each of these Committees and the Board completed annual strategy and in the achievement of its objectives.
He is responsible for: effectiveness reviews seepage 41. organising the business of the Board: setting its agenda and ensuring that adequate time is available for discussion of all agenda items, in Table 1 Membership and attendance particular strategic issues: facilitating the effective contribution of the at Board and Committee Meetings Non-Executive Directors and constructive relations between Executive and Non-Executive Directors: ensuring that the Board receives timely Audit Remuneration Nomination and accurate information so as to properly conduct its business: and The Board Committee Committee Committee ensuring effective communication with shareholders.
The Chairman is Chairman Chairman supported by the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary in Bob Lawson 11 11 5 5 2 2 carrying out these duties.
Mark Clare 11 11 1 2 Steven Boyes 11 11 Mark Clare, the Group Chief Executive is responsible for the day-to-day Clive Fenton 11 11 management of the operational activities of the Group in accordance David Thomas 11 11 with overall strategy and policy as determined by the Board.
He carries Chairman out duties delegated to him by the Board through an Executive Bob Davies 11 11 4 4 5 5 2 2 Committee comprising of the Executive Directors, the Group General Rod MacEachrane 11 11 4 4 5 5 2 2 Counsel and Company Secretary, Tom Keevil, the Managing Director Tessa Bamford 11 11 4 5 2 2 ofWilson Bowden Developments Limited, Nick Richardson, the Chairman Group Director of Corporate Affairs, Patrick Law, the Group People Mark Rolfe 10 11 4 4 2 2 and Customer Experience Director, Jayne Mee and the Marketing William Shannon 3 3 1 1 2 2 Director, Jeremy Hipkiss.
The Executive Committee meets on a Mark Rolfe, Tessa Bamford and Mark Clare explained the reasons for their absence to the Chairman prior weekly basis to review operational matters and also undertakes tothe meetings they were unable to attend.
William Shannon resigned from the Board and stepped down from his Committee memberships on more in-depth monthly reviews.
11 Indicates number of meetings attended whilst a Director and 11 Indicates number of meetings held whilst aDirector.
The current Senior Independent Director, Bob Davies, has specific responsibility for evaluating the performance of the Chairman, at least annually, with the other Non-Executive Directors excluding the BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 39 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE Chairman having consulted the Executive Directors beforehand.
He each of Bob Lawson, Mark Rolfe and Rod MacEachrane continue to be is also responsible for ensuring that, where required, heis available to effective in and that they each demonstrate satisfactory commitment to shareholders to i address any material issues or concerns which the their respective roles as Directors.
Accordingly, the Board re-appointed Chairman and or Group Chief Executive have failed to resolve, and ii each of them, subject to annual re-election by shareholders, for a further listen to their views in order for the Company to gain abalanced three-year term.
During this period each of them will continue with the understanding of their issues and concerns.
roles they currently hold upon the Committees of the Board.
Directors conflicts of interest In light of having served beyond six years on the Board, the reOn 1 October 2008, the Companies Act 2006 the Act codified the appointment of Bob Davies was subject to particularly rigorous review duty to avoid conflicts of interest, by which Directors have a duty to by the Chairman and the Nomination Committee.
The Board believes avoid a situation in which they have, or may have, a direct or indirect that Bob Davies performance continues to be effective and that he conflict of interest or possible conflict of interest with the Company.
demonstrates commitment to his role.
The Board has therefore agreed This duty applies to the exploitation of any property, information or to re-appoint Bob Davies, subject to annual re-election, for a further opportunity regardless of whether the Company could have taken two-year term, during which he will remain as the Senior Independent advantage of it.
The Companys Articles of Association the Articles Director and continue in the positions he currently holds upon the were amended at the annual general meeting held on 18 November Committees of the Board.
2008 to include a general power for the Board to authorise such conflicts.
The letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection by any person at the Companys registered office during The Board has, in accordance with the Articles and best practice normal office hours and will also be available at the 2011 AGM for guidance, authorised the Nomination Committee to oversee the process 15 minutes before and throughout the meeting.
The letters of for reviewing and making recommendations to the Board concerning appointment clearly set out the time commitment expected from each any actual and or potential conflicts of interest which arise or may arise Non-Executive Director to ensure they sufficiently perform their duties in relation to each member of the Board including details of any terms and each Non-Executive Director confirms that they are able to allocate and conditions which it deems necessary to impose on any authorisation the time commitment required at the time of appointment and during given.
This process was carried out satisfactorily during the year.
The Group General Counsel and Company Secretary maintains a Retirement and re-election of Directors Register of Directors conflicts of interest which is reviewed annually.
The Articles currently require Directors to submit themselves for Following this review the Group General Counsel and Company re-election by shareholders at the first annual general meeting following Secretary will make recommendations to the Board in respect of any their initial appointment to the Board and thereafter at each subsequent changes to the authorisations, or terms and conditions applied, that annual general meeting AGM at intervals of no more than three years.
Each Director is responsible for notifying, and is aware The Board has, however, in accordance with the Code and emerging of their responsibility to notify, the Chairman and or the Board of any practice, agreed to submit all of its Directors for re-election by the new conflicts or possible conflicts and of any change in circumstances shareholders atthe 2011 AGM, and at subsequent AGMs, irrespective relating to authorisations already given.
The Board, when authorising of their date ofappointment and length of service on the Board.
Each any conflict or possible conflict of interest, does not count in the quorum of the Directors has been subject to a formal performance evaluation the Director whose conflict or possible conflict is being discussed and process and it is believed that they each continue to be effective in and reserves the right to exclude a Director from a meeting whilst a conflict demonstrate commitment to their respective roles.
Biographies of each or possible conflict is being considered.
The Board may revoke or vary of the Directors and supporting statements for the re-election of all any authorisation at any time.
Directors are set out on pages 36 and 37 of this report and in the Notice of the 2011 AGM.
Details of the Executive Directors service contracts Re-appointment of Non-Executive Directors can be found in the Remuneration report on pages 54 and 55.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed, subject to re-election by shareholders and statutory provisions relating to the removal of The Board recommends that shareholders approve the resolutions to be directors, by the Board for an initial three-year term and normally serve put forward at the 2011 AGM relating to the re-election of all Directors.
Beyond this a third term of up to three years may be served subject to particularly rigorous review and taking Induction and development into account the need for progressive refreshment of the Board.
In On joining the Company, each new Director is provided with an accordance with the Code, any Non-Executive Director who serves nine induction pack and participates in an induction process which includes years or more on the Board would be subject to annual appointment.
site visits, meetings with all Board members and senior and operational management teams across the business.
In January of each year the During the year the Board considered and approved the re-appointments Board meets for a full day to review and develop the overall business of Bob Lawson, Mark Rolfe, Bob Davies and Rod MacEachrane.
Bob strategy of the Group which includes presentations from senior Lawson and Mark Rolfe have both completed three years service on management within the Group as well as external professionals.
theBoard this year, Bob Davies has completed seven years service andRod MacEachrane has completed five years service on the Board.
The Directors continue to update their skills, knowledge and familiarity Following a formal evaluation process by the Board, it was agreed that with the Company by attending appropriate external and internal seminars 40 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 and training courses, meeting with senior management and continuing to with individual Directors in order to appraise the performance of each visit regional and divisional operating offices and sites.
Additionally, during ofthem as Board members and explore the performance evaluation the year, guidance on specific matters such as the steps necessary to put findings.
Key outputs included the continued focus on succession in place adequate procedures to ensure continuing compliance with the planning at Board and senior management level together with a desire Bribery Act 2010, competition law and the Code, was provided to the foran enhanced annual strategic review.
As a result of the performance Board.
The Chairman regularly reviews and annually agrees training evaluation the Board and each of its Committees reviewed and updated and development needs with individual Directors.
their Terms of Reference as appropriate.
Information and support In accordance with the requirements of the Code, the Chairman met The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Board receives with the Non-Executive Directors independently of the Executive accurate, timely and clear information.
Each Director is issued with an Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent agenda, briefing papers and comprehensive operating and financial Director, met without the Chairman being present, to assess the management reports for the period under review at least a week performance of the Chairman and provided feedback from the process.
The Group General Counsel and Company Secretary attends all Board and Committee Meetings and all Directors have access to his advice and, if necessary, to independent professional advice at the Companys expense to assist with the discharge of their responsibilities as Directors.
All Directors are provided with a rolling three-year schedule of proposed meeting dates.
Any Director who is unable to attend a meeting is invited to provide their views to the Chairman ahead of that meeting, having reviewed the agenda, briefing papers and management information.
Reasons for non-attendance are recorded by the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Thereafter the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary will, if required, meet with any absent Director togo through any action points which are of relevance to that Director.
Formal minutes of each Board meeting are prepared, circulated and submitted for approval at the next meeting.
Performance evaluation The Board is responsible for undertaking a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance, that of its Committees and of individual Directors.
In 2010 the annual evaluation process was undertaken by Egon Zehnder International, an external consultant, who presented their findings to the Board in August 2010 and also provided feedback to each individual Director relating to their respective performance and contribution to the Board and its Committees.
In response to these findings, the Board developed an action plan, which has been included as a standing Board agenda item during 2010 11, to address the issues identified.
A number of the issues addressed by the Board and its Committees as applicable, during the course of the year surrounded enhancing the effectiveness of the Board and Committee processes and more generally senior succession planning.
For the 2010 11 financial year the Board decided to carry out its performance evaluation internally.
Each Director was asked to complete separate confidential questionnaires on the effectiveness of the Board and each of the Committees of which they are a member.
The Directors scored the performance of the Board and its Committees on various topics, including: contribution to strategy: risk management: financial and operating reporting: matters reserved for the Board: inter-relationships between the Board and its Committees: relations with advisers and regulators: and Board procedures.
Responses were collated by the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary and a non-attributable report on the findings was formally presented to the Board in June 2011 for discussion.
Thereafter the Chairman conducted one-to-one meetings BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 41
