Company Summary The Company Further details of the management arrangements are F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited the provided on pages 19 and 20 and in note 2 to the Company is an Authorised Closed-Ended Guernsey accounts.
Its shares have a Capital Structure premium listing on the Official List of the UK Listing The Companys equity capital structure consists of Authority and are traded on the main market of the ordinary shares Ordinary Shares.
Subject to the solvency test provided for in The The Annual Report and Accounts of the Company also Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 being satisfied, consolidate the results of its subsidiary undertakings, ordinary shareholders are entitled to all dividends which collectively are referred to throughout this declared by the Company and to all of the Companys document as the Group, details of which are assets after repayment of its borrowings and ordinary contained in note 1 b to the accounts.
At 31 December 2011 Group total assets less current liabilities were 967.3 million and Group shareholders Guernsey Regulatory Status funds were 684.2 million.
The Company is an Authorised Closed-Ended Investment Scheme domiciled in Guernsey and was Objective granted an authorisation declaration in accordance The investment objective of the Company is to provide with section 8 of the Protection of Investors Bailiwick ordinary shareholders with an attractive level of income together with the potential for capital and income of Guernsey Law 1987, as amended and rule 6.02 of growth from investing in a diversified UK commercial the Authorised Closed-Ended Investment Schemes property portfolio.
Investment Policy How to Invest The Companys investment policy is contained within The Managers operate a number of investment plans the Report of the Directors on pages 17 and 18. which facilitate investment in the shares of the Company.
Details are contained on page 54.
Management The Board has appointed F&C Investment Business You may also invest through your usual stockbroker.
Limited referred to throughout this document as FCIB or the Investment Managers as the Companys Website investment managers and F&C REIT Property Asset The Companys internet address is: www.
co. uk Management plc referred to throughout this document as F&C REIT or the Property Managers as the Companys property managers.
FCIB and F&C REIT are both part of the F&C Asset Management plc group F&C and, collectively, are referred to in this document as the Managers.
