Board of Directors Chris Russell` Peter Niven` Chairman FCIB, CDir, was appointed a FCA, FSIP, was appointed a Director in 2005 and is a Director on 31 October 2009 resident of Guernsey.
He has and Chairman on 19 May over 35 years experience in 2011.
He is a resident of the financial services industry Guernsey.
He was, until both in the UK and offshore.
2001, an executive director He was a senior executive in of Gartmore Investment Management plc.
He is a the Lloyds TSB Group until his retirement in 2004 director of JPMorgan Japan Smaller Companies and, since then, has been the Chief Executive of Trust plc, HICL Infrastructure Company Limited and Guernsey Finance LBG, promoting the island as a The Korea Fund Inc.
He is also Deputy Chairman of financial services destination.
He is a director of The Association of Investment Companies, and a Resolution Limited together with a number of director of Schroders C. I.
Limited, Enhanced Index Guernsey based London listed investment funds and a captive insurance PCC.
Brian Sweetland ` Jonathan Hooley ` FCA, CTA, CDir, was was appointed a Director in 2005 and is a UK resident.
appointed a Director on 31 October 2009 and is a He was, until May 2005, an executive director of Friends resident of Guernsey.
He was, until September 2007, Provident plc FP and a member of its investment the senior partner of KPMG in the Channel Islands.
As a solicitor, Mr a non-executive director of Kleinwort Benson Sweetland was the company secretary of FP for over 20 years.
He was formerly a non-executive Channel Islands Limited, BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited and Aqua Resources Fund Limited.
He is a director of Benchmark Group plc and, until January 2005, F&C Asset Management pcc.
member of the Offshore Advisory Committee of The Association of Investment Companies.
Nicholas Tostevin ` Martin Moore ` Chairman of the Audit MRICS, was appointed Committee a Director on 31 March was appointed a Director in 2011 and is a UK resident.
2005 and is a resident of He is Managing Director Guernsey.
He holds the of Prudential Property Investdegree of LLB Hons ment Managers Limited, the Bachelor of Law, qualified property asset management as a barrister in 1975 and as an Advocate of the arm of Prudential plc.
He was, until 2011, a board Royal Court of Guernsey in 1976 and practised as adviser to The Crown Estate and a board member such for 33 years when he retired as the Senior of the British Property Federation.
Partner of a Guernsey law firm.
He has served as Chairman of the Guernsey International Business Association, as a member of the Guernsey legislature and as the Batonnier or Chairman of the Guernsey Bar Council.
He is a non-executive director of a number of Guernsey based investment funds and insurance companies.
Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Management Engagement Committee `Member of the Nomination Committee 16 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited
