Managers Review Market Review however, with competition among buyers for these The market total return for the year ended 31 assets.
December 2011, as measured by the Investment Property Databank IPD All Quarterly and Monthly Portfolio Valued Funds, was 7.9 per cent.
This marks a return As at 31 December 2011 the Companys property to the traditional model with performance driven portfolio was valued at 932.5 million.
This represents largely by income, with modest capital value uplift.
an absolute increase in value, including net purchases, of 94.2 million, and an ungeared capital  increase, net of purchases, sales and capital the year progressed and, by the final three months of expenditure including acquisition costs of 4.6 per 2011, the yield compression that had driven the cent.
recovery in its early stages had virtually stalled.
Benchmark capital value growth was close to zero The portfolio recorded a total return of 11.4 per cent and rental growth was similar.
over the year, compared with the IPD All Quarterly and Monthly Valued Funds comprising directly held The problems in the Eurozone and concerns about properties only total return of 7.9 per cent referred to the pace of economic recovery, both overseas and in above.
This performance delivers a strong the United Kingdom, intensified over the course of outperformance of the benchmark.
Over the period, 2011 and affected sentiment towards investment, the portfolio was ranked on the 6th percentile and including property.
A climate of uncertainty and fears 16th out of the 240 funds included within the about the downside risk has ledto an increased focus benchmark.
The three-year annualised return ranks on prime property in established locations in core the portfolio on the 7th percentile against 220 funds, markets.
Investors are selective, favouring property while the five-year annualised return ranks the with long, secure and sustainable income streams.
portfolio on the 11th percentile against 206 funds.
As such, the portfolio continues to deliver top quartile In a subdued and cost sensitive occupier market, with performance over 1, 3 and 5 years.
a trend towards shorter leases and the payment of rates on vacant property, maintaining the income Geographical Analysis stream has been challenging.
This has borne more asat31December2011 heavily on the secondary market which has seen % income decline, especially at lease expiry.
The prime RestofLondon market, notably in areas of tight supply, has proved 1.0% moreresilientand, insomecircumstances, ithasbeen NorthWest10.7% possible to secure some rental uplifts and income SouthEast25.3% growth.
Scotland7.4% Thisdisparity inperformance was alsoapparent atthe regional level, with concern about the impact of public Midlands 12.1% sector cutbacks and an increased recognition that the austerity measures will involve long-term structural Eastern2.0% change, disproportionately affecting sentiment in areas outside London and the South East.
This became more pronounced as the year progressed.
London WestEnd 41.5% Investment activity in 2011 was slightly lower than in 2010 and institutions became net sellers by the year During the year it was decided to tender the external end.
In contrast, interest from overseas investors was valuation contract as the incumbent valuer, DTZ, had significant, especially in Central London and for large provided this service since the Companys launch lot sizes.
The exposure of the banks to commercial in 2005.
On completion of a robust selection process, property remains substantial, but the year saw a CBRE was appointed as the new service greater release of stock onto the market at their provider.
The handover between valuers was instigation as they divested themselves of problem managed effectively with CBRE undertaking a loans.
The availability of prime stock remained limited, .
8 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited shadow valuation in September 2011 and formally the South East.
Generally, it remains underweight to valuing the portfolio for the first time at the end of the the UK regions and continues to have no year.
The tendering of the contract has resulted in a representation in Northern Ireland, Wales, the North saving in fees but more importantly has resulted in a East or South West.
Sector Analysis asat31December2011 % Strategy and Positioning of Portfolio Other The portfolio continues to be managed to reflect our Industrial 0.4% conviction asset allocation to Central London and 13.5% particularly the West End.
During the year, various Offices opportunities were considered, appraised and bid on 39.2% to increase the Companys exposure to the City of Retail London, but in our view pricing was too aggressive Warehouses and we were unable to secure any of these 20.6% opportunities.
We were disciplined in our investment process and did not chase pricing.
As the year evolved, it became increasingly evident that activity in the City leasing market was slowing, reinforcing the judgements we made earlier in the year.
Given our Retail 26.3% current outlook, we are now happy with the underweight position to the City of London and our proxy weighting to the wider Central London market as a whole.
Following our strategic review of the Retail portfolio, there are one or two of the Companys The retail sector IPD benchmark total return was Central London properties which we believe no longer 6.9 per cent in 2011, representing a marked fit in the portfolio and, as such, we are likely to take deceleration from the total return of 15.7 per cent advantage of the current level of pricing to sell these recorded in the previous year.
performed the All Property average following two years of out-performance.
The market in 2011 was During 2011, the Company held cash to invest into affected by the squeeze on household income, a the direct market.
The Company benefits from having higher VAT rate and restricted credit availability tangible opportunities to add value to a substantial together with the continued move towards online proportion of its existing portfolio.
There were wide differences in of the portfolio is managed on a total return basis, performance within the market: Central London there is also a place in the portfolio for defensive shops, helped by tight supply, tourism and properties producing a good and stable income workplace shopping, delivered strong outreturn.
A focus of the acquisition policy during the performance.
Shops outside the South East were year was to appraise and acquire properties that significantly weaker with a total return of 5.2 per cent provide good quality income, possibly with fixed and shopping centres also under-performed at uplifts or some inflationary hedging, to balance the 5.0 per cent.
Retail warehousing total returns were portfolio.
slightly above the All Property average.
Prime retail property generally out-performed secondary Moving forward, stock selection remains critical in properties over the year.
Performance weakened tandem with the quality of income and cashflow.
towards the year end in several parts of the market  and, by the final quarter, all retail capital growth at regard for not only the location but also the quality of the benchmark level had turned negative, principally income and unexpired lease term vis a vis the expiry due to problems in the Rest of UK shops and profile of the portfolio.
These remain sectors Geographically, the portfolio continues to maintain its to which the Company has a low exposure, or no positioning to Central London, Rest of London and exposure.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 9 Managers Review continued The Companys retail properties produced a total completed at Woodstock House and successfully let return of 11.5 per cent for the year, significantly into a buoyant Central London residential market.
outperforming the IPD benchmark total return of The rebranding of the Estate was completed and 6.9 per cent.
Following on from the trend seen in  2010, the Companys strongest performance came of communication, whether with business occupiers, from its exposure to South East retail properties, consumers or visitors, in physical signage or on the which recorded a return of 14.4 per cent.
Looking to the future, plans were finalised performance reflects in the main the contribution from with Westminster City Council for significant Wimbledon Broadway, London SW19 and the improvements to the public realm throughout the Companys largest asset, the mixed use St. Estate, with workscommencing in February 2012and Christophers Place Estate, London W1, which is due to complete prior to the Olympic Games in July.
categorised by IPD into this segment.
Completion ofthese workswill enhance the ambiance and attractiveness of the Estate.
Offices Offices delivered an IPD benchmark total return of 9.6 per cent in 2011, driven by strong growth in Central London, where total returns in the West End and the City were 14.0 per cent and 13.3 per cent respectively.
TheWestEnd wasrelatively resilient over the course of the year but, as highlighted in the commentary above, macro-economic and financial concerns affected performance in the City office market towards the year end.
In contrast, performance in the South East was markedly weaker at 5.5 per cent, and total returns for provincial offices were barely positive at 1.4 per cent.
Sentiment towards the regional office markets St. Christophers Place Estate, London W1 At St. Christophers Place Estate, asset management initiatives focused on building on the successes of 2010 and completing a series of key strategic lettings to retail tenants that collectively enhance income, lease expiry profile and the overall customer experience.
Lettings were completed to Kurt Geiger, Prints, Elliot Rhodes and Sensory Lab.
A series of office and residential refurbishments were undertaken and completed during the year.
The common parts of 3 Barrett Street were remodelled and three vacant suites within the building refurbished and re-let.
A refurbishment of the 4th floor at 6 James Street completed and terms were agreed to let the space to an existing occupier within the same building.
The residential estate was expanded with the purchase of a long lease of the upper floors of 28-30 James Street which provides four, twobedroom apartments.
Three of these flats have now been refurbished.
Meanwhile, seven apartments were Alhambra House, Wellington Street, Glasgow 10 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited remained subdued, reflecting concerns about the  inSeptember impact of public sector cutbacks, and capital growth and prior to the year end lettings of both the fifth and was negative for the year in this part of the market.
third floors were contracted at rents equating to 90.60 psf and 82.50 psf.
Since the year end, a The Companys office properties recorded a total letting of the fourth floor has contracted at an return of 12.9 per cent for the year, compared to the average rent of 85.00 psf and the property has IPD benchmark total return of 9.6 per cent.
The outbeen awarded a BREEAM British Research performance of this sector was driven by the Establishment Environmental Assessment Method Companys overweight positioning to London, West rating of Excellent which reinforces its sustainable .
However, just and green credentials.
Great Pulteney Street has as importantly, the Companys regional office portfolio been constructed and finished to a high standard and also outperformed its benchmark with a total return of the quality of the offering is evidenced by the fact all 5.6 per cent compared with the benchmark total three lettings contracted have been to corporates return of 1.4 per cent.
It should be noted that the from the Financial and Business Sector and not regional office segment produced the weakest market Sohos traditional media advertising occupier base.
As a result of these three high profile lettings, at the time of writing, the building is 38 per cent let by floor In September, the Company completed both on time area and 49 per cent let by rental value.
This is and budget its flagship development at 25 Great testament to the quality of the building.
There remains Pulteney Street, London W1.
This property, located in a good level of interest in the remaining floors.
On the Londons Soho area, comprises approximately back of this success, 25 Great Pulteney Street was 33,000 sq ft Grade A space and we believe was the Companys best performing property during launched into the market at an opportune time.
quoting rent on the upper floors is 75.00 psf, significantly ahead of the proforma Estimated Rental Value ERV of 52.00-55.00 psf adopted in the Covenant Strength appraisals at the time of making the decision, in the asat31December2011 % recession, to start on site.
MaximumRisk 6.7% Unmatched2.9% HighRisk3.7% Negligibleand Government Medium-High Risk58.0% Risk0.9% Low-Medium Risk8.2% LowRisk19.6%  IPD.
Within the South East office segment of the portfolio we had success with asset managing an early lease expiry at Building C, Watchmoor Park, Camberley.
The building, comprising approximately 60,000 sq ft, was let to Novartis, one of the worlds largest healthcare companies, at a commencing rent of 850,000 per annum for a term of 10 years subject to rent-free periods and break clauses.
25 Great Pulteney Street, London W1 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 11 Managers Review continued The building was substantially refurbished to a The Industrial South East portfolio was marked down specification, agreed with the tenant, involving a in value due to a number of short term lease expiries capital commitment of approximately 4 million.
and the fact that there is no resolution to planning matters and master planning at the Ozalid Works, Prior to this letting, the Company had taken an early Colchester.
However, asaleofpart ofthesiteremains surrender of a lease of the building which had been under offer to a major food store retailer and we are due to expire in February 2012.
A premium of hopeful of securing satisfactory planning consent 2.9 million was received from the tenant to cover during the course of 2012.
It remains our view that full rent, rates and service charges payable until the the sale of part of this site will be the catalyst for a end of the lease and, in addition, a dilapidations regeneration of the area.
This is supported by the settlement was agreed.
This was the Companys major house builders now beginning to seek to largest lease event due in 2012 and the early acquire land banks for future development.
With surrender enabled us to take a more proactive regard to the short term lease expiries it is stance in relation to the lease, to enhance the overall envisaged that, nearer the time of the event, tenants lease expiry profile and to achieve the largest office will renew their occupation of the premises.
letting in the M3 corridor for three years.
Tenure Analysis Industrial & Logistics asat31December2011 % The industrial market delivered an IPD benchmark total return of 7.5 per cent in 2011, with the South Leasehold6.6% East generally out-performing the rest of the UK and prime out-performing secondary.
The industrial market is favoured for its high income return, which Freehold77.2% totalled 6.8 per cent in 2011, and investment into the sector increased towards the year end as several MixedFreehold Leasehold16.2% large portfolios were marketed.
Purchases & Disposals The acquisition strategy during the year was to invest the Companys available cash into good quality property with a long and sustainable income stream.
In September, the Company announced its first acquisition of the year, contracting to the funding of 5 blocks of student accommodation in Winchester.
This development will comprise 499 bedrooms and, on completion, the University of Winchester will enter into a direct lease for a term of 25 years subject to Unit 6a, Hams Hall Distribution Park, Birmingham fixed annual RPI increases with a collar and cap of 1.0 per cent and 3.5 per cent.
The development The Companys industrial and logistics properties period extends to approximately two years.
This underperformed the IPD benchmark, recording a total commitment involves total capital expenditure of return of 6.7 per cent.
However, when this is broken 26.5 million and has been funded off an attractive down, the under-performance was attributable to yield of 6.15 per cent.
Since committing to this industrials located in the South East which recorded a acquisition, the developer and contractor, Geoffrey total return of 5.9 per cent benchmark 8.3 per cent Osborne Limited, has commenced construction.
Four while industrials located in the rest of UK recorded a of the five accommodation blocks are currently under total return of 7.1 per cent benchmark 6.2 per cent.
It is envisaged that 12 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited two of the blocks will be handed over to the university prior to the start of the 2012 13 academic year, and a pro rata rent will become payable on these blocks, with the remaining three blocks to be handed over prior to the next academic year.
This is the Companys first exposure to an alternative sector and the acquisition is supported by the fundamentals of a long lease with partial inflationary hedging, strong ongoing educational demand and a strong city supported by underlying residential values.
InDecember,  of a retail warehouse unit at Mavor Avenue, East Liverpool, Unit 1, G. Park, Portal Way Kilbride.
The property is let to B&Q for a term of 18 years on a full repairing and insuring lease at a current costs of land assembly, infrastructure, build costs, rent of 1,468,724 pa 13.85 psf.
The property was costs of finance and profit.
This acquisition provides purchased for 20.0 million reflecting a net initial yield , asecure of 6.94 per cent.
Once again, this property provides a tenant off a low rental base, an attractive income on long and secure income on a covenant to which the expiryoftherentfree  , andarelatively the future.
When this acquisition is added to the high yield.
Companys existing exposure to Exel Europe Limited, in aggregate this tenant is now the Companys largest tenant exposure, representing 5.4 per cent of the Companys total annual rental income.
Earlier in the year, the Company acquired the long leasehold interest of four residential units at 28-30 James Street, London W1 part of St Christophers Place Estate at a price of 2.3 million.
These flats were subject to a lease, in excess of 65 years, at a peppercorn rent and are located in one of the Companys freehold properties on the Estate.
Three of these flats were vacant and the fourth was subject to a short term let.
This acquisition accords with the Companys strategy to acquire ownership on the Estate falling outwith the Companys direct control and properties adjoining the Estate which add to critical mass and value.
East Kilbride, Mavor Avenue The Company sold only one property during year: The third purchase during the year was of Unit 1, 40-42 Albion Street, Leeds.
This high street shop unit G Park, Portal Way, Liverpool, a 360,309 sq ft was sold at a price of 1.125 million which distribution warehouse constructed in 2009 and represented a small reduction on the last external located at Junction 5 of the M57 motorway.
The reason for the sale was property is let to Exel Europe Limited for a term of 10 , at years which commenced in March 2011, at a rent of the rent passing, considered ex-growth.
The tenant committed significant capital expenditure to fit out Property Management the property to an enhanced specification and, in return, received a rent free period expiring in July As already highlighted, maintaining income levels in 2014.
The purchase price of 13.3 million will provide this environment has been challenging, but the ayieldof10.25per cent whenincomeproducing.
The strategy of sustaining and protecting the rental income from the portfolio remains the principal asset purchase price breaks back to a capital value of 36 psf, which is low in comparison with the current total management focus.
During the year, the Company Annual Report and Accounts 2011 13 Managers Review continued been a number of high profile retailer defaults.
The Lease Expiry Profile Company is not heavily exposed to the mainstream , , was6.7years 2010:6.8years.
However, notwithstanding this strategic asset allocation policy, the Company does have some exposure to retailers recently entering 50% administration, including Peacocks Newbury Retail 42.8% Park and Blacks Wimbledon Broadway, London 40% SW19, with an aggregate rental liability of 345,000 34.6% per annum, or 0.6 per cent of total annual rental 30% income.
We will continue to negotiate with administrators to regularise the occupancy of these 20% units, but in both locations there is demand from 16.8% other retailers to take the space.
10% 5.8% Outlook 0% With little evidence of capital or rental growth 0 5years 5 10years 10 15years 15 25years occurring in the property market and with some LeaseLength segments seeing negative numbers, performance in 2012 is expected to continue to be driven by income returns.
The economic and financial market outlook is highly uncertain and this is leading both investors and occupiers to delay taking decisions documented 23 rent reviews at an uplift of 597,000 and to avoid risk.
The coming year is expected to per annum 12 per cent over the previous rent see increasing pressure on secondary stock, passing.
especially if banks release more supply into the Void levels over the year increased from 2.6 per cent market.
Our short-term strategy is to focus on to 6.0 per cent excluding properties held for protecting the income stream both through the development.
This increase was largely due to the selection and retention of prime resilient stock and completion of 25 Great Pulteney Street.
However, by asset management initiatives aimed at minimising Great Pulteney Street is letting well with 49 per cent of voids, lengthening leases and increasing flexibility the available floor area by rental value being let within and letting potential.
Over the medium-term, we six months of completion.
Elsewhere, progress is expect performance to strengthen but the slow being made on letting vacant accommodation and we pace of economic recovery will constrain prospects promote a targeted and pragmatic approach to for marked uplifts in rental and capital growth, dealing with this space.
except in some core, prime areas.
Wecontinue toactively manage theCompanys rental arrears and bad debts.
Bad debts for the year were 0.6 per cent of gross annualised rents, which remains Richard Kirby extremely low for a portfolio of this size.
Investment Manager Sincetheyearend,  F&C REIT Property Asset Management plc speculation over retailers and indeed there have 28 March 2012 14 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited
