Report of the Directors The Directors present their report and accounts of corporate governance procedures and risk the Group for the year ended 31 December 2011. management.
As set out in the Directors Responsibility Statement on page 28, the Board is Results and Dividends also responsible for the preparation of the Annual The results for the year are set out in the attached Report and financial statements for each financial accounts.
Biographical details of the Directors, all of whom are non-executive, can be found on page 16.
The Group paid interim dividends during the year The Company has no executive Directors or ended 31 December 2011 as follows: employees.
Payment Rate per date share Objective Ninth interim for prior year 28 January 2011 0.5p The Companys investment objective is to provide Tenth interim for prior year 25 February 2011 0.5p Eleventh interim for prior year 25 March 2011 0.5p ordinary shareholders with an attractive level of Twelfth interim for prior year 28 April 2011 0.5p income together with the potential for capital and First interim 27 May 2011 0.5p income growth from investing in a diversified UK Second interim 24 June 2011 0.5p commercial property portfolio.
Third interim 29 July 2011 0.5p Fourth interim 26 August 2011 0.5p Fifth interim 30 September 2011 0.5p Investment Policy Sixth interim 28 October 2011 0.5p The Companys policy is to hold a diversified Seventh interim 25 November 2011 0.5p portfolio of freehold and predominantly long Eighth interim 30 December 2011 0.5p leasehold over 60 years remaining at the time of acquisition UK commercial properties.
It invests It is the policy of the Directors to declare and pay principally in three commercial property sectors: dividends as interim dividends.
The Directors do not office, retail and industrial.
Two further interim dividends, each of 0.5p per share, were paid The Company invests in properties which the Board, on 27 January and 24 February 2012 and a third will on the advice of the Managers, believes will be paid on 30 March 2012.
The twelfth, and last, generate a combination of long-term growth in interim dividend in respect of the year, of 0.5p per capital and income for shareholders.
Investment share, will be paid on 27 April 2012 to shareholders decisions are based on an analysis of, amongst on the register on 13 April 2012.
It is the intention of other things, prospects for future capital and income the Directors that the Company will continue to pay growth, sector and geographic prospects, tenant dividends monthly.
covenant strength, lease length, and initial and equivalent yields.
Principal Activity and Status Investment risks are spread by investing across The Company is a  company different geographical areas and sectors and by registered number 50402 and, during the year, letting properties to low risk tenants.
The Company carried on business as a property investment has not set any maximum geographic exposures, company.
The Companys shares are traded on the but the maximum weightings in the principal London Stock Exchange.
property sectors at any time stated as a percentage The Company is a member of the Association of of total assets are: office: 50 per cent: retail: 65 per Investment Companies AIC.
cent: and industrial: 40 per cent.
No single property may exceed 15 per cent of total assets and the five The principal activities of the Companys subsidiaries largest properties excluding indirect property funds are included in note 1 b to the accounts.
may not exceed 40 per cent of total assets in each Business Review case at the time of acquisition.
Short leasehold The Board of Directors is responsible for the overall properties with less than 60 years remaining may stewardship of the Company, including investment not exceed 10 per cent of total assets at the time of and dividend policies, corporate strategy, gearing, acquisition.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 17 Report of the Directors continued The Company is permitted to invest up to 15 per property market in general and its investment cent, at the time of acquisition, of its total assets in properties.
The Managers seek to mitigate these indirect property funds including listed property risks through active asset management initiatives and companies which invest principally in UK property, carrying out due diligence work on potential tenants but these investments may not exceed 20 per cent before entering into any new lease agreements.
All of of total assets at any subsequent date.
The the properties in the portfolio are insured.
Detailed Company is permitted to invest cash, held by it for explanations of the risks associated with the Groups working capital purposes and awaiting investment, in financial instruments are contained in note 18 to the cash deposits, gilts and money market funds.
The Company uses gearing throughout the Group to Other risks faced by the Company include the enhance returns over the long term.
Gearing, following: represented by borrowings as a percentage of total Economic external shocks, inflation or deflation, assets, may not exceed 50 per cent.
However, the economic recessions and movements in interest Boards present intention is that borrowings of the rates could affect property valuations.
Group will be limited to a maximum of 35 per cent Investment and strategic incorrect strategy, of total assets at the time of borrowing.
including sector and geographic allocations and use of gearing could lead to poor returns for Investment of Assets shareholders.
At each Board meeting, the Board receives a Regulatory breach of regulatory rules could lead detailed presentation from the Managers which to suspension of the Companys Stock Exchange includes a review of investment performance, recent listing, financial penalties or a qualified audit portfolio activity and a market outlook.
considers compliance with the investment policy and Management and control changes that cause other investment restrictions during the reporting the management and control of the Company to period.
An analysis of how the portfolio was invested be exercised in the United Kingdom could lead to as at 31 December 2011 is contained within the the Company becoming liable to United Kingdom Managers Review on pages 8 to 14 and a portfolio taxation on income and capital gains.
listing is provided on page 15.
Operational failure of the Managers accounting The Groups borrowings are described in notes 13 systems or disruption to the Managers business, and 14 to the accounts.
or that of third party service providers, could lead to an inability to provide accurate reporting and Strategy monitoring, leading to a loss of shareholders As part of its strategy the Board has contractually confidence.
delegated the management of the property portfolio Financial inadequate controls by the Managers and other services to the Managers.
or third party service providers could lead The Companys performance in meeting its to misappropriation of assets.
Inappropriate objectives is measured against key performance accounting policies or failure to comply with indicators as set out below.
A review of the accounting standards could lead to a qualified Companys returns during the financial year, the audit report, misreporting or breaches of position of the Company at the year-end, and regulations.
Breaching Guernsey solvency test the outlook for the coming year are contained in the requirements or loan covenants could lead to a Chairmans Statement and the Managers Review.
loss of shareholders confidence and financial loss for shareholders see notes 13 and 14 for Principal Risks and Risk Management details of the principal loan covenants.
The Companys assets comprise direct investments The Board seeks to mitigate and manage these in UK commercial property, although market uncertainty has resulted in cash being held.
Its risks through continual review, policy-setting and enforcement of contractual obligations.
It also principal risks are therefore related to the commercial 18 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited regularly monitors the investment environment and The Directors who held office as at 31 December the management of the Companys property 2011 and their interests in the shares of the portfolio, and applies the principles detailed in the Company all of which were beneficially held on that internal control guidance issued by the Financial date were: Reporting Council.
Details of the Companys internal 2011 2010 controls are described in more detail on pages 22 Ordinary Ordinary Shares Shares and 23.
Shareholder Value C Russell 100,000 50,000 The Board and Managers recognise the importance J G Hooley 60,000 60,000 of both marketing and share buy-backs in M R Moore enhancing shareholder value.
In terms of marketing, appointed 31 March 2011 the Managers offer a range of private investor P Niven 43,142 43,142 savings schemes, details of which can be found on B W Sweetland 100,000 88,961 page 54.
In addition, meetings are held regularly with current and prospective shareholders and N J M Tostevin 21,832 21,832 stockbroking analysts covering the investment company sector.
Share buy-backs can help reduce There have been no changes in the above interests the volatility of any discount of the share price to the between 31 December 2011 and 28 March 2012. net asset value per share and enhance the net asset As explained in more detail under Corporate value per share for continuing shareholders.
Governance on pages 20 to 22, the Board has Communication of quarterly portfolio information is agreed that all Directors will retire annually.
made through the Companys website.
Accordingly, every Director will retire at the Annual Key Performance Indicators General Meeting and, being eligible, offers himself The Board uses a number of performance measures for re-election.
to assess the Companys success in meeting its The Directors believe that the Board has an objectives.
The key performance indicators are as appropriate balance of skills, experience, follows: independence and knowledge of the Company to Net asset value total return and total return of the enable it to provide effective strategic leadership and property portfolio compared to relevant proper guidance of the Company.
The Board Investment Property Databank indices: confirms that, following formal performance Premium discount of share price to net asset evaluations, the performance of each of the value: Directors seeking re-election continues to be Dividend per share and dividend yield: and effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
Total expenses as a ratio of total assets less The Board therefore believes that it is in the interests current liabilities.
of shareholders that these Directors are re-elected.
A historic record of these indicators is contained There are no service contracts in existence between in the Highlights and the Performance Summary on the Company and any Directors but each of the pages 2 and 3, the Chairmans Statement on Directors has been issued with a letter of pages 4 to 6, and in the Historic Record on appointment that sets out the main terms of his page 53. appointment.
Directors Management Mr M R Moore was appointed as a Director on 31 March 2011.
Mr J H Stephen retired as a The Managers provide investment management and other services to the Company.
Details of the Director and Chairman of the Company on 19 May 2011.
On the same date, Mr C Russell, who was arrangements between the Company and the Managers in respect of management services are appointed as a Director on 31 October 2009, succeeded Mr Stephen as Chairman.
provided in note 2 to the accounts.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 19 Report of the Directors continued The Board keeps under review the appropriateness The Board considers that it is appropriate to report of the Managers appointment.
In doing so the against the principles and recommendations of the Board considers the past investment performance of AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which the Company and the capability and resources of incorporates the UK Corporate Governance Code.
the Managers to deliver satisfactory investment On 30 September 2011, the Guernsey Financial performance.
It also considers the length of the Services Commission issued a Finance Sector Code notice period of the investment management of Corporate Governance the GFSC Code which agreement and the fees payable to the Managers, came into effect on 1 January 2012.
As the together with the standard of the other services Company already reports against the AIC Code and provided.
the UK Corporate Governance Code it is deemed to The Directors are satisfied with the Managers ability meet the requirements of the GFSC Code and has to deliver satisfactory investment performance, and therefore not reported further on its compliance with the quality of other services provided.
It is therefore that code.
their opinion that the continuing appointment of the Except as disclosed in the following paragraph, the Managers on the terms agreed is in the interests of Company complied throughout the year with the shareholders as a whole.
recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Substantial Interests in Share Capital Since all the Directors are non-executive, in As at 31 December 2011 the Company had accordance with the AIC Code and the preamble to received notification of the following holdings of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the provisions voting rights under the FSAs Disclosure and of the UK Corporate Governance Code on the role Transparency Rules : Number of of the chief executive and, except in so far as they Ordinary Shares Percentage apply to non-executive Directors, on Directors Held Held remuneration, are not relevant to the Company, and Resolution Limited 232,415,797 34.1 are not reported on further.
Phoenix Life Limited 109,931,698 16.1 Until his appointment as Chairman on 19 May 2011, Mr Chris Russell was Deputy Chairman.
Since that Based on 680,537,003 shares in issue as at 31 December date there has been no Deputy Chairman or Senior 2011.
Independent Director as recommended by principle No further notifications have been received by the 1 of the AIC Code and provision A.
4.1 of the UK Company since 31 December 2011.
The Board consists solely of non-executive Corporate Governance Directors.
Other than Mr P Niven, who is a nonThe Board has considered the principles and executive director of the Companys largest recommendations of the AICs Code of Corporate shareholder, Resolution Limited, all are considered Governance issued in October 2010 the AIC by the Board to be independent.
Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies issued The Companys Articles of Incorporation require at the same time the AIC Guide, both of which all Directors to retire by rotation at least every can be found at www.
However, in accordance with the as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the recommendations of the AIC Code and the UK principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Code the Board has agreed Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in that all Directors will retire annually and, if June 2010, which can be found at www.
as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues specific to investment The Boards policy on tenure is that continuity and companies.
experience are considered to add significantly to the 20 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited Management Board of Directors Audit Committee Engagement Committee Nomination Committee Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended C Russell 5 5 1 1 1 1 1 1 J H Stephen retired 19 May 2011 1 1 n a n a 1 1 1 1 J G Hooley 5 5 2 2 1 1 1 1 P Niven 5 5 n a n a n a n a 1 1 M R Moore appointed 31 March 2011 43 1 B W Sweetland 5 5 2 2 1 1 1 1 N J M Tostevin 5 5 2 2 1 1 1 1 strength of the Board and, as such, no limit on the agreement between the Company and FCIB sets out overall length of service of any of the Companys the matters over which the Managers have authority Directors, including the Chairman, has been imposed.
and the limits beyond which Board approval must be New Directors receive an induction from the sought.
All other matters, including investment and Managers and Secretary on joining the Board, and all dividend policies, corporate strategy, gearing, .
corporate governance procedures and risk management, are reserved for the approval of the During the year the performance of the Board, Board of Directors.
The Board meets atleast quarterly committees and individual Directors was evaluated and receives full information on the Companys through an assessment process led by the investment performance, assets, liabilities and other Chairman.
This process involved the completion of .
questionnaires tailored to suit the nature of the Throughout the year a number of committees have Company, discussions with individual Directors and been in operation.
Those committees are the Audit individual feedback from the Chairman to each of Committee, the Management Engagement the Directors.
The evaluation of the Chairman was Committee and the Nomination Committee.
The led by the Chairman of the Audit Committee in committees operate within clearly defined terms of consultation with all the other Directors.
Plans are to reference which are available for inspection on be made for an external evaluation during 2013. request.
The above table sets out the number of scheduled Board and committee meetings held during the year Audit Committee and the number of meetings attended by each The Audit Committee comprises all of the Directors Director.
In addition to these scheduled meetings, except Mr P Niven and the Chairman of the Board, there were a further 16 Board and Board committee Mr C Russell.
It is chaired by Mr N J M Tostevin.
The meetings held in Guernsey during the year.
committee meets at least twice yearly and is the forum through which the auditor reports to the Board Individual Directors may, at the expense of the of Directors.
Its duties include reviewing the Annual Company, seek independent professional advice on and Interim Accounts, the system of internal controls any matter that concerns them in the furtherance of and the terms of appointment and remuneration of their duties.
The Company maintains appropriate the auditor.
The independence of the auditor is Directors and Officers liability insurance.
reviewed by the Audit Committee which also reviews The basis on which the Company aims to generate the terms under which the external auditor is value over the longer term is set out in its objective, appointed to perform non-audit services.
The  containedwithin the committee reviews the scope and results of the audit, Business Review on pages 17 to 19.
A management its cost effectiveness and the independence and Annual Report and Accounts 2011 21 Report of the Directors continued objectivity of the auditor, with particular regard to the experience, diversity, independence and knowledge terms of non-audit services.
In addition to statutory of the Company.
audit fees of 60,000 2010: 59,000, the auditor received audit-related fees of 14,000 for the year Going Concern ended 31 December 2011 year ended 31 December In assessing the going concern basis of accounting 2010: 13,000 which related principally to a review of the Directors have had regard to the guidance issued the interim financial information and certification of by the Financial Reporting Council.
They have bond compliance certificates.
Other non-audit fees considered the current cash position of the Group, during the year ended 31 December 2011 were nil forecast rental income and other forecast cash flows.
It has The Group has agreements relating to its borrowing been agreed that all non-audit work to be carried out facilities with which it has complied during the year.
by the auditor must be approved in advance by the Based on this information the Directors believe that Audit Committee and any special projects must also the Group has the ability to meet its financial be approved in advance.
Notwithstanding such nonobligations as they fall due for a period of at least audit and audit-related services the Audit Committee twelve months from the date of approval of the considers KPMG Channel Islands Limited to be accounts.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the independent ofthe Company andthatthe provision of going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
such non-audit and audit-related services is not a threat to the objectivity and independence of the Internal Controls conductoftheaudit.
The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Management Engagement Committee It has therefore established a process designed to The Management Engagement Committee meet the particular needs of the Company in comprises all of the Directors except Mr P Niven.
managing the risks to which it is exposed, It is chaired by Mr J G Hooley.
The committee consistent with the internal control guidance issued reviews the appropriateness of the Managers by the Financial Reporting Council.
continuing appointment together with the terms and As part of this process, the Board has created a conditions thereof on a regular basis.
matrix that identifies the Companys key functions, including those carried out by the Managers and Nomination Committee other service providers, and the individual activities The Nomination Committee comprises all of the undertaken within those functions.
From this, the Directors and is chaired by Mr C Russell.
The Board Board has identified the Companys principal risks considers that, given its size, it would be and the controls employed to minimise those risks.
unnecessarily burdensome to establish a separate These are reviewed at each Board Meeting.
The nomination committee which did not include the Board also monitors the investment performance of entire Board and believes that this enables all the Company in comparison to its stated objective Directors to be kept fully informed of any issues that and against comparable companies, and reviews the arise.
The committee is convened for the purpose of Companys activities since the last Board meeting to considering the appointment of additional Directors ensure that the Managers adhere to the agreed as and when considered appropriate.
During the investment policy and approved investment year, Mr M R Moore, who has significant real estate guidelines and, if necessary, approves changes to experience and whose biographical details are the guidelines.
In addition, the Board receives included on page 16, was appointed as a Director, quarterly reports from the Secretary in respect of with the assistance of an external search consultant.
compliance matters and duties performed on behalf In considering appointments to the Board, the of the Company.
Nomination Committee takes into account the ongoing requirements of the Company and the A formal annual review of these procedures is need to have within the Board a balance of skills, carried out by the Audit Committee.
The Audit 22 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited Committee has also reviewed the Managers with contractors, tenants and consultants to Report on Policies and Procedures in Operation minimise those impacts, seeking continuous and Tests for the period from 1 January to improvements in environmental performance and 31 December 2011 that has been prepared by the conducting regular reviews.
Managers for their investment company clients to the standards of the Institute of Chartered Relations with Shareholders Accountants in England and Wales Technical The Company proactively seeks the views of its Release AAF 01 06.
Containing a report from shareholders and places great importance on independent external accountants, the report sets communication with them.
The Board receives out the Managers control policies and procedures regular reports on the views of shareholders and the with respect to the management of their clients Chairman and other Directors make themselves investments.
The effectiveness of these controls is available to, and do, meet shareholders when monitored by the Managers group audit committee required to discuss any significant issues that have which receives regular reports from the Managers arisen and address shareholder concerns and audit, risk and compliance department.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting to be are in place to capture and evaluate failings and held on 29 May 2012 is set out on pages 51 and weaknesses and ensure that action would be taken 52.
It is hoped that this will provide a forum, both to remedy any significant issues identified from this formal and informal, for shareholders to meet and monitoring, which would be reported to the Board.
discuss issues with the Directors and Managers of No significant failings or weaknesses in respect of the Company.
the Company were identified in the year under review or to the date of this report.
Directors Authority to Allot Shares The review procedures detailed above have been in The Company did not allot any shares during the place throughout the year and up to the date of year.
approval of the Annual Report, and the Board is satisfied with their effectiveness.
These procedures Resolution 11 seeks an authority from shareholders to disapply pre-emption rights in relation to the issue are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and, by their nature, can only provide reasonable, of shares as set out in the Listing Rules made by the Financial Services Authority under Part VI of the but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as amended.
Resolution 11 gives the Directors, for the The Board has reviewed the need for an internal period until the conclusion of the Annual General audit function.
It has decided that the systems and Meeting in 2012 or, if earlier, on the expiry of procedures employed by the Managers and the 15 months from the passing of the resolution, the Secretary, including their internal audit functions and necessary authority either to allot securities or sell the work carried out by the Companys external shares held in treasury, otherwise than to existing auditor, provide sufficient assurance that a sound shareholders on a pro-rata basis, up to an system of internal control, which safeguards the aggregate nominal amount of 695,287.
This is Companys assets, is maintained.
An internal audit equivalent to approximately 10 per cent of the function specific to the Company is therefore issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at considered unnecessary.
Environmental Policy The Directors will only allot new shares pursuant to this authority and the authority to allot shares The Property Managers acquire, develop and manage properties on behalf of the Company.
It is contained in the Articles of Incorporation of the Company if they believe it is advantageous to the recognised that these activities have both direct and indirect environmental impacts.
The Companys shareholders to do so and in no circumstances that would result in a dilution to the Board has endorsed the Property Managers own environmental policy which is to work in partnership net asset value per share.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 23 Report of the Directors continued Since the year end, the Company has issued over a period of time or not, an interest in shares as 14,750,000 shares and there were defined in the Takeover Code which, when taken 695,287,003 Ordinary Shares in issue as at together with shares already held by him or held or 28 March 2012. acquired by persons acting in concert with him, carry 30 per cent or more of the voting rights of a company which is subject to the Takeover Code, or Directors Authority to Buy Back Shares who holds more than 30 per cent but not more than The Company did not buy back any shares during 50 per cent of the voting rights of such a company the year.
and acquires an interest in any additional shares The current authority of the Company to make market carrying voting rights of that company, is normally purchases of Ordinary Shares expires at the end of required to make a general cash offer to all the the Annual General Meeting and Resolution 12, as remaining shareholders of the company to acquire set out in the notice of the Annual General Meeting, their shares.
Rule 37 of the Takeover Code extends seeks renewal of such authority until the earlier of the this principle so that when a company purchases its Annual General Meeting in 2013 and 18 months from own voting shares any resulting increase in the the passing of the resolution.
Any buy back of percentage of shares carrying voting rights which a Ordinary Shares will be made subject to Guernsey person or group of persons acting in concert is law and within any guidelines established from time to interested will be treated as an acquisition for the time by the Board and the making and timing of any purposes of Rule 9 of the Takeover Code although buy backs will be at the absolute discretion of the a shareholder who is neither a director nor acting in Board.
Purchases of Ordinary Shares will only be concert with a director will not normally incur an made through the market for cash at prices below the obligation to make an offer under Rule 9 of the prevailing net asset value of the Ordinary Shares as Takeover Code.
last calculated where the Directors believe such Mr P Niven is a Director of the Company and a purchases will enhance shareholder value.
The price director of Resolution Limited.
Resolution Limited paid will not be less than the nominal value of 1p per and its subsidiaries presumed to be acting in share.
Such purchases will also only be made in concert with it for the purposes of the Takeover accordance with the rules of the UK Listing Authority Code the Resolution Concert Party are therefore which provide that the price to be paid must not be deemed to be acting in concert with Mr Niven.
As at more than the higher of i 5 per cent above the 28 March 2012 being the latest practicable date average of the middle market quotations as derived prior to the publication of this document the from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Resolution Concert Party held 233,155,798 Ordinary Exchange for the Ordinary Shares for the five Shares in the Company, representing 33.5 per cent business days before the shares are purchased: and of the issued share capital.
Accordingly, if any ii the higher of the last independent trade and the Ordinary Shares were to be repurchased by the highest current independent bid on the trading venue Company pursuant to the share buy back authority which the purchase is carried out.
Any shares noted above, and the members of the Resolution purchased under this authority will be cancelled or Concert Party did not sell a proportionate amount of held in treasury within the following limits: their holding, then the aggregate percentage holding No more than 10 per cent of the Companys of the Resolution Concert Party would increase and, issued shares will be held in treasury at any time: pursuant to Rule 37 of the Takeover Code, in the and absence of a waiver from the Takeover Panel, the Shares will only be re-issued out of treasury at a Resolution Concert Party would be required to make premium to the net asset value.
a general cash offer to all of the remaining shareholders of the Company to acquire their The City Code on Takeovers and Mergers the shares.
The Company is therefore seeking a waiver Takeover Code of such mandatory bid obligation to the extent that it Under Rule 9 of the Takeover Code, any person would otherwise be triggered by any buy back by who acquires, whether by a series of transactions the Company.
24 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited Accordingly, shareholders are being asked to of the Company.
If the continuation resolution is not approve a waiver of the obligation on the Resolution passed, the Directors will be obliged to convene an Concert Party to make a general offer for the entire Extraordinary General Meeting within six months to issued share capital of the Company.
In order to consider the winding up of the Company or a comply with the Takeover Code, this resolution will reconstruction of the Company which offers all be taken on a poll and both Mr Niven and each of Shareholders the opportunity to realise their the members of the Resolution Concert Party has investment.
If the continuation resolution is passed, undertaken not to vote on the resolution.
The the Directors will propose a similar resolution at the waiver, if approved, will expire at the Annual General Annual General Meeting of the Company five yearly Meeting in 2013 or, if earlier, on 29 November 2013. thereafter.
Further details can be found in the shareholder circular to be dated on or around the date hereof Disclosure of Information to the Auditor entitled Proposed renewal of the waiver of the The Directors who held office at the date of approval requirements of Rule 9 of the City Code on of this Report of the Directors confirm that: Takeovers and Mergers.
so far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Discount Policy and Continuation Votes Companys auditor is unaware: and The Boards stated intention is to use the share buy back authority to purchase Ordinary Shares subject each Director has taken all the steps that he to the income and cash flow requirements and ought to have taken as a Director to make solvency of the Company and where the Directors himself aware of any relevant audit information believe the price available to be in the best interests and to establish that the Companys auditor is of shareholders as a whole if the share price of an aware of that information.
Ordinary Share is more than 5 per cent below the published net asset value per share for a continuous Auditor period of 20 dealing days or more.
To ensure a fair KPMG Channel Islands Limited has expressed its comparison, the Directors believe that such discount willingness to continue in office as the Companys should be calculated by adjusting the published net auditor and a resolution proposing its reasset value per share for any dividends for which the appointment will be submitted at the Annual General share price has gone ex-dividend.
In the event that the Ordinary Shares trade at a discount of more than 5 per cent for Resolutions 90 consecutive dealing days or more, the Directors The Board considers that the resolutions to be will convene a general meeting to be held within proposed at the Annual General Meeting are in the three months to consider an ordinary resolution for best interests of the shareholders as a whole and the continuation of the Company.
If this continuation recommends that they vote in favour of such resolution is not passed, the Directors will convene a resolutions as the Board intends to do in respect of further general meeting to be held within six months their own beneficial holdings save that Mr P Niven, of the first general meeting to consider the winding who is deemed to be acting in concert with the up of the Company or a reconstruction of the Resolution Concert Party, will abstain from voting in Company which offers all shareholders the relation to Resolution 13. opportunity to realise their investment.
If any such continuation resolution is passed, this discount On behalf of the Board policy, save in respect of share buy backs, would not apply for a period of two years thereafter.
C Russell In addition, at the Annual General Meeting of the Director Company to be held in 2015, the Directors will propose an ordinary resolution for the continuation 28 March 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 25
