Total dividend 2011 1.83p Annual report and accounts 2011 Overview 03 B usiness review G overnance F inancials and pertinent contribution to our business We have invested wisely in strategic over that period.
We look forward to acquisitions during the year.
Going forward being able to take advantage of both we will also continue to supplement profits Tonys broad corporate experience gained from our reversionary business with a at a major listed company and Belindas growth in fee income from our asset and corporate finance expertise.
Such activities enhance return on capital and It is appropriate for me to also note the sad rely less on investment.
We therefore and premature death of Rupert Dickinson anticipate a reduction in our requirement in September.
Rupert was Chief Executive for debt in the near to medium term and of Grainger until ill health caused his early our successful refinancing strategy has retirement in October 2009.
His leadership been based around this approach.
of the business was characterised by his passion and enthusiasm for the company Grainger was incorporated in 1912 and as and the residential sector.
He will be we enter our first centenary year we have sadlymissed.
cemented our brand and our reputation asa professional and caring landlord.
In turn Outlook this has benefited our tenants, partners Our business has continued to show and stakeholders.
resilient performance and a proven ability to take advantage of opportunities that None of this would have been possible will provide long-term value.
Our core skills without the enthusiasm, skill and commitment remain our ability to asset manage, across not only of our current staff but also their the UK, large numbers of residential predecessors.
I would like to extend my properties efficiently to provide enhanced thanks to them all.
This is supported both by our recent refinancing and by the strong cash generative capability of our portfolio.
As a result, whilst mindful of the challenges presented by the external Robin Broadhurst Chairman environment, we are positioning ourselves 5 December 2011 to take advantage of what we expect to be interesting opportunities over the medium term.
