Grainger plc 20 Fund management and residential investments Fees Profit from our Fund Management and During the year, and before we acquired Operational highlights Residential Investments business amounted our partners 50% stake referred to above, Residential Asset management programme to 3.6m 2010: profit 2.7m arising from our 50% investment inGrainger GenInvest commenced with Lloyds Banking Group to gross fee income of 6.3m from asset and was reported in this division.
Prior to that establish the G:RAMP earning management property management fees from G:res 1 acquisition the values in Grainger GenInvest fees for the group.
There were 1,545 units G:res, G:RAMP and Grainger GenInvest, increased by 2.8% inthe period from under management at 30September 2011. less allocated overheads.
Strengthening rental market has increased and following our acquisition in the year demand for properties in G:res enabling rental The controlled liquidation of the Schroder of the remaining equity in the two Grainger increases of 5.2% on renewals and 11.4% on Residential Property Unit Trust was GenInvest LLPs, the remaining equity new lets in the quarter ended September 2011. completed in the year: cash realisations investment in this division is our 21.96% were 6.3% inexcess of the property value Future opportunities stake in G:res which is a market rented at the time of the decision of the unit We are continuing to identify and develop a fund of 2,031 units.
number of opportunities to parcel residential holders taken to liquidate the fund in and residential related assets into fund and G:res is subject to a full external valuation January 2009. joint venture structures based on our proven in December and June of each year and A significant advance in the fee earning market expertise and unique breadth of showed an increase in market values capability from development to management element of this business in the year was of 5.2% for the twelve months ended and on to value realisation through disposal.
the agreement with Lloyds Banking 30 June 2011, producing an increase in Group to establish the G:RAMP.
There is net asset value in the fund of 13.6%.
no requirement for Grainger investment Operational results at G:res provide a in this arrangement.
By the year end, continuing insight into the current UK G:RAMP was proceeding to plan with residential rental market.
Rental increases 1,545 units under management.
on renewals amounted to 5.2% for the quarter ended September 2011 and increases on new lets for the same period were 11.4%.
Both results indicate a continued strengthening of the rental market.
The investors in this fund voted to extend its duration by two years to 2013 and its controlled liquidation is under way as planned.
