Annual report and accounts 2011 O verview 37 Business review G overnance F inancials Notable achievements other areas Almost all staff rate Grainger as a good Advisors statement of performance and benchmark KPIs employer, with 72% describing the Upstream Sustainability Services, part of Protecting assets and income company as extremely or very good.
Jones Lang LaSalle, has advised Grainger Our customers are increasingly satisfied plc on its Corporate Responsibility strategy No reportable health and safety accidents with the repairs service provided by our for several years.
This programme of or incidents among our employees, contractors, both in terms of punctuality work includes helping Grainger set its CR contractors or subcontractors.
and overall level of service.
targets, and assessing target achievement No health and safety fines or pollution at year end.
Driving efficiency incidents in the last year.
We reduced our annual electricity Due to Upstreams long-standing CR focus areas for next year consumption at four out of our seven relationship with Grainger, the review Investigating our CR impact through offices between 2009 10 and 2010 11 of performance against targets and this the supply chain.
and our carbon intensity per employee statement itself cannot be considered Continuing to embed CR across all by 10%.
as fully independent, nor should any data business lines and at all levels.
be viewed as formally verified.
However, Investing in communities and places Influencing Government legislation Upstream has carried out a full and The number of staff involved in and thinking regarding availability and documented review of Graingers volunteering activities in company time sustainability of housing.
performance and management of doubled from 31 to 60. sustainability over the companys financial Increasing our awareness of customer Grainger and staff donated 55,548 to year 1 October 2010 30 September satisfaction through surveys and charitable causes in 2010 11, even higher 2011.
All information presented is accurate complaints procedure.
than our record value of 50,785 in to the best of our knowledge.
Using our Centenary as a platform 2009 10.
The method for assessing Graingers level to increase impact of community Responsibility to stakeholders of performance against CR targets and based activities, particularly charitable Over half of our technical or professional commitments was based on: giving and our work in Newcastle and positions are filled by women and the to increase awareness of Graingers Face-to-face meetings and telephone percentage of senior management capability to contribute to issues interviews with Grainger representatives positions filled by women continues to regarding the future of the residential responsible for target delivery.
increase 8% in 2007 08 and 16% in sector Grainger Residential.
Detailed review of documentation and Minimising the environmental and information submitted by Grainger and Grainger invested 625 in training per community impact of our active collected by Upstream over the year.
employee in 2010 11, lower than during developments as schemes and major our training drive in 2009 10, but higher refurbishments get underway in than in 2007 08 and 2008 09.
