Annual report and accounts 2011 O verview 37 Business review G overnance F inancials Notable achievements other areas Almost all staff rate Grainger as a good Advisors statement of performance and benchmark KPIs employer, with 72% describing the Upstream Sustainability Services, part of Protecting assets and income company as extremely or very good.
Jones Lang LaSalle, has advised Grainger Our customers are increasingly satisfied plc on its Corporate Responsibility strategy No reportable health and safety accidents with the repairs service provided by our for several years.
This programme of or incidents among our employees, contractors, both in terms of punctuality work includes helping Grainger set its CR contractors or subcontractors.
and overall level of service.
targets, and assessing target achievement No health and safety fines or pollution at year end.
Driving efficiency incidents in the last year.
We reduced our annual electricity Due to Upstreams long-standing CR focus areas for next year consumption at four out of our seven relationship with Grainger, the review Investigating our CR impact through offices between 2009 10 and 2010 11 of performance against targets and this the supply chain.
and our carbon intensity per employee statement itself cannot be considered Continuing to embed CR across all by 10%.
as fully independent, nor should any data business lines and at all levels.
be viewed as formally verified.
However, Investing in communities and places Influencing Government legislation Upstream has carried out a full and The number of staff involved in and thinking regarding availability and documented review of Graingers volunteering activities in company time sustainability of housing.
performance and management of doubled from 31 to 60. sustainability over the companys financial Increasing our awareness of customer Grainger and staff donated 55,548 to year 1 October 2010 30 September satisfaction through surveys and charitable causes in 2010 11, even higher 2011.
All information presented is accurate complaints procedure.
than our record value of 50,785 in to the best of our knowledge.
Using our Centenary as a platform 2009 10.
The method for assessing Graingers level to increase impact of community Responsibility to stakeholders of performance against CR targets and based activities, particularly charitable Over half of our technical or professional commitments was based on: giving and our work in Newcastle and positions are filled by women and the to increase awareness of Graingers Face-to-face meetings and telephone percentage of senior management capability to contribute to issues interviews with Grainger representatives positions filled by women continues to regarding the future of the residential responsible for target delivery.
increase 8% in 2007 08 and 16% in sector Grainger Residential.
Detailed review of documentation and Minimising the environmental and information submitted by Grainger and Grainger invested 625 in training per community impact of our active collected by Upstream over the year.
employee in 2010 11, lower than during developments as schemes and major our training drive in 2009 10, but higher refurbishments get underway in than in 2007 08 and 2008 09.
Grainger plc 38 Corporate responsibility continued Each target is rated for achievement, Grainger aligned its CR report with GRI Grainger has completed the first stage based on the evidence received to validate Level C this year.
Grainger continues to of the sustainability journey successfully, completion.
Upstream makes the following increase transparency to gain the trust putting in place a strong foundation of specific findings: of its stakeholders.
The next step is to win the hearts and minds of Grainger The percentage of applicable targets Looking ahead to 2011 12, Upstream employees beyond the committed core either fully or partially achieved during recommends that Grainger pay particular who have driven CR achievements to date.
attention to its customer satisfaction We are encouraged that engagement ratings.
Tenant satisfaction is a vital CR However, the percentage of applicable with and support for the implementation area for the business but has suffered targets that Grainger fully achieved of the CR strategy grew in the last year.
during 2010 11. dropped from 70% in 2009 10 to 44% Accountability is increasing throughout in 2010 11.
Seven targets are currently Grainger aspires to be a Corporate the business with the addition of CR in progress, although it is important to Responsibility leader in the UK residential targets into performance agreements.
note that four of these are substantially sector.
Most of the companys global Executive board members are providing achieved.
warming impact is from tenants living further momentum by taking responsibility Grainger performed well in the area in Graingers homes.
We particularly for the success of each ETHOS pillar.
of Influencing the future, achieving the commend the company for estimating We look forward to seeing Grainger two applicable targets.
The sustainable the carbon footprint of its buildings actively manage and increase business procurement target was deemed not from tenant use.
Establishing a baseline value from CR through its ambitious applicable due to Graingers decision to is crucial to managing carbon emissions 2011 12 targets, which are clearly linked adopt a case-by-case approach and use improvements.
We eagerly look forward to core business strategy.
to how Grainger will use this data to Lora Brill drive change internally and in the wider Under Protecting assets & income, Senior sustainability consultant residential sector.
Graingers success this year in modelling Jones Lang LaSalle, the carbon footprint and sustainability Upstream fully recognises the resource Upstream Energy and Sustainability Services risks of its UK residential portfolio is a challenges that Grainger faced during 5 December 2011 significant achievement.
2010 11 and commends the progress The two 2010 11 targets that were made in CR given the increased work not achieved sat within the Driving load of property management staff in efficiency pillar.
Aligning Graingers annual not to pursue an internal quality targets to its commercial priorities will management system, as there is continue to be essential in an ambitious, insufficient business need.
However, growth-oriented business where staff Grainger has re-set itself a 2011 12 have many demands on their time.
focus on the collection of electricity readings for the common parts areas of its flat block properties.
