Annual report and accounts 2011 O verview 13 Business review G overnance F inancials Future prospects We are disposing of assets that are either The prospects for the UK economy and regarded as non-core or where we see therein the broad housing market is limited opportunities for growth.
Wider global economic conditions taken in conjunction with our normal sales will play an important, if not the most on vacancy, we anticipate being net sellers important, part in the health of the UK of property in the short to medium term.
economy in the short to medium term.
We believe that operating at lower levels This uncertainty will result in subdued of debt in conjunction with a greater behaviour both among businesses and emphasis on fee generating activities, will consumers.
We therefore take a cautious generate a better risk adjusted return to view of the prospects for general house our shareholders.
Our property management price growth in the short to medium activities may result in increased assets term, but believe this can be offset by the under management.
severe undersupply of housing compared We are well positioned to take advantage to growing demand in local markets.
of the opportunities presented by the The imbalance between supply and changes in the residential market.
A large demand will vary significantly from area proportion of our portfolio is in geographic to area with an impact on pricing.
areas where economic activity, and Our future focus will be to build on our therefore demand, is highest enabling three main income streams in a risk us to maximise sales value and velocity.
controlled way property sales primarily Our expertise as residential landlords will of assets to capture their reversionary enable us to take full advantage of the value, rental income and fees or other increasing rental market and, in particular, income from managed or co-invested the build-to-let sector.
Our existing portfolio provides about our opportunities to improve return us with a ready source of liquid assets on capital by managing other parties that sell well and quickly.
The portfolio residential real estate exposure.
also provides opportunities for rental In summary, we remain confident in our appreciation and we continue to increase ability to deliver good levels of long-term our fee income through the application return in the residential property sector of our residential property expertise.
We have seen a good start to the new financial year and our total group sales pipeline completed sales, contracts exchanged and properties in solicitors Andrew R Cunningham hands amounted to 60.3m at Chief executive 5 December 2011 25November 2011 with UK normal residential sales values some 5.3% above September 2011 vacant possession values.
We will build on three main income streams sales rents fees
