Annual report and accounts 2011 O verview 45 B usiness review Governance F inancials The chief executive is responsible for running the business and issues, are discussed at the appropriate time.
At each board implementing the boards decisions.
All executive directors report meeting the chief executive provided a review of the business, to him.
Peter Couch, the groups chief operating officer, is how it was performing and strategic issues arising.
In the year the responsible for day-to-day management of the groups operations range of subjects discussed included: in accordance with the strategy and business plans set by the The strategy of the group in response to changing economic board.
The chief operating officer chairs a monthly operations conditions: board meeting made up of the senior management team which Key business areas, including Germany, retirement solutions, also includes the finance and property directors.
residential and funds: The non-executive directors are responsible for bringing The groups debt and capital structure: independent and objective judgement and scrutiny to all matters The groups financial results: before the board and its committees, using their substantial and wide ranging experience.
The key responsibilities of non-executive Dividend policy: directors are set out in their letters of appointment and include Regulatory and governance issues: and requirements to: The development of the groups people.
Challenge and contribute to the development of the companys Three of the meetings were preceded, the evening before, by an strategy: informal meeting allowing more time to debate issues in depth.
Scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed Two of the board meetings were held at the companys head goals and objectives and monitor the reporting of performance: office in Newcastle and three of the board meetings were held in and the companys offices in Knightsbridge.
The meeting on 28 June Satisfy themselves that financial information is accurate and that 2011 was held in a central London hotel to coincide with a full financial controls and systems of risk management are robust days meeting of senior management giving the board the and defensible.
opportunity to engage with key staff on a range of issues.
A copy of the standard letter of appointment for a non-executive All directors attended all board meetings during their relevant director is available on the groups website www.
co. uk periods of office except for Robert Hiscox, Baroness Margaret Ford or from the company secretary on request.
The non-executive and Belinda Richards who were each not present at one meeting.
directors meet periodically without the executive directors present.
Information Flow There were two such meetings in the year and an additional The chairman, together with the company secretary, ensures that meeting of the non-executive directors without the chairman or the directors receive clear information on all relevant matters in a the executive directors present.
Board papers are circulated sufficiently in advance Bill Tudor John was the senior independent director until his of meetings for them to be thoroughly digested in advance of the retirement from the Board at the AGM on 09 February 2011, meeting to ensure clarity of informed debate.
The board papers when he was replaced as senior independent director by John contain the chief executives written report, high level papers on Barnsley.
The senior independent director is available to each business area, key metrics and specific papers relating to shareholders if they request a meeting or have concerns, which agenda items.
The board papers are accompanied by a working contact through the normal channels has failed to resolve or papers pack containing detailed financial and other supporting where such contact is inappropriate.
No such requests were information.
received from shareholders during the year.
The senior The board receives a bi-weekly update throughout the year and independent director leads the annual performance review of the occasional ad hoc papers on matters of particular relevance or chairman.
Throughout the year the board received Meetings presentations from various business units.
There were six meetings of the board in the year.
The board has a list of matters reserved to it and a rolling annual plan of items for discussion, agreed between the chairman and the chief executive.
The list of reserved matters and annual plan are reviewed regularly to ensure all matters reserved to the board, as well as other key
