Grainger plc 12 CEO strategic overview continued Overall market review This is reflected by the fact that our We believe the switch between home Residential property values are driven by average sales period runs at approximately ownership and rented occupation signals supply and demand and can be distorted 112 days and our vacant sales were asignificant and permanent structural significantly by local economic factors.
completed for values on average 3.7% change in the housing market.
We anticipate This has been most noticeable over the last above the equivalent September 2010 demand for rental properties, particularly year in the prime London market where valuation.
Refurbishment works prior to in major metropolitan areas, to increase ultra high value properties have adopted sale can improve returns and when these and there to be more blurring of the edges many of the characteristics of precious are taken into account we have sold at between the affordable public private metal investment.
Shortage of supply, 6.7% above September 2010 valuations.
exacerbated by planning restrictions, Mortgage funding for house purchases We are well placed to take advantage geopolitical stability, the attractiveness remains at very low levels reflecting ofthese changes through our expertise of the time zone and Londons standing primarily the higher levels of deposit asamajor residential landlord and by as a high quality urban environment required by lenders the average first time positioning ourselves in the market rented have pushed prices of these properties to buyer deposit stands at 21% of purchase sector through our involvement with G:res unprecedented levels.
This, allied to weak confidence in the and the Bouygues and Grainger build-toprices in other London and South East economic outlook, has led to a significant let fund.
The fund was recognised by the areas have also reflected the imbalance increase in the number of household UK Government in its Housing Strategy between supply and demand by exhibiting properties being rented.
In London it is asan exemplar of private sector initiatives.
stronger price levels than other parts of estimated that the percentage level of the UK, which are much more susceptible The German residential market shows home ownership has fallen from 60% to the weak economy and to the effects different characteristics from the UK.
The increase of the mortgage market.
Some 62% of Overall levels of home ownership are much in demand has also pushed rentals up our UK properties are situated in London lower at approximately 42%, the second with prime London residential rents and the South East and so benefit from lowest in Europe.
The size of the rental showing annual increases of up to 10% these factors.
market has led to a diverse range of rental on new lettings.
housing and vacancy rates are relatively As well as geographical imbalances we Government has indicated support for a constant at below 4%.
These factors have find, that in these markets, certain types stronger more professional private rented led to a more investment based market of property sell better.
There is an increased possibility with some 40% of rental units being properties are of low average value and of residential REITs being created once owned by professional commercial landlords.
tend to be un-refurbished on vacancy.
legislative changes are enacted in 2012.
As with the UK, geographical differences Demand for these properties from a mixed The Governments Housing Strategy, are evident and both residential prices and constituency of cash buyers, amateur and announced on 21 November 2011, clearly rental demand are strongest in the larger professional developers and local specialist states the Governments desire to support economically successful cities, particularly landlords as well the usual mortgage the private rented sector and announced in the West.
It is in these areas that our backed owner-occupier remains strong.
the creation of an independent review German portfolio is located and these to explore ways to attract institutional attractive locations, together with a good investment into the sector.
quality portfolio, bode well for future rental growth and capital appreciation.
