Grainger plc 46 Corporate governance report continued Time commitment and its individual directors.
The 2011 review was undertaken by The board is satisfied that the chairman and each of the nonIndependent Audit Limited Independent Audit, an independent executive directors committed sufficient time during the year to firm of consultants who specialise in board performance and enable them to fulfil their duties as directors of the company.
corporate governance and who were appointed to undertake a None of the non-executive directors has any conflict of interest thorough independent review of the board and its committees.
which has not been disclosed to the board in accordance with the The process involved a review of information provided to the companys articles of association.
board and committees followed by confidential interviews with the directors, the company secretary together with senior Professional development members of the management team, and observation of a board The chairman is responsible for ensuring that induction and meeting and meetings of the remuneration, audit and training are provided to each director and the company secretary nominations committees.
organises the induction process and regular updating and training of board members.
Independent Audits report concluded that there was considerable evidence to show that the board and its committees are effective.
Belinda Richards was appointed in the year and received a Areas which will be developed further over the coming year comprehensive, tailored induction to the company.
This consisted include: of the provision of a corporate handbook covering such items as matters reserved for the board, division of responsibility between Strategic messaging the chairman and chief executive and the terms of reference of Risk related work the various board committees as well as individual sessions with Succession planning members of the senior management team.
Belinda Richards was Board information also taken on a property tour to enable her to see some of the companys properties ranging from the core regulated portfolio The board and its committees will monitor progress and continue through to some of the development activities.
their critical review of its effectiveness during the year ahead.
Tony Wray is undertaking a similar induction process.
In accordance with the prevailing provisions of the Code, it is the current intention of the board that external facilitation of the Training and updating as to the business of the group and the board evaluation will be carried out every three years.
legal and regulatory responsibilities of directors was provided throughout the year by a variety of means to board members Re-election of directors including presentations by executives, visits to business operations Notwithstanding that the companys articles of association require and circulation of briefing materials.
Individual directors are also the directors to offer themselves for re-election at least once every expected to take responsibility for identifying their training needs three years, in accordance with the recommendations of the Code and to ensure they are adequately informed about the group and all of the directors except for Robert Hiscox will be offering their responsibilities as a director.
themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting in February 2012.
The board is confident that all its members have the knowledge, ability and experience to perform the functions required of a In light of the performance evaluations summarised above and the director of a listed company.
provisions of the companys articles of association, the board recommends that all of the directors be re-elected.
Access to independent advice All directors have access to the advice and services of the company Board committees secretary who ensures that board processes are followed and The board delegates some of its activities to the following good corporate governance standards are maintained.
Any committees each of which have written terms of reference, which director who considers it necessary or appropriate may take are available on the companys web site, and which report back to independent, professional advice at the companys expense.
The company secretary acts as secretary to each of of the directors sought such advice in the year.
Performance evaluation Audit committee and auditor independence In previous years the board has undertaken formal evaluations, led The audit committee comprised John Barnsley as chairman, by the chairman, of the performance of its board, its committees Baroness Margaret Ford and one other non-executive director
