Grainger plc 10 CEO strategic overview continued Business performance This year has been characterised by a number of significant transactions which havemoved the business forward and which reflect how our strategic objectives areputinto practice.
Transaction Description Impact Sovereign Reversions was acquired by The acquisition adds scale to Graingers Sovereign Reversions Grainger in August 2010.
It owned 1,038 own home reversion business.
As well joint venture home reversion assets with a market as the returns from our investment we value of approximately 68m.
In October obtain fees for managing the portfolio.
2010, Moorfield acquired a 50% stake in thevehicle.
Acquisition of corporate entity owning Adds c. 9m to the groups gross rent HI Tricomm acquisition 317houses let to the Ministry of Defence.
The financing brought a new Gross annual yield of 8.3% based on its lender into the group and extended our acquisition price and existing long-term overall debt maturities.
on acquisition produced a one-off gain of 14.9m and the value has increased by a further 0.6m since acquisition.
Net rental income since acquisition was5.0m.
The acquisition of our JV partners Genesis Incremental gross rents of c. 12m Grainger GenInvest LLPs Housing Group stake in these LLPs to and a significant addition to the UK acquisition give us 100% ownership.
The portfolios residential portfolio, increasing its size included c. 1,650 residential units in central by 25% on acquisition and providing London with a market value of 289m and us with significant development and a vacant possession value of 353m.
The acquisition also enabled us to introduce two new lenders, HSBC and Santander.
Since acquisition, net rental income of 5.3m, representing a gross annual yield of 4.2% and a further revaluation uplift of 4.2% at 11.9m.
Annual report and accounts 2011 O verview 11 Business review G overnance F inancials Transaction Description Impact Provision of G:RAMP for Lloyds Banking Significant leveraging off existing skills G:RAMP Group.
By 30 September 2011 some 1,545 and operational platform to provide fees residential units were included in G:RAMP.
and improve return on capital employed.
Appointment as preferred developer by Long-term recurring fee income with Aldershot Urban Defence Infrastructure Organisation and high quality partner.
Based on value of Extension Homes and Communities Agency for sales of serviced plots to housebuilders.
148 hectares of land which may result in up to 4,500 residential units.
Outline planning consent obtained for Long-term income from land sales.
Waterlooville 2,550 homes, 1520 year pipeline of serviced land sales to housebuilders.
Platform established to increase recurring fees
