Annual report and accounts 2011 O verview 47 B usiness review Governance F inancials formost of the year.
Bill Tudor John was a member of the audit In addition to the steps taken by the board to safeguard auditor committee up to 09 February 2011 when he retired from the objectivity,  LLP operates a five-year board.
Belinda Richards and Tony Wray became members of the rotation policy for audit partners.
committee on 5 April 2011 and 22 November 2011 respectively.
The audit committee give careful consideration before appointing The audit committee met four times in the year, in each case with the auditors to provide non audit advice and regularly use other all members of the committee present save that Bill Tudor John providers to ensure that independence and full value for money did not attend the meeting in November 2010.
Both John Barnsley are achieved.
317,000 was paid to  LLP and Belinda Richards have the particular recent and relevant for such services, the main element of which was 185,000 financial experience required by the Code.
relating to financial due diligence work on acquisitions during the year.
These fees were one-off in nature and are not expected to In addition to the work referred to in the section Internal Control reoccur.
below, the audit committee is responsible for reviewing the independence and objectivity of the external auditor, and ensuring The audit committee is responsible for reviewing and reporting to this is safeguarded notwithstanding any provision of any the board on the accounting policies and practices of the group non-audit services to the group.
and on the annual and half-yearly financial reporting process.
The board recognises the importance of safeguarding auditor The audit committee reviewed the companys whistleblowing objectivity and has taken the following steps to ensure that policy and was satisfied that this meets FSA rules and good auditor independence is not compromised: standards of corporate governance.
The audit committee carries out each year a full evaluation of The finance director and external audit partner are invited to the external auditor as to its complete independence from the attend meetings of the committee.
Question and answer sessions group and relevant officers of the group in all material respects were held by the committee with members of staff managing key and that it is adequately resourced and technically capable to business areas including risk and taxation.
These sessions assist the deliver an objective audit to shareholders.
Based on this review committee to question risk in the business and to stay close to the audit committee recommends to the board each year the staff who have significant control responsibilities.
continuation, or removal and replacement, of the external Once in each year the audit committee meets with management auditor: without the auditors present and also with the auditors without The external auditors provide audit-related services such as management present.
regulatory and statutory reporting as well as formalities relating Remuneration committee to shareholders and other circulars: The remuneration committee comprises four independent The external auditors may undertake due diligence reviews non-executive directors.
Baroness Margaret Ford chairman, and provide assistance on tax and pension matters given its Robert Hiscox, Henry Pitman and Belinda Richards.
Belinda knowledge of the groups businesses.
Such provision will Richards joined the committee in May 2011. however be assessed on a case-by-case basis so that the best placed adviser is retained.
The audit committee monitors the The committees main duties are to determine the basic salary, application of policy in this regard and keeps the policy under taxable benefits, terms and conditions of employment, including review: performance related payments, share options and pension benefits of the executive directors.
The audit committee reviews on a regular basis all fees paid for audit, and all consultancy fees, with a view to assessing The committee is also responsible for the operation of the reasonableness of fees, value of delivery, and any independence companys share options schemes and for monitoring the issues that may have arisen or may potentially arise in the future: framework for the policy on, and levels of remuneration of the and companys senior management.
The auditors report to the directors and the audit committee confirming their independence in accordance with Auditing Standards.
