Annual report and accounts 2011 O verview 31 Business review G overnance F inancials Risks and opportunities Physical: Rising temperatures are seen as inevitable.
The impacts of climate change 2011 12 Risks have not yet affected our portfolio value Grainger regularly considers the changing or maintenance costs, but in the longlandscape of sustainability risks and term there is potential across the UK opportunities and has identified the for flooding, water stress, overheating, following as key areas to manage.
subsidence, increased weathering and Legislation: Climate change and other physical impacts such as damage environmental issues are set to continue to infrastructure.
We already take some to rise up the political agenda in the of these factors into account in our coming years.
There is potential for there acquisition activities, though the time to be significant impact on our business horizon for analysis varies.
This year we through having to meet increasingly intend to publish details of our processes stringent legislative requirements.
and policies in this area.
It is our intention to engage with Energy costs: Rising fossil fuel based Government to ensure that policy is energy costs have direct financial appropriate for the private rented sector implications for companies and are also and that Government understands the likely to impact customer demand for complexities that varying tenure types less energy-efficient housing in some Top: Grainger staff volunteer at the and tenant demographics will have upon markets.
Energy efficiency information, Vauxhall City Farm, London the likelihood of successfully improving such as Energy Performance Certificates, the energy efficiency of existing housing Bottom: Grainger tenant, Acklington is expected to increasingly influence village, Northumberland stock.
We are Reputation: Stakeholders expectations committed to ensuring that we fully of how effectively and transparently understand these impacts on our various Grainger manages its environmental portfolios and to transparency in our and socio-economic impacts continue reporting.
For investors in particular, it is important to demonstrate maturity by reporting meaningful metrics that link CR to business performance.
