Annual report and accounts 2011 O verview 07 Business review G overnance F inancials CEO strategic overview Grainger operates as a trader, investor and manager of residential properties and therefore offers its investors exposure toresidential returns from three main sources of income.
Main sources of income The overall portfolio can be categorised by Receipts from the sale of assets asset type, location and income as follows: profitsfrom sale: 81m.
Assets & value m Sales Rents Fees Rents net rents: 62m.
UK residential Fees from co-invested portfolio and or managed vehicles 1,402m total fees: 8m.
Retirement solutions assets Business overview 474m Grainger owns 2.3bn of residential property Fund management of which 82% is located in theUK and and residential investments the balance in Germany.
Inthe year ended 54m 30 September 2011 this portfolio generated Development 86m of gross rentsand total asset sales assets amounted to 223m.
A further 8m of 73m fees and other income was produced.
German residential portfolio 422m Our UK residential portfolio comprises 13,564 tenanted houses and flats, together with other associated interests such as ground rents and garage blocks.
Most of the properties are, or have been, subject to regulated tenancies or home reversions plans.
Under a regulated tenancy the tenant pays us a rent set by alocal rent officer which is usually below the prevailing market rent.
The tenant also has right of tenure but, when the property is vacated, it reverts back to Grainger and can be sold on the open market with Andrew R Cunningham Chief executive Grainger plc 08 CEO strategic overview continued vacant possession.
We buy these tenanted secure with very low levels of arrears.
Our German residential portfolio consists properties at a discount the reversion Both of our reversionary portfolios provide of some 6,718 units with a value at the to the vacant possession value and so our a steady stream of predictable vacancies year end of 490m.
The returns fromthese returns consist of rents received during giving us the opportunity to sell and assets are more heavily biased towards occupation, the value of the reversion crystallise value.
The reversionary surplus rental income than those in the UK, and crystallised when the property is vacated in our UK business the difference between so provide a good balance of risk through and sold, together with any growth in vacant possession value and tenanted stable asset values and higher gross yields.
value from house price inflation during the or market value now stands at 571m In total we own 20,282 residential period of ownership.
The low average value properties.
This has enabled us to invest of the residential market that properties c. 197K, often un-refurbished nature in the systems, processes and people are more valuable vacant than tenanted.
of the properties and high level of cash required to run such a large portfolio.
The properties are usually owned for ten purchasers they attract mean that these Together with the breadth of our years or more and this helps smooth out vacant properties sell well and quickly.
residential expertise this has placed us price volatility arising from economic cycles.
Our development activities are much in a good position to offer these skills to Our retirement solutions assets consist smaller in scale book value 80m at third parties, often on a co-investing primarily of ownership stakes in properties 30 September 2011 but offer opportunities basis for example, G:res and our Sovereign occupied by elderly people home reversion for significant returns and cash flow.
Reversions Joint Venture with Moorfield.
A lump sum is paid to the owner We often work in joint venture arrangements This is a growing part of the business as occupier for some or all of their residential for example with Development Securities demonstrated clearly this year by the property reflecting an appropriate discount, in Birmingham and Helical Bar in success of our expanding these activities and they are entitled to remain in their Hammersmith to leverage the respective through arrangements with Defence house for the rest of their lives without skills and resources of ourselves and Infrastructure Organisation the Aldershot paying any rent.
When they vacate the ourpartners.
Our major development Urban Extension and with Lloyds Banking property it reverts back to Grainger and activity at present is at our site in West Group the Grainger Residential Asset we are then able to sell it with vacant Waterlooville, Hampshire.
We will bring Management Platform G:RAMP.
The returns therefore consist some 2,550 residential unitsthrough Subsequent to the year end we also ofthe reversion enhanced by house theplanning process, install infrastructure announced our framework agreement priceinflation.
and then sell fully serviced plots to with Bouygues Development to co-invest housebuilders under common standards in a residential Build-to-Let fund which, These two reversionary portfolios account ofquality and sustainability.
This activity on creation, will provide institutional for about 77% by value of our total business follows the core Grainger principles of investors with the opportunity to invest and offer a blend of trading and rental long-term residential expertise and the in scale in the private rented sector.
The majority of our regulated creation of returns through a change in tenants receive financial support through value and subsequent sale.
In the UK housing benefit and, because of their residential and home reversions portfolios rights of tenure, have a vested interest in this comes from a change in tenure and ensuring the rent is paid.
Consequently our indevelopment, itlargely derives from a rental returns are long term, stable and change in use orplanning permission.
Annual report and accounts 2011 O verview 09 Business review G overnance F inancials Strategy in action Objective set in 2010 Action in 2011 Acquisitions of high yielding Rebalancing residential HI Tricomm portfolio and the Grainger portfolios to selective GenInvest LLPs.
Some 62% of UK portfolio in London and the South East 54% two years ago.
Increase in gross rental income of 14%.
Disposal of 41m of tenanted properties Reducing capital employed in the UK and 23m in Germany innon-core assets and to improve overall portfolio quality.
Joint venture with Moorfield to hold Introducing third party Sovereign Reversion assets.
3 Partnership with Defence Infrastructure Organisation at Aldershot.
Partnership with Lloyds Banking Group through G:RAMP.
Approximately 1.2bn of debt finance Acting early to raised including the introduction of consider and implement several newlenders and the extension 4 debt financing options.
