Annual report and accounts 2011 O verview 33 Business review G overnance F inancials 2010 11 Grainger target performance summary by strategic focus 2010 11 Targets Influencing Protecting assets Driving efficiency Investing in Responsibility to the future and income communities & places stakeholders Identify the key Carry out sustainability Update and further develop Report on how each Align the 2010 11 report sustainability policy issues assessments of a sample Graingers Eco-Champions active development has to GRI Standard level C. presenting risks and of properties and use Action Plan based on incorporated consideration opportunities for to model portfolio two years of practical or development of Grainger and develop carbon footprint and experience and best practice renewable energy.
Integrate with Embed consideration the Eco-Champions KPIs of renewables into tracked in previous years the acquisition, design to establish an overall and planning stages standard for each office to of development.
achieve or beat this year.
Engage with Government Carry out an analysis With a view to reducing Identify a number of relevant Conduct health and other stakeholders of which properties carbon emissions by benchmark KPIs that are most and safety audits for on key sustainability policy could take advantage 5% from 2009 10 levels, important to Grainger in 100% of Graingers issues identified.
of FITs, and which undertake an internal driving sustainability for the managing agents.
technologies are most awareness campaign.
Consider a Identify the levels Grainger pilot scheme.
will aim to beat or achieve and add those for end of year reporting.
Building on existing Establish a customer Provide Property Services Identify a number of Conduct health and initiatives, produce a engagement programme with an internal quality relevant benchmark KPIs safety audits for 100% responsible procurement by 2011 focusing management system.
that are most important of Graingers contractors framework to cover specifically on sharing to Grainger in driving undertaking projects property services, environmental information sustainability for the under CDM regulations.
refurbishment and and on community refurbishment department.
Identify the levels Grainger will aim to beat or achieve and add those for end of year reporting.
Investigate tenure specific Report carbon emissions Implement a programme customer satisfaction from common area of activity to improve Achieved indicators.
Where appropriate electricity usage in employee health and Substantially achieved indicators are identified, a sample of flat blocks well-being in order to In progress report on these at the end based on quarterly boost morale.
