In addition, the Company has entered into indemnity deed Additional Disclosures polls in substantially similar terms in favour of members of the Executive Management Committee and other members of senior Group Results and Dividends management.
Where such deeds are for the benefit of directors they The results for the year ended 31 December 2011 are shown in the are qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by s309B of Consolidated Income Statement on page 78. the Companies Act 1985 or s234 of the Companies Act 2006, as The directors recommend the payment of a final ordinary share applicable.
At the date of this report, these indemnities are therefore in dividend for 2011 of 9.95 net per share on 25 May 2012 to force for the benefit of all the current directors of the Company and shareholders on the register at the close of business on 20 April 2012, other members of senior management.
which together with the interim dividend paid on 4 November 2011 On 1 November 2007 a subsidiary of the Company, BBA Aviation makes a total of 13.94 net per ordinary share for the year 2010: 13.09.
Finance, entered into qualifying third party indemnity provisions as Shareholders will receive their dividends in sterling unless they defined by s234 of the Companies Act 2006 in favour of its directors complete and submit to the Companys registrars by 5pm on 8 May under which each director is indemnified against liabilities incurred by 2012 an election form stating their wish to receive their dividends in that director in respect of acts or omissions arising in the course of US dollars.
The sterling dividend will be converted at a prevailing their office or otherwise by virtue of their office and such provisions exchange rate on 9 May 2012 and this exchange rate will be remain in force as at the date of this report.
Further information concerning the dividend currency election will be sent to shareholders when this Employee Information Report is posted.
The Company provides employees with various opportunities to obtain information on matters of concern to them and to improve Acquisitions and Disposals their awareness of the financial and economic factors that affect the Acquisitions and disposals in the year are described on page 53. performance of the Company.
These include all hands briefings, staff forums and meetings with trade unions that take place throughout Events After the Balance Sheet Date the year.
The Group acquired an FBO in Omaha on 6 January 2012 for All companies within the Group strive to operate fairly at all consideration of $3.2 million as set out in note 24 of the Consolidated times and this includes not permitting discrimination against any Financial Statements.
There are no other disclosable events after the employee or applicant for employment on the basis of race, religion or balance sheet date.
belief, colour, gender, disability, national origin, age, military service, veteran status, sexual orientation or marital status.
This includes giving Research and Development full and fair consideration to suitable applications from disabled The Group continues to devote effort and resources to research and persons for employment and making appropriate accommodations development of new processes and products.
Costs of $3.3 million so that if existing employees become disabled they can continue to have been charged to the income statement during the year.
be employed, wherever practicable, in the same job or, if this is not practicable, making every effort to find suitable alternative Market Value of Land and Buildings employment and to provide relevant training.
The directors are of the opinion that the market values of the Groups properties are not substantially different from the values included in Agreements the Groups Consolidated Financial Statements.
Under s992 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company discloses that in the event of a change of control in the Company: i the Companys Financial Risk Management and Treasury Policies $750 million revolving credit facility dated 21 April 2011 and its $300 The financial risk management and treasury policies of the Group million private note placement dated May 2011 could become are set out on page 54 and in notes 16 and 17 to the Consolidated repayable: and the Engine Lease Agreement dated 29 June 2009 as Financial Statements.
amended under which $46 million of aircraft engines have been leased to the ERO business could be terminated: and ii certain Board of Directors authorisations issued to the ERO business to carry out certain works on The current directors of the Company at the date of this report appear the authorising OEMs engines could become terminable by the on page 8.
They held office throughout the financial year under review.
relevant OEM OEMs include Rolls-Royce, Pratt & Whitney Canada, General Electric and Honeywell.
Under s992 of the Companies Act Directors Interests in Shares 2006 the Company also discloses an employment agreement Directors interests in shares and share options are contained in the between a subsidiary company and Keith Ryan entered into in July Directors Remuneration Report.
2002 which has provisions such that in certain circumstances relating to a change of control of the Company he could receive Directors Indemnities compensation upon termination of employment of up to a years The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity in favour of each of remuneration, based on base salary, bonus, benefits in kind and its directors under which the Company agrees to indemnify each pension rights during the notice period.
director against liabilities incurred by that director in respect of acts or omissions arising in the course of their office or otherwise by virtue of Directors Report 55 Additional Disclosures Under s417 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company discloses that Resolutions at the Annual General Meeting certain IT systems that support the ERO, Legacy Support and APPH The Companys AGM will be held on 24 April 2012.
Accompanying this businesses and the banking and private note placement facilities Report is the Notice of AGM which sets out the resolutions to be referred to in the paragraph above are essential to the business of the considered and approved at the meeting together with some explanatory notes.
The resolutions cover such routine matters as the Company.
renewal of authority to allot shares referred to above, to disapply pre-emption rights and to purchase own shares.
Management Report The management report required by the provisions of the Disclosure Substantial Shareholdings and Transparency Rules is included within this Directors Report and The Company has been notified, as at 1 March 2012, of the following has been prepared in consultation with management.
material interests in the voting rights of the Company under the provisions of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: Suppliers Payment Policy The Company and Groups policy is to settle terms of payment with % suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction, to ensure that Aviva plc and its subsidiaries 8.58 suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and to abide by the Harris Associates L. P. 8.20 terms of the payment.
Standard Life Investments Ltd 5.963 Share Capital Prudential plc group of companies below 5 Details of the Companys share capital and changes to the share Newton Investment Management Limited 4.98 capital are shown in note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Black Rock, Inc. 4.97 That note also contains a summary of the rights attaching to each class Jupiter Asset Management Limited 4.393 of shares and details of the number of ordinary shares held in William H. Gates III 4 employee benefit trusts.
Awards granted under the Companys share Legal & General Group Plc 3.95 plans are satisfied either by shares held in the employee benefit trusts or by the issue of new shares when awards vest.
The Remuneration Barclays Global Investors 3.86 Committee monitors the number of awards made under the various share plans and their potential impact on the relevant dilution limits Charitable and political donations recommended by the Association of British Insurers.
Based on the Group donations to charities worldwide were $565,000 2010: $575,000 Companys issued share capital as at 31 December 2011 these were in with UK charities receiving $113,000 2010: $117,800.
No donations respect of the limit of 10% in any rolling 10-year period for all share were made to any political party in either year.
plans 4.4% and in respect of the limit of 5% in any rolling 10-year period for discretionary share plans 2.7%.
Auditors The Company was given authority to purchase up to 14.99% of As required by s418 of the Companies Act 2006, each of the directors, its existing ordinary share capital at the 2011 Annual General Meeting at the date of the approval of this report, confirms that: AGM.
That authority will expire at the conclusion of the AGM in April a so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit 2012 unless renewed.
Accordingly, a special resolution to renew the information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: authority will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
and The existing authority for directors to allot ordinary shares will b the director has taken all the steps that he ought to have expire at the conclusion of the 2012 AGM.
Accordingly, an ordinary taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit resolution to renew this authority will be proposed at the forthcoming information and to establish that the Companys auditors are AGM.
In addition, it will be proposed to give the directors further aware of that information.
authority to allot ordinary shares in connection with a rights issue in Words and phrases used in this confirmation should be favour of ordinary shareholders.
This is in line with guidance issued by interpreted in accordance with s418 of the Companies Act 2006. the Association of British Insurers.
If the directors were to use such further authority in the year following the 2012 AGM, all directors wishing A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditors of the Company will to remain in office would stand for re-election at the 2013 AGM.
Details of these resolutions are included with the Notice of AGM enclosed with this Report.
Directors Report approved by the Board on 1 March 2012 and signed on its behalf by: Zillah Stone Group Secretary 56 Directors Report
