Helical Bar plc 2011 page 41 the board of directors and senior management The Board of Helical Bar plc is collectively responsible for Non-executive directors providing the entrepreneurial leadership of the Group within a Chairman framework of controls and reporting structures which assist the Giles Weaver, FCA, was appointed to the Board as a non-executive Group in pursuing its strategic aims and business objectives.
director in 1993 and was appointed Chairman following the 2005 AGM.
He is Chairman of the Nominations and Appointments Committee.
A past The Board of Helical Bar plc comprises five executive directors and four Chairman of Murray Johnstone Ltd, he is Chairman of Tamar European non-executive directors.
Industrial Fund Limited and a director of Aberdeen Asset Management Board of Directors and other ofcers plc and IRP Property Investments Limited as well as being Chairman or a director of a number of investment companies.
Executive directors Antony Beevor, MBE, BA, was appointed to the Board as a non-executive Chief Executive director in 2000.
He is the Senior Independent Director and Chairman Michael Slade, BSc Est Man FRICS FSVA, joined the Board as an of the Audit Committee.
He is also a member of the Remuneration and executive director in 1984 and was appointed Chief Executive in 1986.
A former Head of Corporate He is President of Land Aid, the property industry charity, Chairman of the Finance at Hambros Bank and former Chairman of Croda International Property Forum, a Fellow of the College of Estate Management, Fellow Plc, he is a Deputy Chairman of the Takeover Panel.
Aged 71. of Wellington College, a Trustee of Purley Park and Sherborne School Foundation and Vice Admiral of the Marie Rose Trust.
Mike was given Wilf Weeks, OBE, was appointed to the Board as a non-executive the Property Personality of the Year award at the Property Awards 2011. director in 2005.
He is a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Aged 64.
Founder and Chairman of GJW Government Relations, he is a former Chairman of European Public Finance Director Affairs at Weber Shandwick.
Nigel McNair Scott, MA FCA FCT, joined the Board as a non-executive director in 1985 and was subsequently appointed Finance Director in Andrew Gulliford, BSc Est.
Man, FRICS, was appointed to the Board as 1987.
He is a former Chairman of Avocet Mining plc and former director a non-executive director in 2006.
He is Chairman of the Remuneration of Johnson Matthey plc.
Committee and a member of the Audit and Nominations and Appointments Committees.
A former Deputy Senior Partner of Cushman Director & Wakeeld Healey & Baker, he is a non-executive director of McKay Gerald Kaye, BSc Est Man FRICS, was appointed to the Board as an Securities PLC, IRP Property Investments Limited and various other executive director in 1994 and is responsible for the Groups development companies.
He has been responsible for completing over 4 million sq ft of ofces, retail, leisure and industrial developments.
Gerald is the President Deputy Finance Director and Company Secretary of the British Council for Ofces, a member of the Investment Advisory Tim Murphy, BA Hons FCA, joined the Group in 1994.
Prior to joining Committee of Rockspring Hanover Property Unit Trust and a trustee of Helical, he worked for accountants Grant Thornton and KPMG.
He is a former director of London & Edinburgh Trust Plc and former Chief Executive of SPP.
Duncan Walker, MA Hons Oxon, PG Dip Surveying, joined the Group in 2007 and oversees a portfolio of investments and developments.
Director In particular, he was responsible for the recent acquisition of Helicals Matthew Bonning-Snook, BSc Urb Est Surveying MRICS, was shopping centres and a number of industrial properties.
Prior to joining appointed to the Board as an executive director in 2007.
Prior to joining Helical, Duncan led Edinburgh House Estates investment team.
Helical in 1995 he worked for Richard Ellis now CB Richard Ellis, and oversees many of Helicals ofce and mixed use developments.
John Inwood, BSc Hons MRICS, joined the Group from Cushman and Wakeeld in 1995 and is the Head of Asset Management.
Director Jack Pitman, MA Cantab MRICS, was appointed to the Board as an Tom Anderson, BSc Hons MRICS, joined the Group in 2009 from executive director in 2007.
Before joining the Group in 2001 he was Allsops where he worked in the National Investment Team.
Aged 32. a director of Chester Properties Ltd.
He is responsible for the Groups Oliver Rippier, BA Hons MSc Real Estate MRICS, formerly employed investment activities.
Aged 42. by Jones Lang LaSalle and Lloyds Banking Group, joined as a property analyst and development executive in 2010.
Alastair Oastler, BSc Hons ACA, joined the Group as Financial Controller in 2007 having previously worked for Invensys plc and Compagnie Financiere Richemont SA.
Aged 34. page 42 Helical Bar plc 2011 the board of directors and senior management Directors and their interests The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups transactions and The directors, all of whom were in ofce during the year, and their disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the interests, all of which were beneficial, in the ordinary shares of the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply Company are listed below.
Other than in respect of the award of shares with the Companies Act 2006 and article 4 of the IAS Regulations.
They under the terms of the Companys Share Incentive Plan on 14 June 2011, are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence there have been no changes in the directors interests in the period from for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and 31 March 2011 to 15 June 2011. other irregularities.
Ordinary Ordinary 1p shares 1p shares In so far as the directors are aware: 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditors are Giles Weaver 132,313 113,794 unaware: and, Michael Slade 13,623,760 13,669,498 the directors have taken all steps that they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that Nigel McNair Scott 2,706,398 2,518,195 the auditors are aware of that information.
Gerald Kaye 1,526,855 1,449,764 We, the directors listed below, confirm that to the best of our knowledge: Matthew Bonning-Snook 276,533 255,004 the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable Jack Pitman 441,319 401,263 set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, Antony Beevor 19,569 14,013 liabilities, financial position and profit and loss of the group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and, Wilf Weeks 7,213 3,509 the management report includes a fair review of the development and Andrew Gulliford 14,328 8,772 performance of the business and the position of the group and the Total directors interests 18,748,288 18,433,812 undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Issued share capital 118,137,522 107,407,522 The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Percentage of issued share capital 15.9% 17.2% corporate and financial information included on the Groups website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and Principal activities dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other The principal activity of the Company is that of a holding company and jurisdictions.
the principal activities of the subsidiaries are property investment, dealing On behalf of the Board and development.
Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have to prepare financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs.
Michael Slade Nigel McNair Scott Chief Executive Finance Director Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of 15 June 2011 the state of affairs of the Group and Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable IFRSs have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
