Board of Directors Board of Directors Michael Harper 67 Simon Pryce 50 Mark Hoad 41 Nick Land 64 Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board as a non-executive Appointed to the Board as Group Chief Appointed to the Board as Group Finance Senior Independent Director appointed to director in February 2005 and became Executive in June 2007.
Simon is a Chartered Director in April 2010.
Mark is a Chartered the Board in August 2006.
Nick was formerly Non-Executive Chairman in June 2007.
Accountant and a member of the Chartered Accountant.
He joined BBA Aviation as Chairman of Ernst & Young LLP and a member Michael is an engineer by training and has Institute for Securities and Investment who Group Financial Controller in May 2005 from of the Global Executive Board of Ernst & Young, a wealth of experience gained as a director gained international investment banking RMC Group plc where he had worked since positions which he held from 1995 to 2006. of Williams plc where, on the demerger in experience in senior positions at JP Morgan 1996 in a number of finance roles, including In addition to his experience as a Chartered 2000, he became Chief Executive of Kidde and Lazards in London and New York, expanding his international business Accountant, Nick brings to the Board his plc.
He is currently Chairman of both Vitec before broadening his general management experience with periods based in Germany, extensive skills as an advisor to international Group plc and Ricardo plc, a non-executive skills in a variety of roles with GKN plc for Croatia and Australia, where he was Chief businesses.
His current appointments include director of QinetiQ Group plc and a Fellow nine years, latterly as the Chief Executive Financial Officer of ASX-listed company being a non-executive director of Vodafone of the Royal Aeronautical Society.
of GKNs Diversified Businesses Group.
Group Plc, Ashmore Group plc and Alliance is on the Board of GAMA General Aviation Boots GmbH.
He is Chairman of the board of Manufacturers Association and is a Fellow trustees of both Farnham Castle and Vodafone of the Royal Aeronautical Society.
Group Foundation and sits on the Finance and Audit Committees of the National Gallery.
He is also an adviser to Alsbridge plc and sits on the Financial Reporting Council.
Mark Harper 55 Peter Ratcliffe 63 Hansel Tookes 64 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board in December 2006.
Appointed to the Board in January 2009.
Peter Appointed to the Board in February 2007.
Key to committee members Mark is BBA Aviations CSR Responsible brings to the Board his experience of working Hansel brings to the Board his operational Audit and Risk Committee Director.
Following a career involving in an industry focused on customer service as perspective and experience of the aviation Nomination Committee various sales and marketing positions with he was the Chief Executive Officer of Carnival industry drawn from nearly 20 years Remuneration Committee Ford Motor Company, Lucas Industries and plc until April 2003 and Chief Executive Officer working in various positions at United Unipart, Mark joined Bunzl in 1986 where of the P&O Princess Cruises division of Carnival Technologies Group including as President We announced on 27 February 2012 he held a number of general management Corporation and Carnival plc from 2003 to at Pratt & Whitneys Large Military Engines that Susan Kilsby is joining the Board with positions, including a period as President 2007.
He also brings his significant experience Group, prior to which he was a Lieutenant effect from 10 April 2012.
She will also be of a US-based plastics business.
He became both as an executive and a non-executive Commander and military pilot in the US a member of the Remuneration, Audit Chief Executive of Filtrona plc, when it director of UK and US public listed companies.
Navy and a commercial pilot with United and Risk and Nomination Committees.
demerged from Bunzl in June 2005 and He was previously an executive director of Airlines.
He retired in 2002 from Raytheon retired from Filtrona in April 2011.
The Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation Inc. where he had formerly been Chairman Company.
He is a Chartered Accountant and a and CEO of Raytheon Aircraft.
His current dual US UK citizen.
His current appointments appointments include being a noninclude being a non-executive director of executive director of Corning, Inc. Nextera Carnival Corporation, Carnival plc and Mead Energy, Inc. Harris Corporation and Ryder Johnson Nutrition Company and he is a System, Inc. trustee director of P&O Princess Cruises Pension Trustee Limited.
8 Directors Report Executive Management Executive Management Simon Pryce Mark Hoad Mike Askew Peg Billson Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Managing Director, President, Legacy Support APPH Group Hugh McElroy Keith Ryan Michael Scheeringa Sheena Mackay President, Engine Repair President, ASIG President, Signature Group HR Director and Overhaul Flight Support Iain Simm Zillah Stone Group General Counsel Group Secretary Directors Report 9
