Business Model Business Model BBA Aviation seeks to maintain a balanced portfolio of aviation support and aftermarket services businesses which have barriers to entry and produce above average growth rates and attractive financial returns, with a common focus on growing exceptional long-term sustainable value for all stakeholders.
We deliver this through active management, effective strategy execution, efficient resource allocation and maximising the Groups intrinsic cross-business opportunities.
Our Flight Support division provides specialist on-airport support services to the owners and operators of business and commercial aircraft.
We differentiate ourselves from our competitors through our customer relationships, long-leasehold network, technical capability and focus on customer service.
Our Aftermarket Services and Systems division services and supports engines and aerospace components, sub-systems and systems.
We operate with high levels of intellectual property rights, established through OEM authorisations and licences as well as in-house development.
Our Strategy BBA Aviations vision is to be a dynamic, world-class supplier to the global aerospace industry, continuously delivering exceptional performance.
Our overriding objective is to grow exceptional longterm sustainable value for all our stakeholders through: exceeding customer expectations and competitor offerings continuously improving market-leading and innovative businesses working together for greater gain through improved co-ordination and co-operation being an employer of choice for empowered individuals in a safe and sustainable environment always behaving with integrity and respect To deliver on the vision and mission, BBA Aviations employees are unified around a common set of values that are a vital and integral part of the way we do business: Integrity We earn the trust and respect of our stakeholders with honesty, fairness, openness and by honouring our commitments.
Performance We focus on delivery of long-term and sustainable value, continuous improvement and reliability.
People We are committed to investing in and empowering our people through training and education and to providing them with opportunities for rewarding careers.
14 Directors Report Our Strategy Responsibility We are committed to managing our impact on, and contributing positively to, society and the environment.
Safety We are dedicated to safety and security, the elimination of hazards and protecting people, property and our environment.
Service We strive continually to anticipate customer needs, exceeding their expectations.
BBA Aviation has developed through a combination of organic growth and bolt-on acquisitions, in markets where we have market-leading positions, generate strong cash flow and in businesses that are well placed to benefit from cyclical and secular growth.
In order to support delivery of the vision, each year BBA Aviations Executive Management Committee sets a series of short and medium-term specific and measurable goals which are then cascaded throughout the Group.
Each business has actions aligned to the achievement of each of the short and medium-term goals, and the execution of those actions is actively monitored by Group management.
Each of the five businesses has a clear business unit strategy to compete effectively in its markets and to deliver growth: Division Business Growth Strategy Flight Support Signature Cyclical recovery, continued share gain, structural growth, consolidation, enhanced service offering, operational improvement, cross business co-operation ASIG Cyclical recovery, increased presence at selected hub and international airports, enhanced service offering in core locations, operational improvement, cross business co-operation Aftermarket Services ERO New authorisations, military and rotor craft and Systems expansion, operational footprint improvement, cross business co-operation Legacy New licences, active selling, acquisitions of mature technology companies, cross business co-operation APPH Operational improvement, niche organic expansion, cross business co-operation The successful execution of this strategy is expected to be value creative for shareholders, and progress is monitored against the Key Performance Indicators KPIs set out on pages 18 to 19, with the principal longer-term KPIs, earnings per share growth and return on invested capital also directly linked to management incentivisation as set out in more detail in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 65 to 75.
