28 Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information Governance Report of the Directors The directors have pleasure in submitting the Annual Report and Accounts of Bellway p. l. c. to the shareholders for the year ended 31 July 2011.
Principal Activities The Company is a holding company, owning subsidiary undertakings which continue to be engaged principally in housebuilding in the UnitedKingdom UK.
Performance and Prospects A review of the Groups performance and prospects that fulfils the requirements of the business review can be found in the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 and 3, the Chief Executives Operating Review on pages 6 to 11, the Corporate Responsibility Policy on page 13, the 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility Statement on pages 14 and 15, the Environmental Policy on page 19 and the Group Finance Directors Review on pages 20 to 23.
Inaddition, information in respect of the principal operating risks of the business is set out in the Operating Risk Statement on pages 24 and 25.
Results and Dividends The profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent company amounts to 50.1 million 2010 35.8 million.
Ordinary Dividends The directors have proposed a final ordinary dividend for the year ended 31 July 2011 of 8.8p per share.
This has not been included within creditors as it was not approved before the year end.
Dividends paid during the year comprise a final dividend of 6.7p per share in respect of the previous year ended 31 July 2010, together with an interim dividend in respect of the year ended 31 July 2011 of 3.7p per share.
The directors recommend payment of the final dividend on Wednesday 18 January 2012 to shareholders on the Register of Members at the close ofbusiness on Friday 16 December 2011.
Directors All the directors of the Company, who are shown on pages 26 and 27, served throughout the year, with the exception of Mr Ayres who was appointed on 1 August 2011.
Mr Stoker was a director at the start of the year and retired on 31 July 2011.
The UK Corporate Governance Code includes a provision that all directors should be subject to annual re-election.
As a result, all of the directors, with the exception of Mr Leitch, retire from the Board and offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM.
MrLeitch retires from the Board on 31 January 2012 and is therefore not retiring and seeking re-election at the AGM.
The directors biographies are shown on pages 26 and 27.
None of the executive directors hold external directorships.
Following formal rigorous evaluation, the Chairman, acting on behalf of the Board, is satisfied as to the effectiveness and commitment of all of the directors.
Directors Contracts Details of the terms of appointment of all the directors are given in the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration on pages 36 and 37.
Directors Interests The directors interests in the share capital of the Company and in share ownership plan arrangements are given in the Report of the Board onDirectors Remuneration on pages 35 to 42.
Takeovers Directive The information for shareholders required pursuant to the relevant companies legislation which implements the Takeovers Directive is disclosed inthis report and in the Shareholder Information section on page 79.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 29 Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information Notifiable Shareholders Interests As at 31 July 2011 and at the date of this report the Company had been notified of the following interests amounting to 3% or more of the voting rights in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: As at 31 July 2011 As at date of this report Number of Number of shares with % total voting shares with % total voting voting rights rights voting rights rights BlackRock Inc 10,000,579 8.28 13,183,615 10.91 Fidelity International Ltd FMR Corp 9,300,000 7.70 9,300,000 7.70 JP Morgan Chase & Co 5,712,902 4.73 5,712,902 4.73 AXA Framlington Investment Management 5,603,638 4.64 5,603,638 4.64 Polaris Capital Management LLC 4,897,018 4.05 4,897,018 4.05 Capital Group International Inc 4,831,994 4.00 N A Below 3.00 Legal & General Group plc 4,545,633 3.76 4,545,633 3.76 HBOS plc 4,261,453 3.53 4,261,453 3.53 Credit Suisse Securities Europe Limited 3,890,282 3.22 3,890,282 3.22 Third Avenue Management LLC 3,668,120 3.04 3,668,120 3.04 Corporate Governance Introduction The Board acknowledges the importance of, and is committed to, the principle of achieving and maintaining a high standard of corporate governance.
This report, together with the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration, as detailed on pages 35 to 42, describes how the Principles of Good Governance, which are set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, are applied by the Group.
Statement of Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The Board considers that it has complied with the detailed provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code throughout the year to 31 July 2011 and up to the date of this report.
The UK Corporate Governance Code is publicly available free of charge from FRC publications, tel: 020 8247 1264, e-mail: customer.
Statement about Applying the Principles of Good Governance The Group has applied the Principles of Good Governance, including both the Main Principles and the Supporting Principles, by complying with the UK Corporate Governance Code as reported above.
Further explanations of how the Main Principles and Supporting Principles have been applied are set out below and, in connection with the directors remuneration, in the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration.
The Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Operating Review and the Group Finance Directors Review present a balanced and comprehensive assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
The Board At the date of this report the Board consists of seven directors whose names, responsibilities and other details appear on pages 26 and 27.
Three of the directors are executive and four of the directors, including the Chairman, are non-executive.
The Board discharges its responsibilities by providing entrepreneurial leadership of the Company within a framework of prudent and effective controls, which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
Itsets the Companys strategic aims, ensures that the necessary financial and human resources are in place for the Company to meet its objectives and reviews management performance.
It also defines the Companys values and standards and ensures that its obligations to its shareholders are understood and met.
The Board has adopted a schedule of matters which are specifically reserved for its decision which includes various matters to do with Companies Acts and other legal requirements, listing requirements, Board membership and Board Committees, management, corporate governance, employment, financial and other miscellaneous items.
In addition, it has a series of matters that are dealt with at regular Board meetings including an operational review, a financial review, strategy, land acquired, major projects, personnel, corporate governance, internal control, risk and health and safety.
It has also adopted a framework of delegated commercial and operational authorities which define the scope of powers delegated to management below Board level.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary and all the directors may take independent professional advice at the Groups expense where they judge it necessary to discharge their responsibility as directors.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 30 Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information Governance Report of the Directors continued Board Effectiveness The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board and ensuring it operates effectively.
The directors possess an appropriate balance of skills and experience to meet the requirements of the business.
During the year there were ten Board meetings, three Audit Committee meetings, six meetings of the Board Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration, one meeting of the Board Committee on Non-Executive Directors Remuneration and four Nomination Committee meetings.
Thefull Board aims to visit at least two divisions each year, and last year visited the North East, South East and Wessex divisions, as well as receiving presentations at Board meetings from divisional senior management.
There were no absences from any Board or Committee meetings by any director.
During the year the non-executive directors met without the executive directors on two occasions, and the Chairman was not present on one ofthese occasions.
The Articles require one-third of the directors to offer themselves for re-election each year at the AGM and all directors to seek re-election at leastevery three years.
The Articles also require new directors appointed since the last AGM to offer themselves for re-election at the next AGM.
7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code states that all directors should retire and offer themselves for re-election ateachAGM.
Training and Development The Board received appropriate training and updates on various matters relevant to its role, as and when required, during the year.
Training needs are reviewed as part of the performance evaluation process and on an ongoing basis.
Mr Ayres induction programme to the Board includes meetings with the Companys various advisers, and he has also attended a formal training course designed specifically for new plc directors.
Mr Ayres has held senior roles within Bellway since 2002 and is therefore well versed in the operations, practice and procedures of the Group.
Board Balance and Independence The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive, which are recorded in writing and approved by the Board, are separate, with a clear division ofresponsibilities, ensuring a balance of responsibility and authority at the head of the Group.
The senior independent non-executive director is Mr Johnson.
The senior independent non-executive director is available for shareholders tocontact with any queries or concerns they may have.
Each of the non-executive directors, excluding the Chairman, has at all times acted independently of management and has no relationship which would materially affect the exercise of his independent judgement and decision-making.
The Company considers all of its non-executive directors, excluding the Chairman, to be independent, as defined in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Whenever any director considers that he is interested in any contract or arrangement to which the Group is or may be a party, due notice is given tothe Board.
No such instances of any significance have arisen during the year.
Board Evaluation During the year the directors undertook an evaluation of the performance and effectiveness of the Board, its Committees and individual directors.
The evaluation was performed using a system of self-assessment.
This involved the Chairman, acting on behalf of the Board, evaluating the performance of the other individual directors, and the non-executive directors, led by the senior independent non-executive director, assessing theperformance of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the executive directors.
The Board, led by the Chairman, evaluated its own performance, and the Committees, led by the Chairman of each, evaluated their own performance.
As part of the process of ensuring Board effectiveness, the non-executive directors, led by the senior independent non-executive director, metwithout the Chairman present.
Additionally, the Chairman held a meeting with the non-executive directors without the executives present.
TheChairman also had meetings with each of the executive directors.
The Board and its Committees reviewed the results of these evaluations and are satisfied with the evidence they provided about the balance, effectiveness and performance of the Board and its Committees and the effectiveness and commitment of each director.
The Board Committees The Board has formally constituted Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The terms of reference for the Audit and Nomination Committees and the Board Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration are available either on request, at the AGM or on the Companys website: www.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises three independent non-executive directors, Mr Johnson Chairman, Mr Toms and Mr Cuthbert, who were members of the Committee throughout the year.
The Committee meets at least three times a year and met three times during the year under review.
The Committees responsibilities include thefollowing: to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance.
to review and make recommendations in relation to the half year and annual accounts prior to submission to the Board.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 31 Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information to assess the scope and effectiveness of the systems established by management to identify, assess, manage and monitor financial and non-financialrisks.
to review managements reports on the effectiveness of systems for internal financial control, financial reporting and risk management.
to consider the appointment re-appointment of the external auditors and assess their independence each year.
to recommend the audit fee to the Board and pre-approve any fees in respect of non-audit services provided by the external auditors and todevelop and monitor the Companys policy on the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor and to ensure that the provision ofnon-audit services does not restrict the external auditors independence or objectivity.
to agree the nature and scope of the audit and review the quality control procedures and steps taken by the auditors to respond to changes inregulatory and other requirements.
to oversee the process for selecting the external auditors and make appropriate recommendations through the Board to the shareholders toconsider at the AGM.
to consider annually whether there is a need for an internal audit function and make a recommendation to the Board.
to review the Groups procedures for handling allegations from whistleblowers.
to review annually the Groups compliance with its Anti-Bribery Policy.
The Board believes that Mr Johnson, the Committee Chairman, has recent relevant financial experience as a Chartered Accountant.
The Group hasa written Independent Auditor Policy in place which seeks to preserve the independence of its auditors by defining those non-audit services the independent auditors may and may not provide.
There are clearly defined levels of approval depending on the value of work to be provided.
Where fees exceed 100,000, or where total non-audit fees equate to 100% of audit fees, Board approval would be required.
In respect of any material project with fees in excess of 200,000 where the auditors are considered for the provision of services, this would be the subject of a competitive tendering process.
The Committee recommended to the Board that the external auditors should be re-appointed at the forthcoming AGM.
It reached this conclusion based on the ongoing performance of the incumbent auditors and the competitive fee structure when compared with peer companies.
During the year the Committee met the auditors without management present on two occasions.
In addition, the Committee Chairman had regular contact with the Finance Director and the external auditors.
Board Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration The Board Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration comprises Mr Toms Chairman, Mr Johnson and Mr Cuthbert, who were members of the Committee throughout the year.
The Committee meets at least twice a year and during the year it met on six occasions.
Its duties are to review and recommend the basic salary, taxable benefits, terms and conditions of employment, including performance-related payments, long-term incentive plans and other benefits of the executive directors and the Chairman.
The Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration on pages 35 to 42 contains details of directors remuneration and the Groups policies in relation to directors remuneration.
The Committee is also responsible, in consultation with the Chief Executive, for monitoring the total remuneration packages of senior executives below Board level.
Board Committee on Non-Executive Directors Remuneration The Board Committee on Non-Executive Directors Remuneration comprises the executive directors and is chaired by Mr Watson.
It meets at least once a year to review and recommend the terms, conditions and remuneration of the non-executive directors.
Last year it met on one occasion to review the fees and terms of appointment of the non-executive directors.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises Mr Dawe Chairman, Mr Johnson, Mr Toms and Mr Cuthbert, who were all members of the Committee throughout the year.
The Committees main duties are to formulate plans for succession for both executive and non-executive directors and, inparticular, for the key roles of Chairman and Chief Executive and to make recommendations regarding appointments to the Board.
The Committee meets at least twice a year and last year met on four occasions.
Appointments to the Board are made on merit through a formal, rigorous and transparent process against objective criteria recommended by theCommittee, with due regard given to the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
The Committee also guides the whole Board in arranging orderly succession for appointments to the Board.
The appointment of a non-executive director is for a specified term and re-appointment is not automatic and is made on the recommendation of the Committee.
Other committees of the Board are formed to perform certain specific functions as required from time to time.
Directors Remuneration The principles and details of directors remuneration are detailed in the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration on pages 35 to 42.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 32 Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information Governance Report of the Directors continued Accountability and Audit The statement on going concern and the Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and Accounts are shown on pages33 and 43 respectively.
The Audit Committee, whose role is detailed above, has meetings at least twice a year with the Companys auditors, KPMG Audit Plc.
Internal Control The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and also for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The system is regularly reviewed by the Board in accordance with the guidance contained in the Turnbull Report Internal Control Guidance for Directors of Listed Companies Incorporated in the United Kingdom.
The Board acknowledges its responsibility to establish, maintain and monitor a system of internal control relating to operational, financial and compliance controls and risk management to safeguard the shareholders interests in the Companys assets.
This system, however, is designed to manage and meet the Groups particular requirements and reduce the risk to which it is exposed rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
It can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board reviews the effectiveness of the system of internal control and, in particular, it reviews the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the business and the policies and procedures by which these risks are managed on an ongoing basis.
Management is responsible for the identification and evaluation of significant risks applicable to particular areas of the business together with the design and operation of suitable controls.
These significant risks, which are described in the Operating Risk Statement on pages 24 and 25, are regularly assessed and cover all aspects of the business, but in particular land acquisition, planning, construction, health and safety, information and reporting systems, sales, environmental issues, personnel, asset protection, treasury management and legal and regulatory compliance.
In addition, there is a responsibility to mitigate risk by the provision of adequate insurance cover and by management reporting on material changes in the business or external environment affecting the risk profile.
There is a system of regular reporting to the Board which provides for appropriate details and assurances on the assessment and control of risks.
The continuing role of the Board is, on a systematic and ongoing basis, to review the key risks inherent in the business, the operation of the systems and controls necessary to manage such risks and their effectiveness and to satisfy itself that all reasonable steps are being taken to mitigate these risks.
The key areas of control are as follows: the Board has agreed a list of key risks which affect the Group and has considered the extent to which the measures taken by the Group mitigate those risks.
an established monitoring structure is in place, which provides short lines of communication and easy access to members of the Board.
delegation of clearly defined responsibilities to the Regional Chairmen and divisional boards with clear procedures and authority limits in place toprovide and maintain effective controls across the Group.
a comprehensive reporting system entailing annual budgets, regular forecasting and financial reporting.
a central treasury function operates at Head Office.
regular meetings with management attended by members of the Board to review divisional performance.
the acquisition of land and land interests is subject to checking by management and approval by the Board to ensure that purchasing criteria aremet.
regular reviews of site costs and revenues by senior Head Office personnel which are reported to the Board.
regular visits to sites by senior management and external consultants to monitor health and safety standards and performance.
a number of the Groups key functions are dealt with centrally.
These include finance, banking and treasury, taxation, financial services, pensions, insurance, information technology, legal, personnel and company secretarial.
The Company does not have a separate internal audit function and, as recommended by the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Audit Committee considers annually whether there is a need for such an internal audit function and makes a recommendation to the Board.
During the year, having considered the robust systems and strong controls already present in the Group and as described above, the Audit Committee recommended that no separate internal audit function was presently required.
The position will continue to be monitored by the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board.
Whistleblowing Arrangements The Group has operated throughout the year a whistleblowing arrangement whereby all employees of the Group are able, via an independent external third party, to confidentially report any malpractice or matters of concern they have regarding the actions of management and employees.
This facility is also available for employees to report any breaches of the Companys Anti-Bribery Policy.
The Audit Committee and the Board regularly review the effectiveness of this arrangement.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 33 Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information Relations with Shareholders The Company encourages active dialogue with its private and institutional shareholders, both current and prospective.
Meetings are held with both existing and prospective institutional shareholders on a regular basis and as requested.
Shareholders are also kept up to date with Company affairs through the Annual and Half Year Reports, Trading Updates and Interim Management Statements.
The AGM is used to communicate with institutional and private investors and their participation is encouraged by the taking of questions by the whole Board, both during, and also informally, before and after the meeting.
The senior independent non-executive director is always available to discuss issues with current and prospective shareholders and institutions, as required.
In addition, the whole Board is regularly updated on shareholder and investor views and activities at Board meetings by the Chief Executive and the Finance Director.
Further information for shareholders is available under Shareholder Information on pages 78 to 81 and also on the Companys website at www.
Going Concern After making due enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts as discussed further on page 50.
Employees The Group is an equal opportunities employer.
It is the Groups policy to develop and apply, throughout the Group, procedures and practices which are designed to ensure that equal opportunities are provided to employees of the Group, or those who seek employment with the Group, irrespective of their age, colour, disability, ethnic origin, gender, marital status, nationality, parental status, race, religion, belief or sexual orientation.
All employees, whether part-time, full-time or temporary, are treated fairly and equally.
Selection for employment, promotion, training or other matters affecting their employment is on the basis of aptitude and ability.
All employees are assisted and encouraged to develop their full potential and the talents and resources of the workforce are fully utilised to maximise the efficiency of the organisation.
It is Group policy to give full and fair consideration to the employment needs of disabled persons and persons who become disabled whilst employed by the Group and to comply with any current legislation with regard to disabled persons.
Training at each division is planned and monitored through an annual training plan.
The importance of good communications with employees is recognised by the directors.
Each division maintains good employee relations using avariety of means appropriate to its own particular needs, with guidance when necessary from Head Office.
New employees, when eligible, are invited to join the Companys pension and life assurance arrangements and the savings related share option scheme.
The Company also offers a private medical scheme, childcare vouchers and personal accident insurance arrangements.
In accordance with statutory requirements, the Company also has a designated stakeholder pension arrangement.
Environmental Issues The Board recognises the importance of environmental issues and, when carrying out its business, endeavours to make a positive contribution to the quality of life, both for the present and the future.
An Environmental Policy, approved by the Board, has been adopted by all trading entities within the Group.
Environmental issues are addressed in the Corporate Responsibility Policy on page 13, the 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility Statementon pages 14 and 15, the Environmental Policy on page 19, and in the Corporate Social Responsibility section of the Companys website www.
co. uk, a copy of which is available from the Group Company Secretary at the Companys registered office.
Health and Safety at Work The Group promotes all aspects of health and safety throughout its operations in the interests of employees, sub-contractors and visitors to its sites and premises and the general public.
Health and safety issues are considered at each Board meeting, and are addressed in the Chief Executives Operating Review on pages 6 to 11, in the Corporate Responsibility Policy on page 13, in the 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility Statement on pages 14 and 15, and in the Corporate Social Responsibility section of the Companys website www.
Donations During the year the Group made no political contributions but donated 20,716 2010 17,011 for charitable purposes.
Significant Relationships The Company is party to a number of banking agreements with major clearing banks.
The withdrawal of such facilities could have a material effect on the financing of the business.
Other than the foregoing the Group has contractual and other arrangements in place with suppliers and other third parties which support its business activities.
None of these arrangements are considered to be critical to the performance of the business.
Suppliers The Group agrees terms and conditions under which business transactions with suppliers are conducted.
The policy is that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with these terms and conditions, provided that the supplier is also complying with the terms and conditions.
The Groups current policy concerning the payment of the majority of its materials suppliers and sub-contractors is for payment to be made at the month end following the month of the invoice.
For other supplies, particularly land, the terms are many and varied.
Trade creditors due within one year at 31 July 2011 of80.0 million 2010 68.0 million resulted in a creditor payment period of 25 days 2010 32 days.
Land creditors due within one year were 57.5 million 2010 45.0 million.
Including land creditors, the creditor payment period was 43 days 2010 53 days.
The parent company had no land or trade creditors at 31 July 2011 2010 nil.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 34 Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information Governance Report of the Directors continued Purchase of the Companys Own Shares The Company was given authority at the 2011 AGM to purchase its own ordinary and preference shares.
As at the date of this report no market purchases have been made by the Company and this authority will expire at the end of the 2012 AGM.
Shareholders will be asked to renew this authority for a further year at the 2012 AGM.
Market purchases, for which shareholder authority is not required, have been made by the trustees ofthe employee share schemes see note 20 for further details.
Directors and Officers Liability Insurance and Indemnification of Directors The Company carries appropriate insurance cover in respect of possible legal action being taken against its directors and senior employees, and the Articles provide the directors with further protection against liability to third parties, subject to the conditions set out in the Companies Act 2006.
Such qualifying third party indemnity provision remains in force as at the date of this report.
Disclosure of all Relevant Information to Auditors The directors who held office at the date of this report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors In accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company isto be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
AGM Special Business Four resolutions will be proposed as special business at the AGM to be held on Friday 13 January 2012.
Explanatory notes on these resolutions areset out in Shareholder Information on page 78.
By order of the Board G Kevin Wrightson Group Company Secretary 17 October 2011 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011
