24 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 Directors report The Directors present their report and the audited financial Interests in the issued share capital of the Company held at the statements for the year ended 31 December 2011. beginning and end of the year under review by those who were Directors at 31 December 2011 or their families are set out on Principal activity page 37 of the Remuneration report.
Details of share options Savills plc the Company is a holding company.
The activities held by the Directors pursuant to the Companys share option of its principal subsidiaries are to provide transactional advice, schemes are provided in the Remuneration report on page 38. consultancy and management services in connection with It is the Boards policy that the Group Executive Board Members commercial, residential and agricultural property, property should retain at least 105,000 shares value at 31 December 2011: related financial services and fund management.
343,980 in the Company and that the Group Chief Executive retain at least 150,000 shares value at 31 December 2011: Operations 491,400 at all times.
The Company and its subsidiaries together the Group operate through a network of offices and associates in the Americas, the In accordance with DTR4, the Directors responsibilities statement UK, Continental Europe, Asia Pacific, Africa and the Middle East.
is set out on page 40 of this Annual Report.
Dividend Enhanced Business Review The profit attributable to shareholders is 26.5m 2010: 25.0m.
In accordance with Section 417, Companies Act 2006, the An interim dividend of 3.15p net per ordinary share amounting Company is required to set out in this report a fair review of the to 3.9m 2010: 3.7m was paid on 17 October 2011.
It is business of the Group during the year ended 31 December 2011 recommended that a final dividend of 6.35p net per ordinary and of the position of the Group at the end of that financial year, share amounting to 7.8m is paid, alongside the supplemental together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties interim dividend of 4p per ordinary share amounting to 5.0m facing the Group.
The information can be found in the following declared by the Board on 14 March 2012, on 14 May 2012 to sections of this Annual Report and are incorporated into this report shareholders on the register at 10 April 2012. by reference: Principal developments Review of operations page 06 The development of the business is detailed in the sections entitled Key performance indicators page 07 Review of operations and Financial review on pages 6 to 15.
Financial review page 14 The principal risks and uncertainties are detailed on pages 19 Corporate responsibilities page 16 and 20.
Risks and uncertainties page 19 Directors Statement of Disclosure to Auditors Short biographical details of the current Directors are shown on In accordance with Section 418, Companies Act 2006 each pages 22 and 23.
All the Board served throughout the year Director at the date of approval of this report confirms that: with the exception of Tim Freshwater who joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 January 2012. so far as the Director is aware, there is no information, which Timothy Ingram will stand down from the Board at the conclusion would be needed by the Companys auditors in connection of the Annual General Meeting on 9 May 2012 following which with preparing their audit report, of which the auditors are Martin Angle will become the Senior Independent Director.
Clare not aware: and Hollingsworth will join the Board as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 2 April 2012.
Following these changes the Board will each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have comprise the Non-Executive Chairman, two Executive Directors taken as a Director to make himself aware of any such and four Independent Non-Executive Directors full details are information and to establish that the auditors are aware of it.
In accordance with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board has resolved that all Directors should stand for annual re-election.
The Board is satisfied that each Director who is standing for re-election continues to show the necessary commitment and to be an effective member of the Board due to their skills, expertise and business acumen.
Notwithstanding his appointment in 2000, the Board considers that Charles McVeigh continues to be entirely independent in character and judgement.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 25 Our business Our governance Our results Additional Information Disclosure Purchase of own shares Pursuant to regulations made under the Companies Act 2006 In accordance with the Listing Rules at the Annual General Meeting the Company is required to disclose certain additional information.
on 4 May 2011, shareholders gave authority for a limited purchase Those disclosures not covered elsewhere within this Annual Report of Savills shares of up to 10% of the issued share capital.
During are as follows: the year, no shares were purchased under the authority.
Share capital and major shareholdings The Board proposes to seek shareholder approval at the Annual The share capital of the Company is detailed on page 90.
General Meeting on 9 May 2012 to renew the Companys authority to make market purchases of its own ordinary shares of 2.5p each The Company has only one class of share capital formed of for cancellation or to be held in treasury.
Details of the proposed ordinary shares.
All shares forming part of the ordinary share resolution are included in the Notice of Annual General Meeting capital have the same rights and each carries one vote.
There circulated to shareholders with this Annual Report and Accounts are no unusual restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares.
Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share unless the instrument of transfer is: i lodged at the registered Change of control office of the Company or any other place as the Board may decide There are no significant agreements which take effect, alter or accompanied by the certificate for the shares to be transferred terminate in the event of change of control of the Company except and such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require that under its banking arrangements, a change of control may to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: or ii in trigger an early repayment obligation.
respect of only one class of shares.
Articles of Association Articles The Directors may also refuse to register a transfer of a share The Companys Articles are governed by relevant statutes and may whether certificated or uncertificated, whether fully paid or not, in be amended by special resolution of the shareholders in a general favour of more than four persons jointly.
The Board may also close meeting.
the register of shareholders for up to 30 days effectively suspending The Companys rules about the appointment and replacement of the registration of all transfers: however, in respect of uncertificated Directors are contained in the Articles.
The powers of the Directors shares, consent from CREST would be required for such a closure.
are determined by UK legislation, and the Articles of the Company As at 14 March 2012, the latest practicable date before the in force from time to time.
publication of this Annual Report, the Company had been notified Annual General Meeting of the following interests in the Companys ordinary share capital in The Annual General Meeting AGM is to be held at 20 Grosvenor accordance with Chapter 5 of the UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure Hill, Berkeley Square, London W1K 3HQ at 12 noon on 9 May and Transparency Rules: 2012: details are contained in the AGM Circular circulated to Number shareholders with this Annual Report and Accounts.
Shareholders of shares % Half Year Report Artisan Partners Limited Partnership 15,787,164 11.91 Like many other listed public companies, we will no longer be Franklin Templeton Institutional, LLC 14,433,732 10.89 circulating printed Half Year reports to shareholders.
Rather, FIL Limited 6,549,524 4.94 future Half Year results statements will be published on the BlackRock, Inc 6,514,966 4.91 Companys website.
This is consistent with our target of saving Majedie Asset Management Limited 6,489,019 4.89 printing and distribution costs.
Artemis Investment Management Limited 6,472,808 4.88 Creditors payment policy Ignis Investment Services Limited 5,262,038 3.97 The Group does not follow any specified code or standard Legal & General Group Plc 5,230,378 3.94 on payment practice.
However, the Group aims to settle supplier accounts in accordance with the individual terms As at 31 December 2011, the Savills plc 1992 Employee Benefit of business agreed with each supplier.
There were 39.3 days Trust the EBT held 9,198,857 shares.
Any voting or other purchases outstanding at the end of the year for the Company similar decisions relating to these shares are taken by the trustees 2010: 35.4 days.
of the EBT, who may take account of any recommendation of the Company.
The EBT waives all but 0.01p per share of its dividend entitlement.
For further details of the EBT please refer to Note 2 to the financial statements.
26 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 Directors report continued Charitable donations and political contributions Auditors The amount paid to charitable organisations during the year In accordance with Section 489, Companies Act 2006, a resolution was 233,372 2010: 370,242.
In addition to these donations, for the re-appointment of  LLP as auditors the Group also operates a Give As You Earn scheme which of the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
allows employees to donate a portion of their monthly salary to By order of the Board a registered charity.
The Group also operates a profit share waiver scheme whereby employees can elect to waive an element of any Chris Lee annual profit share in favour of registered charities of their choice Group Legal Director & Company Secretary upon which the Group augments the donation to the chosen 14 March 2012 charity by 10%.
These additional Group contributions totalled 149,456 2010: 195,140 during the year.
There were no Registered Office: political contributions 2010: nil.
20 Grosvenor Hill Berkeley Square Corporate governance London W1K 3HQ The Corporate Governance report, the Remuneration report and the Directors responsibilities are set out on pages 27 to 40 and form part of this report.
Employees The Directors recognise that the quality, commitment and motivation of Savills staff is a key element in the success of the Group: see pages 16 and 17 for more information.
Employees are able to share in this success through profit share schemes and share plans, see pages 36 and 37 for more information.
The Group encourages its employees to develop their skills through training and continued professional development.
It is the policy of the Group to provide employment on an equal basis irrespective of gender, sexual orientation, marital or civil partner status, gender reassignment, race, colour, nationality, ethnic or national origin, religion or belief, disability or age.
In particular, the Group gives full consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons.
Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Groups policy wherever practicable to provide continuing employment and to provide training and career development and promotion to disabled employees.
Insurance cover The Company purchases insurance to cover its Directors and Officers against their costs in defending themselves in civil legal proceedings taken against them in that capacity and in respect of damages resulting from the unsuccessful defence of any proceedings.
The insurance does not provide cover where the Director has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
In accordance with the Articles, the Directors and the Group Legal Director & Company Secretary have been granted an indemnity issued by the Company to the extent permitted by law in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
The indemnity would not provide any coverage to the extent that a Director or the Group Legal Director & Company Secretary is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
