16 16 Savills plc Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate responsibilities We continue to maintain our focus on ensuring that our people Key highlights in 2011 worldwide work within our specified financial, operational and compliance framework, and that these standards are consistently applied.
We demand the highest professional standards from all of People our people all of the time and have a zero tolerance to breaches.
Continued to embed the Savills Values through the However, given the breadth of activities and the number of people appraisal process and integration into promotion and we employ there may be occasions when we do not meet the high reward criteria standards we aspire to.
Where we fail to reach these high Continued to work to be an employer of choice to allow standards, we treat any breach with the utmost seriousness.
us to recruit, motivate and retain talented people We continue to include the consideration of CR related issues in our Key Risk Registers ensuring that we can readily identify emerging issues and respond to these on a timely basis.
Clients Maintained our focus on continuously improving client People service in particular by further developing our cross Our vision to be the real estate advisor of choice in our selected border service capacity markets and deliver superior financial performance can only be achieved through the dedication, commitment and excellence of Implemented a client care training programme, which is our people.
being progressively extended across the Group Our people strategy remains focused on supporting delivery of the highest standards of client service through motivated and engaged Environment people.
We believe that a positive culture is essential to high quality Listed within the top ten of the FTSE350 Carbon client service.
This positive culture is encapsulated in our Values, Disclosure Leadership Index 2011 which are reflected in all our practices and procedures.
Our reputation has been built on our people and we believe that employees whose behaviours reflect our Values deliver the Community excellent client service that we strive to provide.
Our Values are: Continued emphasis on good corporate citizenship: Pride in everything we do Savills Guardian, our Facilities Management business We: in Hong Kong, won the 5-Year Plus Caring Company take great pride in delivering services of the highest quality: certificate always go the extra mile to meet our clients objectives: and Retained membership of FTSE4Good, evidencing our seek to employ only the best people.
commitment to meeting globally recognised corporate Always act with integrity responsibility standards We: behave responsibly: Corporate responsibility at Savills act with honesty and respect for other people: and Corporate responsibility CR is our commitment to the positive adhere to the highest standards of professional ethics.
impact that our business can make, through our people, on the stakeholders and communities with whom we interface.
During Take an entrepreneurial approach to business 2011 our CR programme saw some notable achievements and We: saw us reach some key milestones in particular becoming a seek out new markets and opportunities for clients, and take founder member of the Institute of Environmental Management and a creative and entrepreneurial approach to delivering value: Assessments quality mark scheme and being the only real estate are forward thinking, and always aim to build long term client advisor to be listed in FTSE350 Carbon Disclosure index 2011. relationships: aim to be a leader in every market we enter, and commit The Board as a whole is responsible for determining our CR ourselves with passion, energy and expertise: and strategy.
The Group Executive Board GEB is responsible for approach problems with a proactive, practical attitude, delivering delivering it on a day to day basis.
The GEB is also responsible for robust solutions.
ensuring compliance with our corporate values and standards.
The framework for delivering our CR objectives is focused by a CR Help our people fulfil their true potential Working Group which is chaired by the Group Chief Executive and We: comprises senior representatives from a range of business and encourage an open and supportive company culture in which central teams.
In this capacity, the CR Working Group is every individual is respected: responsible for co-ordinating activity to deliver our agreed goals help our people to excel through appropriate training and and for monitoring Group-wide progress and performance.
development: Operational forums, reporting to the Working Group, are share success, and reward achievement: and established as necessary to develop and deliver initiatives at recognise that our peoples diverse strengths combined with business level in the four critical areas of CR, namely People, good teamwork produce the best results.
Savills plc Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 Report and Accounts 2011 17 17 Our business Our governance Our results We continue to work to be an employer of choice and to provide an To enhance the management of health and safety risks across the environment in which our people can flourish and succeed.
This will Group further, we continue the systematic reporting of recordable allow us to recruit, motivate and retain talented people.
In this occupational accidents to business heads.
respect we support the Core Principles of the International Labour Clients Organization.
We engage with our people to communicate our We are committed to delivering a high quality service to all our vision and strategy through well established internal channels.
We recognise the need to deliver exceptional client care of our businesses have an intranet through which key messages and the importance of client satisfaction.
We seek regular feedback are communicated, while all major corporate announcements are from our clients which is augmented by independent market communicated across the Group as they are released externally, research, which focuses on brand recognition and client service along with a senior management briefing to allow full details to be levels.
This provides an important independent rating of the cascaded though the businesses.
Individual businesses use a standard of our client service.
variety of methods to communicate, including regular face to face briefings led by senior management, which also provide us with a Supporting this commitment and to provide a further independent mechanism for receiving employee feedback.
endorsement of the quality of service that we deliver for our clients, we continue to work towards accreditation under ISO 9001:2008 We are further refining our development programme to focus on Quality Management across our UK office network.
This three themes embedding core competencies at all levels, accreditation also makes us more competitive when tendering for supplemented by director level training: concentrating on people work, particularly when bidding for public sector contracts.
At the management, business knowledge and development, and client end of 2011, 53 UK locations were ISO 9001:2008 accredited.
relationship management: and a bespoke, focused leadership development programme to ensure that our high potential The Green Agenda continues to be encouraged by Governments individuals are equipped to become the next generation of leaders and public opinion and influences our thinking when advising in the Group.
This focused approach will be developed in the UK, clients.
We have long established and highly regarded teams which refined and then extended globally.
advise both Governments and clients on sustainability issues across the built environment.
For example, our UK Energy team We also continue to focus on attracting and recruiting the best has been operating in the renewable and conventional energy graduates.
We came first, for the fifth year running, in the property sectors for over 15 years and is now a leading advisor on category of Graduate Employers of Choice at The Times Graduate renewable energy projects, working with clients to deliver wind, Recruitment Awards 2011. solar and other clean energy projects.
Health and safety In Asia, Savills Guardian was again awarded the Class of Savills is committed to the health, safety and welfare of our Excellence Wastewi$e label in Hong Kongs 2011 Awards for employees and others affected by our business operations.
Its sister company in Hong Kong, working practices form an integral part of our day to day business Savills Property Management, maintained its focus on fostering and we aim to find practical and pragmatic solutions to health and environmental awareness with clients by producing an annual safety risks.
To this end our safety strategy is focused on priorities environment report and inviting them to participate in the annual such as reducing significant occupational exposure to workplace Savills Green Gathering event to share ideas and understand the hazards and maintaining regulatory compliance.
Our positive latest developments for energy efficiency and water saving.
During safety programme has continued to be developed to actively 2011, more than 99 buildings managed by Savills in Hong Kong promote a safety culture within the business.
In 2011 we rolled collected more than 138,000 kgs of paper, 10,600 kgs of plastic out a series of internal training workshops for our Directors and and almost 9,800 kg of metal for recycling.
Senior Managers aimed at refreshing their knowledge of their responsibilities for health and safety.
This has raised awareness and Similarly, 28 buildings managed by Savills participated in promoting resulted in further initiatives including a UK driven initiative focusing low carbon emissions and energy efficiency of buildings facilities on the personal safety of employees when working out of the office, in 2011.
Our efforts were recognised with the award of three and in particular lone working.
This initiative highlighted the risks Certificates for Excellence and Certificates of Environmental Good.
involved and also provided practical solutions to minimise those Environment risks.
We will continue to roll out further health and safety training The direct impact of our operations on the environment is low across our business during 2012. compared to many other industries.
The most significant We have a specifically designed health and safety system which is contribution we can make is through providing quality advice to customised to fit our business.
This meets the requirements of our clients, incorporating the principles of sustainability wherever HSG65 and we have continued with our implementation of more appropriate.
However, we also recognise the value of reducing demanding standards.
Our system includes a health and safety the direct impact of our activities on the environment to as low champion network comprising senior leaders appointed in each a level as is reasonably practicable.
By seeking to reduce our country and service line with responsibility for the delivery of environmental impact we are able to achieve increased operational focused health and safety risk agendas.
We have in place systems, efficiencies and savings.
It also improves our attractiveness as an processes and metrics for reporting personal and process safety employer of choice.
Our updated Group Environmental Policy is performance that support internal performance management, based on these core principles.
promote learning and enable public reporting.
18 18 Savills plc Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate responsibilities continued They are implemented via our subsidiaries through both their Our Australian offices participated in Earth Hour in 2011 a global services and day to day actions.
As an example of our focus on initiative to turn off as much power as possible for one hour each minimising our direct impact, we have adopted an ongoing year sending a powerful message for action on climate change.
programme of office-based environmental initiatives which include 1 UK Environmental Reporting 2010 11: GHG Emissions reduced printed paper wastage, sourcing recycled or sustainable paper products, powering down idle desktop equipment and 2011 2010 encouraging a wide range of recycling initiatives.
We continue to Unit t CO e Unit t CO e Change % 2 2 encourage the use of online facilities, reducing travel time by the Business mileage 6,683 2,181.6 6,514 2,217.2 -1.6% expansion of our online training services within the UK.
We will be completing the move of our primary data centres in both Hong Kong and UK to greener data centres using hosted providers in 1 Business mileage increased during the year reflecting increased volumes in our UK residential agency business.
Community Our cross-company UK Green Group co-ordinates our internal Globally, we have continued to support charitable causes.
Locally actions and communicates the results and good practice to our our teams across our businesses continue to support local staff.
Building on the progress made over the past few years, initiatives.
In the UK we focused on raising money and awareness more than 80% of our UK locations now have their energy needs for various causes or through events in support of our two main satisfied by one supplier.
Likewise, our German offices source corporate charities, Honeypot and LandAid.
During 2011 a charity their electricity from a single supplier with savings being generated bike ride in aid of Honeypot attracted over 80 riders and aimed to both in costs and emissions.
A key selection criterion is the raise over 20,000. use of renewable energy resources to reduce further our environmental impact.
Savills UK graduates continued to support ICAN, a charity assisting children with speech, language and communication needs, As part of our drive to control our environmental impact and to organising various fundraisers including an inter-company cricket act as a hallmark of quality for our clients, we have continued to match, a 10km run and a women in property networking event.
support our offices who are attempting to adopt ISO 14001: 2004 Environmental Management.
This is designed to achieve sound In Asia, Savills Guardian launched its first Education Fund Scheme environmental performance by using a proactive range of practical in 2000 and has since then run this programme every year.
The office management measures consistent with our aim of carbon scheme extends to all children residing in our managed properties reduction.
and the purpose is to reward students with good results and to relieve burdens on families with financial hardship.
In recognition Savills is the only UK real estate advisor to be featured in the top of continual efforts in this area, Savills Guardian, which was first ten of the FTSE 350 Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index 2011. awarded the Caring Company logo in 2002 03, now holds the The 2011 Leadership Index comprises 36 companies drawn Caring Company 5 consecutive years logo.
Since 2010 Savills from the FTSE 350 and is based on an analysis of the responses Hong Kong has also held the Caring Company logo.
to a detailed questionnaire which focuses on greenhouse gas emissions, reduction strategies and the Companys perception During 2011 over 130 employees participated in the Hong Kong of the risks and opportunities associated with climate change.
marathon which supports The Hong Kong Amateur Athletic Association.
A team at Savills Hong Kong also took part in a In Asia Pacific, properties managed by Savills Guardian continued charity walk organised by the Redford Charity Foundation to to gain awards from the Environmental Protection Department raise funds to build a fourth Redford foundation school in China.
for its performance in protecting the environment via promotion of waste separation facilities for facilities management clients.
Future plans In addition the Property Management team in Hong Kong also We remain committed to continuous improvement in the area of received a number of awards and holds ISO 14001 certification CR and building on the work we have done in previous years.
energy efficiency, waste reduction, indoor air quality and water During 2012 and subsequent years we will seek to further develop quality in recognition of its commitment to improving environmental our CR approach, focusing on those activities where we are best performance.
placed to make a significant contribution.
Our East Melbourne Project Management team was recently awarded a 5 Star Green Star Office Interiors v1.1 Certified Rating from the Green Building Council of Australia, which represents Australian Excellence in environmentally sustainable construction.
This was awarded for a fit-out project and is a major achievement, with only our other projects in Victoria having achieved a similar rating.
