22 22 Savills plc Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 Report and Accounts 2011 Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 1.
Timothy Ingram Chairman of Savills plc and Chairman of the Nomination Committee Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Appointment to the Board: Peter was appointed to the Board Appointment to the Board: Timothy was appointed to the Board on as a Non-Executive Director on 24 May 2004 and was elected Chairman 27June 2002.
He will stand down from the Board at the Annual General with effect from 1 November 2004.
Background and relevant experience: Formerly, he was Senior Partner of Background and relevant experience: He was Chief Executive of  PwC and served for two years as Chairman of Caledonia Investments plc from 2002 until his retirement in July 2010.
Coopers & Lybrand International and as a member of the global leadership He was formerly Chief Executive of First National Finance Corporation, team of PwC.
He served as Chairman of RAC plc and was a Non-Executive a main Board Director of Abbey National plc and a Non-Executive Director Director of Safeway plc and the Equitable Life Assurance Society.
of Hogg Robinson plc and The Sage Group plc.
Other appointments: He is a Non-Executive Director of N M Rothschild Other appointments: He is now Chairman of Collins Stewart plc and is & Sons Limited, Rothschild Bank AG, Associated British Foods plc and a Non-Executive Director of Alliance Trust plc and Alok Industries Limited.
Chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Committee membership: Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee Committee membership: Remuneration Committee and Nomination and Nomination Committee.
Jeremy Helsby Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Group Chief Executive Committee Appointment to the Board: Jeremy joined Savills in 1980 and was Appointment to the Board: Charles was appointed to the Board as a appointed to the Board in 1999.
Background and relevant experience: He was Chairman and Chief Background and relevant experience: Formerly, he was Co-Chairman of Executive Officer of Savills Commercial and Savills Europe for seven years Citigroups European Investment Bank and served on the Boards of Witan until he was appointed as Group Chief Executive on 7May 2008.
Investment Company plc, Clearstream, the London Stock Exchange, LIFFE, British American Business Inc and was a member of both the Development Committee membership: Nomination Committee.
Board and Advisory Council of the Princes Trust.
He was also appointed by the Bank of England to serve on the City Capital Markets Committee and 3.
Simon Shaw the Legal Risk Review Committee and was a member of the Fulbright Group Chief Financial Officer Commission.
Appointment to the Board: Simon joined Savills as Group Chief Financial Other appointments: He is currently Chairman of Citigroups Corporate Officer in March 2009.
Aged 47. and Investment Banking Global Wealth Management Partnership.
He Background and relevant experience: He is a Chartered Accountant.
serves on the Board of EFG-Hermes, Petropavlosk plc formerly Peter Hambro He was Chief Financial Officer of Gyrus Group PLC from 2003 until its sale Mining plc and was appointed as a trustee of the Landmark Trust in 2010. to Olympus Corporation in 2008, having previously been Chief Operating Committee membership: Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Officer of Profile Therapeutics plc between 1998 and 2003.
and 1997 he was a corporate financier, latterly at Hambros Bank Limited.
Other appointments: He is Non-Executive Chairman of Synairgen plc.
Tim Freshwater Independent Non-Executive Director 4.
Martin Angle Appointment to the Board: Tim was appointed to the Board Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit as a Non-Executive Director on 1 January 2012.
Committee Background and relevant experience: He was Managing Director and Appointment to the Board: Martin was appointed to the Board on Chairman of Corporate Finance Goldman Sachs Asia from 2001 until 2January 2007.
He will replace Timothy Ingram as the Senior Independent 2005.
He was formerly with Jardine Fleming, becoming Group Chairman Non-Executive Director from 9 May 2012.
Aged 61. in 1999, and was Partner at Slaughter and May from 1975 to 1996.
Background and relevant experience: Formerly, he was Group Finance Other appointments: He is currently Vice-Chairman Goldman Sachs Asia.
Director of TI Group plc and held various executive roles with Terra He is also currently Non-Executive Chairman of Grosvenor Asia Pacific Firma Capital Partners and its portfolio companies, including The Waste Limited and a Non-Executive Director of Aquarius Platinum Limited, Chong Recycling Group Executive Chairman and Le Meridien Hotel Group Hing Bank Limited, COSCO Pacific Limited and Swire Pacific Limited.
He also held a number of senior positions in investment banking with S G Warburg & Co. Morgan Stanley and Dresdner Kleinwort.
Committee membership: Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee.
Other appointments: He is a Non-Executive Director of Pennon Group plc, OAO Severstal, Shuaa Capital psc Dubai and Chairman of The National Exhibition Group.
He is also a Trustee and Treasurer of the FIA Foundation.
