224170 UKCPT pp16-pp24 22 03 2012 13:19 Page 16 Report of the Directors The Directors present the report and accounts of the UK invests in income producing investments.
The Group currently Commercial Property Trust Limited, the Company for the year invests in four commercial property sectors: office, retail, industrial ended 31 December 2011. and leisure.
The Group has not set any maximum geographic exposures within the UK nor any maximum weighting limits in the principal property sectors.
No single property shall, however, Results and Dividends exceed at the time of acquisition 15 per cent of the gross assets of The results for the year are set out in the attached accounts.
Company has paid interim dividends in the year ended 31 December 2011 as follows: The Group is currently permitted to invest up to 15 per cent of its total assets in indirect property funds including in other listed Payment Date Rate per share investment companies.
The Group is permitted to invest cash, 2011 p held by it for working capital purposes and awaiting investment, in cash deposits, gilts and money market funds.
Fifth Interim for prior period Feb 1.3125 At an EGM of the Company on 28 April 2011 the shareholders of First interim May 1.3125 the Company approved a revised gearing policy of the Group.
It Second interim Aug 1.3125 was amended to provide as follows: Gearing, calculated as gross Third interim Nov 1.3125 borrowings as a percentage of the Groups gross assets total assets less current liabilities, may not exceed 65 per cent.
The Board Total 5.25 intends that borrowings of the Group at the time of draw down will not exceed 25 per cent of the Gross Assets of the Group.
For so On 2 February 2012 the Company declared a fourth Interim long as the 80 million bank facility provided to the Company by dividend of 1.3125p per Ordinary Share with an ex-dividend date Lloyds TSB Scotland plc remains outstanding, it is the Boards of 8 February 2012, which was paid on 28 February 2012. current intention that borrowings of the Company itself will be limited to a maximum of 10 per cent of the Groups net assets at Post Balance Sheet Event the time of draw down.
The Company drew down an additional 60 million of the Barclays The Board receives recommendations on gearing levels from the loan facility and purchased three multi-let industrial properties for Investment Manager and is responsible for setting the gearing 63.5 million in February 2012. range within which the Investment Manager may operate.
As at 31 December 2011 the Group had total borrowings of 140 Principal Activity and Status million, representing 13.3 per cent of the year end gross assets The Company is a Guernsey company and during the year carried 18 per cent following the further 60 million drawdown of the on business as a property investment company.
Listing Requirements An analysis of how the portfolio was invested as at 31 December Throughout the year the Company complied and intends to 2011 is contained within the Investment Manager Review on continue to comply with the conditions applicable to property pages 8 to 12 and a full portfolio listing is provided on page 14. investment companies set out in the Listing Rules.
The Groups performance in meeting its objectives is measured Business Review against key performance indicators as set out on page 4 and page 13.
A review of the Groups returns during the year, the The Board of Directors is responsible for the overall stewardship of position of the Group at the end of the year, and the outlook for the Company, including investment, gearing and dividend policies, the coming year is contained in the Chairmans Statement and the corporate strategy, corporate governance, and risk management.
Biographical details of the Directors, all of whom are nonexecutive, can be found on page 15.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties Investment Policy The Groups assets consist of direct and indirect investments in UK The Companys investment objective is to provide ordinary commercial property.
Its principal risks are therefore related to the shareholders with an attractive level of income together with the commercial property market in general, but also the particular potential for capital and income growth from investing in a circumstances of the properties in which it is invested and their diversified UK commercial property portfolio.
In addition, the Company uses financial instruments in relation to its gearing which seeks to control interest rate risk Investment risks are spread through the Company and its relating to gearing.
More detailed explanations of these risks and subsidiaries the Group by investing in a diversified portfolio of the way in which they are managed are contained under the freehold and long leasehold UK commercial properties.
The Group headings of credit risk, liquidity risk and interest rate risk in note 16 16 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 224170 UKCPT pp16-pp24 22 03 2012 13:19 Page 17 to the accounts.
The Investment Manager also seeks to mitigate 2011 is contained on page 14 and further analysis can be found in these risks through continual review of the portfolio, active asset the Investment Manager Review.
At each Board meeting, the Board receives a detailed presentation from the Investment management initiatives, and carrying out due diligence work on Manager together with a comprehensive analysis of the potential tenants before entering into new lease agreements.
All performance of the portfolio during the reporting period.
of the properties in the portfolio are insured.
The Board and the Investment Manager recognise the importance Other risks faced by the Company include the following: of managing the premium discount of share price to net asset Economic inflation or deflation, economic recessions and value to support shareholder value.
One aspect of this involves movements in interest rates could affect property valuations, appropriate communication to gauge investor sentiment and, to and also its bank borrowings.
this end, the Investment Manager meets with current and Strategic incorrect strategy, including sector and property potential shareholders, and with stock broking analysts who cover allocation and use of gearing, could all lead to poor returns for the investment company sector, on a regular basis.
communication of quarterly portfolio information is provided through the Companys website, www.
co. uk, and the Regulatory breach of regulatory rules could lead to Company also utilises a public relations agency to enhance its suspension of the Companys Stock Exchange Listing, financial profile among investors.
penalties or a qualified audit report.
Management and control changes that cause the Key Performance Indicators KPIs management and control of the Company to be exercised in The Board uses a number of performance measures to assess the the United Kingdom could lead to the Company becoming Companys success in meeting its objectives.
The key performance liable to United Kingdom taxation on income and capital gains.
indicators are as follows: Financial inadequate controls by the Investment Manager or Net asset value against the Investment Property Databank third party service providers could lead to misappropriation of assets.
Inappropriate accounting policies or failure to comply Balanced Monthly and Quarterly Funds Index.
with accounting standards could lead to misreporting or Share Price Total Return.
Operational failure of the Investment Managers accounting Premium Discount of share price to net asset value.
systems or disruption to the Investment Managers business, or Dividend per share and dividend yield.
that of third party service providers, could lead to an inability to provide accurate reporting and monitoring, leading to a loss of Total expenses ratio.
These indicators for the year ended 31 December 2011 are set out The Board seeks to mitigate and manage these risks through on page 4. continual review, policy setting and enforcement of contractual obligations.
It also regularly monitors the investment environment In addition the Board monitors specific property KPIs such as void and the management of the Companys property portfolio and rates, rent collection levels and weighted average lease length on levels of gearing, and applies the principles detailed in the Turnbull a regular basis.
These are reported on page 13.
Details of the Companys internal controls are described in more detail on page 20.
Directors The Directors who held office during the period and their interests Management of Assets and Shareholder Value in the shares of the Company as at 31 December 2011 all of The Board has contractually delegated the management of the which are beneficial were: investment portfolio and other services to Ignis Investment Services Limited.
As at As at 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 The Company invests in properties which the Investment Manager 25p Ordinary 25p Ordinary believes will generate a combination of long-term growth in Shares held Shares held income and capital for shareholders.
Investment decisions are based on analysis of, amongst other things, prospects for future Christopher Hill 20,000 20,000 capital growth, sector and geographic prospects, tenant covenant Keith Dorrian 10,000 10,000 strength, lease length and initial yield.
Christopher Fish 10,000 10,000 Investment risks are spread through investing in a range of John Robertson 10,000 10,000 geographical areas and sectors, and through letting properties to Andrew Wilson 45,000 20,000 low risk tenants.
A list of all the properties held as at 31 December UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 17 224170 UKCPT pp16-pp24 22 03 2012 13:19 Page 18 Report of the Directors continued There have been no changes in the above interests between Substantial Interests in Share Capital 31 December 2011 and 19 March 2012.
At 31 December 2011 the following holdings, representing more than 3 per cent of the Companys issued share capital, had been The Directors are also Directors of UK Commercial Property notified to the Company.
Holdings Limited, UK Commercial Property GP Limited, UK Commercial Property Nominee limited, UK Commercial Property Number of Estates Holdings Limited and UK Commercial Property Estates Ordinary Shares Percentage Limited which are all wholly owned subsidiary undertakings.
Held Held In accordance with the articles of association Mr C Hill and Phoenix Life Limited 790,786,259 66.04% Mr C Fish retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for Nortrust Nominees 52,647,848 4.40% re-election.
Mr J Robertson, being a non-independent Director and State Street Nominees 49,037,763 4.10% hence subject to annual re-election retires and offers himself for re-election.
In addition, the AIC Code of Corporate Governance No changes to these holdings had been notified to the Company and the UK Corporate Governance Code both recommend that all as at 29 February 2012.
Directors of FTSE 350 companies be subject to annual re-election, therefore both Mr Dorrian and Mr Wilson also retire and offer The Companys ultimate controlling party is Phoenix Group themselves for re-election.
Following formal performance Holdings and immediate parent company is Phoenix Life Limited.
evaluations which covered each individual Director and the Board as a whole, the performance of all of the Directors continues to be Corporate Governance effective with each making a positive contribution to the The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of performance of the Company.
Therefore, the re-election of the the AIC Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code by reference to whole Board is recommended to shareholders at the 2012 Annual the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for investment Companies General Meeting.
AIC Guide both of which can be found at www.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the Management principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code which can Ignis Investment Services Limited provides management services be found at www.
uk, as well as setting out additional to the Company.
A summary of the contract between the principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific Company and Ignis Investment Services Limited in respect of relevance to the Company.
management services provided is given in note 2 to the accounts.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and The Directors, other than Mr John Robertson, have considered the recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC investment performance of the Company and the capability and Guide which incorporates the UK Corporate Governance Code, resources of the Investment Manager to deliver satisfactory will provide better information to shareholders.
They also considered the length of the notice period of the investment management contract and the The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC fees payable to the Investment Manager, together with the Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance standard of the other services provided.
Code, except as set out below.
Following this review, it is the Directors opinion that the The UK Corporate Governance Code includes provisions relating to: continuing appointment of the Investment Manager on the terms the role of the chief executive agreed is in the interests of shareholders as a whole due to the strength and quality of the management team and the executive directors remuneration Investment Managers commitment to the sector and to the Company.
the need for an internal audit function For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the position of the Company, being an externally managed investment company.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
Principle 1 of the AIC Code recommends that Boards appoint a Senior Independent Director SID.
In view of the Boards nonexecutive nature and having separate Chairs of the Board and Audit Committee, the Board considers it is not appropriate for a 18 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 224170 UKCPT pp16-pp24 22 03 2012 13:19 Page 19 SID to be appointed.
Principle 7 of the AIC Code recommends that investment performance, assets, liabilities and other relevant FTSE 350 Companies be externally facilitated at least every three information in advance of Board meetings.
The Board will monitor the availability of external facilitators The Audit Committee, chaired by Mr Christopher Fish, operates but currently believes that, given the size of the Board and its non within clearly defined written terms of reference which are executive nature, an external facilitation is not required at the available on request and comprises all of the Directors other than current time.
The duties of the Audit Committee in The Board consists solely of non-executive Directors of which Mr discharging its responsibilities include reviewing the Annual and Christopher Hill is Chairman.
All Directors, other than Mr John Interim Accounts, the system of internal controls and the terms of Robertson, are considered by the Board to be independent, with appointment of the auditor together with its remuneration.
any potential conflicts considered at each Board meeting with The Audit Committee is also the forum through which the auditor reference to the AIC Code.
The Boards policy on tenure is that reports to the Board of Directors and meets at least twice a year.
continuity and experience are considered to add significantly to The objectivity of the auditor is reviewed by the Audit Committee the strength of the Board, and as all Directors will be subject to which also reviews the terms under which the external auditor is re-election on an annual basis, it is not appropriate for the Board appointed to perform non-audit services.
The objectivity and to have a limit on the overall length of service of any of the independence of the auditor is safeguarded by obtaining Companys Directors, including the Chairman.
The Company does assurances from the auditor that adequate policies and not have a Nominations Committee with the Board as a whole procedures exist within its firm to ensure the firm and its staff are being responsible for the appointment of any new Director.
New independent of the Company by reason of family, finance, Directors receive an induction from the Investment Manager and employment, investment and business relationships other than in Secretary on joining the Board, and all Directors receive other the normal course of the business and enforcing a policy relevant training as necessary.
concerning the provision of non-audit services by the auditor The Company has no executive Directors or employees.
A which governs the types of work which are excluded.
The Audit management agreement between the Company and its Committee reviews the scope and results of the audit, its cost Investment Manager, Ignis Investment Services Limited, sets out effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the the matters over which the Investment Manager has authority and auditors, with particular regard to non-audit fees.
Such fees the limits beyond which Board approval must be sought.
All other amounted to 181,500 2010: 265,436 for the year ended matters, including strategy, investment and dividend policies, 31 December 2011 and related principally to costs in connection gearing, and corporate governance procedures, are reserved for with taxation advice for the Company and Group.
Notwithstanding the approval of the Board of Directors.
The Board currently meets such services the Audit Committee considers Ernst & Young LLP to at least quarterly and receives full information on the Companys be independent of the Company.
Director Meetings Attendance Summary Board of Directors Audit Committee Management Engagement Committee Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended C Hill 44 33 11 K Dorrian 4 4 3 3 1 1 C Fish 4 4 3 3 1 1 J Robertson 4 4 n a n a n a n a A Wilson 4 4 3 3 1 1 The table above sets out the number of Board and Committee meetings all held in Guernsey during the year and the number attended by each Director.
In addition to the above, there were 11 ad hoc meetings held during the year.
The Management Engagement Committee comprises the full During the year the performance of the Board, committees and Board other than Mr John Robertson and reviews the individual Directors were evaluated through an assessment appropriateness of the continued appointment of the Investment process, led by the Chairman.
The performance of the Chairman Manager, together with the terms and conditions thereof, on a was evaluated by the other Directors.
There have been no regular basis.
The Board as a whole monitors the performance of Directors appointed during the year.
Individual Directors may, at the expense of the Company, seek independent professional advice on any matter that concerns UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 19 224170 UKCPT pp16-pp24 22 03 2012 13:19 Page 20 Report of the Directors continued them in the furtherance of their duties.
The Company maintains Internal Controls appropriate Directors and Officers liability insurance.
The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board has therefore Independent Valuer established an ongoing process designed to meet the particular needs of the Company in managing the risks to which it is The Company engages an independent firm of valuers to exposed, consistent with the guidance issued by the Financial undertake valuations of all the properties the Company owns on a Reporting Council in October 2005.
The process is based quarterly basis.
The valuer also provides independent valuation principally on the Investment Managers existing risk-based advice on portfolio activity including purchases and disposals.
The approach to internal control whereby a risk matrix is created that Board reviews the terms of the valuers appointment, and also identifies the key functions carried out by the Investment Manager aims to meet the valuers, on an annual basis.
and other service providers, the individual activities undertaken within those functions, the risks associated with each activity and Going Concern the controls employed to minimise those risks.
A residual risk The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely rating is then applied.
The risk matrix is regularly updated and the to affect its future development, performance and position are set Board is provided with regular reports highlighting all material out in the Investment Policy and the Risk Uncertainties review on changes to the risk ratings and confirmation of the action which page 16.
In addition, Note 16 to the financial statements include has been, or is being, taken.
A formal annual review of these the Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its procedures is carried out by the Board and includes consideration capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its of SAS70 and similar reports issued by the Investment Manager financial instruments: and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity and other service providers.
Internal control procedures have been in place throughout the At both the Company and Group levels comprehensive going period and up to the date of approval of this Report, and the concern assessments have been performed.
The Board has Board is satisfied with their effectiveness.
These procedures are followed the Financial Reporting Councils Going Concern and designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and, by their Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009 nature, can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance when performing their going concern assessments.
against material misstatement or loss.
At each Board meeting the Board monitors the investment performance of the Company in The assessments performed include review of the valuation and comparison to its stated objective and against comparable liquidity of investments as at the balance sheet date and of companies.
The Board also reviews the Companys activities since solvency and cash flow projections under both normal and stressed the previous Board meeting to ensure that the Investment conditions.
In addition the Company has no contingent liabilities.
Manager adheres to the agreed investment policy and approved Having thoroughly considered the going concern assessment the investment guidelines and, if necessary, approves changes to such Board has concluded that there are no material uncertainties that policy and guidelines.
In addition, at each Board meeting, the may cast significant doubt about the Companys ability to Board receives reports from the Secretary in respect of continue as a going concern.
The Directors have a reasonable compliance matters and duties performed on behalf of the expectation that the Company has adequate resources to Company.
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, thus The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function.
they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in The Board has decided that the systems and procedures employed preparing the annual financial statements.
by the Investment Manager and the Secretary, including their internal audit functions and the work carried out by the Environmental & Ethical Policy Companys external auditors, provide sufficient assurance that a The Investment Manager acquires, develops and manages sound system of internal control, which safeguards shareholders properties on behalf of the Company.
It is recognised that these investments and the Companys assets, is maintained.
An internal activities have both direct and indirect environmental impacts.
audit function specific to the Company is therefore considered The Board has endorsed the Investment Managers own unnecessary.
environmental policy, which is to work in partnership with contractors, suppliers, tenants and consultants to minimise those Relations with Shareholders impacts, seeking continuous improvements in environmental The Company welcomes the views of shareholders and places performance and conducting regular interviews.
In addition the great importance on communication with its shareholders.
The Board has adopted an ethical policy which highlights the need for Board receives regular reports on the views of shareholders and ethical considerations to be considered in the acquisition and the Chairman and other Directors are available to meet management of both new and existing properties.
The Annual General Meeting of the Company provides a forum, both formal and informal, for 20 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 224170 UKCPT pp16-pp24 22 03 2012 13:19 Page 21 shareholders to meet and discuss issues with the Directors and such shares.
During the period when the Company holds shares as Investment Manager of the Company.
In addition the Companys treasury shares, the rights and obligations in respect of those Managers meet extensively with, and present to, both existing and shares may not be exercised or enforced by or against the potential new shareholders on a regular basis.
The maximum number of shares that can be held as treasury shares by the Company is 10 per cent of the aggregate nominal value of all issued Ordinary Shares.
Ordinary Shares held Annual General Meeting as treasury shares will only be re-issued, re-sold, or transferred at Among the resolutions being put at the Annual General Meeting prices which are not less than the published net asset value of an of the Company to be held on 20 June 2012, the following Ordinary Share.
It is the intention of Directors that the share buy back authority will Disapplication of Pre-emption Rights be used to purchase Ordinary Shares, subject to the income and Resolution 10 gives the Directors, for the period until the cash flow requirements of the Company, if the share price of an conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2013 or, if earlier, on Ordinary Share is more than 5 per cent below the published net the expiry of 15 months from the passing of resolution 10, the asset value for a continuous period of 90 dealing days or more.
In necessary authority either to allot securities or sell shares held in the event that such discount is more than 5 per cent for 90 treasury, otherwise than to existing shareholders on a pro-rata dealing days or more, following the second anniversary of the basis, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 30,969,850.
This is Companys most recent continuation vote, 10 July 2009, the equivalent to approximately 10 per cent of the issued ordinary Directors will convene an Extraordinary General Meeting to be share capital of the Company as at 19 March 2012 including held within three months to consider an ordinary resolution for the Treasury Shares.
If this continuation resolution is not passed, the Directors will convene a further extraordinary general The Directors will allot new shares pursuant to this authority only if meeting to be held within six months of the first extraordinary they believe it is advantageous to the Companys shareholders to meeting to consider the winding up of the Company or a do so and in no circumstances would this be done if it results in a reconstruction of the Company which offers all Shareholders the dilution to the net asset value per share.
opportunity to realise their investment.
If any such continuation resolution is passed, this discount policy, save in respect of share Directors Authority to Buy Back Shares buy backs, would not apply for a period of two years thereafter.
The current authority of the Board granted to it by shareholders at the 2011 AGM to buy back shares in the Company expires at the Auditor end of AGM to be held in 2012.
The Board intends to renew such Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in authority to buy back shares up to 14.99 per cent of the number office as auditor and a resolution proposing its re-appointment will of Ordinary Shares in issue.
This special resolution, if approved, will be submitted at the Annual General Meeting.
enable the Company to buy back up to 179,482,593 shares based on the current number of shares in issue excluding treasury So far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit shares.
Any buy back of Ordinary Shares will be made subject to information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware, and each Guernsey law and within guidelines established from time to time has taken all the steps he ought to have taken as a Director to by the Board, which will take into account the income and cash make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to flow requirements of the Company, and the making and timing of establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
any buy backs will be at the absolute discretion of the Board.
Recommendation Purchases of Ordinary Shares will only be made through the The Directors believe that the resolutions to be proposed at the market for cash at prices below the prevailing published net asset Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company value of an Ordinary Share as last calculated, where the Directors and its shareholders as a whole, and recommend that believe such purchases will enhance shareholder value.
Such shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions, as the Directors purchases will also only be made in accordance with the rules of intend to do in respect of all their own beneficial shareholdings.
the UK Listing Authority which provide that the price to be paid must not be more than the higher of i five per cent above the Approved by the Board on 19 March 2012. average of the middle market quotations for the Ordinary Shares for the five business days before the purchase is made and ii the Christopher M. W. Hill higher of the last independent trade and the highest current Director independent bid on the London Stock Exchange.
The minimum price exclusive of expenses that may be paid is 25 pence a share.
Christopher Fish The Company may retain any shares bought back as treasury Director shares for future re-issue and re-sale, or transfer, or may cancel any UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 21
