224170 UKCPT pp01-pp15 new 22 03 2012 13:33 Page 2 Company Summary The Company The GP is the general partner and UKCPH is a limited partner of the GLP.
The limited partnerships principal business is that of an UK Commercial Property Trust Limited the Company is a closed investment and property entity.
ended, Guernsey registered investment company which was launched on 22 September 2006.
Objectives The Company has a single class of share in issue, which is listed on The investment objective of the Company is to provide ordinary the official list and traded on the London Stock Exchange.
shareholders with an attractive level of income together with the potential for capital and income growth from investing in a The Company has an indefinite life and was incorporated on diversified portfolio of UK commercial properties.
The investment 24 August 2006. policy of the Company is set out on page 16.
The Group Management The Group consists of the Company, its five wholly owned Ignis Investment Services Limited is the Investment Manager of the subsidiaries, and a limited partnership.
The subsidiaries, UK Commercial Property Holdings Limited Further details of the management contract are provided in the UKCPH, UK Commercial Property GP Limited The GP, UK Notes to the Accounts.
Commercial Property Nominee Limited UKCPN, UK Commercial Property Estates Holdings Limited UKCPEH formerly known as ISA Status SCP Group Limited and UK Commercial Property Estates Limited UKCPEL are incorporated in Guernsey.
The principal business of The Companys shares are eligible for ISA investment.
UKCPH, UKCPEL and the GP are that of an investment and property company.
The principal business of UKCPN is that of a nominee Website company.
The principal business of UKCPEH is that of a holding The Companys website address is: www.
The limited partnership, UKCPT Limited Partnership, the GLP is a Guernsey limited partnership.
UK Commercial Property Holdings Limited and UK Commercial Property GP Limited have a partnership interest of 99 and 1 per cent respectively in this entity.
2 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED
