224170 UKCPT pp01-pp15 new 22 03 2012 13:33 Page 8 Investment Manager Review Market Review Total Return Income Return Capital Growth Fund Benchmark Fund Benchmark Fund Benchmark Over the course of 2011, the UK economy struggled to sustain the %%%%%% relatively weak levels of economic growth generated from 2008 2009 onwards.
Office 8.9 8.9 7.8 5.6 1.0 3.1 Global influences, such as the effect of the Japanese earthquake Industrials 8.9 7.3 6.9 6.9 1.8 0.4 and an escalating Eurozone debt crisis, combined with related Retail 6.9 7.0 6.1 5.8 0.8 1.1 domestic influences, including growing unemployment and falling disposable incomes, to suppress already anaemic GDP growth in Total 7.6 7.8 6.6 5.9 0.9 1.8 the UK economy.
Overall, the portfolio broadly matched the benchmark on a total return basis with the exception of industrials, where the portfolio Inevitably, such factors influenced the UK property market, which comfortably outperformed.
Although the portfolio benefited from was itself characterised as the year progressed by modest capital positive capital growth it was below the benchmark.
What is falls and slowing in some cases falling rents, leaving overall positive however is the strong income performance of the returns dominated by income.
At the prime end of the investment portfolio, comfortably exceeding the benchmark, which supports market, however, property continued to attract significant interest a high and sustainable dividend which is one of the principal from a wide range of investors and competition for quality assets objectives of the Company.
brought to the market remained fierce.
Average pricing levels proved resilient, although the headline index number masked a wide range between prime secondary assets and a pronounced Direct Portfolio Performance difference between wealthy towns often concentrated in the The independently undertaken portfolio valuation at 31 December South East, compared to locations which are much more exposed 2011 was 1,016.5 million, an increase of 1.0% over the year on a to public sector cuts.
Central London retail assets, prime West End like for like basis.
During the year the Company made two offices and, nationally, supermarket assets continued to deliver investment acquisitions totalling 100.6 million before costs.
Offices Against this background, investment activity in the property As was the case in 2010, offices were the top performing sector in market ended the year broadly the same as 2010 at 31.9 billion, 2011 within the wider market.
Divergence in this sector continued close to the ten year average.
London, not surprisingly, remained to prevail, as the stronger occupier and investment markets in the dominant UK investment market, accounting for almost half of Central London were in stark contrast with weaker markets total investment, whilst overseas investors, especially from the Far throughout the rest of the country.
Central London recorded East, remained the key players in this market.
Towards the end of strong total returns over the year supported by rental value growth the year, there were signs that German funds were extending their in all principal sub-markets.
reach to the major regional cities in an effort to achieve better income returns.
UK Institutions were also major investors.
However, as the year ended, it was evident that the impact of the Eurozone debt crisis was affecting investor sentiment towards the Performance Overview City: it is becoming evident that, in the short term at least, rental The Balanced IPD Monthly and Quarterly Valued Funds benchmark growth is slowing.
Conversely, West End rents continued to recorded an All Property Return of 7.8% 2010: 14.3%, driven by improve, primarily due to a lack of supply rather than any an income return of 5.9% 2010: 6.3% and capital growth of resurgence in occupational demand.
Almost 80% of capital growth in 2011 occurred in the first half of the year.
Capital growth disappeared in Offices throughout the rest of the country were the worst the final quarter of 2011 as uncertainty began to undermine the performing sub-sector in 2011 with capital values falling 5.0% as markets.
Income returns did, however, remain fairly consistent declining rents caused by a weaker occupational market throughout the period.
Property therefore outperformed UK undermined investor sentiment.
Against this background, the equities, which returned -3.5% for the year.
Both asset classes Companys overall office portfolio performed in line with the underperformed UK Long Gilts, which produced a total return of benchmark with strong total returns in West End offices 15.6% driven principally by an asset allocation away from riskier emanating from increasing rents and improving capital yields.
The Companys regional offices are predominantly well let to The table across summarises the total, income and capital returns strong covenants.
This underlying strength in the asset base more of the Company in each sector for the year to 31 December 2011 than compensated for the poor performance of the Companys compared to the benchmark: South East office holdings, which were written down due to a combination of short lease lengths and over-renting.
8 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 224170 UKCPT pp01-pp15 new 22 03 2012 13:33 Page 9 Although there are tentative signs of improving occupational was evident in only a few selected key locations in the Capital, markets in a few South East locations, any sustained recovery in such as Oxford Street and Bond Street.
rents is some way off and it is likely that significant capital Through 2011, the continued pressure on the consumer, and expenditure would be required in the Companys holdings to consequently on retailer demand for space, began to take its toll capture any growth in full.
on shopping centres and the rest of the UK High Street assets, with both sectors witnessing tenant defaults and capital decline as Industrials rental values began to soften in all but the best centres.
The performance of the Companys industrial holdings matched offices with an 8.9% total return.
Strong investment demand in The Companys retail portfolio returned a healthy 6.9% over 2011, South East industrial markets and successful asset management marginally below the benchmark return.
This sector was the activity at Dolphin Park Industrial Estate in Sunbury enhanced source of some of the most contrasting performance in the returns for the Companys industrial portfolio.
portfolio, with strong performance from the Companys retail warehouses and provincial High Street units compared to its Within the wider industrial portfolio, a strong income return was poorer performing shopping centres and South East retail.
The supported by capital growth, resulting in significant Companys retail warehouse performance was boosted by outperformance compared to the benchmark.
However, it should successful capital enhancing asset management initiatives.
be highlighted that most of this capital growth was as a result of Provincial High Street retail units also performed well due to their an improvement in yields in the first half of the year and returns prime locations.
This resilience was not evident in the Companys subsequently moderated as weaker growth in the UK economy shopping centres, where softening yields and rents became an began to impact occupational demand.
increasing feature as the year progressed.
Retail Losses of income were through retail administrations, particularly TJ Hughes and Jane Norman in Shrewsbury.
By contrast the Both in terms of the market and UKCPTs direct portfolio, retail was Companys South East retail holdings generally held their value, the worst performing sector of 2011, with a total return of 7.0%.
supported by accretive asset management initiatives such as the As with the Office sector, there was a divergence in performance Sainsburys in Marlow, which benefited from a 9% capital uplift in across geographies and sectors, with Central London retail, the final quarter following a lease restructure.
boosted by strong rental growth, far outstripping the rest of the country.
Again it should be noted that much of this rental growth Sainsburys in Marlow UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 9 224170 UKCPT pp01-pp15 new 22 03 2012 13:33 Page 10 Investment Manager Review continued Income With moderate rents for a location within a city such as Leicester, there remains a strong prospect that rents can increase through Annualised passing rent increased by 10.5% over the year from asset management.
The first step of the strategy for this asset was 61.8 million to 68.3 million as shown in the graph below.
This achieved with the granting of planning consent for a 73,500 sq ft increase of 6.5 million was principally due to two major superstore in July, which is highlighted later in this report.
acquisitions in the year, at St Georges Retail Park, Leicester and the Rotunda Leisure Complex in Kingston-Upon-Thames.
Successful The Companys second purchase was The Rotunda Leisure asset management initiatives, some of which are highlighted Complex, Kingston.
Acquired for 50.7 million in May and below, also played their part.
reflecting an initial yield of 6.4% based on annual income of 3.3 million, The Rotunda represents the Companys first move Retail administrations and Company Voluntary Arrangements, into the leisure sector.
Enjoying a strong covenant base from combined with an increasing propensity for tenants to cut their eleven tenants, including Odeon, David Lloyd and a number of costs and the resultant decision not to renew leases, contributed local and national restaurant operators, the acquisition presents to a challenging environment for lettings throughout 2011. the Company with an exposure to a sector with strong income However, due to the institutional quality of the portfolio and characteristics and the potential for a number of asset successful asset management initiatives, including letting activity, management initiatives.
annual passing rent for the portfolio held firm.
With an expectation that administrations will remain a feature of the Asset Management Activity market in the short term, a significant effort will be expended to ensure that income levels remain robust overall.
Whilst 2011 was a period of further investment for the Company, continued effort was made with asset management initiatives as Analysis of movements in 2011 Annualised Passing Rent the Company sought to improve, strengthen and extend income streams across the portfolio.
72 71 0.1 Although occupational markets remain challenging, there were a 6.5 70 total of 57 new lettings completed over the year producing an 69 additional annual rent of 2.1 million.
The average lease length of 68.3 1.9 these lettings was 12 years 6 months.
68 0.3 67 This letting activity was primarily focussed on the Companys retail 66 assets and, in particular, the shopping centres where forty five 65 lettings were secured.
Most important amongst these lettings 2.1 64 were flagship stores let to BHS, River Island and USC in the newly developed 80,000 sq ft, retail terrace at The Parade, Swindon 63 completed in Spring 2011.
These lettings helped improve the 62 61.8 Parades position within the retail hierarchy of the town and, in 61 doing so, improved the letting and income prospects of the 60 Companys largest holding.
Annualised New Leases Acquisitions Other Surrender In Breaks Served Annualised Passing Rent Administration Passing Rent December 2010 December 2011 The Company also let a unit in London to Virgin Holidays who opened a new store in our High Street, Kensington asset, generating an additional 77,000 of rent per annum after rent Investment Activity free periods.
The Company has once again been active in the investment market with two major acquisitions during 2011.
These were On an encouraging note, footfall at the Companys Shopping facilitated not only by the existing but also by new bank borrowing Centre in Shrewsbury improved over the year on the back of new facilities negotiated during the year.
As at the date of this review, lettings to retailers that included AT Computers a premium Apple the current blended rate on drawndown amounts is 4%.
Given the focus by all those involved in Shrewsbury, further lettings throughout 2012 will The first acquisition in the year was St Georges Retail Park, improve the income profile of this important asset in the lead up a Leicester in February for 49.9 million, representing a net initial potential planning consent for a major extension to the centres.
yield of 6.2% from an annual rent of 3.1 million.
Prominently The full application was submitted in early 2012.
If approved, the located within Leicester city centre, this Open A1 Retail Park with 150 million regeneration project will include the demolition of food extends to 165,419 sq ft and 522 car spaces, with a strong the existing Riverside Centre and the construction of a new tenant line up which includes Wickes, PC World, Toys r Us and 225,000 sq.
ft. centre that will be integrated with the Darwin and Mothercare.
Pride Hill Centres and provide stronger links to the town centre.
10 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED m 224170 UKCPT pp01-pp15 new 22 03 2012 13:33 Page 11 New Virgin Holidays store at High Street, Kensington, London, W1 The proposals consist of a 95,000 sq.
ft. full line department store, Within the office portfolio, the first floor office suite at 6 Arlington 50 new shops, 10 restaurants, offices and car parking: combined, Street, London, W1 was let to Simmons & Co. setting a new rental the enlarged centre will extend overall to 480,000 sq.
ft. and tone for the building and generating an annual rent of 172,000. continue to represent the principal retail focus for the town.
There were a number of other asset management initiatives Despite the general economic gloom, the Companys void position during 2011 that produced encouraging results with lease re-gears improved over the year from 3.6% to 3.4% of income.
Even involving existing occupiers at Kew Retail Park, Richmond: Colmore adjusting for tenant failure through administrations, CVAs etc.
the Row, Birmingham: Pall Mall, Manchester: and West Street, Marlow.
void rate was 4.5% at 31 December 2011.
This compares to a In total, these initiatives will improve income by 210,000 per benchmark void rate of 8.2%.
annum and the average lease length from 4 years 2 months to 9 years 5 months when the contract agreements are satisfied.
Occupiers of the Companys portfolio who entered administration in 2011 include TJ Hughes, JJB Sports, Jane Norman, Satori Sushi, Planning consents were also obtained in 2011 for the creation of a Alexon t a Anne Harvey, Revive, Life & Style, La Senza and Hawkins 73,500 sq.
ft. supermarket at St. Georges Retail Park, Leicester and Bazaar.
This amounted to 1.1% or 778,000 of the Companys also for a 4,200 sq.
ft. A3 Restaurant unit pre-let to Pizza Express at overall annual income.
In the majority of cases, the shop units Junction 27 Retail Park, Birstal, Leeds.
These initiatives will improve have subsequently been re-let to new occupiers, either on short income and drive value when pre-letting conditions are satisfied.
term flexible licences, or on improved lease terms.
The fall in rental values over the last few years, both within the Good progress has also been made in the letting of one of the portfolio and the wider property market, made it difficult to Companys major industrial holdings in Dolphin Park Industrial achieve meaningful uplifts at rent review during 2011.
However, of Estate, Sunbury where Unit B, 49,000 sq.
ft. was let to Howard the 40 rent reviews in the portfolio, settled rent reviews produced Tenens Storage & Distribution Ltd, generating a total income of an annual increase of 270,000 over passing rent.
The strength of the Companys covenant base continues to be reflected in the average rent collection efficiency at 97% per UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 11 224170 UKCPT pp01-pp15 new 22 03 2012 14:25 Page 12 Investment Manager Review continued annum after 28 days in 2011.
A total of 433,000 of bad debt was tenants, understanding their challenges and opportunities, and written off during the year, including 42,000 of rental income, also as using our own asset management skills to maintain and representing less than 0.1% of the total rent roll as at potentially enhance dividend cover.
Robert Boag Senior Investment Director Strategy Ignis Investment Services Income retention and enhancement have always been at the 19 March 2012 heart of the Companys strategy for the portfolio and, given the continued risks to the property market and in particular the retail sector, this remains a key priority for the Company.
In certain markets this will inevitably lead to a pragmatic and defensive approach where, in the short term at least, the preservation of income and limitation of costs and capital expenditure is the primary focus.
There are, however, a number of properties within the Companys portfolio where a more active approach to income enhancement can be taken through initiatives identified by the asset management team which, on completion, will help improve the Companys high and stable income stream and in turn support and improve the dividend cover.
The Companys robust balance sheet provides a firm platform from which to exploit these initiatives fully which, in some cases, will require significant capital expenditure to release additional income and capital return.
Where capital expenditure will not release the required returns without significant risk, the Company will seek to dispose of these assets.
There is increasing appetite for prime property, particularly for smaller, more passive investments.
This may provide the Lease re-gears achieved at Kew Retail Park above Company with the opportunity to sell assets which, from the Companys perspective, do not offer sufficient support to the dividend.
The Companys remaining bank facilities and existing cash will also provide an opportunity to invest further in properties with stronger income characteristics and asset management potential.
Existing portfolio weightings support the case for further acquisitions in income dominated sectors, such as multi-let industrial estates and alternative asset classes including leisure, hotels and student accommodation.
This would provide the Company with the opportunity to improve income yield and dividend cover and maintain extend the average lease length within the portfolio.
In addition, the introduction of an alternative income stream with fixed rental uplifts provides an element of diversification to income growth in a market where, short term, rental growth prospects appear limited.
The Managers key objective in the short term is to maintain rental Artists impression of proposed new shopping centre at income and limit capital expenditure, particularly in the retail sector, Shrewsbury where administrations and impending lease expiries generally have most potential to restrict income and capital prospects.
The basis on which assets the Company buys or holds will continue to be determined first and foremost by the characteristics of the assets themselves.
A continued adherence to this bottom up strategy will involve fostering relationships with the Companys 12 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED
