224170 UKCPT pp01-pp15 new 22 03 2012 13:33 Page 15 Board of Directors The Directors, all of whom are non-executive and, other than Mr Robertson, are independent of the Investment Manager, are responsible for the determination of the investment policy of the group and its overall supervision.
The Directors are as follows: Christopher Hill Chairman.
John Robertson Christopher Hill is a resident of Guernsey.
He is John Robertson is a resident of the UK.
an Associate of the Chartered Institute of Mr Robertson has over 35 years experience in Bankers and was managing director of Guernsey investment management in a variety of roles, International Fund Managers Limited, part of the and is currently Director Funds and Corporate Baring Financial Services Group, for eight years Governance at Ignis Investment Services Limited.
prior to its sale in 2005 to Northern Trust.
He has over 35 years He is a director of Ignis International Funds plc, Ignis Alternative experience in the field of offshore banking and fund Funds plc, Ignis Liquidity Fund plc, Ignis Strategic Solutions Funds administration and is a past Chairman of the Guernsey Investment plc and Ignis Global Funds SICAV.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Funds Association.
He is Chairman of International Oil and Gas Association of Certified Accountants.
Technology Limited and a director of Thames River Multi Hedge Andrew Wilson PCC Limited.
Andrew Wilson is a resident of the UK.
He was Keith Dorrian formerly of Richard Ellis, Royal Insurance as chief Keith Dorrian is a resident of Guernsey.
He has surveyor and he joined Rugby Securities as a over 30 years experience in the offshore finance director in 1987.
He was a founder director of industry.
He joined Manufacturers Hanover in Rugby Estates plc in 1990 and has been Chief 1973 before moving to First National Bank of Executive Officer since its flotation in 1994.
Rugby Estates plc was Chicago in 1984 and ANZ Bank Guernsey in listed in the Official List and subsequently moved to the Alternative 1989.
He joined Bank of Bermuda, Guernsey in 1999 and was Investment Market of the London Stock Exchange.
He is a appointed Guernsey head of global fund services and managing Chartered Surveyor.
director of the banks Guernsey fund administration company in 2001, retiring in December 2003.
He is currently Chairman of International Public Partnerships Limited, listed on the London Stock Exchange, and is a director of a number of funds and fund management companies including a property company listed on Euronext, Amsterdam.
Christopher Fish Christopher Fish is a resident of Guernsey.
He retired in 2005 as Managing Director of Close International Private Banking.
Mr Fish has over 35 years experience in offshore banking, asset management, treasury, trust services and fund administration.
Mr Fish is the non-executive Chairman of Close International Asset Management Holdings Limited and Close International Bank Holdings Limited.
He is also a director of four other UK listed funds and is a former director of a European commercial property fund.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 15
