Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 08 Our strategy Moving forward.
Our business model is underpinned by our long-term strategic objectives, which are in turn supported by a series of medium-term focus areas and key actions at both group and business line level.
Our We have very strong offerings in workwear, facility including mats, washroom and cleanroom and in UK flat linen.
We believe the opportunities consistent for volume growth and winning new contracts remain inthemedium and longer term, and there are significant virgin market opportunities within our strategic European markets and potentially beyond inthelongerterm.
In order to deliver long-term We are a cash generative business with a solid capital structure.
We believe success, we continue to focus there is scope for improved margins and returns.
Our historic five year on seven strategic objectives.
cashconversion range was 80% to 115%, and we are targeting at least 100% overthe medium term.
We are targeting double-digit ROIC over the medium term.
Improving financial returns by leveraging operational efficiency.
The highest returns are available where we have density and scale.
Ourexperienced business teams drive for efficiency and to be the lowest cost provider in their markets.
By further leveraging operational efficiency and widening the application of best practice, we will be able to achieve highsingle-digit EPS growth and a progressive dividend policy.
We believe in maintaining a sound financial position and working with ourkey banking relationships and other sources of finance, in particular ourprivate placement investors.
The majority of our financing requirements areavailable beyond 2016 at fixed rates of 5.1%.
We operate well within our financial covenants net debt to EBITDA 3x: EBITDA to net interest 3x.
Maintaining a motivated workforce driven by an experienced management team.
The responsibility for staff training and recruitment lies with our business unit management but we are also developing group-wide programmes tosupport this.
We focus on induction training at all levels, individual development plans and, where appropriate, cross-border transfers.
Maintaining health and safety as a priority.
The board and senior management prioritise the importance of maintaining a safe and healthy working environment for all of our employees and those others who work with us.
The number of incidents reported remains relatively low but we continue to strive for the highest standards.
Reducing our impact on the environment.
We understand the risks and opportunities associated with the environmental impact of our operations.
Areas of particular importance tous include water use, energy consumption including our CO2 emissions, transport, and the use and disposal of detergents.
See how were performing against our key performance indicators: Pages 1617 Overview Strategy and performance Business line review Risk Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Investors Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 09 k Realise full potential in areas of existing core competence supported within existing markets k Seek expansion into new higher-growth markets bya defined medium term setof targets k Sustain organic revenue growth rates of GDP 1%-2%pa and areas k Cash conversion of at least 100% and post-tax ROIC indouble-digits offocus Following a strategic review in 2010, k Achieve underlying EPS growth inhigh single-digit we identified a series of targets k Pursue progressive dividendpolicy andhave focused the business intotwo categories: Core Growth andManage for Value.
We are concentrating on these to achieve growth inthemedium term.
Across the group: which in Focus on sales effectiveness k turnwill be k Move to business line structure k Actively manage our portfolio achieved k Develop our expansion consolidation strategies through a k Improve capital efficiency range of Promote a one company vision k keyactions Read more about our progress: Pages 1015 To achieve our objectives and meet our targets, we have identified six keyactions at group level and four Within business lines: atbusiness line level.
k Accelerate top-line growth in core business lines k Improve cash deliveries k Leverage operational efficiencyand widen application of best practice Support from shared services k Read more about our progress: Pages 2231
