Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 06 Business model How we add value.
W e take pride in doing what were best at, delivering unsurpassed levels of service, so ourcustomers can do what theyre best at.
Our business model is based on an efficient concept deliveringsolutions for our customers textile needs.
Wepurchase and deliver textiles and hygiene articles, and handle laundry, maintenance and delivery, offering full solutions tailored tothespecific needs of the customer.
Outsourcing textile management to Berendsen offers significant benefits tothecustomer, saving costs, freeing up time, space, staff and capital and allowing them to concentrate on their core business.
Invest to grow Contract retention We actively seek and expand our isessential to maximise contract coregrowth acrossallof our value across our business lines: business lines: business lines by: Core growth: Across all of our business lines we Leveraging our buying power retaincontracts by focusing on our Our scale is a competitive advantage when k Workwear customers putting them at the heart procuring products, allowing us to deliver ofeverything wedo.
Our experienced value to the customer while maximising Facility k management teamsunderstand our cashgeneration.
We are currently reviewing customers, markets and service operations, UK Flat Linen our procurement strategies and processes, k and have strong knowledge of managing and this will lead to further opportunities customers throughout the life cycle.
Although we have moved to a business linestructure, our plants remain local, Operating efficiently whichunderpins the local approach that Although we manage our operations ourcustomers value.
efficiently, we are working to leverage furtherefficiencies through the sharing of Service quality is key to contract retention.
best practice, expertise and resources, and As our business model has evolved, through the standardisation of processes.
wehavemoved our focus from product supply to delivering service solutions, Maintain our Drawing on our know-how andwecontinue to innovate and improve We apply our significant experience and investment and our customer service.
expertise to deliver services for our customers grow returns in our Our success is demonstrated by excellent that are more cost-effective than their in-house customer retention across the business.
This considerable know-how is in manage for value Onaverage, we achieve a customer evidence across our business lines.
This not only provides business lines: Focusing on commercial terms a stable base for the business but also reduces our risk profile.
andpricing Manage for value: All of our teams are focused on delivering Flat Linen outside the UK pricing that meets our requirements for k alowcost base, while also enabling the k Clinical Solutions and growth that customers and shareholders Decontamination expect.
Acontract and commercial terms management programme is being rolledout across the group, and this will identify opportunities to improve the management and profitability of our contract base.
Overview Strategy and performance Business line review Risk Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Investors Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 07 Our operating environment.
Market drivers and the move Competitive landscape towardsoutsourcing The textile rental market is fragmented, The drivers of demand for our with a large number of smaller servicesvary by business line.
Our scale and the density trend, however is the move towards ofour operations located close outsourcing driven by the associated tothecentres of industrial activity customer benefits.
Some of our offerasignificant competitive services, for examples mats and advantage, whileacting as barriers washroom, are sold rather than bought.
Customers do not know of the service or need to have the outsourced benefitspresented to them.
An active and efficient sales force is therefore adetermining factor in growing the rentalmarket.
Read more on market trends and drivers, see the Business line review: Pages 2231 We are focused Across our core growth ondeveloping areas we aim to grow our potentialacross contract base, through: Generating ourkey markets: Effective sales andmarketing Our sales force plays an essential role in winning high value, Undeveloped markets newcontracts.
Following our Strategic Review we Our core growth areas still present opportunities organic arefocusing on improving our sales efficiency and for growth by improving our market share of the enhancing our sales processes and support.
However, there growth and aresignificant opportunities to penetrate the Acquisition high-margin non-outsourced sector in most of our workwear We believe there are opportunities for continued and facility core growth businesses.
While the growththrough bolt-on acquisitions, and we seek returns.
non-outsourced segment of UK hotels and toplayan active role in the consolidation of our healthcare is a lesser proportion, good growth industry.
Where appropriate, we will also use the opportunities remain.
We also see significant acquisitions route in order to achieve growth in potential in less developed marketsin ourundeveloped markets.
Within our manage for value areas, we aim to maintain the high volume and broad spread of our contract base: Generating Our manage for value business lines attract lowerinvestment.
We seek to maintain our contractbase across these areas with a focus onstrong cash stable generation.
The high volume andbroad spread of this contract base ensures thatwe are not reliant on any one contract and therefore delivers reduced risk.
margins, We will not starve these businesses of the maintenance capital that they need and strong but wewill not allocate significant growth capital here.
