Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 04 Business overview W hat we do.
2011 was a year of transition as we began implementing the Strategic Plan.
From 1st January 2012 we have moved from astructure aligned with our operating regions to one focused onour core growth areas: Workwear: Facility, which includes ourmats, washroom and cleanroom services: and UK Flat Linen, which includes our hotels and healthcare services.
At the same time, we have introduced adifferent way of managing ourFlatLinen outside the UK, and our Clinical Solutions and Decontamination business.
Our new approach is aimed atimproving the value of all the businesses inthe group.
Workwear Facility UK Flat Linen 286.5m 207.3m 195.2m Revenue Revenue Revenue 29% 21% 20% of group revenue of group revenue of group revenue Workwear Mats Hotels This division rents and maintains workwear We provide floor protection mats for The UK hospitality sector depends on formany leading private and public sector commercial users, reducing the dirt and Berendsen as its No.
Our service meets the needs moisture brought into their premises and linenand laundering services.
In addition ofcustomers in sectors including light and delivering a saving on overall cleaning costs.
tohotel groups and independent hotels, heavy industry, food, pharmaceuticals, wealso supply restaurants, holiday parks, Operating business units: automotive and markets where safety educational andtraining establishments, Czech Republic: Denmark: Estonia: Latvia: clothing or hygiene is a necessity.
contract accommodation providers and Lithuania: Netherlands: Norway: Poland: shipping companies.
Operating business units: Slovakia: Sweden.
Denmark: Finland: Germany: Netherlands: Operating countries: Sweden: UK.
Washroom We enable commercial washrooms to achievethe highest standards of hygiene Healthcare viaacomprehensive range of market-leading Leading public and private sector healthcare products and services.
organisations in the UK rely on usfor high quality linen and textile services.
These include Operating business units: a dedicated service for hospitals, including a Denmark: Latvia: Netherlands: Norway: complete range of reusable scrub suits, as well Sweden.
as a linen servicethat delivers both patient comfort andprotection.
Cleanroom Operating countries: Our facility team plays a key role in ensuring UK.
cleanroom hygiene for a wide range of organisations, such as high-tech companies and those involved in the pharmaceutical andfood sectors.
Operating business units: Denmark: Netherlands: Sweden.
Manage for value Flat Linen outside UK Clinical Solutions 234.0m 69.0m We have a strong and in some cases marketand Decontamination Revenue Revenue leading presence in several non-UK Hotel We deliver a complete solution to andHealthcare markets, where we provide theatresacross the UK Healthcare market.
23% 7% high quality rental linen and laundering Ourstrengths include reusable and single of group revenue of group revenue services.
Our focus is on the tight management usesurgical drapes and gowns, procedure of capital, maximising cash and adjusting our packs and trays, as well as decontamination cost base.
Operating countries: Operating countries: Denmark: Austria: Germany: Ireland: Sweden.
The information presented above is under our new business line structure.
For performance review under the regional structure refer to the Chief Executive Officers review on page 15.
Overview Strategy and performance Business line review Risk Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Investors Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 05 Our management.
We continue to focus on developing and extending the quality ofour management.
This commitment has delivered a team which has significant experience and expertise.
Business lines The executive board is responsible for the day-to-day running of the groups business.
In2011, it prepared and managed the companys transition to a business line management structure, which is now fully in place and Peter Ventress Kevin Quinn effective from 1st January 2012.
As well as Chief Executive Officer Finance Director focusing on the strategy of core growth and managing for value, the year ahead will see theexecutive board place more emphasis on developing our management capability in the delivery of group strategy.
In line with this objective, during 2011 we added the new role ofGroup Director for Human Resources to theexecutive board.
Group Christian Ellegaard Steve Finch Our Chief Executive Officer has in the past Managing Director, Managing Director, headed international multi-site businesses Facility Mats, Washroom UK Flat Linen andhas successfully managed strategic and Cleanroom changeprocesses, and his experience proved invaluablein the transition to the new structure.
The Managing Directors of our business lines each have over 15 years experience in the textileservice industry and have held key roles inouroperating countries.
They know our marketswell and, working closely alongside Peter Havus David Lawler Chris Thrush theFinance Director and Company Secretary, Managing Director, Company Secretary Group Director, haveaccess to the skills and resources we need Workwear Human Resources in order to exploit the opportunities ahead.
Our group delivers products and services through two of oursectors best-known and respected operating brands: Berendsen and Sunlight.
Each brand has a proud history builton a track record of innovation, performance, value andcustomer satisfaction.
Berendsen is a market leader in Denmark, Sunlight is the UKs leading supplier of textile Sweden and Norway.
It has a leading position rental and laundering services and a major inthe workwear and industrial-wipers market provider of clinical products and services inthe Netherlands, a strong position in the tothehealthcare industry in the UK and German hospital and nursing home market overseas.
The company operates through andis targeting an increase of market share threemain divisions with almost 9,200 inworkwear in Germany.
It has established employees atover 50 service centres.
operations in the emerging markets of Poland, Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia and Czech Republic.
Berendsen employs over 6,400 employees at77 service centres in 13 countries.
