Overview Strategy and performance Business line review Risk Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Investors Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 69 Directors report The Directors report of the group for The information that fulfils these consideration payable for the the year ended 31st December 2011 is requirements can be found on the acquisitions was 14.1 million 2010: setout on pages 69 to 72 inclusive following pages of this Annual Report 92.2 million.
andincludes the sections of the Annual as referenced below: Details of the fair value of net assets Report referred to in these pages.
the development and performance acquired and consideration paid k TheDirectors report has been drawn of the groups business during the aresetout in note 25 to the up and presented in accordance with, year, see pages 3, 15 and 22 to 31: financialstatements.
and in reliance upon, applicable English company law and the liabilities of the the position of the groups business k directors in connection with that report at the end of the year, see pages Directors shall be subject to the limitations and 3 and 78: The current directors of the restrictions provided by such law.
k main trends and factors likely to affect company, including their biographical The directors present their Annual the future development, performance details, areset out on pages 48 and 49.
Report and audited financial statements and position of the group, see pages Eachserved throughout the year for the year ended 31st December 2011.
This Annual Report contains key performance indicators, see k In accordance with The UK Corporate forward-looking statements.
pages 16 and 17: Governance Code all directors will retire Theseforward-looking statements are at the 2012 Annual General Meeting a description of the principal risks and k not guarantees of future performance.
and, being eligible, offer themselves uncertainties facing the group, see Rather they are based on current views forre-election.
pages 32 to 39: and assumptions and involve known Details of the number of board and and unknown risks, uncertainties and environmental matters and policy, k committee meetings held during the other factors that may cause actual including the impact of the groups year and attendance by individual results to differ from any future results business on the environment, see directors are included in the Corporate or developments expressed or implied pages 43 to 45: governance statement on page 52. from the forward-looking statements.
employee matters and policy, see k Each forward-looking statement Details of the directors remuneration pages 42 and 43: speaksonly as of the date of the and service contracts and their interests particular statement.
k social and community issues and in the shares of the company are policy, see pages 40 and 41: and included in the Report on directors remuneration which is set out on k information about persons with Principal activity pages61 to 68. whom the company has contractual The principal activity of Berendsen plc or other arrangements which are and its subsidiary undertakings is the essential to the business of the Directors indemnity laundering and maintenance of textiles.
Further information on the services Article 133 of the companys Articles of provided is outlined on page 4 of the Association the Articles provides, Annual Report.
Berendsen plc is a Results and dividends among other things that, insofar as public limited company incorporated in permitted by law, every director of the The financial statements set out the England and Wales and domiciled in the company or any associated company results of the group for the year ended UK.
Its registered office is 4 Grosvenor may be indemnified by the company 31st December 2011 which are shown on Place, London SW1X 7DL.
The directors recommend afinal dividend of 16.0 pence per On 30th June 2006 and 30th April ordinary share which, together with Change of name 2007, the company executed deed theinterim dividend of 7.4 pence per pollsfor each of the then and all future On 4th January 2011 the company ordinary share paid in October 2011, Chairmen, executive and non-executive changed its name from The Davis makes a total dividend for the year directors of the company and its Service Group Plc to Berendsen plc.
of23.4 pence 2010: 21.2 pence wholly-owned subsidiaries respectively.
Subject to approval The indemnities granted under these by shareholders of the recommended deed polls constitute qualifying third Business review final dividend, the dividend award party indemnity provisions as defined The UK Companies Act 2006 toshareholders for 2011 will total by Section 234 of the Companies Act requiresthe company to set out in this 39.5million.
If approved, the 2006 and remain in force.
report afair review of the business companywill pay the final dividend The board believes that it is in the best ofthe groupduring the financial year on4thMay 2012 to shareholders on the interests of the group to provide these ended 31stDecember 2011 including register at 13th April 2012. indemnities to its directors in order to adescription of the principal risks ensure that it attracts and retains high anduncertainties facing the group Changes in composition calibre directors through competitive andananalysis of the position of terms of employment in line with thegroupsbusiness at the end ofthe group themarket.
ofthefinancial year, known as The group acquired a number of textile anEnhanced Business Review.
In addition, the company has arranged maintenance businesses during the year.
appropriate insurance cover in respect The total consideration including net of legal action against its directors financial liabilities assumed and deferred andofficers.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 70 Directors report continued Dividends and other distributions Share capital and control Restrictions on transfer of securities inthe company The company may by ordinary Pursuant to Section 992 of the resolution from time to time declare Companies Act 2006, which There are no restrictions on the transfer dividends not exceeding the amount implements the EU Takeovers Directive, of securities in the company, except: recommended by the board.
Subject the company is required to disclose k that certain restrictions may from tothe Companies Acts, the board may certain additional information.
Such time to time be imposed by laws pay interim dividends, and also any disclosures, to the extent not covered andregulations for example, fixedrate dividend, whenever the elsewhere in the Directors report, insidertrading laws : and financial position of the company, in include the information set out in the theopinion of the board, justifies its paragraphs below.
k pursuant to the Listing Rules of payment.
If the directors act in good theFinancial Services Authority faith, they will not be liable for any whereby certain employees of the Rights and obligations lossthat any shareholders may suffer company require the approval attaching toshares because a lawful dividend has been ofthecompany to deal in the paidon other shares which rank equally companys ordinary shares.
Subject to applicable statutes in this with or behind their shares.
section the Companies Acts, any The company is not aware of any resolution passed by the company The board may withhold payment agreements between holders of under the Companies Acts and other ofallor any part of any dividends or securities that may result in restrictions shareholders rights, shares may be other moneys payable in respect of on the transfer of securities.
issued with such rights and restrictions thecompanys shares from a person as the company may by ordinary with at least a 0.25% interest as defined resolution decide, or if there is no Amendment of Articles in the Articles if such a person has suchresolution or so far as it does not beenserved with a restriction notice ofAssociation make specific provision as the board asdefined in the Articles after Unless expressly specified to the may decide.
Subject to the Articles, failuretoprovide the company with contrary in the Articles, the Articles may theCompanies Acts and other information concerning interests in be amended by a special resolution of shareholders rights, unissued shares those shares required to be provided the companys shareholders.
areat the disposal of the board.
Voting Variation of rights Appointment and replacement of directors Every member and every duly Subject to the Companies Acts, rights appointed proxy present at a general attached to any class of shares may be The directors shall be not less than meeting or class meeting has, upon varied with the written consent of the twoand there shall be a maximum ashow of hands, one vote and every holders of not less than three-fourths of12directors.
member present in person or by proxy innominal value of the issued shares The company may by ordinary has, upon a poll, one vote for every ofthat class calculated excluding any resolution vary the minimum and or share held by him or her.
In the case of shares held as treasury shares, or with maximum number of directors.
joint holders of a share, the vote of the the sanction of a special resolution Underthe Articles, a director shall not senior who tenders a vote, whether in passed at a separate general meeting be required to hold any shares in the person or by proxy, shall be accepted ofthe holders of those shares.
Directors may be appointed tothe exclusion of the votes of the other such separate general meeting except by the company by ordinary resolution joint holder s and, for this purpose, an adjourned meeting the quorum shall or by the board.
A director appointed seniority shall be determined by the be two persons holding or representing by the board holds office only until the order in which the names stand in the by proxy not less than one-third in next following Annual General Meeting register inrespect of the joint holding.
nominal value of the issued shares of of the company and is then eligible theclass calculated as excluding any forreappointment.
The board or any Restrictions on voting shares held as treasury shares.
At an committee authorised by the board adjourned meeting, the quorum shall No member shall be entitled to vote may from time to time appoint one or beone person entitled to vote and atany general meeting or class meeting more directors to hold any employment whoholds shares of the class, or his in respect of any share held by him or or executive office for such period and orher proxy.
her if any call or other sum then payable on such terms as they may determine by him or her in respect of that share The rights conferred upon the holders and may also revoke or terminate any remains unpaid or if a member has of any shares shall not, unless otherwise such appointment.
beenserved with a restriction notice expressly provided in the rights At every Annual General Meeting of asdefined in the Articles after failure to attaching to those shares, be deemed thecompany any director who has provide the company with information tobe varied by the creation or issue beenappointed by the board since concerning interests in those shares offurther shares ranking pari passu thelast Annual General Meeting shall required to be provided under the withthem.
retire from office and may offer himself Companies Acts.
for reappointment by the members.
The company is not aware of any Inaddition, under the Articles any agreements between holders of director who held office at the time securities that may result in restrictions ofthe two preceding Annual General on voting rights.
Meetings and who did not retire ateither of them, or who has held Overview Strategy and performance Business line review Risk Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Investors Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 71 officewith the company, other than registered office and at theAnnual Rights under the employee General Meeting.
Further details on employment or executive office, for share scheme acontinuous period of nine years or directors service contracts are included As at 31st December 2011, Appleby in the Report on directors remuneration more at the date of the meeting, shall Trust Jersey Limited, as trustee retire from office and may offer himself which is set out on pages 61 to 68. oftheBerendsen Employee Benefit for reappointment by the members.
Trust, held2,915,296 shares in trust for However, the board has agreed, in Substantial shareholdings the benefit of the executive directors accordance with the UK Corporate and employees of the group.
A dividend Governance Code, that all directors The table below shows the holdings waiver is in place in respect of Applebys wishing to continue will retire and inthe companys issued share capital shareholding and Appleby currently offerthemselves for re-election by which had been notified to the abstains from voting the shares but it theshareholders at the 2012 Annual company pursuant to the Financial may, upon the recommendation of the GeneralMeeting.
Services Authoritys Disclosure and company, accept or reject any offer Transparency Rules: The company may by special resolution relating to the shares in any way it sees remove any director before the fit, without incurring any liability and 31st December 2011 23rd February 2012 expiration of his period of office.
without being required to give reasons No.
of Theoffice of a director shall be vacated Direct shares Direct shares for its decision.
In exercising its trustee indirect m % Indirect m % if: i he resigns or offers to resign and powers Appleby may take all or any of the board resolve to accept such offer: Silchester the following matters into account: International ii his resignation is requested by all Investors Limited Direct 33.09 19.26 Direct 33.09 19.26 the long-term interests k ofthe other directors and all of the of beneficiaries: Prudential plc Direct 22.04 12.82 Direct 20.48 11.91 otherdirectors are not less than three in number: iii he is or has been suffering Sanderson the interests of beneficiaries other k Asset from mental ill-health and the board Management than financial interests: Limited Direct 10.37 6.03 Direct 10.37 6.03 resolves that his office be vacated: the interests of beneficiaries in their k Legal & iv he is absent without the permission General capacity as employees or former of the board from meetings of the Assurance Pensions employees or their dependants: board whether or not an alternate Management Limited Direct 6.69 3.92 Direct 6.69 3.92 director appointed by him attends for the interests of persons whether or k six consecutive months and the board not identified who may become resolves that his office is vacated: beneficiaries in the future: and Share capital v hebecomes bankrupt or k considerations of a local, moral, compounds with his creditors generally: As at 23rd February 2012, the ethical, environmental or social nature.
vi he is prohibited by a law from being companys issued share capital a director: vii he ceases to be a director consisted of 51,545,957 divided into by virtue of the Companies Acts: or 171,819,856 ordinary shares of 30 pence Significant agreements viii he is removed from office pursuant each noshares are held in treasury.
There are a number of agreements that During the 12 months to 31st December take effect, alter or terminate upon a 2011, 39,346 ordinary shares of change of control of the company, Powers of the directors 30pence each in the company were suchas commercial contracts, bank issued in satisfaction of the exercise Subject to the Articles, the Companies loan agreements, property lease ofemployee share options under Acts and any directions given by the arrangements, and employees share theterms of the Davis Service Group company by special resolution, the plans.
None of these are deemed to 1998 Share Option Plan, the Davis business of the company will be besignificant in terms of their potential Service Group Savings Related Share managed by the board who may impact on the business of the group as Option Scheme and the Berendsen exercise all the powers of the company, a whole except for the US$250 million Sharesave Plan 2006 for a total whether relating to the management US Private Placement Note Purchase consideration of 151,155. ofthe business of the company or not.
Agreement dated 25th May 2006, the In particular, the board may exercise all As at 31st December 2011, the authority US$259 million and 25 million US Private the powers of the company to borrow Placement Note Purchase Agreement granted to the company for the money, to mortgage or charge any purchase of up to 17,075,300 ordinary dated 24th November 2009 and the ofitsundertaking, property, assets 535million Multicurrency Revolving shares in the company remained in present and future and uncalled force and unused.
Credit Facility agreed on 15thJuly 2011. capital and to issue debentures and These agreements contain change of Details of the movements in the other securities and to give security control provisions which, iftriggered, yearareset out in note 20 to the forany debt, liability or obligation could limit future utilisations, require financial statements.
ofthecompany or of any third party.
therepayment of existing utilisations orlead to a renegotiation ofterms.
Annual General Meeting Securities carrying In addition, there exist agreements specialrights between the company and its directors The notice of the Annual General and certain senior employees which Meeting to be held at 11.00 am on No person holds securities in the provide for compensation for loss of Thursday 26th April 2012 is being sent company carrying special rights with office or employment due to a takeover separately to shareholders with this regard to control of the company.
Copies of executive directors service report.
The venue for the meeting contracts are available to shareholders istheRoyal Aeronautical Society, for inspection at the companys 4Hamilton Place, London W1J 7BQ.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 72 Directors report continued The board is committed to managing Authority to allot shares Going concern the companys capital effectively and Resolutions will be proposed to The groups business activities, together the directors keep under review the authorise the directors to allot shares with the factors likely to affect its future option of buying back the companys upto approximately two-thirds of development, performance and position shares.
Other investment opportunities, thecompanys issued ordinary share are set out in the Business review on appropriate gearing levels and the capital in accordance with guidelines pages 2 to 45.
The financial position overall position of the company will be issued by the ABI on 31st December ofthe group, its cash flows, liquidity taken into account before deciding 2011 of which approximately 5% may be position and borrowing facilities are upon this course of action.
The directors issued for cash on a non pre-emptive described in the Financial review on will only purchase the companys shares basis.
This additional one-third authority, pages 18 to 21.
In addition note 17 on the market if they believe it is in the above the usual one-third authority, tothefinancial statements includes best interests of shareholders generally.
mayonly be used for rights issues.
thegroups objectives, policies and Inany three-year period, no more than processes for managing its capital: its Political and 7.5% of the issued share capital will be financial risk management objectives issued for cash on a non pre-emptive charitabledonations and policies: details of its financial basis.
The two resolutions numbers 11 instruments and hedging activities: Financial contributions to a range and 12 are set out in full in the notice andits exposures to price, credit, ofcharities and good causes during ofAnnual General Meeting.
No issue will liquidity and cash flow risk.
theyear amounted to 17,152 2010: be made which would effectively alter The group has considerable financial 33,222, principally to local charities the control of the company without the serving the communities in which the resources together with long-term prior approval of shareholders in general contracts with a number of customers group operates.
There were no political meeting.
The directors have no present donations during the year 2010: nil.
and suppliers across different intention of exercising this authority.
Asaconsequence, the directors Creditor payment policy believethat the group is well placed to Purchase of own shares manage its business risks successfully.
Whilst the group does not follow In certain circumstances it may be anypublished code or standard on After reviewing the above and advantageous for the company to payment practice, it continues to be makingenquiries, the directors have purchase its own shares.
A special thegroups policy to agree the terms areasonable expectation that the resolution number 13 will be proposed ofpayment with each of its suppliers company and the group have adequate at the Annual General Meeting on atthe commencement of the trading resources to continue in operational 26thApril 2012 to seek authority from relationship, to ensure suppliers are existence for the foreseeable future.
shareholders to do so, such authority to made aware of the terms of payment Accordingly, they continue to adopt expire on the date ofthe next following and to abide by those terms provided thegoing concern basis in preparing Annual General Meeting or a date 15 that the supplier has performed in theAnnual Report.
months from thedate of the resolution, accordance with the relevant terms whichever isthe earlier.
Trade creditor days The resolution specifies the maximum ofthe company for the year ended Directors conflicts of interest number of shares which may be 31stDecember 2011 were 16 days There are procedures in place to deal acquired being 10% of the companys 2010:10days and for the groups with directors conflicts of interest issued share capital and the maximum major trading companies were 33 days arising under Section 175 Companies and minimum prices at which they 2010: 33 days.
Act 2006 and such procedures have maybe purchased.
operated effectively during the year.
If the company were to purchase any of Further details on these procedures are Auditors and disclosure of its own shares, it may consider holding included in the Corporate Governance information to auditors them as treasury shares as an alternative Statement on page 52.
The companys auditors, to cancelling them, subject to the  LLP, have authority allowed by resolution number Directors responsibilities indicated their willingness to continue 13, provided that the total number of inoffice and a resolution that they may treasury shares does not at any one time The directors responsibilities for the be reappointed will be proposed at the exceed 10% of the companys issued financial statements contained within Annual General Meeting.
Companies are permitted this Annual Report and the directors to hold shares purchased on the market confirmations required under DTR 4.1.
12 As far as each director is aware, there is in treasury with a view to possible are set out on page 73. no relevant audit information of which disposal or transfer at a future date, as the companys auditors are unaware.
By order of the board an alternative to cancelling them.
Each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director This would allow the company to inorder to make themselves aware of David Lawler dispose of or transfer the shares held Company Secretary any relevant audit information and to intreasury quickly and cost-effectively establish that the companys auditors 23rd February 2012 and would provide the company with are aware of that information.
additional flexibility in the management of its capital base.
The share price on 31stDecember 2011 was 435.2 pence: thecompany currently holds no shares in treasury.
