Key performance indicators Over the medium term we are looking to deliver consistent, balanced returns to shareholders by meeting and exceeding the collective expectations of our five key stakeholders, Students, Universities, Employees, Communities and Investors.
Financial KPI Definition Performance 2011 2010 Target Net portfolio Our key indicator of operational High occupancy, contribution performance measuring the income rental growth and 11.0m 4.1m from rental properties after financing continued focus on costs and our total non-development efficiency to drive Our continued focus on cash generation and related overheads.
further growth in profit growth has delivered a 168% increase recurring profits.
Adjusted Our adjusted NAV per share Continue to deliver net asset value measures the market value of strong returns 318pps 295pps per share properties and developments less through rental growth, any debt used to fund them plus development activity Rental growth and development profits drove any working capital in the business.
Total returns Measures the total return to Plan to deliver a shareholders calculated by low double digit 8.5% 11.3% the growth in adjusted NAV return balanced plus dividends.
between dividend, Total return has been driven by growth in adjusted rental growth and NAV and the reinstatement of the dividend.
Adjusted Measures the net indebtedness Plan to manage total net debt of the business and our ability net debt through 434m 335m to generate cash and control targeted disposals, expenditure calculated as debt, and paying down Growth in net debt is the result of planned capital net of cash and excluding the mark existing debt.
expenditure on development offset by asset to market of interest rate swaps.
disposals and paying down debt.
Gearing Measures our ratio of debt to equity.
Continue to work closely with 84% 71% funding partners to manage our debt We have maintained our focus on controlling gearing level at around its levels and extending debt maturities.
Operating Measures the conversion of recurring Continue to deliver cashflow profit from the Operations business improvements in 13.8m 0.6m into cash.
operating cashflow aligned to net Growth in net portfolio contribution and working portfolio contribution capital management drove the increase in growth.
12 The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Highlights Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Non-financial Definition Performance KPI 2011 2010 Target Health and safety Measures the number of reportable We strive to have no accidents in Operations each year as reportable accidents.
1 4 a means of assessing our success in approaching health and safety.
We also monitor health and safety Monthly audits and ongoing programmes to further in all other parts of the Group.
embed health and safety awareness have led to this improvement.
Reservations Measurement of how many of our We aim to sell for next rooms have been leased to students 55-60% of our 59% 62% academic year directly or through agreements with rooms by this point Universities by the end of February.
2011 saw solid reservations performance with enquiry levels healthy and supportive of rental growth of 3-4% for the full year.
Employee We aim to develop and retain We aim to be in the satisfaction high performing people that live top decile of service 67 63 UNITEs values.
Employee TR M companies for is an independent benchmarked employee satisfaction.
Further investments in our people through improved measure of the extent to which development programmes have led to this increase.
UNITE employees are committed to achieving our corporate goals, our mission, vision and values.
Customer We undertake an independent We aim to be in the satisfaction survey twice a year where we use top third of service 52 35 key indices to understand our companies for relationship with our customers A shift of emphasis on operational performance customer satisfaction.
and their likelihood to rebook and has been rewarded by a substantial improvement recommend.
Customer TR M is in customer satisfaction.
benchmarked against other high performing companies.
The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 13 Top 20 properties 01 Our top 20 managed properties by value and funding vehicle.
01 Woburn Place London Beds: 454 UCC Woburn Place is ideally located adjacent to three University campuses at the heart of student life in central London.
A smart collection of twin and studio rooms sit alongside one and two bedroom flats.
Customers enjoy an assortment of high end communal and in-room facilities.
02 Woodland Court London 02 03 Beds: 573 OCB Shared en-suite flats set around a communal courtyard, one stop from Kings Cross underground.
03 Emily Bowes Court London Beds: 693 USAF With a contemporary room design and zone 3 location, quick links into central London make this a popular choice for students seeking a lower rent offering.
04 Grand Central Liverpool Beds: 1,210 USAF The largest, most centrally located student accommodation residence in Liverpool, ideally located for Lime Street station, the city centre and Universities.
05 Great Suffolk Street London 05 Beds: 233 OCB Just three minutes walk from the Southbank and close to Waterloo and London Bridge, this property incorporates 04 a roof top terrace and common room, with stunning views over Westminster.
A smart mix of premium and studio accommodation with retail facilities let to Tesco.
06 Wedgwood Court London Beds: 322 OCB Immediately opposite London Metropolitan University, offering shared flats with retail units let to Sainsburys and Costa Coffee.
07 Parkway Gate Manchester 07 06 Beds: 729 UNITE Architectural flagship building in the centre of Manchester ideally located for the two main Universities in the city.
Initials in brackets denote the ownership vehicle for each property.
UNITE: wholly owned by UNITE, USAF: UNITE UK Student Accommodation Fund, UCC: UNITE Capital Cities, OCB: Oasis Capital Bank.
See page 106 for explanation of each funding vehicle.
14 The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Highlights Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 08 09 08 The Heights Birmingham Beds: 909 USAF Prime city centre property, with strong links to two of the citys Universities.
09 The Plaza Leeds Beds: 964 USAF Modern premises completed in 2006 convenient for both Universities in Leeds.
10 The Forge Sheffield Beds: 1,378 UNITE Campus-style living within a city centre environment that includes retail facilities let to Sainsburys and Wilkinsons.
11 10 12 11 Blithehale Court London 13 Sky Plaza Leeds 13 Beds: 306 USAF Beds: 533 USAF High performing property with easy access A prominent feature of the Leeds city skyline with to several top Universities.
34 floors of unrivalled views across the vibrant city centre.
12 Curzon Gateway Birmingham Beds: 742 UNITE 14 Callice Court Coventry Beds: 666 UNITE Opposite Birmingham City Universitys new campus development and ideally located for Boasts the best location for student the city centre.
accommodation in Coventry with its prime position next to the University and city centre.
15 New Medlock House Manchester 14 Beds: 672 USAF Prime city centre location, ideally located for the citys Universities, this property offers both budget and higher end accommodation.
16 Piccadilly Point Manchester Beds: 530 USAF Adjacent to Piccadilly train station and Manchester University this is one of the best properties in the city.
17 St Peters Court Nottingham 19 East Central House London Beds: 808 USAF 15 Beds: 245 UNITE Premium property in an established student Established property popular with international accommodation area very popular with and domestic students attracted by the University of Nottingham students.
18 Canto Court London 20 Newarke Point Leicester Beds: 164 UCC Beds: 653 USAF Modern studio accommodation for students At the heart of the DeMontfort campus studying in the wide variety of Londons and adjacent to the city centre.
The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 15
