Board of Directors Phil White CBE Mark Allan Joe Lister Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Age 62 Age 39 Age 40 Committees Experience Experience Remuneration Committee Mark was appointed Chief Executive in 2006 Joe joined UNITE in 2002.
He was appointed Nomination Committee having previously served as Chief Financial Officer as Chief Financial Officer in January 2008 having for three years.
He joined the Group in 1999 held a variety of roles within UNITE before that, Experience and held a variety of roles in the business.
Joe is responsible Phil became Chairman in May 2009.
The majority to that he worked at KPMG where he qualified for the Groups finances and investment strategy.
of his executive career was spent in the public as a Chartered Accountant and spent five years Prior to joining UNITE, Joe qualified as a Chartered transport sector, during a period of deregulation specialising in corporate finance.
He was Chief Executive of National Express Group plc from 1997 to 2006, leading the business through considerable growth both in the UK and overseas.
Phil is currently Non-Executive Chairman of Kier Group plc and Non-Executive Chairman of Lookers plc.
Richard Simpson Richard Smith Managing Director of Property Managing Director of Operations Age 36 Age 37 Experience Experience Richards role includes determining the strategic Richard was appointed as Managing Director direction of the Groups nationwide property of Operations for UNITE in 2011.
He joined UNITE portfolio, and the acquisition and development as Deputy Chief Financial Officer in 2010.
He joined UNITE in 2005 and to this Richard spent 18 years in the transport previously held the role of Managing Director industry, including 13 years with National Express Property Development for the London Business.
Group, where he held a range of senior finance, Prior to property development, Richard had a six strategy and operations roles in the UK and year career in the army.
overseas, including Group Development Director and Chief Financial Officer North America.
42 The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Highlights Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Stuart Beevor Nigel Hall Richard Walker Non-Executive Director and Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Age 56 Age 46 Age 55 Committees Committees Committees Chairman of the Audit Committee Audit Committee Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Experience Experience Experience Nigel was Group Finance Director of Arcadia Richard was Senior Director at TalkTalk, Stuart was Managing Director of Grosvenor Fund Group plc formerly The Burton Group plc until responsible for the customer experience change Management Limited and a member of the Board February 2003.
He joined the Burton Group in programme.
Prior to this, he was COO of Carphone of Grosvenor Group Limited, the international 1984 and was appointed to its Board in 1997.
Warehouse UK, with responsibility for 750 stores, property group until 2011, which he joined in 2002.
Nigel is also Chairman of Countrywide Farmers websites, direct sales and insurance services.
Prior to this, Stuart was Managing Director at Legal plc and a Non-Executive Director of Pinewood Richard was previously Managing Director of and General Property Limited, having previously Shepperton plc and C&J Clark Limited.
He Carphone Warehouses European retail business held a number of roles dealing with development, qualified as a Chartered Accountant in 1980 and UK Sales Director.
He holds a law degree investment, property management and unitised with Price Waterhouse.
from Nottingham University and trained as an funds at Norwich Union.
Composition of the Board Directors No.
Executive 4 Non-Executive 6 Professor Sir Tim Wilson Manjit Wolstenholme Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Age 62 Age 49 Committees Committees Chairman of Nomination Committee Audit Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Experience Experience Tim was Vice-Chancellor of the University of Manjit qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Hertfordshire until 2010, preceded by an academic Coopers & Lybrand and her background includes career with Leeds Metropolitan, Cranfield and roles as Director and Co-Head of Investment DeMontfort Universities.
As well as serving on the Banking at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein, and Board of the Higher Education Funding Council Partner at Gleacher Shacklock.
She is Chairman for England HEFCE, Tim was a Board member of for Albany Investment Trust and Senior East of England Development Agency for six years Independent Director and Chair of the and Deputy Chair of the CBI Innovation, Science Remuneration Committee of Future Publishing.
He has just published She is a Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Wilson Review, a  Audit Committee for Capital & Regional and review of UK University-industry collaboration.
Provident Financial, as well as Governor of Manchester Academic Health Science Centre.
The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 43 Sky Plaza, Leeds 44 The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
