Who we are UNITE develops and manages student accommodation.
We have over 130 properties in 23 cities across the UK, centrally-located close to strong Universities.
Students living in our high-quality buildings receive broadband, utilities, insurance, maintenance and 24 7 security inclusive in their rent.
We work closely with our University partners to ensure we are meeting the needs of all our stakeholders at a time of major change.
We are focused on providing attractive returns for our investors, while balancing investment in customer service, our operating platform and future .
UNITE is also a manager and investor in three specialist funds and joint ventures: UNITE Student Accommodation Fund USAF in which we have a 16% stake Oasis Capital Bank OCB in which we have a 25% stake UNITE Capital Cities UCC in which we have a 30% stake We manage all the properties owned by these vehicles.
Our selective development programme is focused on London.
Our strategy Target low double-digit total returns, with modest risk Income growth Development Capital growth Rental growth London focus London focus Operating efficiencies Mix of product, price point Quality portfolio and Universities and location New openings Asset management 9% yield on cost target Increased ownership stake Brand platform Further accretive developments Dividend reinstated Rental growth 3-4% subject to financing disposals Our key priorities are to maintain the growth of our cashflow and recurring profits, to deliver development profits and earnings growth from a selective development programme, and to reduce our gearing through management of our balance sheet and maintaining the most effective capital structure for the business.
8 The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Highlights Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Managing the business Phil White CBE We made changes in the autumn of 2011 to realign our business Chairman and provide a clearer route for making decisions and empowering our people.
Our teams in the 23 cities which serve our customers are the heart of UNITE, and we have embedded support functions within this Operations Business Unit to ensure all activities are focused on meeting and exceeding the needs of students and Universities.
The Managing Directors of our two Business Units Operations and Property which includes Asset Management and Development Mark Allan Joe Lister now represent the interests of their Business Units at the UNITE Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Group Board, to whom they are directly accountable for performance.
The Executive Team has overall responsibility for developing strategy and meeting our longer term business goals, through which we aim to make UNITE a commercially successful business over the longterm, while balancing the needs of all our stakeholders.
Richard Smith Richard Simpson Managing Managing Governance UNITE Board Director Director of Operations of Property UNITE Executive Team Nicola Yates Paul Harris UNITE Operations Board UNITE Property Board Group HR Group Strategy Director and Corporate Relations Director USAF JVs UNITEs three phases of growth Expansion Co-investment Focus 2000-2006 2006-2009 2009-2012 In 2000 we listed on the London Stock During this period of operational and We now have 41,000 rooms in 23 cities and Exchange.
Having created the private financial consolidation we implemented our focus is on managed growth with an student accommodation sector in 1991, a change programme, standardising our emphasis on London, growing our recurring we used our first mover advantage to brand and operations, and established cash flows and differentiating our brand.
secure high quality sites and expand our co-investment model with the launch rapidly across the UK, growing from of USAF.
The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 9
