O verview S trategy and B usiness review R isk C orporate G overnance F inancial statements P ortfolio and b usiness model r esponsibility o ther information Report and accounts 2011 3i Group plc 51 Risk Review of risks This section provides a review of the evolution and management External of 3is key risks during the year, The key external risks identified by 3i over the course of the financial year have centred on the impact of the together with an overview of continuing adverse economic conditions in some markets.
the main elements of 3is risk The current economic uncertainty continues to impact the market in which 3i operates in a number of ways.
This is Fundraising conditions, for example, remain challenging.
followed by a description of Although M&A activity has shown modest recovery over the past year, there remains a significant private the main inherent risk factors.
equity funding overhang which, together with improved availability in debt terms, underpins high prices for Further details on the management transactions.
The climate for investment realisations of key risks, and related results has therefore remained favourable whilst that for new investments has been more challenging.
and outcomes, can be found in Economic conditions also present varying degrees the relevant section on risk factors.
of risk for the operations and growth of 3is portfolio companies and therefore overall performance and valuations, as described under Investment risk on the following page.
The key factors include the risk of below trend economic growth and the impact and uncertainties of sovereign debt refinancing and government deficit reduction programmes.
The reputation of the wider financial services sector remains low.
In this context, there is a trend towards closer scrutiny of the integrity and transparency of firms and a greater emphasis on responsible investing.
Firms that are able to differentiate themselves in these areas are likely to be at an advantage in the future.
In recognition of this, 3i initiated a wide-ranging strategic review of responsible investing and is building on its current policies and processes.
Regulatory developments continue to be monitored closely.
The key developments affecting 3i include: the European AIFM Directive, which will have a number of consequences, including higher levels of disclosure: the implementation of the UK Bribery Act: and US financial reform, which may require certain 3i entities to be registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Although it is difficult to assess the combined impact of these changes, the effect on 3is overall business is not expected to be disproportionate in the context of the wider financial services industry.
Strategic 3i continues to anticipate and to respond to market conditions, risks and opportunities.
Following improvements to the Groups financial position, the strategic focus has been on performance improvement and growth.
For more information on the following, please go to: Chief Executives statement p7 k Market environment p20 k Corporate responsibility p56 k 52 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2011 Risk To support this, 3i took steps to simplify its business Treasury and funding structure, bringing together the former Growth Capital The Group maintains a conservative financial structure and Buyouts business lines.
3i also completed the and has tight controls and targets to support this, for purchase of Mizuho Investment Management UK example, in relation to the proportion of debt maturing Limited MIM from Mizuho Bank.
MIM specialises in any one year for future refinancing.
in managing funds that are invested in senior and The Groups bond refinancing strategy continues to focus subordinated debt.
This was a significant step, providing on material maturities within a 12 month rolling period.
the basis for a new Debt Management business line.
Bond markets have been active for strong credits: This business line has a distinct risk profile, which is being however Euro sovereign debt concerns are still creating integrated into 3is overall risk assessment.
general investor caution leading to a preference by investors for corporate issuance in sectors regarded Investment as stable.
3is rating is BBB Baa1 with stable outlook.
The Groups key investment risks remain closely The Group uses core currency borrowing to hedge linked to the adverse economic and market conditions, foreign exchange exposures in the portfolio, which are described earlier.
Risks included the pricing of investment primarily in euro and US dollars.
In cases where there is opportunities and potential underperformance of limited availability of currency funding, the Groups US portfolio companies, impacting valuations.
As part dollar and euro positions may be exposed to the impact of the investment assessment and portfolio company of adverse currency movements.
As gross debt is review process, ESG risks are also considered.
reduced, and potentially a greater proportion of the The overall health of the portfolio has been relatively portfolio is invested outside of the UK, the exposure stable over the year, but with some sectors and to foreign exchange risk could also increase.
Following geographies more exposed than others and, accordingly, a Board review during the year, it was agreed to use some valuation reductions were required.
Although it forward contracts to supplement core hedging through remains well diversified, the Groups investment portfolio debt where appropriate, subject to a maximum overall has become relatively more concentrated over time, derivative limit.
which increases its exposure to the performance of a smaller number of large investments and, therefore, Operational the potential for material individual valuation movements.
The key operational risks facing the Group during the The portfolio company review process includes both year relate mainly to people.
In common with many other the identification of risks that might affect a substantial businesses, cost pressures, lower levels of investment proportion of the portfolio and the assessment of activity and change in the external business environment significant exposures to specific known risks.
Examples have all contributed to a degree of uncertainty for staff.
of the latter include the impact of higher oil prices and However, as reported on page 60, the latest staff survey potential disruption to the Japanese economy following shows high levels of employee engagement and the earthquake and tsunami in March 2011.
During the year, we also exposure of the portfolio to reductions in government reviewed our Critical Incident Plan and made a number of expenditure has been reviewed in depth with the changes to the composition and processes of our Incident conclusion that direct exposure is limited to a small management team.
More specific risks include key man number of portfolio companies, although the indirect retention specifically in relation to managed funds, impact is more complex to assess.
alignment to a different and difficult operating environment and the balance of skills and resources to Refinancing of debt by portfolio companies has generally meet these challenges.
A people plan is in place to enable been easier than in 2008 and 2009, albeit that costs 3i to deliver its business strategy and vision by addressing may be higher or debt terms less favourable.
The majority these and other people risks.
of European financing transactions were structured at the peak of the market in 2006 and 2007, with tenors In response to the draft provisions of the UK Bribery Act, of between seven and nine years.
This means that the Group has undertaken an extensive review of its refinancing requirements will increase substantially, current policies and processes with the conclusion peaking in 2013 and 2014.
The market, therefore, is likely that, although no substantive changes were required, to become increasingly focused on this risk in the run some refinements should be implemented as a matter up to 2013.
At this stage it is difficult to predict how of good practice, together with a refresh of related this will unfold, particularly given the wider fundamental policy statements.
economic uncertainties, fragile confidence, and refinancing of corporate and sovereign debt.
This will require continued focus on this area of risk management.
More detail on this can be found in the business line reviews on pages 22 to 40.
For more information on the following, please go to: Staff survey results p13 k Business lines p22-40 k
