12 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2011 Strategy and business model Strategy and performance As an investor, we know that a clear strategy is fundamental to success.
Here are the key elements of our strategy, a summary of how we plan to deliver them, our progress and the risks involved.
Strategy Priorities Invest Today Tomorrow Increase the rate of investment in a measured way Continue to increase the levels of investment by maintaining our highly selective approach.
in our three business lines and across all of our geographies.
As economies and companies return Add additional resource and capabilities in Debt to growth agendas, we will continue to adopt Management and Infrastructure, extend our network a highly disciplined and measured approach.
into Brazil and further strengthen our teams in Asia.
Invest further in building our brand, network and capabilities.
Grow our business Today Tomorrow Continue to focus on growing the value of our portfolio Use the strength of our balance sheet companies through the support that we provide in growing to develop each of our business lines.
their earnings and improving their strategic position.
Improve our operational effectiveness Continue to invest in a range of activities, including as we continue to grow.
Active Partnership, our Business Leaders Network and our approach to responsible investing.
Build on our reputation Today Tomorrow Strengthen further our brand and our approach Continue to build our brand in well-established to responsible investing.
Use the insights gained from an in-depth brand Use the insights gained from research to strengthen review to deliver more consistent performance our offering, our approach to the market and in all aspects of the business.
to enhance our competitive advantage.
Respond to the appetite from our portfolio Build on the increasing level of engagement with to become more engaged and supportive on the portfolio on ESG issues to further enhance environmental, social and governance issues ESG.
our approach to responsible investing.
Maintain One 3i culture Today Tomorrow Build on the progress that has been made through the Implement a range of actions from the brand structural changes in our Private Equity business and the review and our latest staff survey.
Some of these formation of a new leadership team, comprising the senior will be Group wide, including our Responsible people from our Private Equity, Infrastructure and Debt investing programme.
Some will be within Management businesses.
specific business lines such as refreshing the approach to deal origination in Private Equity or Develop further our One 3i approach to achieve the continuing integration plan for the recently our full potential in this area, building upon the strong acquired MIM business.
endorsement from our latest staff survey.
O verview S trategy and B usiness review R isk C orporate G overnance F inancial statements P ortfolio and b usiness model r esponsibility o ther information Report and accounts 2011 3i Group plc 13 Key Group financial performance measures 2011 2010 Total return 10.6% 16.2% Gross portfolio return 17.1% 20.9% Net portfolio return 12.8% 15.5% Cost efficiency 3.2% 4.1% Operating expenses per AUM 1.8% 2.3% Net debt 522m 258m 1 Net asset value per share movement 0.33 0.43 1 Growth in NAV per share is stated before dividends and other distributions to shareholders and, in respect of the prior year, the rights issue and the 3iQPEP transaction.
Strategy Priorities Risk Performance Invest Today Tomorrow Gross portfolio return by year % Investment activity m Increase the rate of investment in a measured way Continue to increase the levels of investment The major risks to investing well are: year to 31 March year to 31 March 2011 2010 by maintaining our highly selective approach.
in our three business lines and across all of our the macroeconomic environment which, 2007 34.0 Investment 719 386 geographies.
As economies and companies return Add additional resource and capabilities in Debt although gradually improving in most of the 2008 23.9 Realisations 609 1,385 to growth agendas, we will continue to adopt Management and Infrastructure, extend our network countries that 3i operates in, remains fragile: a highly disciplined and measured approach.
2009 36.7 Net investment into Brazil and further strengthen our teams in Asia.
competitive pressure resulting in unattractive divestment 110 999 Invest further in building our brand, network 2010 20.9 pricing for new investments: and and capabilities.
2011 17.1 failing to maintain our investment discipline.
Grow our business Today Tomorrow Growth in assets under management m Continue to focus on growing the value of our portfolio Use the strength of our balance sheet The major risks to growth are: year to 31 March Total companies through the support that we provide in growing to develop each of our business lines.
the ability to retain or attract and integrate 2009 6,909 3,871 10,780 their earnings and improving their strategic position.
Improve our operational effectiveness high-calibre staff, especially in the high- 2010 5,787 3,846 9,633 Continue to invest in a range of activities, including as we continue to grow.
growth markets: Active Partnership, our Business Leaders Network 2011 5,450 7,236 12,686 failure to take advantage of opportunities and our approach to responsible investing.
to invest: 3i direct Managed and advised by 3i 1 1 competitive pressure resulting in unattractive pricing: and failure to maintain our disciplined approach to asset management and strategic development.
Build on our reputation Today Tomorrow Responsible investing Brand review Strengthen further our brand and our approach Continue to build our brand in well-established The major risks to building our reputation are: Increased focus, additional resource and a major In-depth research with over 200 people across to responsible investing.
review of our approach including: a wide range of participant groups.
not maintaining high-quality portfolio Use the insights gained from an in-depth brand Use the insights gained from research to strengthen management processes: development of policies and processes: Research shows strong affinity for the 3i brand review to deliver more consistent performance our offering, our approach to the market and and values.
However, in some markets, there is not implementing our strategy effectively: and greater communication on Responsible in all aspects of the business.
a demand for more consistency of delivery and investing and ESG issues: and not participating actively in industry and clarity of our offering.
Respond to the appetite from our portfolio Build on the increasing level of engagement with sector regulatory developments.
an Awareness and Training programme, which to become more engaged and supportive on the portfolio on ESG issues to further enhance Competitively, 3i is seen as a highly responsible is being rolled-out across the Group in 2011 12. environmental, social and governance issues ESG.
investor but with an opportunity to increase its focus in this area.
Maintain One 3i culture Today Tomorrow Staff survey results 2011 Employee engagement Build on the progress that has been made through the Implement a range of actions from the brand The major risks to our One 3i culture are: Other highlights structural changes in our Private Equity business and the review and our latest staff survey.
Some of these 85% not ensuring the right recruitment and 2009 96% of staff are committed to helping formation of a new leadership team, comprising the senior will be Group wide, including our Responsible retention measures are in place: 3i achieve its objectives: and 74% 2010 people from our Private Equity, Infrastructure and Debt investing programme.
Some will be within not investing sufficiently in staff development 91% of staff are proud to work for 3i.
specific business lines such as refreshing the and training: and Opportunities for improvement approach to deal origination in Private Equity or Develop further our One 3i approach to achieve failure to address underperformance the continuing integration plan for the recently These included career development and more our full potential in this area, building upon the strong adequately.
focus on our One 3i approach.
For more information on the following, please go to: Financial review p41 k Risk p50 k
