O verview S trategy and B usiness review R isk C orporate G overnance F inancial statements P ortfolio and b usiness model r esponsibility o ther information Report and accounts 2011 3i Group plc 59 A sustainability workshop for 39 Chief Financial Achieving our strategy through being Officers of portfolio companies raised awareness on a responsible investor and business the business case for sustainability, and explored best practice in integrated ESG reporting and anti-bribery To invest and anti-corruption programmes.
We aim to ensure that all of our investment processes Portfolio company review processes were revised take ESG matters into account in a consistent, systematic to integrate a deeper analysis of the materiality and and timely manner.
Our belief is that in doing so, we will management of ESG risks and opportunities.
make higher quality investment decisions.
Key challenges Key achievements Given the nature of our business, we have varying A strategic review of our responsible investment degrees of influence with the management teams of approach resulted in a decision to refresh our responsible our portfolio on ESG matters.
We also need to ensure investment policy.
We are developing a more explicit that the tools and training provide the right resource and approach to managing ESG impacts throughout the capability to assist our staff and portfolio companies in investment process and across our business, which we identifying and managing ESG issues and opportunities.
will roll out across the Group in the year to 31 March 2012.
This will include new and refreshed tools and For more information, please go to How we invest and resources to support our teams in consistently identifying Adding value as an investor and Accountability as an and managing ESG impacts throughout the investment investor in the CR section of our IR website.
process, as well as providing training to staff.
Build on our reputation Our approach is being informed by internationally recognised standards.
Our priority is to maintain and build on our reputation as a responsible investor, employer and partner, with a strong A responsible investment webinar for 3i investment record of performance.
Accountability and transparency professionals re-emphasised and raised awareness of the are fundamental to gaining access to capital, as is a record business case for managing ESG risks and opportunities.
of delivering value to those we work with, whether Key challenges investors in our funds, or portfolio management teams.
There are three key challenges in this area.
The first Key achievements is to achieve consistency across our business lines, We held 3is Corporate Governance event for sectors and geographies.
The second relates to the shareholders to disclose and generate feedback on our ability to perform timely due diligence in a competitive approach to being a responsible business and investor.
Finally, we need to gain access to sufficient Interviews were also conducted through our brand information early in the investment process.
review with shareholders, investors in funds, thought For more information, please go to How we invest, leaders and portfolio companies on 3is performance Adding value as an investor and Accountability as a responsible business and investor.
as an investor in the CR section of our IR website.
Two round table discussions were hosted by 3i, in partnership with Business in the Community BitC, To grow our business on responsible investment in private equity with We will continue to focus on protecting and growing the the wider investment community, to disclose and value of our portfolio through the effective management generate feedback on our approach.
of ESG risks and the identification of value enhancing opportunities arising from ESG trends.
Opportunities for our portfolio companies may include new products and services or markets, improvements to their supply chains, or simply improving operational effectiveness.
Key achievements An independent review of our portfolio was commissioned to highlight ESG related opportunities to reduce risk and to enhance value.
Guidance was also provided to 71 portfolio companies to assist them in their preparations for the implementation of the 2010 UK Bribery Act.
For more information please go to www.
