Description Developments in the year Junior debt 3i Infrastructure invested in a portfolio of In October 2010, the Company sold the junior debt positions in core infrastructure entirety of its holding in the Viridian junior portfolio businesses, with leading positions in the debt facility for 46.8 million, representing markets in which they operate.
The assets a profit over original cost of 4.8 million.
held in the year are listed below.
Market prices for junior debt instruments Cost Viridian operates both regulated and were stable for most of the year, but 75.5m unregulated businesses within the Irish increased over the second half, resulting in Value 90.2m energy market, managing power transmission, a 12.1% increase in the value of the distribution and supply infrastructure, as remaining portfolio over the year.
Income well as a power generation business and a from the portfolio was in line with last year, Divestment in the year 43.2m business offering power-related services as LIBOR rates have remained stable.
Based to the power industry.
on the valuation at 31 March 2011, the Profit on disposal in the year 3.6m annualised yield on the portfolio averaged NGW Arqiva is the leading owner 5.2%, while the expected yield to maturity Income in the year 6.3m and operator of national broadcast was 9.6% based on the asset valuation.
1 infrastructure supporting television, radio Asset total return in the year 19.6m The average remaining maturity of the and wireless communication in the UK.
portfolio at 31 March 2011 was 4.0 years.
Valuation basis Quoted debt Tldiffusion fide France is the leading The reported financial performance of each 1 Includes a 0.3 million foreign exchange loss.
provider of broadcast transmission of the investments within the debt portfolio infrastructure and services and is monitored by the Investment Adviser and telecommunications infrastructure in has been in line with expectations.
France, and also has operations in Developments since the year end Germany, Finland and Hungary.
The Thames Water junior debt tranche Thames Water is the UKs largest water and was refinanced at par in early April 2011 wastewater services company, operating and the NGW Arqiva holding was sold in late across London and the Thames Valley.
These transactions are described in Investment rationale more detail on page 17.
Following these disposals, the annualised yield on the 3i Infrastructures strategy has been portfolio is 5.9%, and the expected yield to acquire a portfolio of junior debt to maturity is 10.5%, based on the residual investments in core infrastructure asset valuation at 31 March 2011. businesses at prices below par, delivering attractive equity-like returns to maturity and strong levels of cash yield.
Review of investments 3i Infrastructure plc 23 Annual report and accounts 2011
