Investment Advisers review The investment advisory team is managed Infrastructure assets typically have as a separate business line within 3i Group only a low correlation with other asset and operates from hubs in London and classes, including equities and fixed income.
All investment professionals have The quality and predictability of cash flows significant experience in investing in, or tends to result in attractive distributions advising on, infrastructure or private to shareholders.
The investment advisory team can also draw on 3i Groups network Investment strategy of investment professionals, based in The infrastructure market continues to 13 countries, to originate infrastructure 3i Infrastructures objective is to provide be relatively rich in opportunities, with the investment opportunities.
shareholders with a total return of 12% per role of financial investors well established.
annum, to be achieved over the long term.
3i Group was among the subscribers to The Investment Adviser is building a diverse Within this overall objective, the Company 3i Infrastructures Initial Public Offering pipeline for the next financial year.
targets an annual distribution yield of 5% and subsequent Placing and Open Offer As pricing pressure for assets increases, of opening net asset value.
and currently owns 32.9% of the equity the Investment Advisers comprehensive in the Company.
In advising the Company on delivering this market access, focused investment overall objective, the Investment Adviser strategy and solid operational will seek to add value by buying assets at understanding of the asset class will be The infrastructure the appropriate value point, by applying key to achieving the Companys return asset class key consistent and rigorous portfolio objectives in the years to come.
management to drive good operational characteristics Cressida Hogg Managing Partner, Infrastructure performance in the portfolio assets and by 4 May 2011 Infrastructure assets generally have a encouraging portfolio companies to invest strong market position, often operating for long-term value creation.
About the Investment within regulated markets, or with revenues underpinned by strong, long-term contracts.
Adviser Infrastructure assets can be described as 3i Investments plc 3i Investments, a essential, either because they support wholly-owned subsidiary of 3i Group plc economic activity and economic growth, 3i Group, acts as the investment adviser such as utilities or transport infrastructure, the Investment Adviser to the Company or because they support important social through its infrastructure investment team functions, such as education or healthcare the investment advisory team.
Infrastructure assets are typically The investment advisory team provides characterised by the following features: advice to the Company on the origination Strong market positions and completion of new investments, on Capital-intensive businesses the realisation of investments and on Some degree of inflation linkage funding requirements, as well as on the Low cyclical volatility management of the investment portfolio.
Predictable, income-oriented returns when operational Potential for capital growth Investment Advisers review 3i Infrastructure plc 6 Annual report and accounts 2011 Investment Advisers approach Rigorous approach Best-in-class Investing for 1 2 3 to investment portfolio long-term management value creation ii core infrastructure and iii hybrid As shown in Chart 1, nearly 70% of 1.
The characteristics of each 3i Infrastructures portfolio is weighted to investment category are described in Chart 1. towards mature core assets, with the Consistent investment strategy Returns from these assets typically 15% exposure to PFI PPP assets providing range between 8% and 15% or greater, support to the delivery of the yield The Investment Advisers strategy is to build depending on the risks associated with the objective, and the 16% hybrid exposure a portfolio that delivers a balance of yield investment.
Yields generated from the through the 3i India Infrastructure Fund and capital growth, in line with the assets also vary, depending, among other providing higher capital growth.
This is a Companys return objectives.
factors, on the stage of development of defensive portfolio, which has delivered The infrastructure asset class is well suited the asset eg assets under construction steady returns and a robust cash yield in to this strategy, as it offers the possibility of versus operational assets.
times of macroeconomic and market diversifying investments across the risk uncertainty.
The Company aims to deliver the 12% net return spectrum.
As shown in more detail in return over the long term by building a Chart 1, the infrastructure asset class can portfolio which is predominantly weighted be subdivided into three main categories of towards mature core infrastructure assets.
assets: i social infrastructure PPP PFI: Chart 1 Risk return spectrum and asset distribution, value at 31 March 2011 Social infrastructure PPP PFI Core infrastructure Hybrid infrastructure 812% return 1016% return 15% return 3 High inflation correlation 3 Low volume market GDP risk 3 Higher risk characteristics country risk 3 Mainly government-backed 3 Quasi monopolies, concessions with market volume risk revenue streams regulatory protection or long-term GDP correlation contracts 3 Lower risk return profile 3 Operational expertise in managing the with strong yield when fully operational 3 Asset backed, with low volatility across assets is more important economic cycles Portfolio asset distribution 566m 135m 121m Yield Capital growth Investment Advisers review 3i Infrastructure plc 7 Annual report and accounts 2011 Investment Advisers review continued Premium origination and execution skills The Investment Advisers market access and execution skills were key to the Many transactions in the core success of the transaction.
The team was infrastructure space are large and complex, able to obtain exclusivity very early in the requiring first-class origination and process by partnering with a credible execution skills.
These include an in-depth consortium with in-depth knowledge of knowledge of the target sectors and Eversholts market, an understanding of the geographies, a sound operational value drivers and of the value opportunity, understanding of the target assets and of as well as the skills required to put together their regulatory regimes, as well as the the complex financing package.
ability to deliver a highly efficient financing Rigorous approach structure.
The Investment Adviser brings Since investing, the consortium has been to investment: these skills to bear in its origination and implementing a comprehensive 100-day Eversholt Rail Group execution activity on behalf of the Company.
This has The 2.1 billion acquisition of Eversholt focused on strengthening Eversholts The Investment Adviser adopts a rigorous this year in consortium with Morgan leadership through the appointment approach to the assessment of investment Stanley Infrastructure Partners and STAR of a new chairman, on a comprehensive opportunities, ensuring that only those that Capital Partners contributed significantly assessment of operational targets, and best fit the Companys strategy and that towards the achievement of a portfolio on refinancing most of the debt in the can contribute to the delivery of its return weighted in favour of core assets.
Three new public objectives are taken through the initial Eversholt is one of the three leading rail bonds have been issued by Eversholt since screening.
The team then undertakes rolling stock companies in the UK, and December 2010, for a total of 1.1 billion, extensive due diligence on each owns approximately 29% of the total attracting strong demand from public opportunity, including consideration of British rail fleet.
The acquisition, completed market investors.
All are long dated market and specific sector risks, as well as in December 2010, was immediately and were priced at attractive terms, of corporate responsibility issues, prior to accretive to NAV and income and provided significantly reducing the ongoing interest any recommendation to the Board.
exposure to a profitable transport asset costs and refinancing risk.
The Investment Adviser is focusing on with stable contracted revenues, a strong developing its pipeline for the next financial market position and defensive year.
In doing so, it leverages the resources characteristics.
of its main infrastructure hubs of London and Mumbai, as well as the wider resources of 3i Group.
It focuses on building proprietary knowledge and networks in target sectors and geographies, its comprehensive approach to origination ensuring that a high proportion of the opportunities in the market are evaluated and screened.
For more information Portfolio pages 13 to 17 Review of investments pages 20 to 26 Profile of senior members of the investment advisory team page 18 Investment Advisers review 3i Infrastructure plc 8 Annual report and accounts 2011 evergreen funding was the principal Chart 2 illustrates how this portfolio 2.
Best-in-class reason for structuring the Company as a management strategy has delivered strong portfolio management listed vehicle with permanent capital.
returns from the portfolio assets.
In Infrastructure assets typically have strong However, investments in the 3i India particular, the chart shows that: i the market positions, backed by concessions or Infrastructure Fund, which are at an earlier return is underpinned in the vast majority of some form of regulatory protection, have stage of their development, may be held cases by substantial cash generation in the low cyclical volatility and provide for a shorter period.
form of income or realised proceeds: predictable, income-oriented returns over ii most assets can return a significant Portfolio management is a key area of the long term.
proportion of their cost through income in focus for the Investment Adviser and is an a relatively short period of time, and Mature infrastructure assets tend to be important tool in achieving the Companys iii where assets have been sold, notably held over long periods of time, as income is return objectives.
The Investment Adviser in the PFI portfolio, they have generated generally a more important component of works with portfolio companies to develop good uplifts to cost.
the return for these types of assets than and refine business strategies to deliver capital growth and matches investors improvements in operational performance, In total, against a total investment cost long-term liabilities.
Value, which can be and to monitor key indicators to ensure that of 863 million, the portfolio has already enhanced through gradual and incremental any issues are identified and acted upon returned cash income of 143 million improvements in the assets operational quickly.
The Company is represented, since inception, and realised proceeds of performance, is delivered in large part generally through the Investment Adviser, 273 million, including realised profits through income, and less often through on the boards of all its equity investments.
3i Infrastructure will sell assets on an The Companys intention, therefore, is opportunistic basis, where compelling offers generally to hold investments over the long generate shareholder value, as was the case 2 term and to generate income from these for Alma Mater and I in 2008 and 2009, assets over time.
Matching the long-term or where there are asset specific reasons hold period of the underlying assets with for a disposal, as for the Viridian junior debt investment.
Chart 2 Portfolio asset returns throughout holding period m 173 AWG 197 11 62 151 Eversholt 167 7 85 Oystercatcher 120 34 120 Junior debt 90 50 17 94 3i IIF 135 222 PFI portfolio 122 202 23 18 T2C and Novera 10 Total cost Value including accrued interest Proceeds on disposals Cash income Investment Advisers review 3i Infrastructure plc 9 Annual report and accounts 2011 Investment Advisers review continued 3.
Investing for long-term In Amsterdam, a 42,000 cubic metre value creation expansion project was approved in 2009 to provide dedicated storage for Driving income generation from portfolio biodiesel products for a new production assets is crucial to the delivery of the facility being constructed beside Companys return objectives.
Returns from Oiltanking Amsterdams site, due to be core infrastructure assets, however, completed in the summer of 2011. also have a significant capital growth This capacity is also let on a use-or-pay component, which is maximised through basis under a long-term contract.
Along capital investment for long-term with this, several smaller investments development.
As a consequence, it is Investing for long-term were approved to upgrade throughput important that portfolio companies are value creation: and customer service, including higher encouraged to invest in expansion Oystercatcher capacity pumps and new pipeline projects that deliver value accretion connections to improve blending Since the Companys initial investment in over the long term.
Oystercatcher in 2007 the Investment The Investment Adviser works with In Malta, investment in a new 13,000 Adviser has been actively involved in management teams to devise and cubic metre tank has recently been the assessment of a range of capital implement long-term development approved, to be let on a use-or-pay expenditure project proposals, both to strategies.
This requires an in-depth contract to an existing customer from increase storage capacity and to improve knowledge of market and sector dynamics, completion at the end of 2011. operational effectiveness, at all as well as an understanding of the three terminals.
From the year of Oystercatchers long-term value drivers for each of investment to the end of 2010, total In Singapore, a 160,000 cubic metre the assets.
capacity at the three terminals has expansion project was approved in 2008 The Investment Adviser has been applying increased by over 12% while annual to accommodate increasing demand these skills very successfully to the throughput has increased by over 25%.
from adjacent refineries and Companys investment in Oystercatcher, petrochemicals industries.
This was This demonstrates the Companys which was valued at 119.6 million at completed on time and within budget in willingness to see its portfolio companies 31 March 2011 relative to an investment June 2009.
The capacity was let on a deploy capital in new projects which deliver cost of 84.5 million, and which has use-or-pay basis under a long-term long-term value accretion.
delivered income of 34.4 million since 3i contract to an existing customer.
The case study on the right shows that the operating companies in Oystercatcher have invested heavily in expansion projects.
Investment Advisers review 3i Infrastructure plc 10 Annual report and accounts 2011 Non-core disposals Policy drivers Market and Many corporates continue to be under The requirement for new and replacement opportunities pressure to deleverage their balance sheets.
infrastructure, as well as the shift to the In the case of financial institutions, the green economy, may drive government Conditions for investment evolution of capital adequacy regulations incentives for new infrastructure projects means that regulatory capital buffers will eg the Green Investment Bank announced Transaction volumes in the infrastructure have to be increased, and this is likely to be by the UK government.
Infrastructure may market increased throughout the year, as achieved, at least in part, through the sale also be used in some countries as a tool for investor confidence returned.
The Companys acquisition of economic stimulus.
Banks appetite for infrastructure exposure Eversholt Rail Group from HSBC is an Cyclical recovery market stabilisation remained, and the continued availability example of this.
of debt at relatively attractive terms As market conditions are stabilising, there The pressure to reduce debt is driving many underpinned purchasers confidence to bid is greater consensus between parties companies to renew focus on their activities for assets.
Demand for capital markets on forecasts and outlook, for example on in core areas.
Examples of this include: debt issued by strong core infrastructure traffic projections for transportation assets.
utilities selling networks to focus resources companies also increased, as demonstrated This may result in an increase in pro-cyclical on power generation: oil and gas companies by Eversholts successful public bond and volume sensitive assets, such as exiting midstream assets to focus on issuance programme.
airports, changing hands in the short to upstream activities: and construction medium term.
The outlook for inflation and interest rates companies divesting assets that have will continue to be an important determinant Secondary market sales opportunities completed their construction phase, to in the conditions for investment going from refinancing recycle capital into new projects.
While relatively high inflation is Some infrastructure funds are nearing the Public sector budget constraints positive for the infrastructure asset class, end of their fund life, and while the first its impact on interest rates may affect As European governments cut spending to wave of forced exits is probably two to financing, as well as achievable returns.
tackle public sector deficits, private sector three years away, some funds are looking to investment in essential infrastructure sell assets to prove fund valuations.
Many The opportunity should increase through privatisations and of these assets are likely to be sold to other PPP-style transactions.
While we believe The market opportunity for infrastructure infrastructure funds.
There may also be this will be the case in the medium to long investment remains positive, and after an opportunities from the refinancing of assets term, in the shorter term new PFI PPP intensification of investment activity in currently held in infrastructure funds.
procurement may slow, as governments the year to March 2011, the Investment India evaluate their priorities and work through Adviser is focusing on building the pipeline the implementation of spending cuts.
for the next financial year.
The opportunity in India remains significant, Some government sales, however, are as shown by the increased level of There are several themes driving the taking place: for example, the UK transaction activity for the 3i India pipeline, many of which we have government successfully privatised the Infrastructure Fund.
Strong GDP growth described before.
Our key themes include: HS1 rail link in 2010. and an increasingly urbanised population continue to drive demand for new build infrastructure.
There is political momentum for new infrastructure development in India, and the Indian government continues to place much importance on private sector participation.
Investment Advisers review 3i Infrastructure plc 11 Annual report and accounts 2011 Investment Advisers review continued The Investment Advisers strong track The competitive environment record, particularly in completing complex Investors are increasingly attracted transactions and working closely with to investing in assets with infrastructure operating partners and other investors, characteristics, as they seek protection means that 3i Infrastructure is well from volatility in other asset classes positioned to see the best deal flow and from inflation and other even in more competitive markets.
Outlook Significant funds have been raised over the past three to four years, and some The infrastructure market continues to investors, most notably sovereign wealth be relatively rich in opportunities, with the funds and large pension funds, have role of financial investors well established.
also begun to invest directly in The Investment Adviser is building a diverse infrastructure assets.
pipeline for the next financial year.
Growing demand for assets has resulted As pricing pressure for assets increases, in greater pricing pressure, in particular in however, the Investment Advisers the more liquid segments such as PPP PFI, comprehensive market access, and increasingly in the core focused investment strategy and solid infrastructure segment.
operational understanding of the asset class will be key to achieving the Companys return objectives in the years to come.
Investment Advisers review 3i Infrastructure plc 12 Annual report and accounts 2011
