Investment Advisers review continued Profile of senior members of the investment advisory team Cressida Hogg Neil King Phil White Managing Partner, Infrastructure Partner, Infrastructure Partner, Infrastructure Cressida co-founded 3i Groups Infrastructure business Neil has responsibility for the investment advisory teams Phil has overall responsibility for the Investment with Michael Queen in 2005.
She took over the role investment origination and appraisal activities in Europe Advisers portfolio management activity.
In this role of Managing Partner from Michael in January 2009 and North America.
He was involved in advising on most he works closely with the management teams of the following his appointment as CEO of 3i Group.
Cressida of the Companys investments, and has had a leading businesses in which 3i Infrastructure invests.
He sits is responsible for managing the investment advisory role in ensuring a consistent approach to infrastructure on the boards of several portfolio companies including team and leads the advisory relationship with the investment across all offices.
During the current financial AWG, Eversholt and the Oiltanking investments.
Cressida year he led the Companys investment into Eversholt.
Phil joined in 2007, bringing 20 years of investment, oversees all aspects of 3i Groups infrastructure Neil joined 3i Group in 2005, bringing with him more advisory and financing experience to this role, investment business, including investment appraisal, than 15 years of experience in the infrastructure including from roles at Macquarie, WestLB and Barclays.
portfolio management and investor relations activities.
market, including roles at Innisfree, WestLB and Phil is a member of 3i Groups Corporate She also represents the Companys interests by sitting Barclays Capital.
Cressida has 17 years investment experience with 3i Group, having previously worked in 3i Groups UK growth and buyout businesses.
Girish Baliga Samir Palod Deepak Bagla Partner, Infrastructure Partner, Infrastructure Partner, Infrastructure Girish jointly leads 3i Groups infrastructure investment Samir jointly leads 3i Groups infrastructure investment Deepak has overall responsibility for 3i Groups office business in India with Samir Palod.
He is responsible for business in India with Girish Baliga.
He joined 3i Groups in New Delhi and also works closely with Girish and making investments on behalf of the 3i India Growth Capital business in Mumbai in 2005, before Samir on the investments made by the 3i India Infrastructure Fund, in which 3i Infrastructure has a transferring to the infrastructure advisory team in 2008.
He represents 3i Group on several commitment.
Girish joined 3i Group in 2005, following He has worked on infrastructure investments for Government committees and business forums.
He joined extensive investment experience from previous roles at 3i Group such as Mundra Port.
He recently led the 3i Group in 2007, bringing with him over two decades Chryscapital and JPMorgan Partners.
Girish led the investments in KMC Roads and Ind-Barath Utkal and of financial and operational experience from his time at 3i India Infrastructure Funds investment in Adani Power, serves on those companies boards.
Prior to joining the World Bank, RPG Enterprises an Indian business and serves on the board of several companies in which 3i Group, Samir worked for 10 years with Citigroups conglomerate and Citigroup.
the Fund is invested, including GVK Energy, Soma banking and investment banking arms in India and also Enterprise and Krishnapatnam Port.
has experience from roles at Asian Capital Partners and Arthur Andersen.
Stephen Halliwell Anil Ahuja CFO, Infrastructure Managing Partner, Asia Stephen is CFO for 3i Groups infrastructure investment Anil focuses on 3i Groups businesses in Asia, including business.
He manages the operational, financial and the development of 3i Groups Indian business.
As such reporting requirements for the infrastructure business he works closely with Cressida, Girish and Samir, and within 3i Group.
Stephen was previously Head of is involved in all investments made by the 3i India Financial Planning and Analysis in 3i Groups Finance Infrastructure Fund.
Prior to joining 3i Group in 2005, Team.
During 20092010, Stephen managed certain Anil worked at JPMorgan Partners Asia, overseeing responsibilities of 3i Groups Finance Director, who was the investments in the Indian market, and at Citibank on maternity leave.
Anil currently serves on the boards of several of 3i Groups investments in India.
Investment Advisers review 3i Infrastructure plc 18 Annual report and accounts 2011 Review of investments Review of investments 3i Infrastructure plc 19 Annual report and accounts 2011 Description Developments in the year Anglian Water Anglian Water Group Limited AWG is AWG continues to perform in line with the parent company of Anglian Water, the expectations.
Following the publication of Group fourth largest water supply and wastewater Ofwats Final Determination in November company in England and Wales as measured 2009, the company has been implementing Cost 161.9m by regulatory capital value.
The majority a wide-ranging operational improvements of the groups revenue is earned through programme, which is currently on target to Value 195.9m tariffs regulated by Ofwat and linked to achieve its objectives over the five-year RPI.
The group also includes Morrison regulatory period.
Facilities Services, a support services AWG generated strong income in the Equity interest 10.3% business focused on the local authority year, as the business increased its dividend and social housing sectors, and a small Income in the year 27.0m following two years of restraint due to low property business.
RPI and uncertainty preceding the Asset total return in the year 29.3m The investment is held through 3i Osprey outcome of the regulatory review for the Valuation basis DCF LP, an intermediary limited partnership that 2010-2015 regulatory period.
is managed separately by 3i Investments Anglian Water maintained a top two place The value on an IFRS basis is 286.0 million.
and owned with other third parties, and in in Ofwats performance measure, the which 3i Group also has a small interest.
Overall Performance Assessment, for Investment rationale the third year running.
AWG has strong infrastructure AWG complies with the Walker Code characteristics, with a regulated nearand its report and accounts are available monopoly position in its geographical on www.
area for the provision of water supply and wastewater treatment, stable and predictable earnings through RPI-linked tariffs and largely predictable operating costs.
Review of investments 3i Infrastructure plc 20 Annual report and accounts 2011
