Board of Directors Peter Sedgwick Philip Austin Non-executive Director, Sir John Collins Non-executive Chairman Senior Independent Director Non-executive Director Between 2000 and 2006, Peter was a member of the Philip spent most of his career in banking with HSBC in Sir John Collins was previously Chairman of DSG management committee and a Vice President of the the UK and Jersey and, from 1997 to 2001, was International plc, National Power Limited, and Shell UK European Investment Bank EIB, one of the largest Deputy Chief Executive of the banks business in the plc.
He was a non executive director of Rothschild multinational lending institutions in the world.
In 2001, he became the founding CEO Continuation Holdings AG, and The Peninsular and also a director of the European Investment Fund from of Jersey Finance Ltd, the body set up as a joint venture Oriental Navigation Company plc.
Before joining the EIB, he was a career between the Government of Jersey and its Finance Chairman of the Advisory Committee on Business and HM Treasury civil servant in the UK.
He also sits on the Industry, to represent and promote the Industry in the Environment, Chairman of the DTIs Energy Advisory boards of two of 3i Infrastructure plcs Luxembourg Jersey and internationally.
In 2006, he joined Equity Panel, Chairman of the DTI DEFRAs Sustainable Energy subsidiaries, 3i Infrastructure Luxembourg Holdings Trust where he had direct responsibility for Jersey, Policy Advisory Board, President of the Energy Institute S. r. l. and 3i Infrastructure Luxembourg S. r. l. Guernsey and Switzerland as well as being a Member of and as a Governor of Wellington College.
He became a trustee and director of Dyslexia Institute the Group Executive Committee.
He retired from Equity Resident in Guernsey.
Limited trading as Dyslexia Action in 2007.
Resident Trust at the end of 2009.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered in the UK.
Institute of Bankers and a Fellow of the Institute of Management.
Florence Pierre Charlotte Valeur Paul Waller Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Florence is an independent consultant with her own Charlotte is Managing Director of Brook Street Partners, Paul is a Managing Partner at 3i Group, with specific consultancy firm, Financire Action.
She previously held an alternative investment consultancy which she responsibility for fundraising and managing 3i Groups several executive positions, including Founder Director founded in 2003.
Through Global Governance Group, global relationships with the fund investor community.
and Chief Operating Officer of the Corporate Finance founded in 2009, Brook Street Partners also advises He is a member of the 3i Group Leadership Team, subsidiary of La Compagnie Financire Edmond fide on governance best practice and conducts board director of 3i Investments and chair of the 3i Group Rothschild in Paris and Founder and Chief Executive of evaluations for the boards of investment funds.
He was previously a director Financire Concorde, an independent M&A advisory previously a director in Capital Markets, Fixed Income and chairman of the European Private Equity & Venture boutique firm.
She was subsequently named Chief at SG Warburg, BNP Paribas, Socit Gnrale and Capital Association and chairman of the Investor Executive of the French branch of Degroof Corporate Commerzbank.
Charlotte also serves as Chairman of Relations Committee.
Paul Waller is a 3i Group nominee.
Finance, a subsidiary of Bank Degroof, and a Director of listed hedge fund Brevan Howard Credit Catalyst and Resident in the UK.
Degroof Corporate Finance in Belgium.
She has taught as a non executive director on the board of AIM listed economics and finance at Institut dEtudes Politiques in Renewable Energy Generation.
Danish national, Paris and has published several books and articles on resident in Jersey.
French national, resident in France.
Membership of Board Committees The Audit Committee comprises all Board members with the exception of Peter Sedgwick and Paul Waller.
Steven Wilderspin Non-executive Director, The Remuneration Committee Chairman of Audit Committee comprises all Board members with the Steven has been the Principal of Wilderspin Independent exception of Paul Waller.
Governance, which provides independent directorship services, since April 2007.
He was previously a director The Nominations Committees of fund administrator Maples Finance Jersey Limited.
He has served on a number of private equity, property membership is Peter Sedgwick, and hedge fund boards as well as the boards of special Philip Austin and Sir John Collins.
purpose companies engaged in structured finance transactions.
Before that, from 1997, he acted as Head of Accounting at Perpetual Fund Management Jersey Limited.
Governance 3i Infrastructure plc 39 Annual report and accounts 2011
