Investment Advisers review continued The value of the 3i India Infrastructure valuation guidelines, generally using a The discount rate applied to each Fund, including exchange movements, was discounted cash flow DCF methodology, investment is reviewed at each valuation broadly in line with last year before new which the Board considers to be the most date.
The rate selected reflects the risk investment, as the decline in the mark-toappropriate valuation methodology for inherent in the business, taking into market value of Adani Power largely offset unquoted infrastructure equity investments.
account sustained movements in risk-free gains elsewhere in the Funds portfolio.
rates of return in the relevant country Where the DCF methodology is used, the and appropriate risk premia.
There were no resulting valuation is checked against other changes to the discount rates used to value Foreign exchange impact valuation benchmarks relevant to the any of the assets since the last valuation particular investment, including for Foreign exchange rates were volatile at 30 September 2010, with the exception example: throughout the year.
As set out in Table 3, of the discount rate applied to Soma movements in foreign exchange generated earnings multiples Enterprise and Krishnapatnam Port net losses of 4.3 million on non sterling recent transactions within the 3i India Infrastructure Fund, assets.
Sterling appreciated by 5% against quoted market comparables as Krishnapatnam Port became fully the Indian rupee in the year, resulting in regulated asset base multiples operational and several of Soma Enterprises foreign exchange losses of 5.1 million for BOT projects progressed through their the Company, as its exposure to the Indian Discounted cash flow and construction phase.
rupee through the 3i India Infrastructure discount rates Fund remains unhedged.
The Board 3i India Infrastructure Fund has monitored the rupee exposure on a Around 78% of the portfolio was regular basis.
During the year, sterling also valued on a DCF basis at 31 March 2011.
The Companys investment in the 3i India appreciated by 1% against the euro, but the The weighted average discount rate Infrastructure Fund was valued as the resulting losses were more than offset by applied at that date was 13.2% 2010: Companys share of net assets held by foreign exchange derivatives entered into to 12.5%, deriving from a range of 8.2% the Fund.
Within the Fund valuation, provide some mitigation from movements an operational PFI asset and 21.2% Adani Power, which has been a listed in the sterling euro exchange rate the a project within the 3i India Infrastructure company since August 2009, is valued on euro hedging programme.
Chart 7 shows the movement in a mark-to-market basis using closing bid the weighted average discount rate applied prices.
All other assets were valued on a to the portfolio in each six-month period DCF basis, with the exception of a portion Summary of valuation since inception.
of Soma Enterprises valuation, which was methodology calculated using earnings multiples.
The increase in the weighted average Investment valuations are calculated at the discount rate compared to last year was half year and at the financial year end by the Junior debt portfolio due principally to the acquisition of Investment Adviser and then reviewed and Eversholt, as well as to the addition of three The Companys investment in the junior approved by the Board.
Investments are new assets to the 3i India Infrastructure debt portfolio was valued using closing bid reported at the Directors estimate of fair Fund, all valued using discount rates above prices at 31 March 2011 provided by third value at the reporting date.
The valuation last years weighted average.
The portfolio traded up principles used are based on International 12.1% in the year to 31 March 2011.
Private Equity and Venture Capital IPEV Table 3 Impact of foreign exchange movements on portfolio value m Year to 31 March 2011 Translation of assets 1.3 Translation of assets US$ 5.9 Foreign exchange losses on investment 7.2 1 Asset valuation US$ rupee 0.8 Movement in the fair value of derivative financial instruments hedging 2.1 Other foreign exchange movements 2.9 Net foreign exchange losses 4.3 1 Contained within Unrealised profits on revaluation of investments in Table 4 on page 28.
Investment Advisers review 3i Infrastructure plc 16 Annual report and accounts 2011
