Elgin Octagon Alpha Schools Cost Cost Cost 38.5m 20.2m 9.1m Value Value Value 40.2m 31.1m 17.7m Equity interest 49.9% Equity interest 36.8% Equity interest 50.0% Income in the year 3.3m Income in the year 3.1m Income in the year 1.4m Asset total return in the year 4.8m Asset total return in the year 5.4m Asset total return in the year 2.9m Valuation basis DCF Valuation basis DCF Valuation basis DCF Description Description Description Elgin Infrastructure Limited Elgin holds Octagon Healthcare Limited Octagon Alpha Schools Highland Limited Alpha a portfolio of PFI project investments, in is a concession company under a 35-year Schools is a concession company under which Robertson Capital Projects Limited PFI contract to build, operate and maintain a 30-year PFI contract to build, operate Robertson retains a 50.1% holding.
the Norfolk and Norwich University and maintain 11 new schools on 10 Robertson is a private company with Hospital.
Construction of the hospital sites in the Highland region of Scotland.
activities covering construction, PFI was completed in August 2001.
Octagon All schools are operational.
Alpha receives projects, facilities management services receives RPI-linked payments from the RPIX-linked payments from the Highland and timber products.
The Elgin portfolio NHS Foundation Trust to cover services and Council to cover services and buildings comprises five schools projects and buildings maintenance, which are subject to maintenance, which are subject to 11 community healthcare schemes, performance deductions for service failures performance deductions for service all of which are now fully operational.
Octagon subcontracts failures and unavailability.
Alpha Schools the provision of facilities services to Serco.
subcontracts the provision of facilities Investment rationale services to Morrison Facilities Services.
Investment rationale Exposure to social infrastructure through Investment rationale PFI projects is helpful in providing the Octagon is a social infrastructure Companys portfolio with lower risk, investment in a mature asset providing Alpha Schools is a social infrastructure index-linked cash flows.
The Elgin portfolio the Company with a stable, long-term investment in a portfolio of operational is fully operational, and is delivering a income stream with RPI linkage.
assets providing the Company with a stable, robust yield.
In Robertson, the Company is long-term income stream with RPIX linkage.
Developments in the year partnering with a well-established player in Developments in the year Octagon continues to perform well the PFI market.
financially and operationally and has All schools are operating successfully Developments in the year maintained its strong working relationship and performance has been good Midlothian Hospital, Elgins only project with the NHS Trust and with Serco.
Handover of the still in construction at the time of the remaining sports pitches is progressing In July, the National Patient Safety Agencys acquisition, was completed and handed as growing conditions permit.
Patient Environment Action Team awarded over to the procuring authority in August the hospital the top excellent rating in all 2010, six weeks ahead of schedule.
three categories of assessment: catering, All 16 projects in the portfolio are cleanliness, and privacy and dignity, for the performing in line with the investment third year running.
case and the asset generated strong The hospital participated in a project to give income in the year.
young people with learning difficulties the skills to get paid employment, in partnership with City College Norwich, Serco, Remploy and Norfolk County Council.
The project won the Anglian Water Most Innovative New Programme Award at the Business in the Community East of England Awards 2010. Review of investments 3i Infrastructure plc 24 Annual report and accounts 2011 2 I loan notes T2C 1 Cost Cost 31.6m 6.5m Value Value 31.6m nil 2 Income in the year 2.5m Equity interest 16.7% Asset total return in the year 2.5m Asset total return in the year nil Valuation basis Cost 1 Represents the value of the vendor loan notes on issue in 2009 and subsequent PIK notes issued.
2 Includes capitalised interest of 1.2 million.
Description Description In January 2009 3i Infrastructure sold its Thermal Conversion Compound T2C is 2 stake in Infrastructure Investors LP I to a special purpose company established to Barclays Integrated Infrastructure Fund LP build, operate and maintain a waste-toBIIF LP, receiving part of the energy plant on an industrial park near consideration in the form of loan notes Frankfurt, Germany.
The plant will generate with a principal amount of 28.2 million steam and power from refuse-derived fuels the loan notes.
At the time of the sale, RDF.
Construction is subcontracted to 2 I owned a portfolio of equity and Ebara, a Japanese environmental technology subordinated debt investments in over developer and provider, using proven 80 PFI projects.
BIIF LP now owns these technology.
T2C has subcontracted project projects through a corporate holding management, operation and maintenance 2 company structure, rather than through I. services to Infraserv GmbH & Co. Hchst KG ISH, which manages the industrial The loan notes are unsecured, bear a fixed park where T2C is located.
T2C has 8% annual interest rate part cash pay and contracted long-term revenues under a are redeemable over the period to 2018.
15-year fixed-price take-or-pay contract The issuer of the loan notes is BIIF IssuerCo with ISH, with an upwards only price review Limited BIIF IssuerCo, part of BIIF LPs after 10 years.
corporate holding company structure for the underlying projects.
Developments in the year The loan notes are serviced by cash flows A provision was taken against the value upstreamed from the underlying projects of T2C in March 2010, due principally after servicing existing senior debt.
Under to further delays in the completion of the terms of the loan notes, no equity construction.
During the year significant dividends can be paid by BIIF IssuerCo progress was made both in construction whilst payments of interest or principal and commissioning of the plant.
All three are due and outstanding on the loan notes.
lines have achieved first fire in the year, and 3i Infrastructure is accorded information the plant is progressing towards practical rights similar to those of a BIIF LP senior completion later this year.
Discussions over lender, which allows the Company to the necessary restructuring of T2Cs monitor the performance of the underlying financing arrangements are continuing and projects and the ongoing recoverability of as a result the asset remains valued at nil.
Developments in the year During the year, the Company accrued interest of 2.5 million from the loan notes, half of which was capitalised in accordance with the terms of the loan notes.
The underlying projects continue to perform broadly in line with projections at the time of the sale in January 2009. Review of investments 3i Infrastructure plc 25 Annual report and accounts 2011 3i India Infrastructure Fund Developments in the year obtain registration as a CDM Project under Cost 93.8m the UNFCCC.
Construction of a further The Fund completed three new investments 660MW unit is currently underway.
As part Value in the year, in GVK Energy, KMC Roads and 134.7m of a second project in Mundra Mundra II, in Ind-Barath Utkal, as described in more two additional units are being built and are detail on pages 14 and 15.
The Companys due to be completed later this year.
Adani share of these investments was 35.2 Partnership interest 20.9% Power is developing a pipeline of projects in million, with a further 8.7 million to be other regions of India.
Investment in the year 35.2m drawn for the second phase of the investment in GVK Energy.
Soma Enterprise Limited is one of the 1 Asset total return in the year 1.6m fastest growing infrastructure developers GVK Energy is developing a power in India, focused on construction and Valuation basis LP share portfolio, principally gas-fuelled, comprising of funds development of core infrastructure an operational capacity of 915MW, with a projects.
Its order book, valued at over further 3,132MW under various stages 1 Includes a 5.9 million foreign exchange loss.
US$3 billion, comprises projects diversified of development.
across sectors such as hydro power, KMC Roads owns a portfolio of 10 irrigation, railways, power transmission  BOT road and urban infrastructure, and BOT road Description projects.
This portfolio, aggregating projects aggregating to approximately c. 1,000 km across India, is one of the The 3i India Infrastructure Fund the Fund 800 km.
Soma Enterprise is performing largest such portfolios in the country.
is a US$1.2 billion fund closed in 2008 to well, and continues to add projects to the invest in a diversified portfolio of equity order book.
Ind-Barath Utkal is building out a or equivalent infrastructure investments 700MW coal-fired power plant based Krishnapatnam Port Company Limited in India, focusing on the port, airport, road in the state of Orissa.
has a concession to develop, operate and and power sectors.
3i Infrastructure has maintain the port of Krishnapatnam in the The three other investments in the Fund committed US$250 million to the Fund.
Construction of continue to perform well.
As at 31 March 2011, the Fund was the facilities is progressing well.
Currently 65% invested and 70% committed, Adani Power Limited continues to make eight berths are operational, with a further having completed six investments, and progress in building its portfolio of power two under construction.
3i Infrastructure had an outstanding generation assets.
Its main project in Cargo volumes have continued to grow commitment of US$86.3 million, or Mundra Mundra I has grown significantly in line with expectations, underpinned 53.8 million.
The first five units of by strong industrial development in the Mundra I 1,980MW are now operational, Investment rationale ports geographic region.
Performance in with the fifth unit, a 660MW unit based on The macroeconomic outlook in India is the year was negatively affected by a supercritical technology, receiving the favourable, with strong projected growth, temporary ban on the export of iron ore Clean Development Mechanism CDM and the fundamentals for infrastructure in a neighbouring state, served by the port.
Project certification from the United investment remain attractive, with the The ban has now been lifted by Indias Nations Framework Convention on Climate current infrastructure deficit in the country Supreme Court.
This is the worlds first providing much opportunity for private project based on supercritical technology to investment.
The investment in the Fund offers 3i Infrastructure exposure to a diversified pool of assets and larger investments than the Company could access on its own account, at no additional cost to the Company.
The Fund remains well positioned, with an established presence in its market and the investment teams broad network of contacts.
Review of investments 3i Infrastructure plc 26 Annual report and accounts 2011 Returns and Risk Returns and Risk 3i Infrastructure plc 27 Annual report and accounts 2011
