Basis of preparation Throughout the Investment Advisers Several adjustments were made in order to 3i Infrastructure holds two wholly-owned review, the Review of investments and show returns on an investment basis, the subsidiaries, Oystercatcher Luxco 1 S. r. l. Returns and Risk section, the Companys main adjustments being: and Oystercatcher Luxco 2 S. r. l. net asset value and financial results have Oystercatcher Luxco 1 and 3i Infrastructure holds 68.5% of 3i Osprey been presented to show the return on Oystercatcher to fund the minority LP, the vehicle through which it holds its a pro forma investment basis.
This investment into three subsidiaries of investment in AWG.
3i Infrastructure is information is in addition to the consolidated Oiltanking GmbH.
External borrowings required under IFRS to consolidate the financial statements as shown on pages 51 were made by Oystercatcher to partly results and balance sheet of this limited to 54, that are prepared under International fund the investments.
These borrowings partnership into its financial statements on Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
The remaining 31.5% The pro forma investment basis presentation Under IFRS, the results and balance sheet of of this entity is held by 3i Group and other provides an alternative representation of Oystercatcher Luxco 1 and Oystercatcher third parties.
In the investment basis the Companys net asset value, shows the subsidiaries are required to be consolidated presentation, 3i Infrastructure has Companys cash utilisation for investment into 3i Infrastructures financial statements recognised only its share of the income and differentiates between non-recourse on a line-by-line basis.
In the investment and balance sheet of 3i Osprey LP.
This borrowings held within asset specific basis presentation Oystercatcher is not adjustment has the effect of eliminating the acquisition companies and borrowings consolidated but is accounted for as a minority interest entitlement shown on the which may be made at the Company level.
portfolio asset held for investment statement of comprehensive income and The investment basis accounts for majority purposes and is fair valued accordingly.
the balance sheet on an IFRS basis.
investments and subsidiaries formed The Company invests in 3i India One subsidiary of the Company, 3i Primary specifically for investment purposes in Infrastructure Holdings Limited through Infrastructure 2005-06 LP, which holds the same way as minority investments, by 3i India Infrastructure Fund A LP, a limited the investment in Alpha Schools, has determining a fair value for the investment, partnership in which the Company is the investing partners which are entitled to a and therefore does not consolidate sole investor.
This limited partnership has 3.75% share of profits, once certain cash these entities line-by-line as is required not been consolidated under the hurdle criteria are met.
Amounts due to this under IFRS.
investment basis and is treated as an limited partnership are treated as a minority investment, and is fair valued accordingly.
interest on a consolidated basis but are accrued as an expense in the investment basis.
Review report Review report to the Companys members Our review work has been undertaken so Directors as a body of 3i Infrastructure plc that we might state to the Directors those responsibilities matters we are required to state to them in a review report and for no other purpose.
Introduction The Summary of total return and the A review consists of making enquiries, Summary balance sheet are the We have been engaged by the Directors to primarily of persons responsible for financial responsibility of, and have been approved review the accompanying Summary of total and accounting matters, and applying by, the Directors.
The Directors are return see Table 4 for the year ended analytical and other review procedures.
responsible for preparing these statements 31 March 2011 and the Summary balance A review is substantially less in scope than in accordance with the basis of preparation sheet see Table 5 as at 31 March 2011 of an audit conducted in accordance with set out in the Investment Advisors review 3i Infrastructure plc the Company, which International Standards on Auditing UK and on page 34. are prepared on the basis of preparation set Ireland.
Accordingly, we do not express an out in the Investment Advisers review audit opinion.
Our responsibility shown on page 34.
Our responsibility is to provide a conclusion Conclusion This report is made solely to the Companys on the Summary of total return and the Based on our work described in this report, members, as a body.
To the fullest extent Summary balance sheet based on our review.
nothing has come to our attention that permitted by law, we do not accept or causes us to believe that the Summary of assume responsibility to anyone other than Scope of our review total return and the Summary balance sheet the Company and the Companys members, We conducted our work in accordance with set out above are not prepared, in all as a body, for our review work, for the guidance contained in International material respects, in accordance with this report, or for the conclusions we Standard on Assurance Engagements the basis of preparation set out in the have formed.
ISAE 3000 Assurance Engagements Investment Advisers review on page 34.
Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Ernst & Young LLP Financial Information issued by the Jersey, Channel Islands International Federation of Accountants.
4 May 2011 Returns and Risk 3i Infrastructure plc 34 Annual report and accounts 2011 Governance Governance 3i Infrastructure plc 35 Annual report and accounts 2011
