Description supply and low customer turnover.
Each Oystercatcher of the three operating companies Oystercatcher Luxco 2 S. r. l. enjoys a strong market position in key oil Oystercatcher is the holding company and oil product trading hubs, and has a through which 3i Infrastructure invested defensive position and reliable cash flows.
in 45% stakes in three subsidiaries of Cost Contracts are on a use-or-pay basis with 84.5m Oiltanking GmbH Oiltanking, located fixed terms of up to 10 years, often with in the Netherlands, Malta and Singapore.
Value 119.6m tariffs linked to local inflation rates.
These businesses provide over 3.6 million cubic metres of oil, petroleum and other Developments in the year oil-related and chemicals storage facilities All three terminals have performed in Equity interest 45.0% and associated services to a broad range line with or ahead of expectations in the of clients, including private and state oil Income in the year 13.7m year.
Although market conditions for traders companies, refiners, petrochemical 1 have not been as favourable as in recent Asset total return in the year 14.5m companies and traders.
years, all three terminals have experienced Valuation basis DCF Oiltanking is one of the worlds leading high throughput and full capacity utilisation.
independent storage partners for oils, Demand for oil storage capacity will 1 Includes a 1.0 million foreign exchange loss.
chemicals and gases, operating 71 terminals continue to be underpinned in the The value on an IFRS basis is 301.1 million.
in 22 countries with a total storage capacity medium term by continuing global of 17.6 million cubic metres.
imbalances and a trend towards higher product specification, leading in turn to Investment rationale increasing differentiation in storage This business meets the Companys requirements.
At all three terminals, infrastructure investment criteria through operating costs were well managed, long-term demand for oil storage capacity, contributing to an improvement in EBITDA coupled with the shortage of competing of 2.7% compared to the prior year.
Review of investments 3i Infrastructure plc 22 Annual report and accounts 2011
