Directors report This section of the Directors report contains statutory and under an Investment Advisory Agreement which includes an corporate governance information for the year to 31 March 2011 investment exclusivity arrangement.
agreement was extended by three years to 13 March 2015.
Under this agreement, the appointment of the Investment Adviser may, inter alia, be terminated by either the Company or the Principal activity Investment Adviser giving the other not less than 12 months notice 3i Infrastructure is a closed-ended investment company that in writing to expire no earlier than 13 March 2015 provided that invests in infrastructure businesses and assets.
The Directors do not either party may terminate the agreement on 12 months notice at anticipate any change in the principal activity of the Company in the any time, in the event that the Investment Adviser ceases to be a foreseeable future.
The Companys investment policy is set out on member of 3i Group, or with immediate effect by either party in page 75 and the Companys principal subsidiaries are shown on the event of the insolvency or material or persistent breach of the page 74. agreements terms by the other party.
The Investment Adviser may also terminate the agreement on two months notice given within two months of a change of control of the Company.
Regulation The investment exclusivity granted to the Company under the 3i Infrastructure is incorporated in Jersey and is regulated as a Investment Advisory Agreement initially lasted for an investment collective investment fund under the Collective Investment Funds period ending on the earlier of March 2012 or the full investment Jersey Law 1988.
It has a Premium Listing on the London of the IPO proceeds the Relevant Investment Amount.
As part of Stock Exchange.
the Companys Placing and Open Offer of new shares in July 2008, the terms of the agreement were amended so that the Relevant Results and dividends Investment Amount covered the IPO proceeds and the equity proceeds raised through the Placing and Open Offer, and also The financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries included the original cost of any disposal proceeds from the together referred to as the Group for the year appear on pages investment portfolio realised up to 12 months from the admission 51 to 54.
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable of new shares issued pursuant to the Placing and Open Offer.
to equity holders of the parent was 86.8 million 2010: The most recent amendment, dated December 2010, increased 81.2 million.
An interim dividend of 2.86p 2010: 2.2p the Relevant Investment Amount by 200 million and extended per share in respect of the year to 31 March 2011 was paid on the investment period to the earlier of i the full investment of 10 January 2011.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of the increased Relevant Investment Amount: and ii 13 March 2.86p 2010: 3.3p per share be paid in respect of the year to 2015, the date of expiry of the Investment Advisory Agreement.
31 March 2011 to shareholders on the register at the close of 3i Group was among the subscribers to 3i Infrastructures IPO and business on 17 June 2011. to the subsequent Placing and Open Offer and currently owns The Company has historically paid two fifths of its dividend objective 32.9% of the equity in the Company.
Fee arrangements and the as an interim dividend, with the balance paid as a final dividend, amount payable to 3i plc a wholly-owned subsidiary of 3i Group depending on the results for the full year.
Due to the strong for the year are set out in Note 20 Related parties on page 74. portfolio income generated in the first half of the year, the Board For information on the performance evaluation of the Investment decided to distribute 50% of the Companys dividend objective as Adviser, please see page 44. the 2010 interim dividend.
The distribution of the dividend payments will continue to be evaluated by the Board each year, according to Other significant service the Companys performance and portfolio income generation.
arrangements Operations In addition to the arrangements described above, 3i plc and 3i Investments, in relation to certain regulatory services, have been The Company has a non-executive Board of Directors and no appointed by the Company to provide support services to the Group, employees.
The Board acts as the Companys investment including treasury and accounting services, investor relations and committee and is responsible for the determination and supervision other back office support services.
The amounts payable under these of the investment policy and for the approval of investment arrangements are described in more detail in Note 20 on page 74. opportunities sourced by the Investment Adviser.
The Board also supervises the monitoring of existing investments and approves State Street Secretaries Jersey Limited formerly Mourant & Co. divestments and further financing of portfolio assets.
Secretaries Limited has been appointed as the Administrator and Company Secretary to the Company.
Advisory arrangements Business review 3i Investments plc 3i Investments, a wholly-owned subsidiary of 3i Group plc 3i Group, acts as Investment Adviser to Observing the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules requires the 3i Infrastructure through its infrastructure investment team.
Company to set out in this report a fair review of the business of the The investment advisory team provides advice to the Company Company during the financial year ended 31 March 2011, including on the origination and completion of new investments, on the a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the realisation of investments, on funding requirements, as well as on Company and an analysis of the position of the Companys business the management of the investment portfolio.
It provides its services at the end of the financial year, known as a Business review.
Governance 3i Infrastructure plc 40 Annual report and accounts 2011 The information that fulfils the current Business Review Number of requirements can be found on the following pages of this document 1 ordinary shares as at 28 April which are incorporated into this report by reference: Interests in ordinary shares % 2011 a fair review of the Companys business, see page 2: 2 3i Group plc 33.09 270,309,907 a description of the principal risks facing the Company, see BT Pension Scheme Trustees Limited 12.24 100,000,000 page 32: the development and performance of the Companys business Norges Bank 4.91 40,088,768 during the year, see page 29: Newton Investment Management Limited 3.51 28,668,518 the position of the Companys business at the end of the year, see page 30: 1 Each ordinary share carries the right to one vote.
2 3i Group plc held 33.09% of the issued share capital of 3i Infrastructure as financial key performance indicators, see page 28: per the last official notification.
Since then, the percentage of the issued share capital held by 3i Group has declined to 32.9%.
other key indicators, see page 2: main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, Directors interests performance and position of the Company, see page 11: Directors interests in the shares of the Company as at 31 March environmental matters and policy, including the impact of the 2011 are shown below: Companys business on the environment, see page 36: Ordinary Ordinary Warrants at Directors interests and references to, and additional explanations of, amounts included in shares at shares at 1 April 2010 and 1 beneficial interests 1 April 2010 31 March 2011 31 March 2011 the Companys annual financial statements, see page 28.
Peter Sedgwick 49,653 49,653 Risk management objectives Philip Austin 10,000 10,000 Sir John Collins 19,215 19,215 A description of the risk management objectives and policies is 2 Florence Pierre included in Note 11 to the financial statements and in the Returns Charlotte Valeur and Risk section on pages 28 to 34.
Paul Waller 231,424 244,639 Steven Wilderspin 10,000 10,000 Share capital 1 No options have ever been granted since the inception of the Company.
2 Appointed as a Director on 1 September 2010.
Ordinary shares In the period from 1 April 2011 to 28 April 2011, there were no The issued share capital of the Company as at 31 March 2011 was changes in the interests of each Director.
The increase in the number of ordinary shares outstanding is attributable to the Directors authority to buy back shares exercise of 5,828,580 warrants in the year to 31 March 2011.
The Company did not purchase any shares for cancellation during Warrants the year.
The current authority of the Company to make market purchases of up to 14.99% of the issued ordinary share capital Under the IPO, for every 10 shares purchased, one warrant was expires on 5 July 2011.
The Company will seek to renew such issued.
Each warrant entitles the holder to subscribe for one authority until the end of the Annual General Meeting AGM in ordinary share at 1.00 at any time from 13 September 2007 2012 specifying the maximum and minimum price at which shares to 13 March 2012.
Any buyback of ordinary shares will be made warrants were converted into shares.
subject to Jersey law and the making and timing of any buybacks At 31 March 2011 there were 64,721,900 2010: 70,550,480 will be at the absolute discretion of the Directors.
Such purchases warrants remaining in issue.
No additional warrants were issued will also only be made in accordance with the Listing Rules of the during the year.
FSA which provide that the price paid must not be more than 5% above the average middle market quotations for the ordinary shares In the period from 31 March 2011 to 28 April 2011, a total of for the five business days before the shares are purchased.
Directors re-election Major interests in ordinary shares The Companys Articles of Association provide for: Notifications of the following voting interests in the Companys ordinary share capital had been received by the Company as at a Directors to retire at the first AGM after their appointment by 28 April 2011. the Board and for the number nearest to, but not exceeding, one-third of the remaining Directors to retire by rotation at each AGM: and b all Directors to retire at least every three years.
Governance 3i Infrastructure plc 41 Annual report and accounts 2011 Directors report continued Paul Waller, as a non-independent Director, is required to retire each The Directors are responsible for keeping accounting records which year.
Subject to the Articles of Association, retiring Directors are are sufficient to show and explain its transactions and are such as to eligible for reappointment.
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and Group and enable them to ensure that the During the year, the Financial Reporting Council FRC has updated financial statements prepared by the Company and Group comply and reissued the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, with the requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991. formerly known as the Combined Code.
Under the new Code, all They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual Company and Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for election by shareholders.
These new provisions will be adopted for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
the AGM to be held on 5 July 2011, at which all Directors will retire and offer themselves for re-election.
These financial statements comply with International Financial Reporting Standards and reasonable and prudent judgments and Directors have a statutory duty to avoid conflicts of interest with estimates have been used in their preparation.
The Companys Articles of Association enable Directors to approve conflicts of interest and include other conflict In accordance with the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the of interest provisions.
The Company has implemented processes to Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge that: identify potential and actual conflicts of interest.
Such conflicts are a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with applicable then considered for approval by the Board, subject, if necessary, to accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, appropriate conditions.
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and of the Group taken as a whole: and Directors indemnities b the Directors report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the The Companys Articles of Association provide that, subject to the Company and of the Group taken as a whole, together with a provisions of the Statutes, every Director of the Company shall be description of the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the indemnified out of the assets of the Company against all liabilities Company.
and expenses incurred by him in the actual or purported execution or discharge of his duties.
Statutes here refers to the Companies The Directors of the Company and their functions are listed on page 39.
Jersey Law 1991 and every other statute, regulation or order for the time being in force concerning companies registered under the Going concern Companies Jersey Law 1991.
In addition, the Company has entered into indemnity agreements for the benefit of its Directors The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely and these remain in force at the date of this report.
The Company to affect its future development, performance and position are set also had Directors and officers liability insurance in place in the year.
out in the Investment Advisers review on pages 6 to 17, in the Returns and Risk section on pages 28 to 34, and in the financial statements and related notes on pages 51 to 74.
The financial Statement of Directors position of the Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and responsibilities borrowing facilities are described in the financial statements and related notes on pages 51 to 74.
In addition, Note 11 to the The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report financial statements includes the Companys objectives, policies and and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management and regulations.
objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities, As a company listed on the London Stock Exchange, and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
3i Infrastructure is subject to the FSAs Listing Rules and The Company has considerable liquid financial resources and a Disclosure and Transparency Rules, as well as to all applicable strong investment portfolio providing stable and robust income yield laws and regulations of Jersey, where it is incorporated.
and an expectation of medium-term capital growth.
As a Jersey Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to statements for each financial period in accordance with any manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain generally accepted accounting principles.
The financial statements economic outlook.
of the Company and Group are required by law to give a true and After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and Group at the that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational period end and of the profit or loss of the Company and Group for existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue the period then ended.
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report In preparing these financial statements, the Directors should: and accounts.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them By order of the Board consistently: Authorised signatory make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: State Street Secretaries Jersey Limited specify which generally accepted accounting principles have been Company Secretary adopted in their preparation: and 4 May 2011 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Registered Office: unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 22 Grenville Street, St Helier, Jersey continue in business.
Channel Islands JE4 8PX Governance 3i Infrastructure plc 42 Annual report and accounts 2011
