Management board Gordon Brough Rod MacRae Global Head of Legal Group Head of Risk Gordon joined Aberdeen in February 2009 to head up the Rod is responsible for UK and global risk including, regulatory Group's legal function having previously been the partner compliance, legal services, business and investment risk and responsible for the Group's affairs at Maclay Murray & Spens serves as chairman of the Group's risk management committee.
Prior to its merger with Maclays, Gordon had helped found Rod joined Aberdeen in 2003, following the acquisition of specialist law rm, The City Law Partnership.
Gordon is qualied Edinburgh Fund Managers.
Rod graduated with an MA in as a lawyer in both Scots and English law.
Economics from the University of Edinburgh and is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
Kerry Christie Gary Marshall Global Head of Human Resources Kerry is global head of human resources and was appointed to Head of Americas the Group management board in 2010.
She joined Aberdeen Gary was appointed head of the Americas in January 2010. in March 2000 and was appointed head of human resources in He is chief executive of Aberdeen Asset Management Inc in October 2003.
Kerry graduated from Robert Gordon University the US and president of Aberdeen's US mutual fund range, with a BA in Public Administration and holds a postgraduate Aberdeen Funds.
Gary joined Aberdeen via the acquisition of Diploma in Personnel Management.
Prolic Financial Management in 1997 and has had experience in many aspects of Aberdeen's operations, having been based in London and Edinburgh prior to moving to the US.
He graduated John Brett with a BSc Hons in Actuarial Mathematics and Statistics from Global Head of Distribution Heriot Watt University in Edinburgh and is a qualied actuary.
John joined Aberdeen on 1 November 2011 as global head of distribution.
John joined from Scottish Widows Investment Charles McKenzie Partnership where latterly he was head of distribution.
John trained as a lawyer and was with Aberdeen up until 2003 as Deputy Head of Fixed Income head of legal.
John is a qualied lawyer, having graduated LLB Charles joined Aberdeen via the acquisition of Deutsche from the University of Aberdeen.
Asset Managements London and Philadelphia xed income businesses in 2005.
Charles was head of UK xed income at Deutsche Asset Management in London which he joined in Ken Fry 1993.
Previously, Charles worked at Global Asset Management Chief Operating officer as a xed income portfolio manager.
Charles graduated with a Ken Fry graduated from the University of Essex with a BA in BSc from Southampton University and an MBA in Finance from Computer Science and joined Aberdeen with the acquisition of London City University Business School.
Fredericks Place Holdings in 1989 as Group IT manager.
He was appointed to the Group management board in 2006 as chief Andrew Smith technology officer and to his current role in 2008.
Global Head of Property Andrew Smith is global head of property.
Andrew joined Paul Grifths Aberdeen in 2002 from Henderson Global Investors.
His Global Head of Fixed Income property career began at Pearl Assurance plc, where he Paul is the global head of xed income having joined Aberdeen established one of the industrys first institutional property in July 2009 via the acquisition of the Credit Suisse Asset research teams.
The business subsequently became part of Management business, where he was chief investment officer Henderson Global Investors.
Andrew graduated with a BA and global head of xed income.
Paul previously held a similar in Geography from the University of Birmingham.
role at AXA Investment Managers, as well as being its UK chief executive officer.
Paul graduated with a BSc in Physics from the University of York.
