Our business model Our sole focus is on the active management of our clients portfolios by our teams of investment professionals who are based in the regions in which our AuM is invested.
This forms the basis of our business model.
We are diversied across our product range, geographic reach and client base.
We have globally consistent processes in everything we do from investment to marketing to client servicing.
Our objective is to deliver strong organic growth in management fees and this will be achieved by providing a high quality service to existing clients as well as attracting new ones.
We do this by knowing global markets from local level upwards and drawing on over 1,800 staff, across 30 ofces in 23 countries.
Aberdeen approach Highlights in 2011 Risks and mitigations Our investment process across all Continued outperformance of The majority of the Groups revenue is earned Investment asset classes is founded on our own strategies across a range of equities.
from management fees which are calculated on process primary research on companies' the basis of the value of AuM.
The value of AuM Ongoing strong inows into global securities and assets, both before will be affected by general market movements, emerging markets and global equities.
This is achieved as well as investor appetite and the actual by adopting a robust investment We have put in place additional investment performance achieved by the process which is applied consistently funds to tap our existing expertise asset managers.
Further information on current by our investment teams.
in Asian xed income and emerging trends is given in the business review.
We favour teams and not star We recognise that our investment style, under managers our strong team culture which we invest for the longer term, may lead Fixed income performance has with distinctive and transparent to periods of underperformance.
We seek to continued to recover with most investment processes sets us apart.
mitigate this by ensuring that clients and strategies now ahead of three year benchmarks.
investment consultants are kept fully aware Our investment teams are long of the nature of our investment philosophy established and stable.
As a truly active Increased scale of property team and by openly discussing the drivers of such manager, it is key that our teams are in Asia and begun to build a team performance, supported by relevant analysis based in the major locations where in the US, introducing our global of the components of performance.
We aim to build and strengthen our We now have dedicated marketing As well as poor investment performance, our Reputation brand through a co-ordinated series resource in our key markets in Europe, reputation could be damaged through significant and brand of local and regional name awareness Asia and Americas.
changes in investment personnel or if our brand initiatives and sponsorship is inconsistent with our culture and way of We have focused brand building opportunities.
campaigns in the key markets in Whilst individual initiatives are all regions.
We consider that our team based approach and tailored to the relevant country our consistent global processes and objectives Major regional sponsorship includes or region, they follow the common mitigate these risks.
Also, we provide our fund Cowes Week and the Dad Vail regatta.
theme of Aberdeen's global managers with a strong development capability and consistent processes, programme and seek to encourage performance Annual investment conference.
complemented by our local and loyalty through appropriate remuneration presence.
We actively manage regulatory risk through our global compliance team.
We track developments in emerging regulatory changes and ensure that the Group is well prepared for change.
The compliance team work closely with the business to check that our marketing materials are consistent with our products and capabilities.
8 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Aberdeen approach Highlights in 2011 Risks and mitigations We source business through two main Flows into higher margin products Our relationships with clients are fundamental to Distribution distribution channels: have offset redemptions, with our business.
increasing ows into higher margin We manage the risk of client retention by pooled funds.
pension funds, corporates, ensuring that our client relations teams keep in sovereign wealth funds, Blended average management fee regular contact with clients to ensure that we government agencies, insurance increased to 41bps in 2011, from address their changing needs.
New business 37bps in 2010. managers are located as close as practicable to typically takes the form of core clients to ensure a high level of service.
We Strong progress in UK wholesale segregated mandates or add new ofces where it enhances our services market.
to clients and prospects or deepens our Expansion across distribution investment coverage.
platforms in US, with good growth known as distributors, third party in Brazil and Canada ofces.
These intermediaries recommend our pooled funds to their end clients as appropriate.
The Groups own systems cover Developed our global model for We have an obligation to ensure that the Client service strategic systems such as trading, as property and operations, ensuring business can operate at all times.
We have offsite and well as decision support, data and that we have consistent and back up for our systems in place to cover each of administration compliance.
These systems are scalable platforms.
the Groups principal operating sites and regularly supported in house.
Improved data capture on our clients, We outsource most of our back ofce marketing efforts and success by Using a small number of strategic suppliers functions, such as investment markets and products.
ensures competition between those suppliers administration, to well established for new business, while ensuring that we have Third party administration costs third party administrators.
We have significant influence and leverage.
However, have reduced, benefitting from selected suppliers who have a strong it also exposes us to concentration risk and fund mergers.
track record of investment in their dependence on strategic providers.
Nonetheless, business, a long term strategic we believe that corporate failure or withdrawal commitment to that business and of a strategic supplier are events that can be reputational strength.
We regularly review the business continuity of service is of paramount recovery infrastructure and strategy of importance.
We aim to have a strong balance sheet 129% of underlying operating profit The main risk is that regulatory capital Capital with low gearing.
We use the cash converted to operating cash ows.
requirements became more onerous, reducing generated from the business to pay a available capital to pay dividends.
Net cash of 127.5 million at progressive dividend.
We prepare long term forecasts of our capital avoid any further dilutive issuance of position, using stress tests to determine how new shares: for example, we plan to US$125 million subordinated much capital to hold and retain.
Our regulatory satisfy future vesting of our deferred debt repaid.
subsidiaries hold capital in excess of their share schemes by purchasing shares in local requirements.
Growth in dividend is well covered the market.
We also ensure that we have adequate We currently have a waiver from the 98.1 million used to purchase shares headroom on bank facilities.
We renegotiated our FSA to meet the minimum capital for deferred share scheme.
revolving credit facility and now have a 100 requirements under the consolidated million facility, which is undrawn.
While the waiver runs to August 2014, it is our aspiration to be able to operate without the waiver by the end of 2012. www.
