Global stretch, local activation BRITISH ISLES CONTINENTAL EUROPE AMERICAS Aberdeen Head ofce Amsterdam Philadelphia Edinburgh Brussels So Paulo Glasgow Budapest Toronto Jersey Copenhagen London Frankfurt Philadelphia is our hub for North Geneva America and includes xed income The British Isles are our home market Helsinki and US equity teams.
This year we accounting for 30% of our clients by Luxembourg established our first on-the-ground AuM, some 50 billion.
The city of Milan property team presence in the US.
Aberdeen is our headquarters where we Oslo We manage almost 30 billion on locate many Group functions including Paris behalf of clients throughout the finance, information management Stockholm Americas and have developed a and human resources.
London, our Zurich strong platform on which to service largest ofce by number of staff, is the institutional and wholesale channels.
investment centre for UK and European We have a significant presence across The Toronto ofce services our equity, xed income and alternative Continental Europe with 13 ofces burgeoning Canadian client base, while investment strategy teams.
Europe excluding UK So Paulo is a research ofce for our is the investment centre for our global accounts for over 30% of Group AuM.
equity team, some of the alternative Luxembourg is the domicile for the investment managers, as well as the Aberdeen Global fund range.
base of company secretaries for the UK closed-end funds.
Edinburgh is also the base for our global e-marketing resource.
10 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA ASIA PACIFIC AUSTRALIA The Middle East and Africa are Bangkok Melbourne important sources of institutional Hong Kong Sydney funds and we have a strong client base Kuala Lumpur which we service from London.
We Shanghai The Group's Australian operation currently manage over 16 billion of Singapore accounts for over 9 billion AuM assets for institutional and sovereign Taipei and has a sizeable presence in this wealth entities in those regions.
Tokyo relatively sophisticated retirement savings market.
Our funds in Australia The Asian headquarters of the Group offer local investors a comprehensive is in Singapore and is home to most choice of domestic, regional, global of our Asian fund managers covering and emerging market investments.
the main asset classes as well as Additionally, we manage a range of substantial marketing, client servicing specialist mandates in xed income and administrative functions.
Other full and equities and an investment service ofces are in Hong Kong, Kuala company that is listed on the Lumpur and Bangkok.
We also have Australian Stock Exchange.
research and client servicing in North Asia.
Asian clients account for over 13 billion of AuM and our investment in Asian securities, both equities and xed income, is a core competence for the Group.
We believe our focus, size and approach enable us to provide effective asset management and superior client service.
Our teams champion original thinking and knowledge, so investment decisions are based only on our own research.
As a group, we have the scale to provide global coverage of financial markets: yet we are small enough to focus on each and every portfolio decision.
Close-knit teams, clear investment processes and at structures are important to us.
We seek to grow our clients assets in a way that is manageable and sustainable over the longer term.
com 11 Equities Aberdeens mainstream equity process dates from the early 1990s and we believe its advantage lies in the consistency of its approach, irrespective of market conditions.
From the company visits and analysis carried out regionally, through to portfolio construction decisions, we adopt a team approach.
Cross-coverage of securities locally ensures objectivity: we avoid cultivating star managers.
Diversication at the stock level is our main control of risk.
We aim to add value by capitalising on original research and in avoiding fashions.
We see equity risk in terms of investing in a poor quality company, or overpaying for a good one.
Active management Long-term focus We aim to add value by identifying good quality stocks, dened Our mainstream strategies are simple: we buy and hold, chiey in terms of management and business model, which add on price dips and take profits on price rises.
This reduces are attractively priced.
Good stockpicking is the key to transaction costs and keeps portfolios focused.
We rarely pursue our performance.
We downplay benchmarks in portfolio short-term returns for mainstream equity strategies, albeit for construction since these provide little clue to future specialist portfolios, activity may be more dynamic.
Our asset managers avoid businesses that we do not understand or those with discriminatory Team approach shareholder structures.
We employ over 130 equity investment professionals globally.
Portfolio decisions are made collectively, and we avoid Proprietary research cultivating star fund managers.
Cross-coverage of securities Our mainstream equity managers always visit companies also increases objectivity and lessens reliance on individuals.
before investing, making thousands of visits annually to existing and prospective holdings.
Every contact is documented in detail.
If a security fails our screens, we will not own it, irrespective of its index weight.
Equity investment process Equities breakdown Global Company visit note Risk emerging markets 34% controls Asia Pacic 31% Global EAFE 27% UK 4% STEP STEP STEP North America 2% Europe 2% 1 2 3 Quality Aberdeen Price Portfolio Pass or fail?
universe Cheap or construction expensive Monitor Potential Watchlist revisit review As at 30 September 2011 Total 75.1bn Source: Aberdeen Asset Management PLC 12 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Fixed income Active management, operating globally, in a transparent and accountable structure, within a risk framework We believe outperformance should be generated within a risk framework, adding value through multiple sources with low correlations to create natural diversication.
As such, our xed income structure comprises independent product teams, with their investment universes being as unconstrained as possible.
Our product teams are responsible for generating investment ideas from the global xed income markets and implementing these into our clients portfolios, keeping within stated investment objectives, risk budgets and individual client specic restrictions.
In doing so, product teams utilise the skills and expertise of the Firms broad xed income group.
Active management Team approach We aim to add value by exploiting market inefficiencies in We employ over 120 investment professionals across our interest rates, currency, investment grade credit, emerging teams.
They invest within clearly delineated parameters, market debt, high yield, convertibles and money markets.
We with dened reporting lines.
Our team structure is based have dedicated portfolio managers and analysts in the three on transparency and accountability.
main time zones Asia Pacic, Europe and the US.
They operate as close-knit teams within a global framework, with investment Diverse solutions decision-making devolved to specialists, based on their Many clients are moving to higher performance or core plus knowledge and expertise.
Another trend is the move away from market-based indices and the use of liability driven benchmarks.
We aim to Flexible and disciplined investment process deliver performance across the full range of our xed income Our investment structure enables us not only to follow a capabilities.
We also use derivatives, such as interest rate and disciplined investment process but also to be exible to manage credit default swaps, to add value and also to match liability portfolios for a wide variety of client requirements.
range from strategies which employ multiple sources of uncorrelated returns to those that are focused on a particular specialist area.
Fixed income investment process Fixed income breakdown Asia Pacic 23% Money market 19% Alpha inputs Strategy determination portfolio construction UK 18% Global 12% Resulting US 10% Risk EMD EMD Client Emerging markets 8% lter portfolio Europe 7% Global High yield 1% Agreed # Asset macro Currency overlay 1% client allocation Key strategy Convertibles 1% Product specic # Duration investment Team factors # Curve themes Credit such as: # FX research # Security Objective selection Guidelines High High # Global IR Yield Yield Risk appetite overlay As at 30 September 2011 Total 49.5bn Source: Aberdeen Asset Management PLC www.
com 13 Property Active management, top-class research, local presence and a rigorous investment process are the means by which we add value to property investment.
We offer a wide range of well-structured vehicles that provide strong risk-adjusted returns as well as a choice of geographic and sector allocations.
In addition to funds holding direct property, we have pioneered the development of funds of property funds, with exposure to UK, Continental Europe, Asia Pacic and North America.
This team invests in third party funds, not in direct property and its clients are exclusively institutional investors.
Their philosophy focuses on creating alpha and not on general market exposure.
Our direct investment and multi-manager teams manage client money in segregated mandates as well as pooled vehicles.
Active management Structured investment process Our understanding of the factors that drive returns stems Our robust investment process links the three essential from our local presence and our dedicated research capability.
disciplines of allocation, selection and asset management.
A unique feature of property is the value that can be added We apply it rigorously to all property sectors and geographies.
by active asset management, and selecting assets with this Our principle is to combine advanced top-down research with potential enables a skilful investment manager to create alpha a pragmatic, but structured, bottom-up approach from our and outperform the market.
The former focuses on managing beta, or portfolio risk, the latter on creating alpha.
Local presence Delivering risk-adjusted returns Active property investment requires a local presence.
We have expanded in Europes heartland, through our Singapore ofce We aim to help our institutional clients achieve well diversied into Asia and more recently into North America.
We now property exposure by delivering superior risk-adjusted returns number over 300 professionals based in 13 countries.
This through funds that offer a clear choice of geographic or sectoral unrivalled local reach is essential to our understanding of local exposure.
With our advanced portfolio modelling techniques, markets and our commitment to local decision making.
we provide an understanding of the risk of different property investments and their place in multi-asset portfolios.
Property investment process Property breakdown Nordic direct 37% 2 Selection 1 Allocation UK direct 23% Creation of risk budget Spending the risk Continental Top down budget Bottom up Europe direct 18% investment implementation Global direct 12% planning Team-based, Continental Europe high conviction multi-manager 6% decisions Fund Asia multi-manager 3% management UK multi-manager 1% team 3 Management 4 Performance review Maximising returns Analysis and feedback within the risk budget As at 30 September 2011 Total 20.5bn Source: Aberdeen Asset Management PLC 14 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Alternative investment strategies private equity funds groups skill sets worldwide Our funds of hedge funds, fund of private equity funds and multi-manager capabilities enhance and complement Aberdeens traditional skills in multi-asset investing.
Our aim is to provide client portfolios and funds that diversify and control risk while optimising returns, whether using in-house capabilities or those of third party managers.
A range of passive fund solutions is also available, according to client need.
Active management Risk management Our multi-asset team builds portfolios by investing in securities Our risk management controls are both specic to asset that have been researched and selected by our specialist asset classes and characterised by our institutional clients own risk class teams in-house, while our multi-manager and fund of appetites, their agreed risk budgets and any other mandate hedge fund teams research and invest in highly-skilled third constraints.
While the strength of our investment decisionparty manager funds.
making process is predominantly qualitative, in our fund of hedge funds and multi-manager businesses we also draw on a number of quantitative inputs to help guide our investment A focus on long-term investing decision making.
In multi-manager funds, we aim to add value by identifying and building strong relationships with those managers which we Proprietary research believe will excel at providing risk-adjusted performance.
This approach mirrors our mainstream equity investment process, First-hand analysis is a central tenet to Aberdeen as an which is based on regular company visits with management.
Despite the differences of our alternative In multi-asset portfolios and the balanced element of asset capabilities, our stock and manager selection processes multi-manager products, we also employ top-down processes share the key values of our mainstream investment processes, to aid superior portfolio construction and reduce risk.
namely due diligence, repeated investment meetings to verify our decisions and a disciplined attention to risk control.
Alternatives investment process Alternative strategies breakdown 1 Investment research 2 Due diligence Long-only Quality and Operational Multi Manager 33% repeatability and legal Indexed Equities 26% Multi Asset 23% Funds of hedge funds 14% Funds of private equity 4% 5 Monitoring Continual evaluation 4 Investment committee 3 Portfolio Oversight and governance optimisation Asset allocation As at 30 September 2011 Total 24.8bn Source: Aberdeen Asset Management PLC www.
