Directors Report The Directors present their Report and the audited financial The Company believes in open and continuous communications as an statements for the year ended 30 April 2011.
This is the Companys important part of the employee engagement process.
The Company has first report since it was listed to the London Stock Exchange on an intranet and various internal communication channels for informing 27 October 2010. employees about financial results, business development and other news concerning Betfair and its people.
The Directors Report should be read in conjunction with the other sections of this Annual Report, the Chairmans Statement, Chief Con icts of interests Executive Of cers Review, Financial Review, Principal risks and uncertainties, Corporate Governance Statement and the Directors The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to consider and, Remuneration Report, all of which are incorporated into this if it sees t, to authorise situations where a Director has an interest that Directors Report by reference.
con icts, or may possibly con ict, with the interests of the Company Situational Con icts.
The Board has a formal system in place for Principal activities Directors to declare Situational Con icts to be considered for authorisation by those Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered.
Betfair is the worlds biggest betting community and one of the worlds In deciding whether to authorise a Situational Con ict, the non-con icted leading online betting and gaming operators.
Directors are required to act in the way they consider would be most likely to promote the success of the Company for the bene t of all shareholders, At the heart of Betfair is its pioneering Betting Exchange, where and they may impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation, or customers come together in order to bet at odds set by themselves or subsequently, if they think this is appropriate.
The Board believes that the offered by other customers, instead of with a traditional bookmaker.
systems it has in place for reporting and considering Situational Con icts The Betting Exchange provides customers with better pricing and more continue to operate effectively.
choice and exibility than competing products, which has resulted in Betfairs customers showing greater levels of loyalty than its competitors Related party transactions with signi cantly higher customer satisfaction rates.
Internal controls are in place to ensure that any related party transations Betfair additionally offers a range of other sports betting products, involving Directors or their connected persons are carried out on an arms casino games and poker.
As at 30 April 2011, Betfair had more than length basis and are properly recorded.
3 million registered customers worldwide and processed, on average, more than 7 million transactions per day on the Betting Exchange, Final dividend more than all European Stock Exchanges combined during the preceding 12 month period.
The Company has declared that a final dividend of 5.9 pence per share will be paid in respect of the year ended 30 April 2011.
Betfair also owns Betfair US, which comprises TVG a licensed US horse racing wagering and television broadcasting business, a development Share capital of ce in California, and 74.8% of LMAX, which operates an exchange platform for online retail financial trading which has evolved from The Company has a single class of shares in issue divided into ordinary Betfairs exchange platform technology.
In addition, Betfair has a 50% shares of 0.1 pence each.
As at 30 April 2011 the Companys issued share holding in Betfair Australia, a joint venture which operates a licensed capital was 107, 904, 239. betting exchange business in Australia.
The ordinary shares carry the right to the pro ts of the Company available Directors for distribution and to the return of capital on a winding up of the Company.
The ordinary shares carry the right to attend and speak at Details of the Directors can be found on pages 32 and 33 and the Board general meetings of the Company: each share holds the right to one composition and any changes to it throughout the year are detailed vote.
The ordinary shares were admitted to trading on the Of cial List in full in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 45 to 49. of the London Stock Exchange on 27 October 2010.
At the year end there were no shares held in treasury and the Companys employees share Directors indemnity trust held 2,993,801 shares.
As permitted by the Articles of Association the Directors have the bene t Authority to purchase shares of an indemnity which is a qualifying third party indemnity provision as fide ned by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
The indemnity The Company currently has the authority to purchase a maximum of was in force throughout the last financial year, and remains in force.
The Company also purchased and maintained throughout the financial year Directors and Of cers liability insurance in respect of itself and Share transfer restrictions its Directors.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company other than Employees the remaining Lock-up arrangements entered into by the Board and Senior Executives amounting to approximately 11% of the current issued share The responsibility for formulating, implementing and ensuring adherence capital, pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement at the time of the Initial to employment policies and relevant legislation is the responsibility of Public Offering.
Details of these arrangements were set out in the Prospectus Human Resources.
The Company fully supports the principle of equal document copies of which can be found on the Companys corporate website opportunity for all employees and opposes all forms of discrimination and at http: corporate.
com investor-relations prospectus has policies to ensure it meets its legal obligations.
It is also Group policy to give full and fair consideration to the recruitment of disabled persons.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 36 2011 overview Governance Financial statements Contractual arrangements Funding and liquidity risk The Group has contractual arrangements with numerous third parties Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial in support of its business activities.
The disclosure in this Report of obligations as they fall due.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is information about any of those third parties is not considered necessary to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have suf cient liquidity to for an understanding of the development, performance or position of meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, the Groups businesses.
without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
The Group also spreads its cash reserves across several highly rated banks and investments to mitigate counterparty risks.
The Group Political donations performs regular cash ow projections to ensure that it has suf cient cash on demand to meet expected operational expenses for a period of at least The Group made 6,468 FY10: nil US political donations, but did not 90 days.
The Group has no committed lines of credit.
make any EU political donations during the financial year.
Auditors Charitable donations KPMG Audit Plc, the Companys external auditors, have expressed their The Group donated 560,000 FY10: 600,000 for charitable purposes willingness to be re-appointed as auditors of the Company.
Upon the within the UK during FY11.
The Companys charitable activities are recommendation of the Audit Committee, resolutions to re-appoint them described within the Corporate Responsibility section.
as the Companys auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed to the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
Supplier payment policy Annual General Meeting It is the Groups policy to comply with the terms of payment agreed with its suppliers.
Where payment terms are not negotiated, the Company The Notice convening the Annual General Meeting to be held on endeavours to adhere to suppliers standard terms.
As at 30 April 2011, 22 September 2011 is contained in a circular sent out to shareholders the Group had trade creditors of 5.2 million FY10: 9.7 million.
The meeting will be held at BAFTA, 195 Piccadilly, London.
The Notice of Meeting contains full details of the resolutions Corporate Governance Statement that will be put to shareholders.
The Corporate Governance Statement is made in accordance with the Disclosure of information to auditors Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs 7 and the Corporate Governance Code issued by the FRC in May 2010.
Each of the Directors who held of ce at the date of approval of the Directors report con rms that: so far as they are aware, there is no Major shareholdings relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and that they have taken all steps that they ought to have taken as a As at 28 June 2011, the Company had been noti ed, in accordance with Director to make them aware of any relevant audit information and to DTR rule 5 of the UK Listing Authority, of the following major establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
shareholdings in the ordinary share capital of the Company: By order of the Board Number of Percentage of Name shares held issued capital % Edward Wray 11,472,024 10.62 Softbank Capital Partners 11,033,109 10.21 Andrew Black 10,898,390 10.09 Le Peine SA 9,769,772 9.04 Stephen Morana SBI Holdings 7,274,577 6.73 Director Richard Koch 6,592,238 6.10 Registered of ce Fidelity Investments 6,539,781 6.05 Betfair Group plc Balderton Capital 4,227,170 3.91 Waterfront Hammersmith Embankment Going concern, responsibilities & disclosure Chancellors Road access on Winslow Road London W6 9HP After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources Registered number to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this 6489716 reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 37 Directors Report continued Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of of the Annual Report and the financial statements the Annual Report The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in pages 32 Consolidated and Company Financial Statements in accordance with and 33 of this Annual Report, con rm that, to the best of each persons applicable law and regulations.
knowledge and belief: Company law requires the Directors to prepare Consolidated and Company the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable Financial Statements for each financial year.
Under that law they have set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, elected to prepare the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance liabilities, financial position and pro t or loss of the Company and the with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable law and undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and we have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and in accordance with the UK accounting standards and applicable law performance of the business and the position of the issuer and the UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that Under company law the Directors must not approve the Financial they face.
Statements unless they are satis ed that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of their By order of the Board of Betfair Group plc pro t or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: David Yu Stephen Morana for the Consolidated Financial Statements, state whether they have Director Director been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: for the Parent Company Financial Statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Financial Statements: and prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are suf cient to show and explain the Groups and Parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors having prepared the Financial Statements have asked the auditors to take any steps and undertake any inspection that they consider appropriate to enable them to give their Audit report.
The auditors responsibilities are set out in the Independent Auditors report on page 57.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 38
