The Board of Directors and Executive team Board of Directors 1.
Stephen Morana b Chair d Chair Non-executive Chairman Chief Financial Of cer Age: 43 Age: 40 Edward Wray is the Companys Non-executive Chairman.
He is the Stephen Morana is the Companys Chief Financial Of cer.
He joined the co-founder of the Betfair Group and was Chief Executive until 2003, Betfair Group in 2002, becoming Finance Director in July 2005 and Chief after which he moved to Australia to set up Betfairs Australian joint Financial Of cer in September 2006.
Prior to joining Betfair, he headed venture.
He took over as Chairman in 2006 and is now based in the UK.
the UK finance team at Sapient, the NASDAQ-listed business innovator.
Prior to founding Betfair, he spent eight years at J. P. Morgan & Co. as a He has been a Director of Betfair since 25 September 2006.
Vice President in the debt capital markets and derivatives area.
He has been a Director of Betfair since 20 August 1999.
Mike McTighe a b c Chair Senior Independent Director 2.
David Yu d e Chief Executive Of cer Age: 57 Mike McTighe is the Companys Senior Independent Director.
Following Age: 43 an executive career in the medical equipment and telecommunications David Yu is the Companys Chief Executive Of cer.
He joined the Betfair industries, including the Chief Executive role at the global operations Group as Chief Technology Of cer in 2001 and also held the position division of Cable & Wireless plc, he holds a number of directorships, of Chief Operating Of cer prior to his appointment as Chief Executive and is currently on the Board of Ofcom the UKs regulator of the Of cer in 2006.
He was previously Vice President, Engineering for Alta broadcasting, telecommunications and wireless communication sectors Vistas e-Commerce and International divisions.
He has spent almost where he is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He is Chairman of Pace plc, 20 years working in technology, mainly for internet companies.
He holds JJB Sports plc, Volex Group plc and WYG plc, and is also Chairman of two an MS Computer Science from Stanford University and a BS Computer privately owned technology companies.
During the recent past he has Science and Electrical Engineering from the University of California at been a member of the Audit Committees of Alliance & Leicester plc and Berkeley.
He has been a Director of Betfair since 3 April 2006.
London Metals Exchange Holdings Ltd.
He has been a Director of Betfair since 17 October 2008.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 32 2011 overview Governance Financial statements Executive Committee Members 5.
Ian Dyson The Board is supported by a team of senior executives as follows: a chair c Independent Non-executive Director Martin Cruddace Age: 49 Chief Legal and Regulatory Of cer and Company Secretary Ian Dyson is Group CEO of Punch Taverns plc and was formerly Group Finance & Operations Director at Marks & Spencer plc and Finance Martin is Betfairs Chief Legal and Regulatory Of cer and Company Director of The Rank Group plc.
Prior to this he was Group Financial Secretary, positions he assumed in July 2004 and September 2004 Controller of Hilton Group plc.
He joined Hilton from Le Meridien, a respectively.
Previously Martin was a Partner in a private London law division of Forte plc, where he had been Finance Director.
His early rm, and prior to that he was Head of the Legal Department for Mirror career was spent with Arthur Andersen, where he quali ed as a Chartered Group Newspapers.
Martin quali ed as a solicitor in 1988.
Accountant in 1986 and was promoted to a Partner of the rm in 1994.
Ian was a non-executive Director of Misys plc until September 2005.
He has been a Director of Betfair since 1 February 2010.
Tony McAlister Chief Technology Of cer 6.
Josh Hannah Tony is Betfairs Chief Technology Of cer and joined the Company in Non-executive Director 2009.
He has spent over 25 years building and running successful global technology businesses in the e-commerce and entertainment Age: 40 sectors, and was previously CIO of Vodafones mobile content division Josh Hannah is a founder of Betfair and was Chief Executive and coin London and North Carolina.
com which merged with the Betfair Group in 2002.
He is now one of the general partners of Matrix Partners.
He has been a Director of Betfair since 21 February 2002.
Niall Wass Chief Marketing and Development Of cer 7.
Fru Hazlitt b c e Chair Niall is Betfairs Chief Marketing and Development Of cer, having Independent Non-executive Director joined the Company in 2004, and is responsible for regional financial performance, as well as marketing and commercial development.
Age: 48 His roles prior to joining Betfair include: deal executive and interim Fru Hazlitt is Managing Director of Commercial and Online at ITV Plc.
management in technology venture capital at Brait Private Equity: Prior to this she was Managing Director of GCAP Media Plc, Chief COO for internet incubator Icon Media Lab: and in marketing and Executive of Virgin Radio and a Managing Director of Yahoo UK and strategy consulting at Accenture.
Niall has an MBA from INSEAD.
Fru chairs Betfairs Corporate Responsibility Committee and has been a Director of Betfair since 23 March 2005.
Baroness Denise Kingsmill CBE Group Human Resources Director a Independent Non-executive Director Tony is Betfairs Group Human Resources Director, having joined the Company in 2009.
He was previously Group Human Resources Director Age: 64 of King sher plc, a position he also held at Carlton Communications plc Baroness Denise Kingsmill has been a Director of Betfair since 1 February and IPC Media.
Tony started his career in General Electric Company plc 2011.
She is a Non-executive Director of International Airlines Group holding a number of divisional Human Resources Director positions, and formed as a result of the merger between British Airways and Iberia went on to assume senior Human Resources Director roles with several and a Non-executive Director of both Horizon Acquisition Company plc companies such as News International and WH Smith.
Tony is a Fellow and Korn Ferry International.
Previously, she served as a Non-executive of the Chartered Institute of People and Development and has a Director at British Airways plc 2004-2011.
Denise is on the Advisory Postgraduate diploma in Personnel Management.
Board of PwC and is also a member of Microsofts European Policy Council.
From 1996-2003 Denise was the Deputy Chairman of the Competition Commission, chairing 22 economic enquiries into almost Ian Chuter every sector in UK industry, before going on to chair three governmentGroup Operations Director backed reviews and taskforces over the next six years for the Department of Trade and Industry and the Department for Culture, Media and Sport.
Ian will join Betfair on 4 July 2011.
He will become a member of the Executive Committee and will be responsible for overseeing Betfairs global customer operations team, which includes telephone betting, market operations, fraud, payments and trading.
He has over 30 years industry experience and was previously Group Head of Operations at William Hill.
Key: Committee memberships a Audit Committee b Nomination Committee c Remuneration Committee d Market Disclosure Committee e Corporate Responsibility Committee Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 33
