85015 ASCOT TxtPRINT 85015 ASCOT TxtV9 25 01 2012 14:16 Page 7 Managers Report Introduction Performance in the first seven months of 2011 was good in both absolute and relative terms.
ASCoTs NAV total return up to the end of July was 6.1% against 4.1% for the RBS HGSC XIC.
However, coinciding with resurgent concerns about the Eurozone and global economic growth, performance deteriorated through the latter part of the year.
From the end of July to the end of December, ASCoTs NAV total return was -18.5%, which compares with -12.7% for the benchmark.
Hence, over 2011 as a whole, ASCoTs total return was -13.5%, while the RBS HGSC XIC s was -9.1%.
Larger companies proved more resilient over the year, with the FTSE All-Shares total return of -3.5% making it one of the best performing equity indices around the globe.
The under-performance of smaller companies came within the context of rising macro economic concerns and risk aversion of the second half of the year.
Performance background For the twelve months ended 31 December 2011 Basis Points Stock selection 353 Based on mid-prices } Sector selection 127 Attributable to the portfolio of investments, based on mid prices after transaction costs of 35 basis points 226 Movement in mid to bid price spread 7 Cash gearing 125 Purchase of Ordinary Shares 3 Management fee 73 Other expenses 7 Total attribution based on bid prices 435 Note: 100 basis points 1%.
Total Attribution is the difference between the total return of the NAV and the Benchmark Index i. e. NAV -13.48%: Benchmark Index -9.13%: difference is -4.35% being -435 basis points.
The table above is an attribution analysis that sets out the impact of various factors on ASCoTs relative performance in 2011.
The largest effects Stock and Sector selection are at the portfolio level.
Underlying Stock and Sector selection represent your Managers individual investment decisions.
In any year, within a well diversified portfolio of 89 holdings, there will be good investment decisions and poor investment decisions, the latter being instances where your Managers have got the fundamentals of underlying businesses wrong.
However, potentially more influential on relative returns and on portfolio level attribution, at least in the short term, is the wider markets consideration of broader investment themes.
This was the case in 2011, when none of the themes that characterise the portfolio and that stem from your Managers consistently applied investment philosophy proved helpful.
Gearing ASCoTs portfolio was, on average, geared by 10% through 2011.
In an environment of falling equity prices, this gearing exacerbated the decline in ASCoTs NAV.
Of ASCoTs 435 basis point under-performance against the benchmark in 2011, the gearing effect accounted for 125 basis points.
The reason for the gearing is the abundance of attractively valued businesses within the RBS HGSC XIC.
As described in greater detail later in this report, these valuations would appear to discount the risk of a relapse into recession.
Style Over the past 21 years, your Managers have consistently followed a value investment style.
Though unusual among small company investors, the logic for this approach is underpinned by a number of studies that demonstrate substantial long term out-performance of the value style: for example, the London Business Schools LBS work on the RBS HGSC XIC points to value outstripping growth by five percentage points per annum since 1955.
Within Aberforths 21 year history, a value philosophy has on the whole proved rewarding, but there have been periods, most notoriously during the TMT bubble, when a focus on low valuations has been made to look misguided.
The last five years have witnessed another period that has favoured the growth style, with the LBS study showing growth stocks to have outstripped value stocks by ten percentage points per annum over that period.
This has represented a headwind to ASCoTs performance.
Your Managers were encouraged by signs of a resurgence of the value style towards the end of 2010 and in the early months of 2011.
However, this came to a halt as the macro economic developments of the third Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 7 85015 ASCOT TxtPRINT 85015 ASCOT TxtV9 25 01 2012 14:16 Page 8 Managers Report quarter weighed on sentiment and threatened the rising tide of general economic growth.
Thus, in the second half of the year the LBS study suggests that the growth style returned to the fore.
Nevertheless, your Managers continue to favour a value approach that has been advantageous over the long term and that at the current time is supported by the strong balance sheets and dividend prospects detailed below.
Size This theme is allied to style.
The benchmarks definition those companies in the bottom 10% of the UK stockmarkets total capitalisation means that FTSE 250 companies account for three quarters of its market capitalisation.
However, these mid cap companies represent just half of the portfolio by weight and, accordingly, the portfolio has double the benchmarks weighting in its smaller constituents.
This positioning is motivated by the abundance of particularly low valuations among the smaller small companies: at the year end, the RBS HGSC XIC s mid cap element was valued on a historic PE ratio 57% higher than that of its small cap element.
This substantial valuation gap has opened up over the past eight years as investors have shortened their investment horizons and run shy of the illiquidity of smaller small companies, notwithstanding their fundamental attractions.
Concurrently, shares in mid cap companies have enjoyed incremental demand from diversification by large company UK equity portfolios.
Your Managers believe that the historically low PE ratings accorded to smaller small companies in particular have the potential for upward adjustment, with a consequent boost to ASCoTs capital value.
Strong balance sheets Strong balance sheets are a feature of the corporate sectors of many major economies.
This is certainly the case in the UK and, more specifically, among small UK quoted companies.
At the year end, 43% of ASCoTs portfolio was invested in companies with net cash on their balance sheets, somewhat higher than the RBS HGSC XIC s still respectable 31%.
With the yield from cash extremely low in the current interest rate environment, the stockmarket has been disinclined to value the flexibility and defensiveness afforded by a strong balance sheet, a trait that ASCoT has exploited.
Curiously, however, during the bear market of the second half of the year, the correlation between balance sheet strength and share price performance within the benchmark was remarkably low the relationship between the two was effectively random.
This frustrating lack of discernment can probably be attributed to the prevailing climate of extreme risk aversion, which has, so far, out-weighed other considerations.
Dividend yield The correlation between share price performance and dividend yield within the RBS HGSC XIC through the second half was also surprising.
Again, the relationship was almost random: a superior dividend yield offered almost no protection against share price falls.
This was in sharp contrast to the experience within the large company world, where high yielding sectors such as Tobacco, Pharmaceuticals and Utilities all performed relatively well.
The discrepancy is, at least in part, a result of traditional prejudices about small companies: it is not an area the market associates with yield and income.
But there is plenty of yield on offer.
The 422 companies in the RBS HGSC XIC had an aggregate historic yield of 3.2% at the year end, somewhat less than the FTSE All-Shares 3.6%.
However, one quarter of the benchmarks constituents did not pay dividends, usually as a result of their early stage business models that require cash generated to be reinvested in the businesses.
The aggregate yield of the 300 or so companies that do pay a dividend is 4.0%, actually higher and less concentrated than large companies.
As a function of your Managers value investment style, ASCoTs portfolio has almost always had a higher yield than the RBS HGSC XIC and ended the year with a yield of 3.4%.
Valuations 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 Characteristics ASCoT Benchmark ASCoT Benchmark Number of companies 89 422 88 430 Weighted average market capitalisation 391m 676m 424m 696m Price earnings ratio historic 9.0x 10.5x 11.8x 13.7x Dividend yield historic 3.4% 3.2% 2.5% 2.4% Dividend cover 3.3x 3.0x 3.4x 3.0x 8 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 85015 ASCOT TxtPRINT 85015 ASCOT TxtV9 25 01 2012 14:16 Page 9 Managers Report The preceding table shows the historic PE and yield statistics for ASCoTs portfolio and the RBS HGSC XIC.
Consistent with Aberforths value investment style, ASCoT is cheaper on both measures.
However, the principal valuation metric in your Managers investment process is the ratio of enterprise value to earnings before interest, tax and amortisation EV EBITA.
This is because EV EBITA is balance sheet neutral.
That is to say, with cash yielding so little at the current time, the PE ratio of a company is affected by the liability structure of its balance sheet: other things being equal, a company with a high amount of net debt will have a lower PE ratio than a company with net cash.
The EV EBITA is not distorted in this fashion.
2011 2012 Characteristics EBITA 5% EBITA -20% ASCoT portfolio 6.9x 6.6x 8.6x Tracked RBS HGSC XIC 8.7x 8.3x 10.9x The preceding table sets out the EV EBITA ratios for the portfolio and the benchmark based on 2011 profits.
It also gives two scenarios for 2012.
The first shows the EV EBITA multiples that would prevail if profits grow by 5% in 2012.
Given current macro economic headwinds, this might be considered an ambitious outcome, but, for the portfolio at least, is not implausible owing to the impact of acquisitions and recovery situations.
The second scenario, which assumes a 20% decline in profits, is essentially a re-run of the last recession: in 2009, the aggregate EBITA of the year end portfolio fell by one fifth on 2008.
The resulting EV EBITA ratio is 8.6x.
But, would this represent good value?
In 2010, with the recovery from recession well underway, the stockmarket had re-rated the portfolios 2009 trough EBITA to 12x.
Thus, it might be argued that, if profits do indeed fall by 20% again, present market prices are already sufficiently low to allow an upwards revaluation of around one third, once confidence builds that the current economic uncertainties have stopped getting worse.
In short, a lot of the potential bad news may already be in the current price.
Potential catalysts Value investors are usually capable of articulating the valuation merits of their portfolios.
The challenge to such claims typically focuses on what is going to close the valuation gaps and make the portfolios less cheap.
A somewhat glib, but nonetheless relevant, response is time.
ASCoT has the luxury of investment trust status and a portfolio of well funded businesses that afford it a long term investment horizon: history suggests that over time investors in relatively illiquid small and cheap equities are disproportionately rewarded.
However, there are other catalysts that can precipitate revaluation in shorter time horizons.
Macro economy An improvement in the global economy, together with a decline in risk aversion, would encourage investment in smaller companies.
Experience suggests that it would also help the value style, since growth would be easier to come by and the scarcity premiums currently enjoyed by secular growth stocks would be harder to justify.
Clearly, however, calling the direction of the macro economy at the current time is more foolhardy than usual.
The Eurozone crisis threatens to precipitate another recession in the UK, and to be so reliant on politicians to effect a solution is worrisome.
More optimistically, the US economy has been making better progress and relieves some of the pressure emanating from Europe.
Most importantly, the UK corporate sector, and within that ASCoTs investment universe, remains relatively well positioned, having spent almost a decade in financial surplus.
Balance sheets are better positioned now than they were in 2008 to endure a deterioration in demand.
Corporate engagement Since Aberforths formation in 1990, your Managers have taken seriously their governance responsibilities, voting at every general meeting of ASCoTs investee companies and interacting with both the executives and non executives of these companies.
Occasionally, your Managers engage with boards more actively, though discreetly, in order to improve the chances of closing value gaps.
Such active engagement can take several forms, but one feature of the past year has been the change of chairmen of three investee companies.
In each case, your Managers were able to help in installing new chairmen with strong records of shareholder value creation.
Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 9 85015 ASCOT TxtPRINT 85015 ASCOT TxtV9 25 01 2012 14:16 Page 10 Managers Report fide-equitisation fide-equitisation is a term coined to describe the replacement of equity funding with debt funding.
It was all the rage in the years leading up to the global financial crisis and undoubtedly boosted equity valuations.
After a pause with the rights issues of 2009, fide-equitisation has returned, promoted by the strength of corporate balance sheets.
The most high profile form of fide-equitisation is takeover activity.
Within the small UK quoted company universe, the year under review started strongly in M&A terms: 12 deals, of which ASCoT was a shareholder in three, had been completed by the half year.
However, through the third quarter, consistent with greater macro economic uncertainty, takeover activity waned, so that over the year as a whole 18 deals were completed, of which ASCoT had holdings in six.
A renewed pick-up in M&A would benefit the valuations of ASCoTs portfolio.
In the meantime, other forms of fide-equitisation carry on, again promoted by strong balance sheets.
Several holdings continue with share buy-back programmes and there have been four special dividends announced over the course of 2011.
Dividends Payment of ordinary dividends is a form of fide-equitisation that has been widely over-looked for much of the past twenty years: with companies able to rely on debt providers for their marginal funding requirements in the years prior to the global financial crisis, income returns to providers of equity were often neglected.
However, it would seem that the substantial equity refinancings of 2009 have altered the relationship between companies and their shareholders, with dividends acknowledged now as a higher priority.
This secular change has augmented the cyclical recovery in dividends to produce good rates of dividend growth across the small company universe and in ASCoTs portfolio.
of holdings 16 1 11 9 21 14 12 5 The preceding table classifies ASCoTs 89 holdings at the year end by their most recent dividend action.
The Nil category contains those companies that do not pay dividends.
Nine of those can be considered structural nil payers, typically technology businesses at a relatively early stage of development.
The other seven are cyclical nil payers that will come back to the dividend register once their profits recover and will at that point move into the New category.
At this stage in the cycle, this phenomenon has a substantial effect on reported dividend growth across the portfolio and the RBS HGSC XIC as a whole.
While the pace of dividend increases has to slow from the high rates of the earlier stages of recovery, your Managers still expect the year end portfolio to generate real dividend growth in 2012, from the historic yield of 3.4%.
Notwithstanding the clear macro economic challenges, this yield is supported by both strong balance sheets and historically high dividend cover of 3.3x.
Despite these characteristics and the global yearning for yield, the well diversified dividend income available in the small UK quoted company universe is an under-appreciated opportunity.
Outlook It is frustrating to be reporting on a year of poor absolute and relative returns.
This sense of frustration is compounded by ASCoTs good performance in the first seven months of the year and by disappointing returns in the second halfs bear market from a portfolio that, by virtue of its above average yield and strong underlying balance sheets, might reasonably have been thought capable of performing better.
The fact that such characteristics have so far proved worthless highlights the extremity of negative sentiment in the current market towards smaller small companies, particularly to those perceived by the market incapable of growing through thick and thin.
This majority of companies within the RBS HGSC XIC includes numerous high quality businesses: in todays market it is not necessary to compromise on quality to construct an attractively valued portfolio.
At the other extreme, lofty valuations are accorded to the fortunate few businesses that are deemed capable of high rates of secular growth.
The present gulf between the valuations of value and growth stocks is exaggerated.
History suggests that the relationship between the two groups will not stay at such stretched levels.
The process of normalisation will be advantageous to the value investment style.
However, while this report has described plausible catalysts, the timing is difficult to call.
