85015 ASCOT TxtPRINT 85015 ASCOT TxtV9 25 01 2012 14:16 Page 18 Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in submitting the Annual Report and Accounts of the Company for the year to 31 December 2011. Business Review Investment Objective The objective of ASCoT is to achieve a net asset value total return with dividends reinvested greater than on the RBS Hoare Govett Smaller Companies Index Excluding Investment Companies over the long term.
Investment Policy The Company aims to achieve its objective and to diversify risk by investing in typically over 80 small UK quoted companies.
Small companies are those having a market capitalisation, at time of purchase, equal to or lower than the largest company in the bottom 10% of the main UK equity market or companies in the RBS Hoare Govett Smaller Companies Index Excluding Investment Companies.
The upper market capitalisation limit to this index at 1 January 2012 the date of the last annual index rebalancing was 1.264 billion, although this limit will change owing to movements in the stockmarket.
The aggregate market capitalisation of the index as at 1 January 2012 was 134 billion and it includes 422 companies.
The Company may, at time of purchase, invest up to 15% of its assets in any one security although, in practice, each investment will typically be substantially less and, at market value, represent less than 5% of the portfolio on an ongoing basis.
If any company held by ASCoT no longer falls within the definition of a small company, as defined above, its securities will become candidates for sale.
The Managers aim to keep the Company near fully invested in equities at all times and there will normally be no attempt to engage in market timing by holding high levels of liquidity.
The Companys policy towards companies quoted on the Alternative Investment Market AIM generally precludes investment except in the circumstances where either an investee company moves from the Main Market to AIM so as to avoid being a forced seller or where a company quoted on AIM has committed to move from AIM to the Main Market so as to enable investment before a full listing is obtained.
The Company does not invest in any unquoted securities nor any securities issued by investment trusts or investment companies.
The Board, in conjunction with the Managers, is responsible for determining the gearing strategy for the Company.
When considered appropriate, gearing is used tactically in order to enhance returns.
The Companys Articles of Association limit borrowings to 100% of Shareholders funds although the Board would anticipate any gearing to be substantially below this limit.
The Board believes that small UK quoted companies continue to provide opportunities for positive total returns over the long term.
Any material changes to the Companys investment objective and policy will be subject to Shareholder approval.
A detailed analysis of the investment portfolio is contained in the Managers Report and Portfolio Information contained on pages 7 to 14.
Investment Strategy and Style The portfolio is diversified and will normally comprise investments in over 80 individual companies.
The Managers investment style is to focus on value investing, an approach that has been developed over time that does not use any one style or sub-set of value investing.
In seeking investments, the approach will be fundamental in nature, involving regular contact with the management of prospective and existing investments, in conjunction with rigorous financial and business analysis of these companies.
The Managers recognise that different types of businesses perform better than others depending on the stage of the economic cycle and this is reflected in the portfolio.
Therefore, the emphasis within the portfolio will reflect the desire to invest in companies whose shares represent relatively attractive value within a given stockmarket environment.
The sectoral disposition of the portfolio is a result of the bottom-up stock selection process and there are no sectoral constraints, though a top-down risk assessment is undertaken regularly.
Bank Debt Facility In April 2011, the Board negotiated a new bank debt facility of 100 million with The Royal Bank of Scotland.
This facility can be used at any time.
As at 31 December 2011, the Company had drawn down 68 million under the facility.
Further information can be found in Note 12.
18 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 85015 ASCOT TxtPRINT 85015 ASCOT TxtV9 25 01 2012 14:16 Page 19 Directors Report Corporate Structure, Governance and Regulation The Company is an investment company as defined within the meaning of Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and manages its affairs so as to qualify as an investment trust under Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
It has a fixed share capital although, subject to Shareholder approval sought annually, it may purchase its own Shares.
The Company is listed and its Shares trade on The London Stock Exchange.
Furthermore the Company is subject to the laws and regulations relating to UK listed companies.
It is the responsibility of the Board to ensure that there is effective stewardship of the Companys affairs.
In common with the majority of investment trusts, the Company has no executive directors nor any employees.
However, the Board has engaged external firms to undertake the investment management, secretarial and custodial activities of the Company.
The Corporate Governance Report within this annual report contains a thorough review of the Companys stance on corporate governance.
Continuation of the Company The Company has no fixed duration.
However, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association an ordinary resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2014 and, if passed, at every third subsequent Annual General Meeting that the Company continues to manage its affairs as an investment trust.
If such resolution is not passed, the Directors will prepare and submit to Shareholders for approval by special resolution proposals for the unitisation or appropriate reconstruction of the Company.
In putting forward such proposals the Directors will seek, inter alia, to provide Shareholders with a means whereby they can defer any liability to capital gains tax on their investment at that time.
If these proposals are not approved, Shareholders will, within 180 days of the relevant Annual General Meeting, have the opportunity of passing an ordinary resolution requiring the Company to be wound up.
On a winding up, after meeting the liabilities of the Company, the surplus assets will be paid to the holders of Ordinary Shares and distributed, pro rata, among such holders.
Investment Trust Status The Company is exempt from corporation tax on capital profits, provided it qualifies as an investment trust.
In respect of the year ended 31 December 2011, this required that: the Companys revenue including dividend and interest income but excluding profits losses on sale of investments should be derived wholly or mainly from shares and securities: the Company must not retain in respect of each accounting period more than 15% of its income from shares and securities: no investment in a company may represent more than 15% by value of the Companys investment portfolio at time of purchase: realised profits on sale of shares and securities may not be distributed by way of a dividend: and the Company must not be a close company.
The Company has been approved by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment trust up to 31 December 2010.
It is the opinion of the Directors that the Company has subsequently conducted its affairs so as to enable it to continue to seek such approval.
The Company will continue to conduct its affairs as an investment trust.
Management Aberforth Partners LLP, a limited liability partnership, provides investment management, administration and company secretarial services to the Company.
These services can be terminated by either party at any time by giving six months notice of termination.
Compensation fees would be payable in respect of this six month period only if termination were to occur sooner.
Aberforth Partners LLP receives a quarterly management fee, payable in advance, equal to 0.2% of the total net assets of the Company.
However, the total fee paid each year may be slightly higher or lower than 0.8% depending on the movements in the value of the Companys assets during the year.
The Company also pays a quarterly secretarial fee, payable in advance, which amounted to 17,446 excluding VAT per quarter during 2011.
The secretarial fee is adjusted annually in line with the Retail Prices Index and is subject to VAT which is currently irrecoverable by the Company.
Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 19 85015 ASCOT TxtPRINT 85015 ASCOT TxtV9 25 01 2012 14:16 Page 20 Directors Report The Board considers the Companys investment management and secretarial arrangements on an ongoing basis and a formal review is conducted annually by the Audit and Management Engagement Committee the Committee.
The Committee specifically considers the following topics in its review: investment performance in relation to the investment policy and strategy: the continuity of personnel managing the assets and reporting to the Board: the alignment of interests between the investment manager and the Companys Shareholders: the level of service provided in terms of the accuracy and timeliness of reports to the Board: and, the frequency and quality of both verbal and written communications with Shareholders.
Following the most recent review the Board, upon the recommendation of the Committee, is of the opinion that the continued appointment of Aberforth Partners LLP as investment managers, on the terms agreed, is in the best interests of Shareholders as a whole.
Capital Structure and Share Buy-Backs At 31 December 2011, the Companys authorised share capital consisted of 333,299,254 Ordinary Shares of 1p of which 96,138,792 were issued and fully paid.
During the year, 228,000 shares with a nominal value of 2,280 were bought back 0.2% of the Companys issued share capital and cancelled at a total cost of 1,176,000.
No shares are held in treasury.
Subject to the requirement that purchases by the Company of its own shares will be made only at a level that enhances the net asset value NAV, the principal objective of any such purchase will be to seek to sustain as low a discount between the Companys NAV and share price as seems possible.
Accordingly, it is the Boards intention to continue to use the share purchase facility within guidelines established from time to time by the Board.
Return and Dividends The total return attributable to Shareholders for the year amounted to a loss of 93,778,000 2010 gain of 151,017,000.
The net asset value per Ordinary Share at 31 December 2011 was 627.31p 2010 743.81p.
Your Board is pleased to declare a second interim dividend, in lieu of a final dividend, of 14.30p, which produces total dividends for the year of 20.75p, an increase of 9.2% over the previous year.
The second interim dividend of 14.30p per share will be paid on 24 February 2012 to Shareholders on the register at the close of business on 3 February 2012.
000 000 Revenue return for the year available for dividends 23,247 Dividends in respect of the revenue available: First interim dividend of 6.45p per Ordinary Share paid 26 August 2011 6,216 Second interim dividend of 14.30p per Ordinary Share payable 24 February 2012 13,748 19,964 Transfer to reserves 3,283 Key Performance Indicators The Board assesses the Companys performance in meeting its objective against the following key performance indicators: Net asset value total return Share price total return Performance attribution Share price discount Revenue and dividend position A record of these measures is shown on pages 7, 15 and 16.
In addition to the above, the Board considers the performance of the Company against its investment trust peer group.
Review of Performance, activity during the year and the investment outlook A comprehensive review can be found in the Chairmans Statement and Managers Report.
20 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 85015 ASCOT TxtPRINT 85015 ASCOT TxtV9 25 01 2012 14:16 Page 21 Directors Report Principal Risks and Risk Management The Directors have established an on-going process for identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks faced by the Company.
This process was in operation during the year and continues in place up to the date of this report.
Investment in small companies is generally perceived to carry more risk than investment in large companies.
While this is reasonable when comparing individual companies, it is much less so when comparing the volatility of returns from diversified portfolios of small and large companies.
The Company has a diversified portfolio.
In addition, the Company has a simple capital structure: invests only in small UK quoted companies: has never been exposed to derivatives and does not presently intend any such exposure: and outsources all the main operational activities to recognised, well-established firms.
Nonetheless, as the Companys investments consist of small UK quoted companies, the principal risks facing the Company are market related and include market price, interest rate, and liquidity risk.
An explanation of these risks and how they are managed is contained in Note 18 to the Accounts.
Additional key risks faced by the Company, together with the approach taken by the Board towards them, have been summarised below: i Investment policy performance The performance of the investment portfolio will typically not match the performance of the benchmark.
However, the Boards aim is to achieve the investment objective over the long term whilst managing risk by ensuring the investment portfolio is managed appropriately.
The Managers have a clearly defined investment philosophy and manage a diversified portfolio.
The value of the portfolio will also be affected by events or developments in the economic environment generally, for example inflation or deflation, recession and movements in interest rates.
The Board continually monitors the Companys performance against the benchmark, and regularly receive a detailed portfolio attribution analysis.
The peer group is also regularly monitored by the Board and this includes NAV and share price performance, portfolio exposure, management fees and total expense ratios.
ii Share price discount investment trust shares tend to trade at discounts to their underlying net asset values.
The Board and the Managers monitor the discount on a daily basis.
Furthermore, the Board intends to continue to use the share buy back facility to seek to sustain as low a discount as seems possible.
iii Gearing risk in rising markets, the effect of borrowings would be beneficial but in falling markets the gearing effect would adversely affect returns to Shareholders.
The Board consider the gearing level and associated risk at each meeting.
iv Loss of key personnel the quality of the investment management team is considered crucial in delivering the investment objective and the loss of key personnel at Aberforth Partners LLP could adversely affect performance.
Board members are in regular contact with the partners and staff of Aberforth Partners LLP and monitor personnel changes.
v Regulatory risk failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements could lead to suspension of the Companys share price listing, financial penalties or a qualified audit report.
A breach of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 could lead to the Company being subject to capital gains tax.
The Board receives quarterly compliance reports from the Secretaries to monitor compliance with rules and regulations, together with information on future developments.
vi Operational Financial risk failure of the Managers accounting systems or those of other third party service providers could lead to an inability to provide accurate reporting and monitoring, or potentially lead to the misappropriation of assets.
Agreements are in place with all key third party service providers and the Board reviews regular reports on the internal controls of the Managers and other key parties.
In summary, the Board regularly considers the risks associated with the Company, the measures in place to monitor them and the possibility of any other risks that may arise.
Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 21 85015 ASCOT TxtPRINT 85015 ASCOT TxtV9 25 01 2012 14:16 Page 22 Directors Report Other Matters Going Concern In accordance with the report Going Concern and Liquidity Risk : Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009 issued by the Financial Reporting Council, the Directors have undertaken and documented a rigorous assessment of whether the company is a going concern.
The Directors considered all available information when undertaking the assessment.
The companys business activities, capital structure and borrowing facility, together with the factors likely to affect its development, performance and position are set out in the Managers Report and the Business Review.
In addition, the notes to the financial statements include the companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The companys assets comprise mainly readily realisable equity securities which, if necessary, can be sold to meet any funding requirements though funding flexibility can typically be achieved through the use of the bank debt facility.
The company has appropriate financial resources to enable it to meet its day-to-day working capital requirements and the Directors believe that the company is well placed to continue to manage its business risks.
The Directors consider that the company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
In summary and taking into consideration all available information, the Directors have concluded it is appropriate to continue to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis.
Directors The Directors who held office at 31 December 2011 and their interests in the Shares of the Company as at that date and 1 January 2011 were as follows: Ordinary Shares Directors Nature of Interest 31 December 2011 1 January 2011 Prof P R Marsh Beneficial 25,000 25,000 H N Buchan Beneficial 19,474 19,474 M L A Chiappelli retired 2 March 2011 Beneficial n a 29,173 J E G Cran Beneficial 32,670 31,684 D J Jeffcoat Beneficial 4,738 4,599 Prof W S Nimmo Beneficial 29,157 25,656 There has been no change in the beneficial or non-beneficial holdings of the Directors between 31 December 2011 and 25 January 2012.
As stated in the separate Corporate Governance Report, all Directors seek re-election every year and, as a result, all Directors retire at the AGM to be held on 7 March 2012.
All Directors, with the exception of Mr Cran who will retire at the forthcoming AGM, offer themselves for re-election and biographical details for each are shown on page 17.
Corporate Governance Report The Corporate Governance Report, which details compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code formerly Combined Code 2008, can be found on pages 25 to 29 and forms part of this report.
Voting Rights At Shareholder meetings and on a show of hands, every Shareholder present in person or by proxy has one vote and, on a poll, every Shareholder present in person has one vote for each share he she holds and a proxy has one vote for every share in respect of which he she is appointed.
The deadline for proxy appointments is 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting, or any adjourned meeting.
Your Board is pleased to offer electronic proxy voting, including CREST voting capabilities.
You may therefore complete the enclosed form of proxy and return it to Capita Registrars, the Companys registrar, or alternatively, you may registrar your vote on-line www.
Further details can be found in the Notice of the AGM.
22 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 85015 ASCOT TxtPRINT 85015 ASCOT TxtV9 25 01 2012 14:16 Page 23 Directors Report Annual General Meeting The AGM will be held on Wednesday, 7 March 2012 at 6.30 p. m. at 14 Melville Street, Edinburgh EH3 7NS.
The following special resolution will be proposed at the AGM.
Purchase of Own Shares The current authority of the Company to make market purchases of up to 14.99% of the issued Ordinary Shares of the Company expires at the end of the AGM.
Resolution 9, as set out in the Notice of the AGM, seeks renewal of such authority until the AGM in 2013.
The price paid for Shares will not be less than the nominal value of 1p per Share and the maximum price shall be the higher of i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for the Shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out.
Any Shares purchased under the authority will be automatically cancelled, rather than being held in treasury, thereby reducing the Companys issued share capital.
There are no outstanding options warrants to subscribe for equity shares in the capital of the Company.
As mentioned above, subject to the requirement that purchases by the Company of its own Shares will be made only at a level which enhances NAV, the principal objective of any such purchase will be to seek to sustain as low a discount between the Companys NAV and share price as seems possible.
Accordingly, it is the Boards intention to use the share purchase facility within guidelines established from time to time by the Board.
Directors Recommendation The Directors consider each resolution being proposed at the AGM to be in the best interests of Shareholders as a whole and they unanimously recommend that all Shareholders vote in favour of them, as they intend to do so in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings.
Substantial Share Interests The Board has received notifications in accordance with the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following interests in 3% or more of the voting rights of the Company, which total 96,138,792 votes, as at 25 January 2012.
Percentage Interested person of Voting Rights Held Rathbone Brothers plc 5.4 Brewin Dolphin Limited 5.1 Lloyds Banking Group plc including discretionary investment management 4.2 Legal & General Investment Management 3.1 Financial Instruments The Companys financial instruments comprise its investment portfolio, cash balances, debt facilities, debtors and creditors that arise directly from its operations such as sales and purchases awaiting settlement and accrued income.
The main risks that the Company faces arising from its financial instruments are disclosed in Note 18 to the accounts.
Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006 The following information is disclosed in accordance with Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006: The Companys capital structure and voting rights are summarised on page 3.
Details of the substantial shareholders in the Company are listed above.
The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of directors, are contained in the Companys Articles of Association and are discussed on page 28.
Amendment of the Companys Articles of Association and powers to issue on a non pre-emptive basis or buy back the Companys shares require a special resolution to be passed by shareholders.
Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 23 85015 ASCOT TxtPRINT 85015 ASCOT TxtV9 25 01 2012 14:16 Page 24 Directors Report There are: no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities in the Company: no special rights with regard to control attached to securities: no agreements between holders of securities regarding their transfer known to the Company: no agreements which the Company is party to that might affect its control following a takeover bid.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors concerning compensation for loss of office.
Donations The Company did not make any political or charitable donations during the year 2010 nil.
Creditors Payment Policy The Companys creditors payment policy is to agree terms of payment before business is transacted, to ensure suppliers are aware of these terms and to settle bills in accordance with them.
The Company did not have any trade creditors at the year end.
Auditor Ernst & Young LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as auditor and a resolution proposing their re-appointment will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Disclosure of Information to Auditor The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make him aware of any relevant audit information, and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
By Order of the Board Aberforth Partners LLP, Secretaries 25 January 2012 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
