Directors report The Directors present their Annual Report and the Employee policies audited financial statements for the year ended Detailed information on the Groups employment 31December 2011. practices is set out in the Business review.
The Group purchases appropriate liability insurance for Business review all staff and Directors.
The Company is the holding Company for the Admiral Group of companies.
The Groups principal Creditor payment policy activity continues to be the selling and It is the policy of the Group to pay all purchase administration of private motor insurance and invoices by their due date, and appropriate quality related products.
measures are in place to monitor and encourage this.
At the end of the year outstanding invoices The information that fulfils the requirements of the represented 14 days purchases 2010: 16. Business review, as required by Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006, and which should be treated as Additional information for shareholders forming part of this report by reference are included Where not provided previously in this Directors in the following sections of the annual report: report, the following provides the additional information required for shareholders as a result Chairmans statement.
of the implementation of the Takeovers Directive Chief Executives statement.
At 31 December 2011, the companys issued share Group results and dividends capital comprised a single class of shares referred The profit for the year, after tax but before dividends, to as ordinary shares.
Details of the share capital amounted to 221.3 million 2010: 193.6 million.
and shares issued during the year can be found in note 24.
The Directors declared and paid dividends of 198.8 million during 2011 2010: 164.7 million On a poll, every member present in person or by refer to note 13 for further details.
proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
The notice of the general The Directors have declared a final dividend meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting of 99 million, 36.5 pence per share, payable on rights either by proxy notice or present in person or 1June 2012. by proxy in relation to resolutions to be passed at general meeting.
All proxy votes are counted and Share capital the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to Refer to the Business review for the disclosure each resolution are announced at the annual of substantial shareholdings in accordance with general meeting and published on the companys Chapter 5 of the Transparency and Disclosure rules.
Financial Instruments There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary The objectives and policies for managing risks in shares in the company other than: relation to financial instruments held by the Group are set out in note 17 to the financial statements.
certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, Directors and their interests insider trading laws and: The present Directors of the Company are shown pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial on pages 32 - 33 of this report, whilst Directors Services Authority whereby certain employees interests in the share capital of the Company are set of the company require the approval of the out in the Remuneration report on pages 50 - 51. company to deal in the companys securities.
Charitable and political donations During the year the Group donated 178,000 2010: 168,000 to various local and national charities.
The Group has never made political donations.
Refer to the Business review for further detail.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2011 34 The Company has not purchased any of its own However, in accordance with the requirement under shares during the period.
the UK Corporate Governance Code for annual election of Directors, all Directors, apart from There are no agreements between the company Keith James, will submit themselves for re-election and its Directors or employees providing for at the Groups Annual General Meeting on 26 April compensation for loss of office or employment 2012.
Keith James, having served for 9 years as a whether through resignation, purported Non-Executive Director, will be retiring from the redundancy or otherwise that occurs because Board at the forthcoming AGM and will not be of a takeover bid.
submitting himself for re-election by shareholders.
There are a number of agreements that alter or Articles of Association terminate upon a change of control of the Company The Articles may only be amended by special following a takeover bid, such as commercial resolution of the shareholders.
None are considered to be significant in terms of their impact on the business of the group Power of the Directors as a whole except for the long-term co-insurance The Directors are responsible for managing the agreement in place with Great Lakes Reinsurance business of the Company and may exercise all UK Plc.
Details relating to this agreement are powers of the Company subject to the provisions contained in the Business review.
of relevant statutes, to any directions given by special resolution and to the Companys Power to issue shares Memorandum and Articles.
The Articles for At the last annual general meeting, held on 6 May example, contain specific provisions and restrictions 2011, authority was given to the Directors to allot concerning the Companys power to borrow money.
unissued relevant securities in the Company up to a Powers relating to the issuing of new shares are also maximum of 88,721, equivalent to one third of the included in the Articles and such authorities are issued share capital as at 30 March 2011.
This renewed by shareholders at the annual general authority expires on the date of the annual general meeting each year.
meeting to be held on 26 April 2012 and the Directors will seek to renew this authority for the Annual General Meeting following year.
It is proposed that the next AGM be held at Cardiff City Hall, Cathays Park, Cardiff CF10 3ND on A further special resolution passed at that meeting Thursday 26 April 2012 at 2.00pm, notice of which granted authority to the Directors to allot equity will be sent to shareholders with the Annual Report.
securities in the Company up to a maximum of 5% of the issued share capital of the Company for cash, Directors responsibilities without regard to the pre-emption provisions of the The Directors are responsible for preparing the Companies Act 2006.
This authority also expires on Annual Report and the Group and Parent Company the date of the annual general meeting to be held financial statements, in accordance with applicable on 26 April 2012 and the Directors will seek to renew law and regulations.
this authority for the following year.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Appointments of Directors Group and Parent Company financial statements for The Companys Articles of Association the each financial year.
Under that law they are required Articles give the Directors power to appoint and to prepare the Group financial statements in replace Directors.
Under the terms of reference of accordance with International Financial Reporting the Nomination Committee, any appointment must Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU and be recommended by the Nomination Committee applicable law and have elected to prepare the for approval by the Board of Directors.
The Articles Parent Company financial statements in accordance also require Directors to retire and submit with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law themselves for election at the first annual general UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
meeting following appointment and all Directors who held office at the time of the two preceding Under company law the Directors must not approve annual general meetings, to submit themselves for the financial statements unless they are satisfied that re-election.
they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2011 35 Directors report continued In preparing each of the Group and Parent Responsibility statement Company financial statements, the Directors are The Directors confirm that to the best of their required to: knowledge: select suitable accounting policies and then The financial statements, prepared in accordance apply them consistently with the applicable set of accounting standards, make judgments and estimates that are give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities reasonable and prudent and financial position and profit or loss of the for the Group financial statements, state whether company and the undertakings included in the they have been prepared in accordance with consolidation taken as a whole: and IFRS as adopted by the EU The Directors report includes a fair view of the for the Parent Company financial statements, development and performance of the business state whether applicable UK Accounting and the position of the company and the Standards have been followed, subject to any undertakings included in the consolidation taken material departures disclosed and explained in as a whole, together with a description of the the Parent Company financial statements: and principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to Disclosure of information to auditors presume that the Group and the Parent The Directors who held office at the date of Company will continue in business.
approval of this Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit The Directors are responsible for keeping proper information of which the Companys auditor is accounting records that disclose with reasonable unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps accuracy at any time the financial position of the that he ought to have taken as a Director to make Parent Company and enable them to ensure that himself aware of any relevant audit information and its financial statements comply with the Companies to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking that information.
such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent Auditor and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Companys auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, has indicated willingness to continue in office and Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors resolutions to reappoint it and to authorise the are also responsible for preparing a Directors report, Directors to fix its remuneration will be proposed Directors remuneration report and Corporate at the Annual General Meeting.
governance statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
By order of the Board, The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Mark Waters Kevin Chidwick Company Secretary Group Chief Financial Officer 6 March 2012 6 March 2012 Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2011 36
