Corporate Governance continued The Directors are given access to independent This is supplemented by feedback to the Board professional advice at the Groups expense, on meetings between management and investors.
should they deem it necessary, to carry out their External analysts reports are circulated to all responsibilities.
In addition, the Investor Relations team produces a quarterly Investor Relations Report that Professional development is circulated to the Board.
The Report contains an On appointment, Directors take part in a analysis of share price performance: a summary comprehensive induction programme where they of analyst reports received during the quarter and receive financial and operational information about of meetings that have been held with investors the Group: details concerning their responsibilities and analysts: together with details of any significant and duties: as well as an introduction to the Groups changes to the shareholders register.
governance, regulatory and control environment.
All shareholders are invited to attend the Companys This induction is supplemented by visits to the Annual General Meeting AGM.
The Chairmen Groups head office in Cardiff, overseas offices, and of the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Risk meetings with members of the senior management Committees attends the AGM along with the other team and their departments.
Development Directors and are available to answer shareholders and training of Directors is an ongoing process.
questions on the activities of the Committees they Throughout their period in office the Directors chair.
Shareholders are also invited to ask questions are regularly updated on the Groups business: during the meeting and have an opportunity legal matters concerning their role and duties: to meet with Directors after the formal business of the competitive environments in which the Group the meeting has been concluded.
Details of proxy operates: and any other significant changes affecting voting by shareholders, including votes withheld, the Group and the industry of which it is a part.
are made available on request and are placed All Board members are also encouraged to attend on the Companys website following the meeting.
relevant training courses at the Companys expense.
The Group maintains a corporate website The Board receives presentations from senior www.
co. uk containing a wide managers within the Group on a regular basis range of information of interest to institutional and and opportunity is also created for Non-Executive private investors.
Directors to make informal visits to different parts of the Group and to meet with local management.
Conflicts of Interest In compliance with the requirements of the Relations with shareholders Companies Act 2006 regarding Directors duties in The Company attaches considerable importance relation to conflicts of interest, the Groups Articles to communications with shareholders and engages of Association allow the Board to authorise potential with them on a variety of issues.
The Investor conflicts of interest that may arise and to impose Relations team has day-to-day primary responsibility such limits as it thinks fit.
The Company has put for managing communications with institutional in place updated procedures to deal with conflicts shareholders through a combination of briefings to of interest.
These procedures include each Board analysts and institutional shareholders, both at the member completing, annually, a conflict of interest half-year and full year results.
A number of analysts questionnaire that sets out any situation in which and investors visited the Groups Cardiff office they, or their connected persons have, or could during the year to meet with the Executive Directors have, a direct or indirect interest that could conflict and senior management in order to get a better with the interests of the Company.
Any current understanding of how the Group operates and how directorships that they, or their connected persons it intends to achieve its strategic and operational hold, any advisory roles or trusteeships held, objectives.
Senior Executives from the Groups together with any companies in which they hold overseas businesses also visit the UK in order to more than 1% of the issued share capital are also present to, and meet with, analysts and investors.
These conflict of interest procedures Site visits and individual discussions with the have operated effectively throughout 2011.
Executive Directors are also arranged throughout the year with individual shareholders.
Regular Board Committees dialogue with shareholders helps to ensure that The Board has delegated authority to a number the Companys strategy is understood and that of permanent Committees to deal with matters any issues are addressed in a constructive way.
in accordance with written terms of reference.
The principal Committees of the Board Audit, In addition the Chairman had individual meetings Remuneration, and Nomination all comply fully during the year with major shareholders, and with the requirements of the Code.
In December reported to the Board on issues raised with him.
2011 the Group announced its intention, with effect from 1 January 2012, to split the current remit of the Audit Committee into two with the establishment of a Group Risk Committee.
The constitution and membership of the Risk Committee is set out below.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2011 40 All Committees are chaired by an independent and conferences provided by external bodies.
Director and exclusively comprise, or, in the case The Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee of the Nomination Committee where the Chairman include all the matters required under the Code.
of the Board is a member have a majority of, independent Directors.
Appointments to the Other individuals such as the Chief Financial Officer, Committees are made on the recommendation Chief Operating Officer, Chief Executive, Chairman of the Nomination Committee and are for a period of the Board, the heads of Risk, Compliance, and of up to three years, which may be extended for Internal Audit and representatives of different parts two further three year periods, provided the Director of the Group may be invited to attend all or part remains independent.
The Committees are of any meeting as and when appropriate.
The constituted with written terms of reference that external auditors are invited to attend meetings are reviewed annually to ensure that they remain of the Committee on a regular basis.
appropriate and reflect any changes in good practice and governance.
These terms of reference Summary of key activities during 2011 are available on request from the Company During the year the Committee reviewed the Secretary and can also be found on the Companys following: website: www.
Directors are fully informed of all Committee matters by the Committee The annual report and interim results Chairmen reporting on the proceedings of their Reports from the internal audit departments Committee at the subsequent Board meeting.
within the Group on the effectiveness of the Copies of Committee minutes are also distributed Groups risk management and internal control to the Board.
Committees are authorised to obtain procedures, details of key audit findings, and outside legal or other independent professional actions taken by management to manage and advice if they consider it necessary.
The Chairman reduce the impact of the risks identified of each Committee attends the Annual General Effectiveness of the Groups system of internal Meeting to respond to any shareholder questions control, particularly gaining assurance that the that might be raised on the Committees activities.
internal control and risk management processes, including compliance, were operating effectively The Audit Committee Reports from the external auditors on their Constitution and membership proposed audit scope, fees, audit, and auditor The membership at the end of the year was Martin independence Jackson Chairman, Keith James, Margaret Johnson Performance of the internal audit department and Colin Holmes.
In December 2011 the Group The effectiveness of the Groups arrangements announced that, with effect from 1 January 2012, in relation to its whistle-blowing procedures Colin Holmes would succeed Martin Jackson as Chair The Groups reserving strategy which remained of the Audit Committee, with Martin becoming Chair an area of focus for the Committee throughout of the newly constituted Group Risk Committee.
the year Colin Holmes was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of the Company on 3rd December 2010 During the year the Committee reviewed its policy and joined the Audit Committee with effect from on non-audit services that, amongst other things, that date.
Following this change the members of requires that the Committee approve all proposals the Companys Audit Committee are Colin Holmes, for expenditure with the Groups auditors of over Martin Jackson, Keith James, Margaret Johnson 30,000.
The Groups auditors, KPMG Audit plc, and Annette Court appointment subject to provide some non-audit services, the majority FSA approval.
of which comprise compliance services related to various taxation issues within the Group, and The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the which are not considered by the Committee Committee.
The Committee meets at least three to compromise their independence as auditors.
times per year and has an agenda linked to events The level of non-audit fees is reviewed at each in the Companys financial calendar.
Committee meeting and details are included in the Annual Report.
The Board considers that the members of the Committee have the appropriate competence and The Committee undertakes an annual review to experience to carry out their duties and further assess the independence and objectivity of the considers that Colin Holmes Committee Chairman, external auditors and the effectiveness of the audit as a Chartered Management Accountant, has the process, taking into consideration relevant appropriate recent and relevant financial experience professional and regulatory requirements.
Following having previously been the UK Finance Director this review the Committee concluded that the for Tesco plc, and until 2010 a member of its Group auditor, KPMG remained independent and was fit Executive Committee.
It was agreed that a decision on whether to re-tender external audit should be The Committee is kept up to date with changes to reviewed at least every five years and, if deemed Accounting Standards and relevant developments appropriate, a tender for external audit services in financial reporting, company law, and the various would be carried out.
In view of the high quality of regulatory frameworks through presentations from service received by the Group: the fresh perspective the Groups external auditors, Deputy Chief Financial provided by rotation of the audit engagement Officer, and Company Secretary.
In addition partner during the year and the continued members are provided with information on seminars competitiveness of their audit fee, the Committee Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2011 41 Corporate Governance continued recommended that a re-tender process should not including the challenges of identifying fraud and the be undertaken in 2011 but that the relationship and prevention and detection measures that were being the effectiveness of KPMG should be kept under implemented by the Group.
A resolution for the reappointment of KPMG as auditors will be proposed at the forthcoming In 2011, the Committee approved the annual AGM.
During the year and in accordance with compliance review plan and received copies of the Auditing Practice Board guidance, KPMG rotated resulting reports.
The Head of Compliance provided the audit engagement partner who had led the the Committee with quarterly Compliance Reports audit process for the Group for the last five years.
In addition, the Head of Risk provided the Committee with quarterly Risk Reports In accordance with agreed parameters, the overseas covering changes in key risk scores and providing operations in Spain and Italy have their own locally details on any significant risk events.
From 1 January based internal auditors, who report to their 2012, the Group Risk Committee took over respective country heads.
All reports are evaluated responsibility for review of the compliance activities by the Head of Internal Audit to ensure the quality and risk reports.
and effectiveness of the reported findings.
In addition, the UK internal audit department carry out In addition to the evaluation of the Committees high level governance reviews of all foreign effectiveness undertaken by the Board and in the operations, assessing the internal control context of the split of the remit of the Committees frameworks and system of risk management.
activities with the establishment of a Risk Committee, the Committee also carried out a more The Head of Internal Audit in the UK attends all detailed review of its own performance.
As part of Committee meetings and provides a range of the review process, each Committee member presentations and papers to the Committee, completed a comprehensive online questionnaire through which the Committee monitors the designed to provide objective assessment of the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls as well Committees performance, including its as obtaining all issued audit reports, enabling the effectiveness in monitoring internal and external Committee to challenge the content and related audit.
The Committee discussed the results of the recommendations contained in the reports.
The review and it was concluded that the Committee overseas internal auditors attend Committee and the audit process were effective and that the meetings periodically.
Committee members receive Committee had full access to all the information it either the full reports or executive summaries and required: that the Committee had appropriate terms therefore have access to all internal audit reports, of reference: and that it had achieved its remit.
which gives the opportunity to raise questions on the content and recommendations contained within The Risk Committee them.
The Committee approves the internal audit In recognition of the increased focus on the setting programmes at the start of each calendar year and of the Groups risk strategy and risk appetite, the activities performed, the effectiveness and and monitoring of the Groups risk management workload of the internal audit functions, and the systems, particularly in the context of the adequacy of available resources are monitored implementation of Solvency II, the Group throughout the year.
announced, in December 2011, its intention, with effect from 1 January 2012, to split the current The Audit Committee has unrestricted access to remit of the Audit Committee into two with the Company documents and information, as well as establishment of a Group Risk Committee.
to employees of the Company and external professional advisers.
With effect from 1 January 2012, Martin Jackson moved from Audit Committee Chairman to During the year, the Committee specifically received Chairman of the Risk Committee, whose other presentations from senior managers on topics members are Senior Independent Director, John Sussens, Executive Director, David Stevens and Non-Executive Director Annette Court appointed subject to FSA approval.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2011 42 The duties and responsibilities of the Risk During 2011, as part of the Boards commitment Committee are set out in Terms of Reference that to review the size of the Board and the balance of were approved by the Board in December 2011. its composition and having regard to the length of The responsibilities of the Committee include: service of some of the existing Board members, the Board decided to initiate a search for two additional Setting the standard for the Groups risk Non-Executive Directors.
The Group has in place framework, which includes the Risk Management a policy of recruiting well ahead of impending Committees that are established within each retirements in order to ensure continuity of of the Groups operational entities: knowledge and Board dynamics.
The Nomination Monitoring the Groups prudential risk exposure, Committee led this process and assessed the which includes ensuring that the Groups capital balance of skills, knowledge, independence, resources and liquidity profile are appropriate to diversity and experience on the Board.
The its needs whilst meeting minimum regulatory Committee developed appropriate specifications requirements: for these roles identifying the need for the Ensuring the adequacy and effectiveness of the successful candidates to have between them both Groups systems and controls for the prevention insurance and overseas business experience.
The of financial crime: Committee used external consultants to advise on Monitoring the adequacy and effectiveness the identification and suitability of potential of the Groups Compliance functions: and candidates.
All candidates were interviewed by Reviewing the Groups proposed strategy members of the Committee.
Following this process for achieving Solvency II compliance.
the Committee unanimously recommended to the Board that Roger Abravanel, having the required The work of the Risk Committee is supported by overseas business experience, should be appointed more detailed work undertaken by Risk to the Board.
Annette Court was separately Management Committees in each of the Groups identified by the Committee as a strong candidate operational entities.
Membership of each of these given her extensive insurance business experience.
Committees includes the Managing Director of the All members of the Committee interviewed her operation.
In the UK, membership of the Risk and recommended to the Board that she should be Management Committee includes the Group Chief appointed to the Board.
Executive and the Chief Operating Officer.
At each meeting, the Risk Management Committees Annette Court is a former Chief Executive Officer consider significant movements in the operation s of RBS Insurance Direct Line and a member of the risk profile, any risks that have been realised and any RBS Group Executive Management Committee.
The Risk Committees also assess Between 2007 and 2010 Annette was Chief and monitor any regulatory issues, ensuing that their Executive Officer for Europe General Insurance resolution and relevant actions are appropriately for Zurich Financial Services and was a member recorded.
of the Group Executive Committee.
The Nomination Committee Roger Abravanel has significant international The membership at the year-end was Keith James consulting experience having been with McKinsey Chairman, Lucy Kellaway, and Alastair Lyons.
and Co. from 1972 until his retirement as Director The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to Emeritus in 2006.
Since his retirement Roger the Committee.
The Committee invites the has applied his capacity for providing strategic, Chief Executive to attend meetings when it organisational and development advice as deems appropriate.
The Committee met on a Non-Executive Director, serving on, amongst three occasions during 2011. others, the Boards of: Luxottica Group S. p. A. : Teva Pharmaceutical Industries LTD: Banca Nazionale The Committee leads the process for making del Lavoro S. p. A. and COFIDE S. p. A. Roger is also a member of the Board of the Italian Institute of Technology appointments to the Board or where the appointee and is Chairman of the INSEAD Advisory Group in Italy.
is likely to become a Board member.
The Committee ensures there is a formal, rigorous and The Board approved the Committees transparent procedure for the appointment of new recommendation and Roger Abravanel was Directors to the Board through a full evaluation of formally appointed to the Board on 6 March 2012. the skills, knowledge and experience required of The appointment of Annette Court is subject to Directors.
The Committee also ensures plans are in FSA approval.
place for orderly succession for appointments to the Board, and reviews the succession plans for other senior management positions.
Responsibility for making senior management appointments rests with the Chief Executive.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2011 43
