Alastair Lyons, CBE 58 Board of Directors Chairman Alastair was appointed Chairman of the Company in July 1.
He is also Non-Executive Chairman of Serco and of the Towergate Insurance Group, Deputy Chairman of Bovis Homes Group Plc, and Senior Independent Director at the Phoenix Group.
He has previously been Chief Executive of the National Provident Institution and of the National & Provincial Building Society, Managing Director of the Insurance Division of Abbey National plc, and Director of Corporate Projects at National Westminster Bank plc.
Alastair was also a Non-Executive Director for the Department for 3.
Transport and the Department for Work and Pensions.
A Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants, he was awarded the CBE in the 2001 Birthday Honours for services to social security.
Henry Engelhardt, CBE 54 Chief Executive Officer Henry is a founder Director of Admiral and was recruited by the Brockbank Group in 1991 to set up the Admiral business.
He was part of the management team that led the MBO in 1999.
Prior to joining Admiral, he was Marketing and Sales Manager for Churchill Insurance.
He has substantial experience in direct response financial services in the United Kingdom, United States and France.
Henry was awarded an honorary CBE in April 2008 for services to business in Wales.
Kevin Chidwick, 48 Chief Financial Officer Kevin is responsible for finance, compliance and investments, as well as the subsidiary Elephant Auto.
He joined Admiral in 2005, becoming Finance Director in September 2006.
Prior to Admiral, Kevin has been in UK financial services for over 25 years.
He has held a number of senior roles in other insurance organisations including, most recently, 9.
Finance Director of Engage Mutual Assurance and Cigna UK.
He is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Certified Accountants and has an MBA from London Business School.
David Stevens, CBE 50 Chief Operating Officer u David is a founder Director of Admiral.
Initially the Marketing Director, he was appointed Director responsible 11.
12. for pricing in 1996 and claims and pricing in 1999.
He was appointed as Chief Operating Officer in 2004.
He joined Admiral in 1991 from McKinsey & Co. where he worked in the Financial Interest Group, London office.
Prior to working for McKinsey & Co, he worked for Cadbury Schweppes in the United Kingdom and the United States.
David has an MBA from Insead.
David was awarded a CBE in 2010 for services to business and the community in Wales.
David is a member of the Risk Committee.
Key: Audit Committee member Remuneration Committee member u Risk Committee member Nomination Committee member Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2011 32 5.
John Sussens, 66 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director u Manfred was appointed a Non-Executive Director of the John was appointed the Senior Independent NonCompany in 2003.
He graduated from University of Essen Executive Director in August 2004.
He is Chairman of and has a degree in Economics Business Management the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Diplom-Kaufmann.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of Cookson plc.
He has worked for Munich Re since September 1981 and is currently the Chief Executive Manager responsible He was the Group Managing Director of Misys plc for United Kingdom Ireland.
between 1998 and May 2004 having been on the Board of the Company since 1989.
Prior to joining Misys, he was 6.
Martin Jackson, 63 Manufacturing Director at JC Bamford Excavators Limited.
Non-Executive Director u He was a Non-Executive Director at Chubb plc between Martin was appointed Non-Executive Director and 2001 and 2003.
Chairman of the Audit Committee in August 2004.
Martin stood down as Chairman of the Audit Committee with 11.
Colin Holmes, 46 effect from 1 January 2012 and became Chairman of the Non-Executive Director newly formed Risk Committee from that date.
Colin was appointed a Non-Executive Director in December 2010 and immediately joined the Audit and Remuneration Martin is also a Non-Executive Director of IG Group Committees.
With effect from 1 January 2012, he has taken Holdings plc and Rothesay Life Limited.
He was the on the Chairmanship of the Audit Committee.
Group Finance Director of Friends Provident plc between 2001 and 2003 and Friends Provident Life Office between Colin has also been an independent Non-Executive Director 1999 and 2001.
Prior to that he was the Group Finance on the board of Bovis Homes Group plc since 2006 and Director at London & Manchester Group plc from 1992 to chairman of their Remuneration Committee since 2008.
1998, up to the date of its acquisition by Friends Provident In 2011 he was appointed Chairman of GoOutdoors Ltd, Life Office.
which is a rapidly growing retailer of outdoor equipment and clothing.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Colin is a Chartered Management Accountant and was 7.
Keith James, OBE 67 formally a member of the Executive Committee of Tesco Non-Executive Director plc.
During his 22 year career at Tesco he held a wide Keith was appointed a Non-Executive Director in range of positions including UK Finance Director and December 2002.
He is Chairman of the Nomination CEO Tesco Express.
Committee and is also the independent Chairman of Admiral Insurance Company Limited and 12.
Non-Executive Director Roger was appointed a Non-Executive Director with He is also Chairman of Julian Hodge Bank Limited and effect from 6 March 2012.
He has significant international Hodge Life Assurance Company Limited.
consulting experience having been with McKinsey and Co.
He is a solicitor and was the Chairman of Eversheds LLP from 1972 until his retirement as Director Emeritus in 2006. from June 1995 to April 2004.
He was a Non-Executive Roger is a Non-Executive Director, serving on, amongst Director of Bank of Wales plc between 1988 and 2001 and others, the Boards of: Luxottica Group S. p. A. : Teva AXA Insurance Company Limited between 1992 and 2000.
Pharmaceutical Industries LTD: Banca Nazionale del Lavoro Keith was awarded an OBE in 2005 for services to business S. p. A. and COFIDE S. p. A. and the community in Wales.
Roger is also a member of the Board of the Italian Institute 8.
Margaret Johnson, 53 of Technology and is Chairman of the INSEAD Advisory Non-Executive Director Group in Italy.
Margaret was appointed Non-Executive Director of the Company in September 2006.
She is currently Group CEO 13.
Annette Court, 49 of the international advertising agency Leagas Delaney Non-Executive Director and has been with that Company for the past 14 years.
Annette was appointed a Non-Executive Director subject to FSA approval and will join the Audit and Risk Margaret joined the Groups Audit and Remuneration Committees on appointment to the Board.
She has Committees on appointment to the Board.
extensive insurance experience having been a former Chief Executive Officer of RBS Insurance with its Direct Line and 9.
Lucy Kellaway, 52 Churchill direct brands, and a member of the RBS Group Non-Executive Director Executive Management Committee.
Between 2007 and Lucy joined the board as a Non-Executive Director in 2010 Annette was Chief Executive Officer for Europe September 2006.
She is the management columnist on the General Insurance for Zurich Financial Services and a Financial Times and author of various books.
In 20 years on member of the Group Executive Committee.
Annette the FT she has been oil correspondent, a Lex columnist has previously served as a member on the Board of the and Brussels correspondent.
Association of British Insurers ABI.
Lucy also joined the Nomination Committee on appointment to the Board.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2011 33
