A key element of the control system is that the Committee also receive regular reports from their Board meets regularly with a formal schedule of respective Internal Audit functions, which include matters reserved to it for decision and has put in recommendations for improvement of the control place an organisational structure with clearly defined and operational environment.
The Board undertakes lines of responsibility.
In order to ensure these periodic structured reviews of the Groups risk map, responsibilities are properly discharged, the Board focussing on the principal assessed exposures and has delegated the task of executive supervision of the effectiveness of the mitigation strategies risk management and internal control to the Group adopted and from 1 January 2012 this was Risk Committee, which was established on 1 January delegated to the Risk Committee.
The work of the Group Risk Committee is receives reports from the Chairman of the Audit supported by the UK Risk Management Committee Committee as to its activities, together with copies RMC and appropriate management Committees of the minutes of both the RMC and the Audit for the Groups other UK and overseas entities.
In March 2012 the Board carried out the annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups There are several key elements to the risk system of internal controls for the 2011 year, also management environment throughout the Group.
taking account of events since 31 December 2011, These include the setting of risk management by considering documentation from the Audit strategy and policy by the Risk Committee: Committee including the Internal Audit Annual enforcement of that policy by the Chief Executive: Report prepared by the Groups Head of Internal delivery of the policy by the RMC and the Groups Audit.
other UK and overseas entities by the application of the Groups systems of internal control and risk The Audit Committees ability to provide the management: and the overall assurance provided appropriate assurance to the Board depends by the Audit Committee that the systems operate on the provision of periodic and independent effectively.
The Board recognises that the day-to-day confirmation, primarily by Internal Audit, that the responsibility for implementing these policies must controls established by management are operating lie with the Senior Management whose operational effectively and where appropriate provides a decisions must take into account risk and how this high-level challenge to the steps being taken can be controlled effectively.
The Risk Committee by the Risk Committee to implement the risk will report on its activities to the Audit Committee as management strategy.
part of the overall assurance provided by the Audit Committee that the systems operate effectively.
The Board confirms that there were no significant issues arising during the year under review.
During the year, a Head of Risk was appointed to oversee the Risk Department and take responsibility Internal Audit for ensuring managers are aware of their risk The Internal Audit functions assist management management obligations, providing them with by providing them with timely, independent support and advice, and ensuring that the risk assurance that the controls established are management strategy is properly communicated.
This includes regular The Risk Department defines and prescribes the reviews of internal control systems and business financial and operational risk assessment processes processes and identification of control weaknesses for the business: maintains the risk registers and and recommendations to management on undertakes regular reviews of these risks in improvements.
Reports are produced showing the most significant risks Going concern identified and the controls in place.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
In considering the Internal Audit uses the risk registers to plan and appropriateness of this assumption, the Board has inform their programme of audits around the most reviewed the Groups projections for the next twelve significant risks to the Group to ensure that the months, including cash flow forecasts and regulatory described controls are in place and are operating capital surpluses.
As a result of this review the Directors have satisfied The Risk Committee, UK RMC and other UK and themselves that it is appropriate to prepare the overseas Committees receive reports setting out key financial statements on a going concern basis.
performance and risk indicators and consider possible control issues brought to their attention by early warning mechanisms that are embedded within the operational units.
The RMC, the Groups other UK and overseas Committees and the Audit Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2011 45
