The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive The Board considers eight of the Non-Executive The Board has approved a statement that sets Directors to be independent and is not aware of out the clear division of responsibilities between any relationships or circumstances which are likely the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The to affect, or could appear to affect, the judgement Chairman is primarily responsible for the leadership of any of them.
It is the view of the Board that and workings of the Board, setting its agenda, and the independent Non-Executive Directors are of monitoring its effectiveness.
The Chairman is not sufficient calibre and number that their views carry involved in the day-to-day management of the significant weight in the Boards decision making, business.
Save for matters reserved for decision and that they are free from any relationship or by the Board, the Chief Executive, with the support circumstance that could affect, or appear to affect, of the other Executive Directors, is responsible for their independent judgement.
proposing the strategy to be adopted by the Group: the running of the business in accordance with the Independent Non-Executive Directors are currently strategy agreed by the Board: and implementing appointed for fixed periods of three years, subject specific Board decisions relating to the operation to election by shareholders.
The initial three-year of the Group.
The statement of division of period may be extended for two further three-year responsibilities and matters reserved for decision periods subject to re-election by shareholders.
by the Board were reviewed and approved in Their letters of appointment may be inspected December 2011. at the Companys registered office or can be obtained on request from the Company Secretary.
Board balance and independence The Board currently comprises thirteen Directors, Although the Chairman has served in that role the Chairman who was independent on since June 2000 the Board remains of the view that appointment, three Executive Directors, eight he should continue in office and the Companys independent Non-Executive Directors, and one leading institutional investors have also confirmed Non-Executive Director, Manfred Aldag, who is their support for the Boards express intent.
employed by a significant shareholder and is not, The Chairman, along with all the Directors, seeks therefore, considered independent.
There is no election by shareholders annually.
requirement that the significant shareholder has representation on the Board and, accordingly, Mr.
The Chairman performs a number of other NonAldags appointment is subject to the same Executive roles outside the Group and details of appointment and removal process as the other these are included in the Chairmans biography.
The Board continues to be satisfied that these other commitments are not such as to interfere with the Although Colin Holmes holds, with Alastair Lyons, performance of his duties within the Group and a cross-directorship in Bovis Homes Group PLC, will not impact on his ability to allocate sufficient the Board has determined that Colin Holmes time to discharge effectively his responsibilities to remains independent in character and judgement the Group.
and that his holding of a cross-directorship does not affect his ability to present an objective, rigorous John Sussens has been appointed as the Senior and constructive challenge to the assumptions Independent Non-Executive Director.
He is available and viewpoints presented by management and to shareholders if they have concerns that contact the Board nor will it affect his time commitment to through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief the role.
Executive, or Group Chief Financial Officer has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
As part of the ongoing review of the balance and He is also responsible for leading the Boards composition of the Board and in the context of discussion on the Chairmans performance and the several of the Non-Executive Directors reaching appointment of a new chairman, when appropriate.
their maximum term over the next two years, the Nomination Committee initiated the process Keith James, having served for 9 years as a of recruiting two Non-Executive Directors with, Non-Executive Director, will be retiring from the between them, insurance and international business Board at the forthcoming AGM and will not be experience to reflect the growth in the Groups submitting himself for re-election by shareholders.
Appointments to the Board are the responsibility of the Board as a whole, In accordance with the requirement under the acting on the advice and recommendations of Code for annual election of Directors, all Directors, the Nomination Committee.
Following a formal, except Keith James, will be submitting themselves rigorous and transparent process implemented for re-election by shareholders at the forthcoming and led by the Nomination Committee the Board AGM.
The Board is satisfied that all the Directors approved its recommendation and appointed that are seeking election or re-election by Roger Abravanel and Annette Court as independent shareholders are properly qualified for their Non-Executive Directors.
Roger Abravanel was appointment or reappointment by virtue of their appointed with effect from March 2012 and skills and experience and their contribution to the Annette Court was appointed subject to FSA Board and its Committees.
Roger Abravanel and Annette Court will be subject to election by shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2011 39
