Corporate Governance continued The Directors are given access to independent This is supplemented by feedback to the Board professional advice at the Groups expense, on meetings between management and investors.
should they deem it necessary, to carry out their External analysts reports are circulated to all responsibilities.
In addition, the Investor Relations team produces a quarterly Investor Relations Report that Professional development is circulated to the Board.
The Report contains an On appointment, Directors take part in a analysis of share price performance: a summary comprehensive induction programme where they of analyst reports received during the quarter and receive financial and operational information about of meetings that have been held with investors the Group: details concerning their responsibilities and analysts: together with details of any significant and duties: as well as an introduction to the Groups changes to the shareholders register.
governance, regulatory and control environment.
All shareholders are invited to attend the Companys This induction is supplemented by visits to the Annual General Meeting AGM.
The Chairmen Groups head office in Cardiff, overseas offices, and of the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Risk meetings with members of the senior management Committees attends the AGM along with the other team and their departments.
Development Directors and are available to answer shareholders and training of Directors is an ongoing process.
questions on the activities of the Committees they Throughout their period in office the Directors chair.
Shareholders are also invited to ask questions are regularly updated on the Groups business: during the meeting and have an opportunity legal matters concerning their role and duties: to meet with Directors after the formal business of the competitive environments in which the Group the meeting has been concluded.
Details of proxy operates: and any other significant changes affecting voting by shareholders, including votes withheld, the Group and the industry of which it is a part.
are made available on request and are placed All Board members are also encouraged to attend on the Companys website following the meeting.
relevant training courses at the Companys expense.
The Group maintains a corporate website The Board receives presentations from senior www.
co. uk containing a wide managers within the Group on a regular basis range of information of interest to institutional and and opportunity is also created for Non-Executive private investors.
Directors to make informal visits to different parts of the Group and to meet with local management.
Conflicts of Interest In compliance with the requirements of the Relations with shareholders Companies Act 2006 regarding Directors duties in The Company attaches considerable importance relation to conflicts of interest, the Groups Articles to communications with shareholders and engages of Association allow the Board to authorise potential with them on a variety of issues.
The Investor conflicts of interest that may arise and to impose Relations team has day-to-day primary responsibility such limits as it thinks fit.
The Company has put for managing communications with institutional in place updated procedures to deal with conflicts shareholders through a combination of briefings to of interest.
These procedures include each Board analysts and institutional shareholders, both at the member completing, annually, a conflict of interest half-year and full year results.
A number of analysts questionnaire that sets out any situation in which and investors visited the Groups Cardiff office they, or their connected persons have, or could during the year to meet with the Executive Directors have, a direct or indirect interest that could conflict and senior management in order to get a better with the interests of the Company.
Any current understanding of how the Group operates and how directorships that they, or their connected persons it intends to achieve its strategic and operational hold, any advisory roles or trusteeships held, objectives.
Senior Executives from the Groups together with any companies in which they hold overseas businesses also visit the UK in order to more than 1% of the issued share capital are also present to, and meet with, analysts and investors.
These conflict of interest procedures Site visits and individual discussions with the have operated effectively throughout 2011.
Executive Directors are also arranged throughout the year with individual shareholders.
Regular Board Committees dialogue with shareholders helps to ensure that The Board has delegated authority to a number the Companys strategy is understood and that of permanent Committees to deal with matters any issues are addressed in a constructive way.
in accordance with written terms of reference.
The principal Committees of the Board Audit, In addition the Chairman had individual meetings Remuneration, and Nomination all comply fully during the year with major shareholders, and with the requirements of the Code.
In December reported to the Board on issues raised with him.
2011 the Group announced its intention, with effect from 1 January 2012, to split the current remit of the Audit Committee into two with the establishment of a Group Risk Committee.
The constitution and membership of the Risk Committee is set out below.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2011 40
