Business review continued UK Car Insurance review UK Car Insurance highlights 21% The number of UK vehicles insured by Admiral rose by 21% during 2011 40% Total premiums written in the UK increased by 40% David Stevens during 2011 Chief Operating Officer 14% UK car insurance pre-tax profit grew by 14% in 2011 For both ourselves and the market as a whole, 2011 was a year of two halves.
Our focus in 2012 will be on realising opportunities For the market as a whole, the middle of the year marked the point when the dramatic premium that we have identified to inflation that kicked off in late 2009 ground to a halt.
Over the 21 months to mid-2011 market price continue to do things better.
surveys suggested new business rate increases of almost 50%.
These surveys significantly overstate the level of premium increases actually achieved, but it was undoubtedly a period of rapid premium inflation.
In contrast, in the following six months the market drifted down by 1% as the shedders slowed their rate of market share decline and the growers, including ourselves, continued to add share.
A combination of benign weather, higher policy excesses, higher petrol prices and lower disposable income led to a fall in claims frequency of over 10% for the market as a whole.
This also tempered insurers appetite for price increases, and helped slow the relentless rise in the cost of bodily injury claims in the UK market.
The rapid increase in premiums put car insurance unusually high on the political agenda during 2011.
The legislation following the Jackson recommendations, Jack Straws private members bill, scrutiny by the House of Commons Transport Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2011 16 Committee and then, towards the end of the year, Disappointment should perhaps be set in context.
the OFT exploration of a wide range of issues to do The currently anticipated combined ratio for 2011 with the car insurance market, all took car insurance is in the late eighties, a pretty attractive outcome from the personal finance sections of the press to the both absolutely and relative to the combined ratio front pages.
Hopefully, the result will be some much of the market as a whole.
However, given our price needed reform of an often dysfunctional system to increases and our established history of substantial the benefit of customers and ultimately insurers.
over performance versus market, the outcome, if confirmed by the subsequent development of these For ourselves the game of two halves was more claims, would qualify as a disappointment.
There about the rate of policy growth than the rate of remain, however, many opportunities that we have premium increases.
In the first half of 2011 our identified to continue to do things better, and avoid vehicle count grew 15%, in the second half 5%.
Our some of the issues we encountered in 2011, notably competitiveness on price comparison sites peaked in terms of risk selection.
After the rapid growth in in March and fell month on month thereafter as we 2010 and 2011, our focus in 2012 will be very much deliberately maintained the pace of price increases on realising these opportunities.
above and beyond the increases being put through by our competitors.
Our relatively higher price increases through most of 2011 were, in part, a response to a disappointing bodily injury claims experience in quarters two and three.
The main source of the disappointment was in the proportion of 2009 and 2010 claims that were emerging as potentially bigger, costlier claims than anticipated and the proportion of new, 2011 claims that were being identified as potentially big claims, and reserved accordingly.
The development of earlier years remained reassuringly stable with small improvements in expected ultimate loss ratios across most years.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2011 17
