Corporate governance 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group Executive Committee and Company Secretary Sir Frank Chapman Fabio Barbosa Chris Finlayson Martin Houston Chief Executive age 58 Chief Financial Officer and Executive Executive Director and Managing Chief Operating Officer and Director age 51 Director, BG Advance age 55 Executive Director age 54 Sub-committee membership: Exploration & Appraisal Sub-committee membership: Sub-committee membership: Sub-committee membership: Investment Energy Trading & Credit Risk Exploration & Appraisal Group Performance Group Performance Group Performance Investment Investment Reserves The Group Executive Committee GEC, In addition to the GEC, the following sub-committees focus Investment Committee onparticular aspects of the Groups business: Chairman Fabio Barbosa, Chief Financial Officer chaired by the Chief Executive, comprises The Committee considers and, where appropriate, approves theExecutive Directors of BGGroup, together Energy Trading & Credit Risk Committee merger, acquisition and disposal transactions and other with the executives shown on these pages.
Chairman Fabio Barbosa, Chief Financial Officer investment decisions, with the exception of exploration The Committee approves the Group-level risk management The GEC has primary authority for the andappraisal business development transactions.
principles and policies that provide the framework for effective day-to-day management of the Groups risk management of energy trading activities.
In addition, Group Performance Committee operations, within the agreed limits set by theCommittee provides assurance to the GEC that there is an Chairman Chris Finlayson, Managing Director, BG Advance theBoard.
The Committee is responsible effective framework for the management of price and credit The Committee reviews and monitors Group performance risks associated with oil, gas and LNG trading, commodity price withthe overall aim of driving long-term performance.
formonitoring strategic risk, operational hedging and credit risks outside ofthetrading business.
Akeyrole of the Committee is the promotion of the management of the Group and health, safety, transferofknowledge and best practice across the Group.
security and environment HSSE strategy.
Exploration & Appraisal Committee Chairman Sir Frank Chapman, Chief Executive Reserves Committee The Committee formulates the Groups exploration and Chairman Chris Finlayson, Managing Director, BG Advance appraisal strategy and is responsible for planning and setting The Committee approves amendments to reserves As stated in the footnotes on Where we operate, objectives and priorities to deliver that strategy.
In addition, policy, process and guidelines.
It reports annually to the page 4, from 1 January 2012, the Group is managed theCommittee approves funding for exploration and appraisal.
Audit Committee on the reserves process and reviews across three regions: Americas and Europe: Africa, and challengesBGGroups proposed reserves and Central and South Asia: and Australia and East Asia, Governance Committee resourcesestimates.
each supported by Global Energy Marketing and Chairman Steve Allen, Company Secretary Shipping and BG Advance.
Certain responsibilities The main purpose of the Committee is to oversee the of BG Advance and the Chief Financial Officer also effectiveness of BGGroups governance, business risk and changed with effect from this date.
The Executive assurance processes, to approve Group Standards, to oversee Vice President and Managing Director, Americas the implementation of all other parts of the Internal Control and Europe position on the GEC is currently vacant Framework, and to ensure that there is an effective process and the Group has commenced a search to fill the forthe identification, management and escalation of risk.
Forfurther information on these changes see the Chairmans statement and the Chief Executives statement on pages 8 to 11.
com Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 57 Ashley Almanza Robert Booker Sir John Grant KCMG Sami Iskander Executive Vice President age 48 Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, Policy Executive Vice President HumanResources age 45 andCorporate Affairs age 57 andManaging Director, Africa, Skills and experience: Ashley joined Central and South Asia age 46 British Gas plc in 1993 and, following roles Skills and experience: Prior to joining Skills and experience: John joined BGGroup as GroupFinance Director and Group BGGroup in 2006, Robert worked as a in September 2009, having been president Skills and experience: Prior to joining Financial Controller, was appointed to the senior HR consultant for Ernst & Young of BHP Billiton Europe since 2007.
Before BGGroup in 2008, Sami spent his career Board of BG Group plc as Chief Financial and Mercer Human Resource Consulting then, he was a member of the Diplomatic with Schlumberger and fulfilled a number Officer and Executive Director in 2002. in the UK and Canada.
He is a chartered Service, holding posts in Stockholm, of key leadership roles with them, with He served in that capacity until 31 March accountant and holds a Masters in Moscow and Brussels, where hewas assignments in Latin America, the USA, 2011 and as Managing Director, Europe and Finance from London Business School.
theUKs permanent representative to Africa, Europe and the Middle East.
He Central Asia during 2009 and 2010.
He is a Hewas appointed to his current position theEuropean Union from 2003 to 2007. was appointed to the GEC in July 2009, chartered accountant with an MBA from in February 2009, having previously been having previously been Senior Vice Responsibilities: John is responsible London Business School.
Ashley was, until General Manager, Performance and Reward.
President, Operations and Developments for government and public affairs, 2010, the chairman of theHundred Group inBGAdvance.
Responsibilities: Robert is responsible for communications, social performance of Finance Directors and is a non-executive all matters relating to human resources andBusiness Principles.
Responsibilities: Sami is responsible director ofSchroders plc and a member strategy and policy.
fortheGroups activities across Africa Sub-committee membership: of the AdvisoryBoard for the Centre for and Central and South Asia.
Sub-committee membership: None Governance BusinessTaxation, Oxford University.
Investment Sub-committee membership: Responsibilities: Ashley works with the Group Performance Chief Executive on certain commercial andstrategic matters.
Sub-committee membership: None Matt Schatzman Catherine Tanna Graham Vinter Steve Allen Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President and General Counsel age 56 Company Secretary age 40 GlobalEnergy Marketing and Managing Director, Australia and Skills and experience: Graham joined Skills and experience: Steve is a qualified Shipping age 46 East Asia age 50 BGGroup as General Counsel in November lawyer.
Before joining BGGroup in 2005, Skills and experience: Prior to joining Skills and experience: Catherine joined 2007.
Prior to this, he spent 27 years with he worked as a corporate lawyer in private BGGroup in 2007, Mattworked at Dynegy BGGroup in March 2009.
Formerly, she theinternational law firm, Allen & Overy practice in London.
where his last position was president worked for Royal Dutch Shell plc where she LLP where he was a partner for just under Prior to becoming Company Secretary in and chief executive officer of Dynegys gained extensive LNG, gas transmission and 20years and was global head of projects May 2011, he held a number of roles within energy marketing and power generation power distribution experience, and before from 1996 to 2007.
Grahams experience the Groups Legal Department and was businesses.
He was appointed to his current that she worked in several exploration and includes advising on energy transactions in Chief Counsel, Corporate from 2008.
In role on 1 January 2012 having previously production roles with BHP Petroleum.
She is Europe, the Middle East, Asia and elsewhere.
thatrole, he led the team providing legal been Senior Vice President Energy a qualified solicitor in Australia and England.
Responsibilities: Graham is responsible for support for corporate functions.
Marketing, BG Americas and Global LNG.
Catherine is a non-executive member of the legal affairs of the Group.
Responsibilities: As Company Secretary, the board of the Reserve Bank of Australia Responsibilities: Matt is responsible for Sub-committee membership: Steve is responsible for advising the Board, and a member of Chief Executive Women energy marketing, trading and shipping Governance through the Chairman, on all governance in Australia.
All Directors have access to Responsibilities: Catherine is responsible Sub-committee membership: the advice and services of the Company forthe Groups activities in Australia and Energy Trading and Credit Risk Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring East Asia.
that Board procedures are complied with.
Sub-committee membership: Sub-committee membership: Group Performance Governance www.
