Business review 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 How BG Group creates value BG Groups vision is to be the leading natural gas company in the global energy market.
The operating model of the Group has evolved over time, adapting organically year-on-year as BG Group has grown andthe internal and external environments have become more complex.
OPERATING MODEL SET DIRECTION RESOURCE The BG Group operating model describes Set Direction articulates the Groups The business must have adequate resources how the business is managed to achieve investment proposition and associated todeliver its objectives.
It is essential to have theGroupsvision.
objectives, its strategy and the plans asufficient number of people with the throughwhich the Group intends to rightskills.
In addition, financial resources, The operating model has five elements deliverthose objectives.
equipment, materials, services and SetDirection, Resource, Organise, technologyare required.
The strategy is given form and substance through development of detailed business A number of business processes exist to ensure Safety is always BG Groups highest plans, populated with tangible business that resources are identified, developed and priorityand is embedded in each of these ventures opportunities, developments, allocated.
These include the human resources fiveelements.
cycle, the strategy and business planning process, thecapital investment process and The remaining elements of the operating supply chainmanagement processes.
modelsupport delivery of the Groups strategy and plans.
It is the role of the Groups business leaders to act as stewards over these resources, utilising them inacost-effective and efficient manner.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES CREATE THE OPPORTUNITY ASSESS AND SELECT THE DEVELOPMENT BG Groups Principal Activities are the various Exploration and business development Multiple concepts are studied to develop the stages the Group goes through to mature activitiesare performed to identify, discover opportunity.
Options are further evaluated aventure from an opportunity, through and capturenew sources of value.
andthe most valuable development concept thedevelopment and project phases, isselected to be progressed as a project.
toanoperating asset, as well ashow theGroup creates and realises value frommarketing activity.
Principal Activities in action BG Group already supplied LNG to Asia-Pacific BG Group identified Queensland Gas Company Limited QueenslandCurtis LNG customers but hadthestrategic objective QGC as a partner, given thequality and potential tosecurelocally producedgasto globalise size of its resource base.
Aninitial joint venture with The development of the Groups QCLNG project itsLNGbusiness further.
CSG from the Surat QGC was established toprogress aone-train LNG in Gladstone, Australia demonstrates BG Groups Basin inQueensland wasidentified as a viable project.
After further evaluation, sufficient resource execution of its Principal Activities.
feedstockfor LNGproduction on Curtis Island.
was identified to underpin a two-train LNG liquefactionproject and BG Group moved to acquirecontrol of QGC.
com Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 15 SET DIRECTION Investment Proposition, Objectives, Strategy and Plans RESOURCE People, Finances, Equipment, Materials, Services and Technology ORGANISE Board, GEC, Regions, Assets, Functions and Corporate Activities PERFORM Principal Activities, BG Way and Behaviours GOVERN ORGANISE PERFORM GOVERN BG Groups organisation is built upon The creation of economic value and the The BG Group Business Principles and clear design principles that determine the delivery of the Groups strategy and plans Governance Framework provide the fundamental shape of the organisation and require a number of fundamental activities to requirements and boundaries within the roles and accountabilities of individuals.
Further details These are the Groups Principal Activities canbe found in the The way we work The components of the Groups organisation which are set out below.
andCorporate governance report on arethe Board, GEC, regions, assets Group pages36and 58. businesses, functions and corporate activities.
The BG Way is a structured and consistent Each has defined roles and accountabilities: approach to performing the components The BG Group Business Principles set thatmake up each Principal Activity.
It defines outtheGroups core standards of ethical the Groups organisation is asset-based the critical activities that underpin each conduct.
They also define the Groups andregionally organised, with enabling Principal Activity and how, when and by responsibilities to its people, to society expertise flowing from functions and whomthey should be performed.
They are mandatory corporate activities: and are underpinned by detailed Policies The BG Group Behaviours define how the andStandards.
assets and functions work together in equal workforce should act at all times, individually partnership their respective roles are and collectively, in delivering their work for The Governance Framework requires definedin the Asset-Function Accountability theGroup.
highstandards of corporate governance Standard AFAS : atalltimes.
It has three elements: assets deliver business performance and are The nine Behaviours are: Anticipate: Committee organisation and structure: integrated from the reservoir to the market: and Challenge:Collaborate: Concern: Deliver: theInternal Control Framework: and Develop: Impact: Inspire: and Understand.
BG Groups global energy marketing business creates value through identifying and capturing markets and connecting the Groups supplies to customers, including through shipping activities.
DEFINE AND EXECUTE THE PROJECT OPERATE THE ASSET MARKETING After concept selection, a project is defined To realise value, gas, LNG, liquefied petroleum Marketing occurs in parallel with the other tothe level of detail required for sanction.
gas LPG, condensate and oil are produced, Principal Activities.
Sanctioned projects are then built to deliver processed and transported, associated anoperating asset.
contractsare managed and the asset Value is created and realised through ismaintained and improved.
understanding markets and specific customer needs and by connecting gas, LNG, LPG condensate and oil tothesemarkets.
The development of the QCLNG project consists The QCLNG liquefaction plant on Curtis Island Marketing activity mainly to Asia-Pacific of the integration of four parallel projects the willbe supplied with gas, transportedthrough customers, undertaken during 2010 and 2011, upstream field development, the pipeline network, some 540kilometres ofpipeline from the Surat solidly underpins the commercialisation of the LNG plant, and global LNG marketing.
LNG will thenbeproduced and shipped theLNGtobe produced from the project.
tocustomers, primarily in the Asia-Pacific region.
com BG Group Business Principles Governance Framework
