Corporate governance 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Board of Directors Sir Robert Wilson KCMG Andrew Gould Sir Frank Chapman Baroness Hogg Chairman age 68 Non-Executive Director and Chief Executive age 58 Non-Executive Director age 65 Chairman-designate age 65 Appointed Chairman in January 2004, Appointed as Chief Executive in October Appointed as a Non-Executive Director having been a Non-Executive Director Appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 2000, having been appointed to the Board inJanuary 2005.
Andrew will become Chairman in February 1997. her asSenior Independent Director from down as Chairman at the conclusion following the 2012 AGM.
Skills and experience: Frank joined British ofthe2012 Annual General Meeting AGM.
Skills and experience: A chartered Gas plc in November 1996 as Managing Skills and experience: Sarah is a former Skills and experience: Most of Roberts accountant, Andrew joined Schlumberger Director, Exploration and Production.
headof the Prime Ministers Policy Unit career was with Rio Tinto where he in 1975 where he held various senior Heisan engineer and has worked in the assecond permanent secretary from became chief executive in 1991 and then management positions before being oiland gas industry for 37years.
Prior 1990to 1995, andhas extensive experience executive chairman from 1997 until his appointed chairman and chiefexecutive tojoining the Group, he spenta total ofbusiness, government and the media.
From 2003 to 2009, officer from 2003 to2011, when he retired of22years with Royal DutchShell plc Until 2010, she was chairman of 3iGroupplc he was non-executive chairman of as CEO.
Hewas also a member of the Prime andBP plc.
and has been a non-executive director TheEconomistGroup.
Ministers Council of Science andTechnology ofseveralother FTSE 100 companies.
External appointments: from 2004 to 2007 and served as vice External appointments: non-executive director of Rolls-Royce plc External appointments: president, technology, of the United States senior independent director since November 2011 chairman of the Financial Reporting Council National Petroleum Councils 2007 report, ofGlaxoSmithKline plc chairman of Frontier Economics Limited Committee membership: The Hard Truths about Energy.
member of the Panel on Takeovers Committee membership: Chairmans External appointments: andMergers Chairmans Finance chairman of Schlumberger Limited senior adviser to the Financial Finance Group Executive retiresin April 2012 ServicesAuthority Nominations Sustainability senior independent director ofRio Tinto plc member of the governments Remuneration and Rio Tinto Limited retires in May 2012 TreasuryBoard Sustainability Board of Trustees of the King Abdullah non-executive director of the John Lewis University for Science and Technology, Partnership Jeddah, Saudi Arabia Committee membership: Committee membership: Audit Audit Nominations Remuneration Sustainability Ashley Almanza Ashley Almanza retired as an Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer on 31March 2011.
Lord Sharman Lord Sharman retired as a Non-Executive Director on 12May2011.
Fabio Barbosa Chris Finlayson Martin Houston Chief Financial Officer and Executive Director and Managing Chief Operating Officer and ExecutiveDirector age 51 Director, BG Advance age 55 Executive Director age 54 Fabio was appointed to the Board on Chris joined BGGroup in August 2010 Martin joined British Gas plc in 1983 and 31March2011 as Chief Financial Officer.
andwas appointed to the Board on became BG Group Executive Vice President 15November 2011. in 2000.
He was appointed to the Board Skills and experience: Fabio was, until in February 2009 and as Chief Operating June 2010, the chief financial officer Skills and experience: Previously, Chris Officer in December 2011. attheBrazilian mining company Vale SA, worked for Royal Dutch Shell plc for over thelargest private sector company in Latin 33 years, during which time he gained Skills and experience: Martin has gained America and the second-largest metals extensive technical and commercial extensive international experience from a andmining company in the world by experience in the oil and gas industry wide variety of technical, commercial and market capitalisation.
Prior to joining Vale ina variety ofinternational settings management roles and has played a leading in2002, he spent seven years in the Brazilian andbusinesses.
role in developing the Groups LNG business.
Ministry of Finance, rising to the role of He is a fellow of the Geological Society of Responsibilities: He is responsible national treasury secretary.
He is a former London and a Companion of the Institution for BGAdvance, which incorporates adviser to one of the executive directors of Gas Engineers and Managers.
exploration, capital projects, and IT and ofthe World Bank.
technology, providing the Group with Responsibilities: Based in Houston Responsibilities: He is responsible for Group technical and commercial assurance andLondon, he is responsible for the finance, tax, treasury, investor relations, and services, including resourcing operational performance of the Groups mergers and acquisitions, strategy and and development of staff capabilities.
regions and assets, as well as Group-wide portfolio development, and internal audit.
Chrisalsohas Board-level responsibility for business development.
the evolution ofthe Groups organisation.
External appointments: None External appointments: None External appointments: None Committee membership: Committee membership: Chairmans Committee membership: Group Executive Finance Group Executive Sustainability Committee Chairman Group Executive Reserves www.
com Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 55 Peter Backhouse Vivienne Cox Dr John Hood Caio Koch-Weser Non-Executive Director age 60 Non-Executive Director age 52 Non-Executive Director age 60 Non-Executive Director age 67 Appointed as a Non-Executive Director Appointed as a Non-Executive Director Appointed as a Non-Executive Director Appointed as a Non-Executive Director inJuly 2000. on8February 2012. inApril2007.
Skills and experience: Peter is a former Skills and experience: Vivienne worked Skills and experience: John was formerly Skills and experience: Caio was German executive vice president of refining for BP plc from 1981 to 2009, serving in a vice-chancellor of the University of Oxford, deputy minister of finance state secretary andmarketing at BP plc.
Prior to this, he variety of posts in the UK and continental vice-chancellor of theUniversity of Auckland from 1999 to 2005.
His responsibilities was chief executive of BP Oil Europe and Europe ranging from supply and trading, and also a member ofthe Growth and included international finance G7 Deputy, head of UK North Sea oil development.
to commercial, finance and exploration Innovation Advisory Board and the Enterprise European economic and financial affairs, He gainedconsiderable experience and renewable energy and was the former Council ofthe PrimeMinister of New Zealand.
as well as capital markets, banking and in international LNG and natural gas executive vice president of gas, power and He has also been a director of New Zealandinsurance.
He was also chairman of the development, latterly as head of BPs renewables and former chief executive based companies, including the Fonterra Supervisory Board of the German Federal UKgasbusiness.
Co-operative Group Ltd and ASB Bank Limited Financial Supervisory Authority BaFin.
and was chairman of Tonkin & Taylor Ltd.
External appointments: External appointments: From 1973 to 1999, Caio was with the member of the advisory board of lead independent director on the External appointments: WorldBank in Washington where he Carlyle Riverstone Energy Partners, Ministerial Board ofthe Department non-executive chairman of worked on Latin America, China, the Middle aUSprivate equity fund forInternational Development DFID  in New Zealand East and Africa, and held a number of non-executive director of Hestya non-executive director of Rio Tinto plc president and chief executive officer high-level positions, serving as a member EnergyB.
V. Netherlands since non-executive director of Pearson plc oftheRobertson Foundation ofthe executive committee.
He is a German September2011 since January 2012 chairman of StudyGroupPtyLtd andBrazilian national, born in Brazil.
member of the supervisory board chairman of the Rhodes Trustees Committee membership: External appointments: ofVallourec SA chairman of URENCO sinceJanuary 2012 Sustainability vice-chairman of Deutsche Bank Group patron of the St Francis Hospice Committee membership: Committee membership: Charity, UK Audit Sustainability member of the Board of INSEAD Nominations Committee membership: None Remuneration Sustainability Sir David Manning GCMG CVO Mark Seligman Patrick Thomas Philippe Varin Non-Executive Director age 62 Non-Executive Director age 56 Non-Executive Director age 54 Non-Executive Director age 59 Appointed as a Non-Executive Director Appointed as a Non-Executive Director Appointed as a Non-Executive Director Appointed as a Non-Executive Director inJuly 2008. inDecember 2010. inMay 2006. inDecember 2009.
Skills and experience: David was a member Skills and experience: Prior to joining the Skills and experience: Until April 2009, Skills and experience: A chartered of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office Bayer Group in 2006, Patrick spent seven Philippe had spent six years as chief accountant, Mark has held senior for 35 years, serving in Warsaw, New Delhi, years with the Huntsman Corporation, executive of Corus, during which time roles at Barclays fide Zoete Wedd and Paris, Moscow, Tel Aviv and Brussels.
He aUS chemicals company, latterly in the role heledthe merger with TataSteel, SGWarburg&CoLtd.
He is a former retired from the Diplomatic Service in 2008 of corporate executive vice president of Indiain2007.
Prior to this, Philippe spent chairman of UK Investment Banking at after four years as British ambassador Huntsman Matlin Patterson.
Patrick gained 25 years with the PechineyGroup, most Credit Suisse and is a former member totheUSA.
20 years experience with ICI Pharmaceuticals latterly as senior executive vice president ofthebanks Global Investment and Agrochemicals, where he held a number of the aluminium sector and a member BankingExecutive Board.
External appointments: of positions including regional director for ofPechineys executive committee.
Since non-executive director of External appointments: Europe, Africa and the Middle East and was June 2009, hehas been chairman of the  deputy chairman of G4S plc also global chief executive officer of ICI managing board of PSA Peugeot Citron.
trustee of Turner Contemporary alternate member of the Panel Polyurethanes between 1997 and 1999. director of Gatehouse Advisory Partners External appointments: onTakeovers and Mergers nominated member of the Council External appointments: chairman of the managing board chairman of the Industrial ofLloyds of London chief executive officer of ofPSAPeugeot Citron DevelopmentAdvisory Board chairman of the London School of  director of Faurecia S. A. member of the Regional Growth Economics IDEAS Advisory Board chairman of the Oxford University Fundadvisory panel Committee membership: BusinessEconomics Programme Board senior independent director of Committee membership: Audit chairman of the advisory board of the Kingfisherplc since January 2012 Nominations Remuneration European Institute for Industrial Leadership Sustainability Committee membership: president of PlasticsEurope Audit Committee membership: Audit Remuneration www.
