Corporate governance 82 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Other statutory information This section contains additional information which the Directors are required by law and regulation to include within the Annual Report and Accounts.
There are a number of legal and regulatory Notification of the acquisition vote at a shareholders meeting or to exercise requirements with which BG Group must comply, ordisposalofmajor shareholdings any other right in relation to a meeting as such as the Companies Act 2006 theAct, the Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules holder of any shares held by the shareholder Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency requires disclosure to the issuer by: a holders indefault.
Anyperson who acquires shares Rules, which are addressed in this section.
of shares with voting rights attached, b those inrelation to which a default has occurred entitled to exercise voting rights, and c those Default Shares is subject to the same Shareholders holding financial instruments that result in restrictions unless: Incorporation and constitution aright to acquire shares with voting rights BG Group plc is domiciled in England and already in issue, when their interests reach, the transfer was an approved transfer pursuant incorporated in England & Wales under exceed, or fall below 3%, and every percentage to a takeover or one which, to the Directors Company Number 3690065.
satisfaction, is a bona fide sale to a person share capital consists of ordinary shares with unconnected with the shareholder: or anominal value of 10p each.
Voting rights the transfer was by a shareholder who was not When a shareholder is entitled to attend himself in default in supplying the information BG Group plcs Articles of Association ageneral meeting and vote, where there is a required by the notice and: a the transfer is theArticles may only be amended by a special poll, subject to any special rights or restrictions ofonly part of his holding, and b the transfer resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
attaching to any class of shares, if he is entitled is accompanied by a certificate in a form The Articles are available on the Companys to be present and to vote, he has one vote for satisfactory to the Directors stating that, website at www.
com every share that he holds.
afterdue and careful enquiries, the shareholder is satisfied that none of the shares included Annual General Meeting To decide who can attend or vote at a general inthe transfer are Default Shares.
Where The AGM will be heldat the Royal Berkshire meeting and how many votes can be cast, theDefault Shares represent 0.25% or more Conference Centre, Madejski Stadium, Reading thenotice of the meeting must give a time by oftheexisting shares of a class, the Directors RG2 0FL on Wednesday, 16 May 2012 at 11.30am.
which people must be entered on the Register can, at their absolute discretion, by notice The Notice of AGM, together with anexplanation in order to be entitled to attend or vote at tothe shareholder, direct that: a any dividend ofthe proposed resolutions, isset out on pages 154 ameeting.
This time must not be more than or other money which would otherwise be to 159.
A summary ofthebusiness carried out at the 48hours before the time fixed for the meeting payable on the Default Shares shall be retained AGM will bepublished on the BGGroup website.
and for this purpose no account shall be taken by the Company without any liability to of any part of a day that is not a working day.
payinterest when that dividend or money Substantial shareholders Unless the Articles say otherwise, the only isfinallypaid to the shareholder : and or As at 31 December 2011, the following voting people who can attend or vote at general b theshareholder will not be allowed to interests in the ordinary share capital of the meetings or exercise any other right conferred choose to receive shares in place of dividends: Company, disclosable under the Disclosure by being a shareholder in relation to general and or c no transfer of any of the shares held andTransparency Rules, hadbeen notified meetings are shareholders who have paid the by theshareholder will be registered unless one tothe Directors: company all calls, and all other sums, relating oftheprovisos specified above is satisfied.
to their shares that are due at the time of themeeting.
This applies both to attending BlackRock Inc and or Variation of rights ameeting personally and to attending itssubsidiaries 239 185 375 7.06% If the Companys share capital is split into byproxy or corporate representative.
Legal and General Group plc different classes of shares, subject to the and or its subsidiaries 150 859 675 4.45% relevant English law and, unless the Articles or Restrictions on shareholders rights rights attaching to any class of shares provide If a shareholder has been properly served with otherwise, the special rights attaching to Between 31 December 2011 and 15 March 2012, anotice under Section 793 of the Act requiring anyof these classes can be varied or abrogated the following voting interests in the ordinary information about interests in shares, and asprovided by those rights or approved by share capital of the Company, disclosable hasfailed to supply such information within aspecial resolution passed at a separate under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, 14days of such notice, then subject to the meeting of that class.
Alternatively, the have been notified to the Directors: Articles and unless the Directors otherwise holdersof at least 75% of the existing shares decide the shareholder is not for so long as ofthe class by nominal value can give their the default continues entitled to attend or Norges Bank 102 459 267 3.02% consent in writing.
com Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 83 Alteration of share capital Authority, the Directors cannot refuse carry deferred or non-preferred rights if, at the The shareholders can by ordinary resolution: toregister a transfer if this would stop dealings time of payment, any preferential dividend is a consolidate, or consolidate and then divide, in the shares from taking place on an open inarrears.
Unless the rights attaching to shares all or any of the Companys share capital into andproper basis.
If the Directors decide not to or the terms of any shares provide otherwise, new shares of a larger nominal amount than register a transfer, they must notify the person dividends are paid based on the amounts the existing shares: and b divide some or to whom the shares were to be transferred thathave been paid up on the shares in the allof the Companys share capital into shares ofthe refusal, together with reasons for the relevantperiod.
that are of a smaller nominal value than the refusal, as soon as practicable and in any event existing shares.
This is subject to any restrictions within two months after the date on which the The Directors can recommend that the under the Act and all other laws and regulations Company receives the transfer in the case of shareholders pass an ordinary resolution to applying to the Company.
The resolution may ashare incertificated form or the instruction direct all or part of a dividend to be paid by provide that, as between the holders of the fromthe operator of the relevant system distributing specific assets.
The Directors divided shares, different rights and restrictions includingCREST, in the case of a share in mustgive effect to such a resolution.
If a that the Company can apply to new shares uncertificated form.
dividend has not been claimed for one year, may apply to all or any of the different divided the Directors may invest the dividend or use shares.
The Company may reduce its share Share capital itinsome other way for the benefit of the capital by special resolution confirmed by the In order to enable the Company to return Company until the dividend is claimed.
Any court in accordance with Section 641 of the valueto shareholders, the Company was given dividend that has not been claimed for 12 years Actand subject to its Articles.
In accordance authority at the 2011 AGM to make market may be forfeited and belong to the Company, with Section 690 of the Act, the Company purchases of up to 338 804 545 of its own ifthe Directors so decide.
maypurchase its own shares including any ordinary 10p shares at a maximum price per redeemable shares subject to Chapter 4 of the share of 105% ofthe average middle market Winding up Act and the Articles.
However, if the Company closing price ofthe shares for the five trading If the Company is wound up, the liquidator has existing shares that are admitted to the days prior tothe relevant purchase.
This can, with the authority of a special resolution Official List of the UK Listing Authority and authority will expire at the conclusion of the and any other sanction required by relevant that are convertible into equity shares, then 2012 AGM and approval from shareholders law, divide among the shareholders all or part the Company can only buy back equity shares willbe sought atthat meeting to renew of the assets of the Company or transfer any of that class if either the terms of issue of theauthority for a further year.
partof the assets to trustees on trust for the theconvertible shares permit the Company benefit of the shareholders.
No past or present tobuy back equity shares or the buy back, At the 2011 AGM, the Directors were given shareholder can be compelled to accept any oragreement to buy back, has been approved thepower to allot shares up to a maximum shares or other property under the Articles by a special resolution passed by such holders.
nominal amount of 114 684 167, representing that carries a liability.
approximately 1 3 of the Companys issued Rights of foreign shareholders share capital excluding treasury shares as at Research and development There are no limitations imposed by the relevant 11 March 2011, together with ordinary shares The Act requires the Directors report to English law or the Articles on the rights to own outstanding under BG Groups share option stateany activities in the field of research and securities, including the rights of non-resident schemes.
This authority will expire at the development undertaken by the Company.
or foreign shareholders to hold or exercise conclusion of the 2012 AGM and approval from In2011, BG Group invested $38 million in voting rights on the securities.
shareholders will be sought at that meeting research and development projects, up from torenew the authority for a further year.
The focus of the 2011 Transfer of shares research anddevelopment investment has Unless otherwise provided in the Articles or For further information and details of shares been on increasing production in carbonate theterms of issue of any shares, any shareholder issued duringthe year, see note 23, page 127. fields, carbon management, safety and may transfer any or all of his shares.
The Directors assetintegrity, CSG operations and may refuse to register a transfer of shares in Dividends drillingoptimisation.
BG Group is committed certificated form that are not fully paid-up The shareholders can declare final dividends toincreasing technology investment in orotherwise in accordance with the Articles.
No dividend can exceed Braziltostudy and develop new solutions However, if any of those shares have been the amount recommended by the Directors.
forglobal application in the Groups businesses.
admitted to the Official List ofthe UK Listing No interim dividend shall be paid on shares that BGGroup expects to open a Global Technology www.
com Corporate governance 84 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Other statutory information continued Centre inRio fide Janeiro in 2013 andanticipates Suppliers Directors increased research and development investment BG Group aims to adopt fair payment practices The Directors are empowered to exercise all in future years.
Seenote 2, page 103 for research in line with each country in which it operates the powers of the Company subject to any and development expenditure included in and aims to pay all its creditors promptly and restrictions in the Articles, the Act and theincome statement.
in accordance with contractual and other anyspecial resolution.
It is the Groups policy to Branches agree the payment terms with each supplier Conflicts of interest BG Group, through various subsidiaries, has atthe start of business and to ensure that they From 1 October 2008, the Directors became established branches in a number of different are aware of the terms of payment.
The Group subject to a statutory duty under the Act to countries in which the business operates.
had 20days purchases outstanding at avoid a situation where they have, or could 31December2011 2010 19 days based on the have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, Employees average daily amount invoiced by suppliers or possibly could conflict, with the Companys Employees are informed about significant during the year.
The Act allows directors of public business issues and BG Groups performance companies to authorise conflicts and potential using webcasts, the Groups intranet and Significant contracts change of control conflicts where appropriate, if the articles of in-house publications, as well as DVDs and There are a number of agreements that take association contain a provision to this effect.
briefing meetings at each business location.
effect, alter or terminate upon a change of The Act also allows the articles to contain When appropriate, consultation withemployee control of BG Group following a takeover bid.
other provisions for dealing with directors and union representatives alsotakes place.
conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
Under the agreement governing the Groups Atthe 2008 AGM, revised Articles that The Group takes the issues of equality and equity investment in Comgs, in the event of a contained such provisions were adopted.
diversity seriously and encourages its partners change ofcontrol of BG Group following a todo likewise.
By using the talent and skills takeover bid, Shell Gas B. V. has the right to Certain safeguards apply when the Directors available in all groups and communities in acquire the Groups equity in Comgs at consider whether to authorise a conflict thecountries in which it operates, the Group market value.
Inaddition, in the event of a orpotential conflict.
First, only Directors isable to build a strong foundation for the change of controlaffecting BG Group, the So whohave no interest in the matter being lasting success of its business.
This is achieved Paulo State gas regulator, ARSESP, may require considered are able to take the relevant byusing appropriate recruitment and such change ofcontrol to be approved by them decision, and secondly, in taking any decision, selectiontechniques, ensuring equality of inorder toavoid breach of the Comgs theDirectors must act in a way that they employment opportunities and equal access concessionagreement.
consider, in good faith, will be most likely to todevelopment opportunities.
In addition, It is possible that the Republic of Kazakhstan the Directors are able to impose limits or The Group is also committed to providing a mayclaim to have a right to acquire the Groups conditions when giving such authorisation, work environment free from harassment and interest in the Final Petroleum Sharing Agreement ifthey think this is appropriate.
This commitment is included governing the operation of the Karachaganak oil inthe Groups Human Resources Policy, and gas condensate field BGGroup currently In exercising the power to authorise conflicts whichis available on the BG Group website.
32.5% or the shares in thecompany holding that or potential conflicts of interest, the Board has The Group remains committed to the full interest in the event of achange of control of adopted the guidelines issued by the GC100 andfair treatment of people with disabilities in BGGroup following atakeover bid.
the Association of General Counsel and relation to job applications, training, promotion Company Secretaries of the FTSE 100, and and career development.
Every effort is made As at 31 December 2011, BG Energy Holdings appropriate procedures have been put in place to find appropriate alternative jobs for those Limited had bilateral, committed, multi-currency to ensure that all Directors notify BG Group whoare unable to continue in their existing revolving borrowing facilities with anumber ofany situation where they have, or could job because of disability.
The Group encourages ofits relationship banks in an aggregate have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, its partners to take a similar approach to these amount of $4.5 billion.
All are currently or possibly could conflict, with the Groups issues where Group Policies or Standards are undrawn.
When taken together, these facilities interests.
Once notified, all such matters are not able to be implemented directly.
are significant to the ongoing liquidity of the considered by the Nominations Committee Group and repayment or cancellation ofany and an appropriate recommendation is made Employees are encouraged to become orall of them may be demanded upon to the Board on whether or not to authorise shareholders in the Company and many achange of control of BG Group.
such matters and, if authorised, on what participate in BG Groups share plans.
TheBoard believes that these No other agreements that take effect, alter procedures areoperating effectively.
Community orterminate upon a change of control of Donations BGGroup following a takeover bid are considered Annual re-election of Directors During 2011, BG Group donated around $690000 to be significant in terms of their potential The Articles provide that Directors are subject to registered charities in the UK.
More information impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
tore-election by shareholders every three on the Groups social performance and social years.
The Board, however, decided in2010 investment activities can be found in the 2011 Essential contracts or that, in accordance with the Governance Sustainability Report, available online at otherarrangements Code, all Directors wishing tocontinue www.
com sustainability Given the scope and diversity of BG Groups inofficeshould offer themselves for activities, BG Group does not consider that it re-electionannually.
The Groups policy is not to make donations has contractual or other arrangements which forpolitical purposes.
In 2011, no donations are essential to the business of BG Group and were made in any EU member state for which are required to be disclosed pursuant political purposes, as defined in Section 364 toSection 417 5 c of the Act.
com Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 85 Indemnities and insurance Going concern The Directors have general responsibility BG Group maintains liability insurance for its BG Groups business activities, together with fortaking such steps as are reasonably open Directors and officers.
The Directors, Company factors likely to affect its future development, tothem to safeguard the assets of the Group Secretary and members of the Group Executive performance and position, are set out in andto prevent and detect fraud and other Committee have also been granted a qualifying theBusiness review on pages 4 to 51.
The irregularities, and have adopted a control third-party indemnity, under Section 234 of financial position of the Group, its cash flows, framework for application across the Group.
the Act, which remains in force.
Neither the liquidity position and borrowing facilities, Companys indemnity nor insurance provides aswell as the Groups objectives, policies and The Directors, having prepared the Financial cover in the event that the indemnified individual processes for managing capital, are described statements, have asked the auditors to take is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Financial risk management whatever steps and to undertake whatever objectives, details of financial instruments inspections they consider to be appropriate Directors borrowing powers andhedging activities and exposures to credit forthe purposes of enabling them to give So far as the Companies Acts as defined in risk and liquidity risk are described in note 19, theiraudit report.
The Directors confirm that section 2 of the Act allow, the Directors can page 118.
The Directors consider that the the Audit Committee continues to review exercise all the powers of the Company to: Groups business activities and financial theadequacy of the system of internal a borrow money: b issue debentures and resources ensure that it is well placed to controladopted by the Group.
other securities: and c give any form of manage its business risks successfully.
guarantee or security for any debt, liability or A copy of the Financial statements of the obligation of the Company or of any third party.
The Directors are satisfied that the Groups Company is placed on the BG Group website.
and the Companys activities are sustainable for Thework carried out by the auditors does The Directors must limit the Borrowings the foreseeable future, and that the business is notinvolve consideration of the maintenance asdefined in the Articles of the Company and a going concern and the Financial statements ofthe BG Group website and, accordingly, exercise all voting and other rights or powers of have therefore been prepared onthis basis.
theauditors accept no responsibility for control exercisable by the Company in relation to anychanges that may have occurred to the its subsidiary undertakings, so as to ensure that Statement of Directors responsibilities Financial statements since they were initially the total amount of all Borrowings by the Group for preparing the Financial statements presented on the website.
outstanding at any time will not exceed twice The Directors are responsible for preparing the Adjusted Total of Capital and Reserves theAnnual Report, the Directors Remuneration Legislation in the UK governing the preparation asdefined in the Articles at such time.
This limit report and the Financial statements in accordance and dissemination of Financial statements may may be exceeded if the Companys consent has with applicable law and regulations.
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
been given in advance by an ordinary resolution passed at a general meeting.
The Act requires the Directors to prepare Pursuant to Rule 4.1.
12 of the Disclosure and Financial statements for each financial year.
Transparency Rules, each of the Directors, Statement of disclosure Under the Act, the Directors have prepared thenames and functions of whom are set out  theGroup and the parent Company Financial on pages 54 to 55, confirms that to the best As required by Sections 418 and 419 of the Act, statements in accordance with IFRSs as ofhis or her knowledge: each of the Directors has approved this report adopted by the European Union and as applied and confirmed that, so far as they are aware, in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
the Group Financial statements, which have there is no relevant audit information The Financial statements are required by law been prepared in accordance with IFRSs, as beinginformation needed by the auditors in to give a true and fair view of the state of adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view connection with preparing their audit report affairs of the Group and the Company and of ofthe assets, liabilities, financial position of which the Companys auditors are unaware, the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
andprofit of the Group: and and they have taken all the steps that they the management report represented by the ought to have taken as a Director in order to The Directors consider that, in preparing Directors report on pages 2 to 85 includes afair make themselves aware of any relevant audit theFinancial statements on pages 89 to 135, review of the development and performance information and to establish that the Companys the Company has used appropriate accounting of the business and the position of the Group, auditors are aware of that information.
policies consistently applied and supported together with a description of theprincipal byreasonable and prudent judgements risks and uncertainties that the Group faces.
Financial andestimates, and all applicable accounting Results and dividend standards have been followed.
The Company By order of the Board For the year ended 31 December 2011, the total has complied with UK disclosure requirements profit for the Group before tax was $7 550 million in this report in order to present a consistent Sir Frank Chapman 2010$5 730 million.
A final dividend of 12.96 cents picture to all shareholders.
Chief Executive perordinary share is proposed 2010 11.78 cents, making a total dividend for 2011 of 23.76 cents The Directors have responsibility for ensuring Fabio Barbosa 2010 21.60 cents.
The results are dealt with that the Company keeps accounting records Chief Financial Officer more fully in the Financial statements thatdisclose with reasonable accuracy onpages 89 to 135 and summarised in the thefinancial position of the Company and 15 March 2012 Financial review on pages 40 to 44. ofthe Group and that enable them to ensure that theFinancial statements and the Registered Office: The Trustees of the BG Group New Employees Directors Remuneration report comply with 100 Thames Valley Park Drive Share Trust, the BG Group plc Employee Share the Act and, as regards the Group Financial Reading Trust and the BG Group Share Incentive Plan statements, Article 4 of the International Berkshire RG6 1PT have waived their right to receive dividends Accounting Standard Regulation.
United Kingdom over 414, 1 086 283 and 1 958 ordinary sharesrespectively.
Registered in England & Wales No.
com Bongkot North platform Gulf of Thailand BG Groups investment in Thailand is focused on upstream activities, includingthelarge offshore Bongkot field which supplies around 15% ofdomesticnatural gas demand.
Find out more online at www.
com Financial statements Financial statements 88 Independent Auditors report 89 Principal accounting policies Primary statements Financial statements, notes 93 Consolidated income statement and other key data.
94 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 95 Balance sheets 97 Statements of changes in equity 98 Cash flow statements 99 Notes to the accounts 136 Supplementary information gas and oil unaudited 143 Historical production unaudited 144 Five-year financial summary unaudited
