Vision and strategy Delivering value Our strategy is centred on delivering long term value to our shareholders.
Our Vision, to be the global reference point for quality in each of our markets, gives strategic focus and drives operational performance.
Underpinning our Vision are the strategic priorities which we believe are fundamental to achieving success.
Create shareholder value Our goal 15% cross cycle return on equity Profitable trading throughout the insurance cycle Financial targets Our Vision for 2010 2015 is to be the global reference point for quality in each of our markets Our Vision First class Profit focused Effective risk Measured A culture client service underwriting management expansion and employment based on a excellence which helps of core practices that thorough optimise returns businesses make Amlin understanding for the risks we and geographic the place of their needs take footprint to work Strategic priorities Underwriting Clients Risk Operations People Financial management management Business focus 16 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 A consistent vision with a strategy for growth The core objective of our strategy is delivery of a cross cycle return Growth through acquisition remains central to our plans as on equity of at least 15%.
Evidence suggests that there is a positive we believe that organic growth alone is less likely to deliver the correlation between profitable growth and the price to book multiple diversity, quality and scale of growth targeted over our strategic and hence the creation of shareholder value.
We believe that we can horizon.
The 2011 result benefited from some of the recent niche deliver significant growth over the insurance cycle through expansion acquisitions made to further diversify our non-catastrophe lines.
of the platforms and markets in which Amlin operates.
However, ACI, which was acquired in 2009, has yet to attain the performance given Amlins leading position as a catastrophe underwriter, this level that we expect, but we remain confident that it will provide average return will necessarily be achieved with a wide variance significant diversification into the Continental European insurance between single years.
In 2009, when catastrophe losses were low and market.
Organic growth will also be important.
Amlin Re Europe, investment returns buoyant, Amlins return on equity was a record which commenced operations in October 2010, has started 37.0%.
However, in 2011, with extraordinary international catastrophe strongly and will further extend the Groups business mix into losses and a difficult investment environment, the Group made its first the substantial Continental European reinsurance market.
As a result, the Groups five year weighted average continued growth of Amlin UK and the expansion of specialty lines return on equity fell to 14.7%.
However, our cross cycle return on such as US property as market conditions improve will also add equity from 2002 remains ahead of target at 18.0%.
A key aspect of our strategy is the focus on maintaining a balance One of the strategic priorities articulated in our Vision is first class between catastrophe and non-catastrophe exposures, as well client service based on a thorough understanding of their needs.
as a broad spread of risk by geography and class.
We aim for the The catastrophe loss activity in 2011 gave us a greater than usual mean expected profitability of our total business to offset claims challenge, but also presented an opportunity to deliver on our after reinsurance in the event of one of the extreme catastrophe commitment to clients as described later in this report pp28.
scenarios to which the Groups catastrophe underwriting is exposed.
Consistent delivery of excellent service is reflected in the stability In 2011, there were large losses from the New Zealand and Japanese of Amlins underwriting portfolio and enhances our ability to attract earthquakes, in addition to unusually severe weather-related losses profitable new business in the future.
in Australia, the US, Denmark and Thailand.
With many other Despite the catastrophe claims of the past two years, Amlin remains business lines experiencing pricing towards the bottom of the cycle, non-catastrophe earnings failed to fully offset these claims, but did well capitalised to take advantage of opportunities for profitable mitigate their impact.
We continue to believe that the diversity of our growth.
Our disciplined focus on underwriting profit, without reliance business is a key strength, which will underpin our performance in the on investment returns, which has underpinned Amlins cross-cycle future and provide the balance to allow our catastrophe business to outperformance, is even more important in the current low interest grow, particularly as the trading environment for non-catastrophe lines rate environment.
As the cycle turns, we have the people and the begins to improve.
capital in place to grow significantly as others withdraw.
2012 strategic priorities Our focus for 2012 is on: 3.
Effective risk management which helps optimise Enhancing the core business skills and reputation returns for the risks we take Solvency II compliance Gain internal model approval for Solvency II Improving ACI performance Fully embed a consistent risk management framework and The Groups priorities represent the key benchmarks against which risk assessment process throughout the Group we will measure our progress in 2012.
Close compliance gaps with Group policies 1.
First class client service based on a thorough 4.
Measured expansion of our core businesses and understanding of client needs geographical footprint Deliver the platform replacement programme for ACI Support the further build out of Amlin Re Europe Further develop the Amlin brand and maximise the return Identify and evaluate acquisition and organic growth opportunities from marketing initiatives in target markets Enhance relations with key brokers and reinforce brand credentials 2.
Profit focused underwriting excellence Ensure delivery of adequate underwriting returns against 5.
A culture and employment practices that make allocated capital Amlin the place to work Develop Group wide pricing approach to aid comparability Reinforce Amlin Values across the Group and evaluate profitability Start to deliver strategy for Group wide talent management Reinforce profit focus of ACI Complete Group wide employee survey 17
