Other Statutory Information Principal activity, Business Review Directors Substantial shareholdings The directors biographical details are set out At 29 February 2012 the Company had been and key performance indicators earlier in this report pp60.
Mr Holt retired notified of the holdings of 5% or more of its The Groups principal activity is non-life insurance at the end of the 2011 Annual General Meeting issued ordinary share capital set out below and reinsurance underwriting in the Lloyds and Mr Beale was appointed as a director at that in accordance with LR 9.8.
6 2. market, Bermuda and Continental Europe.
Sir Alan Collins was appointed A review of the Groups business, and on 14 November 2011.
All directors, save for Substantial shareholders interests developments during the year, is set out Mr Taylor, will offer themselves for election or Number of % of Shares in the Annual Report Strategic Overview 1 Shares held in issue re-election at the Annual General Meeting on and Performance sections, pp2.
Further Invesco Limited 64,797,533 13.05 17 May 2012 AGM, in accordance with the UK information is provided in the risk disclosure Blackrock, Inc 25,821,252 5.20 Corporate Governance Code provision for annual note and in this Governance section of the Annual Ballie Gifford & Co 25,136,807 5.06 re-election of all FTSE 350 companies directors Report pp111 and pp59 respectively.
or in accordance with the Companys Articles Note 1 Based on the Shares in issue, excluding treasury The Review and Performance sections, risk shares, as at 29 February 2012 of 496,721,277 of Association.
This is detailed in the separate disclosure note and Governance section together Notice of AGM, and as referred to in the Board include the information and analysis required Corporate governance and Corporate Governance Statement.
by section 417 of the Companies Act 2006 Directors remuneration to be included in a Business Review, including The Board Corporate Governance Statement Directors interests information on key performance indicators, the and reports from the Boards Nomination, The interests of those directors and their related Groups financial and risk management policies.
Audit and Risk & Solvency Committees are set parties who have interests in the shares of the Such information and analysis is hereby out with other reports earlier in this Governance Company, all of which are beneficial except incorporated by reference into this report.
Details of the Companys rules on the where indicated otherwise, are set out below.
appointment and removal of directors, and on Share capital, treasury shares and how the Companys Articles of Association may In the cases of the four executive directors, dividends be amended, are set out in the section entitled Messrs Beale, Carpenter, Hextall and Philipps, The Companys share capital during Articles of Association in the Board Corporate the above holdings include beneficial interests the year consisted of ordinary shares Governance Statement pp71.
Details of held through the Companys SIP and details of 28.125p each Shares.
Directors remuneration and of the Boards of their interests in share options and long term Remuneration Committee are set out in the incentive plans are set out in the Directors There were 502,076,006 Shares in issue, Directors Remuneration Report, also earlier Remuneration Report earlier in this Governance at the year end 2010: 502,076,006, including in this Governance section.
section of the Annual Report, as are details of the Shares held in treasury throughout the year.
total interests of the trustees of the SIP and of the No Shares were bought back into treasury during Employment policies Groups ESOT.
Details of transactions between the year 2010: also nil.
488,309 Shares were The People section of the Review provides the Group and directors who served during the transferred out of treasury during the year to commentary on the Group as an employer, year are set out in note 38c to the Accounts.
service exercises of employee share options including its commitment to training and 2010: 1,270,343, leaving 5,387,392 Shares professional development.
The Group recognises Directors interests in shares in treasury at the year end 2010: 5,875,701. the importance of employee engagement and At 31 Dec There have been no issues of Shares or further 2011 and therefore operates the Amlin Consultation Forum at date of share buy backs or transfers into treasury since in the UK and Works Councils in the Netherlands this report At 31 Dec the year end but a further 32,663 Shares had and Belgium as frameworks for discussion and number of 2010 number by 29 February 2012 been transferred from Shares of Shares consultation between staff and management treasury to satisfy employee share options, S C W Beale 321,556 N A in these three countries where the great majority leaving 5,354,729 Shares in treasury at that date.
C Bosse 3,540 3,540 of Group employees work.
In addition to N J C Buchanan 11,200 11,200 engagement through line managers, employee An interim dividend of 7.2p per share B D Carpenter 380,481 380,221 communication is also facilitated by intranet 2010: 7.2p was paid on 6 October 2011 to M D Feinstein 4,000 4,000 communication and a regular Group e-newsletter.
shareholders on the register on 9 September R A Hextall 165,253 164,993 2011.
The directors now propose a final dividend The Groups equal opportunities policy aims C E L Philipps 612,967 588,805 of 15.8p per Share 2010: a second interim to ensure that no employee, in application for R J Taylor 17,986 17,986 of 15.8p, to be paid on 24 May 2012 to initial employment or as an existing employee Sir Mark Wrightson Bt 14,888 14,888 shareholders on the register at the close including in the event of a change in his or Includes 1,000 shares held non-beneficially as a bare trustee of business on 10 April 2012.
This makes her circumstances, receives less favourable total dividends for the year of 23.0p per share treatment because of his or her gender No directors have any other interests in the 2010: 23.0p.
Those shareholders wishing including gender reassignment, marital shares or any other securities of the Company to use any of these dividends to purchase further or family status, actual or perceived sexual or any of its subsidiaries.
shares were, and are, able to participate in a orientation, age, ethnic origin, race, colour, Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
Details of the Plan nationality, national origin, creed, political are available on the Companys website and affiliation, part-time status, disability, or any shareholders are being reminded of the Plan other condition, unless differing treatment as this Annual Report is being published.
can be shown to be legally justifiable.
94 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 Copies of the Groups policies, some applying Annual General Meeting In addition note 2 to the accounts describes to the whole Group and some to the UK with capital management needs and policies, and The Notice of AGM, to be held at noon on local variations outside the UK, on professional note 3 covers underwriting, market, liquidity and Thursday 17 May 2012 at the offices of the qualifications, family leave, flexible working, credit risks which may affect the financial position Company at St Helens, 1 Undershaft, London, sabbaticals, staff harassment and equal of the Group.
EC3A 8ND, is contained in a separate circular to opportunities are available on the Companys shareholders which is being mailed or otherwise The Group has considerable financial resources website or from the Secretary on request.
provided to shareholders at the same time to meet its financial needs and, in much of the The Groups health and safety policy and details as this report.
Group, manages a mature portfolio of insurance of its local application are publicised to staff, risk through an experienced and stable team.
Its operation in the UK Directors indemnities directors believe that the Group is well positioned is monitored by a staff Health and Safety The Company has made third party indemnity to manage its business risks successfully in the Committee.
The Chief Operations Officer, provisions for the benefit of its directors and current uncertain economic environment.
Mr Andrew Grant, who reports to the Group certain directors of the Companys subsidiaries.
Chief Executive, is responsible for oversight After making enquiries, the directors have a The current indemnities of the directors of the of health and safety throughout the Group.
reasonable expectation that the Company and Company were entered into during 2008, the Group have adequate resources to continue with the exception of Mrs Bosse 2009 and Corporate responsibility and in operational existence for the foreseeable Sir Alan Collins 2011.
All of such indemnities charitable donations future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the remain in force at the date of this report.
A Corporate Responsibility report is set out going concern basis in preparing the annual earlier in this Governance section pp78.
Authorisation of directors conflicts The Group Chief Executive is responsible of interest at Board level for leading, and reporting to the Directors Responsibilities The Companys Articles of Association permit Board on, the Groups initiatives on corporate the authorisation of a directors potential conflict Directors statement on the disclosure responsibility related matters.
Relevant policies of information to the auditors of interest or duty, for instance arising from a and terms of reference are available on the Each director at the date of the approval directors appointment as a director of another Companys website.
of this report confirms that: company which may have a business relationship with the Group.
Such authorisations may be given As part of a wider corporate responsibility so far as they are aware, there is no relevant by the remaining directors who are independent and community budget, the Group made audit information of which the Companys of the potential conflict.
A number of charitable donations during the year of 169,193 auditors are unaware: and authorisations have been approved by the Board 2010: 142,287.
The charities budget in the they have taken all the steps that they in this manner.
Such authorisations do not UK is managed by a Community and Charities ought to have taken as a director in order remove a directors duty to ensure that any actual Panel chaired by a senior underwriter.
Non-UK to make himself or herself aware of any conflict of interest or duty, should it arise, is dealt subsidiaries community and charities budgets relevant audit information and to establish with appropriately, usually by the director taking are managed locally under the direction that the Companys auditors are aware no part in the relevant Board or Committee of their boards.
A Register of approved Conflicts is maintained and available for inspection at the This confirmation is given and should be Political donations Companys Registered Office.
interpreted in accordance with the provisions The Group made no political donations during of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. the year 2010: nil.
Going concern Auditors The Groups business, risk and financial Supplier payment policy and A resolution is to be proposed at the Annual management, performance and position, performance General Meeting for the re appointment of together with factors that are likely to affect The Groups policy is to pay suppliers in  LLP as auditors future development, are described in the accordance with agreed terms of business.
and to authorise the Audit Committee Performance section of this Annual Report Whenever possible, purchase orders are placed to determine their remuneration.
Capital management strategy, which on the basis of the Groups standard terms covers how regulatory and economic capital and conditions which include provision for the By Order of the Board needs are measured and how capital is deployed, payment of suppliers within 30 days of the end M P D Stevens is described under Financial Management of the month in which the Group receives the Company Secretary on page pp50.
The financial position goods or in which the services are provided.
2 March 2012 of the Group, including commentary on cash During the year there was a review of trading and investment levels, currency management, terms and a revised policy was adopted by the Group, creditor days represented approximately insurance liability management, liquidity and 30 days 2010: 30 days.
borrowings, is also covered in that section.
