Our investment case 10 reasons to invest in Amlin Amlin is a specialist insurer and reinsurer with a well proven and scaleable business model.
This has delivered excellent performance for shareholders across the insurance cycle.
Profit focused underwriting Our active and flexible approach to capital management has Amlins underwriting approach is highly disciplined and focused generated a weighted average return on equity of 14.7% over the past on gross underwriting profitability before investment income and five years.
Understanding and managing the level of capital required, reinsurance across the insurance cycle, rather than premium income adjusting the level of equity and debt employed across the cycle to or market share.
This is underpinned by incentive structures which enhance returns and support growth, and returning surplus capital reward underwriters for long term profitability.
to shareholders are key aspects of this strategy.
Amlin Group average combined ratio 20072011 Cash returned to shareholders 20072011 82% 606.9m 2.
Breadth and depth of underwriting expertise 5.
A dynamic approach to managing investment risk The skill and experience of our underwriters is paramount in achieving Amlins disciplined and responsive approach to investment outstanding performance.
Amlin has strength in depth across an management has delivered consistently robust returns in stable underwriting portfolio that spans more than 30 classes with over financial markets.
In current turbulent markets our focus on risk 100 senior underwriters.
appetite, rather than a target return, is crucial.
Average turnover of senior underwriters 20072011 Simple average % outperformance of peer group investment return over last seven years 4.1% 0.9% 3.
Wealth of industry experience Amlins underwriters are supported by a team of seasoned 6.
Strong balance sheet with significant scope for growth professionals in specialist disciplines including claims, risk Amlins strong capital position, with 1.7 million of equity and long management, actuarial, catastrophe modelling, investments and term debt capital, makes Amlin a preferred market for major brokers.
Many of Amlins key people have been with Amlin since its Our balance sheet strength allowed us to withstand 500.8 million creation in 1998.
As Amlin has grown, this experienced and stable of net catastrophe losses in 2011 and maintain the dividend, team has been further enhanced by the addition of high calibre while continuing to provide scope to grow into more favourable senior recruits.
Senior managers average years of industry experience Net tangible assets 2011 25 1.2bn 14 9.
Strong franchise supported by first class client service Amlins Vision is to be the global reference point for quality in each of our markets.
The strength of our franchise is based on access to expert underwriters and speed of response combined with fair, 7.
Effective risk management timely and equitable claims settlement.
The value of our long-standing Amlin has developed a sustainable enterprise risk management relationships with brokers and clients is reflected in our consistently framework that enables us to manage risk effectively and helps high business retention ratio.
optimise return for the risks that we take.
The framework is overseen Group 2011 retention ratio by a dedicated team of professionals who provide assurance and challenge to management.
This risk management capability will 82% be important under Solvency II regulation.
Cross-cycle track record of outperformance Amlins business model is focused on delivering an average return 54% on equity of at least 15% across the insurance cycle through a diverse and profitable underwriting portfolio, active capital management 8.
A diverse and balanced portfolio and optimised investment returns.
Over the past five years we have The diversity of Amlins portfolio mixes high margin but volatile delivered a weighted average return on equity of 14.7% and cumulative catastrophe underwriting with lower margin and less volatile business.
profit after tax of 960.4 million, despite extraordinary catastrophe This enhances quality of earnings and capital efficiency, especially losses in 2011.
Since 2002, our weighted average return on equity in a high margin environment, as well as offering a broad range of is 18.0%.
The business is well positioned to continue this strong opportunities for growth in different territories and classes of business.
performance through further profitable growth.
Major classes of business written Total shareholder return five year index 30 124% 15
