Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 Outlook Underwriting environment In the UK, we continue to see an improving Capital and risk management The diversity of our business by class and rating trend for fleet motor, with the withdrawal Amlin has emerged from the exceptional losses platform means that trading conditions of capacity by some competitors creating of 2011 with a strong balance sheet, excellent vary across the portfolio.
Overall, however, ratings and our franchise further enhanced opportunities to grow our market share we are seeing a more favourable rating by the excellent claims service we delivered significantly.
UK property rates are also environment than twelve months ago.
to clients in the wake of the years multiple strengthening gradually, creating a more At 1 January 2011 renewals, the overall catastrophe events.
favourable environment to leverage the Amlin portfolio saw a fall in rates of 1.3% investments made to position Amlin UK Consequently Amlin is very well positioned and approximately 75% of the portfolio was to grow in this market.
to benefit from higher catastrophe margins experiencing pricing that was flat or falling.
as a market leader in catastrophe underwriting.
Amlin France and ACI continue to experience However, the trading environment improved However, every major loss event requires a highly competitive property and casualty markedly during the year, with an average reassessment of previous assumptions, and markets, although amid deteriorating results rate increase of 3.3% from 1 July to the severity of last years events, together in the Continental European insurance sector 31 December.
In January 2012, with with their unusual frequency, have naturally there is some evidence of financial distress, approximately 37% of the Groups 2012 led to a careful review of our catastrophe which combined with lower investment returns business renewing, the renewal rate increase risk appetite.
Exposures on the international may encourage a more realistic approach to was 4.0%.
This reflects further substantial catastrophe account have been reviewed pricing.
The low interest rate environment is rate increases on catastrophe reinsurance and cut where prices have not responded likely to have a more widespread impact on and continued momentum in UK fleet motor, adequately to the events of 2011.
However, insurance pricing in most markets, particularly but we are also seeing a modest uplift in through rate improvements and selective in casualty lines.
additions to exposures, January income for Amlin Re Europes business proposition Rate increases for catastrophe reinsurance the London and Bermuda catastrophe has been powerfully endorsed by clients renewals in January, which accounts for reinsurance businesses is 10.8% higher than and brokers and it continues to make good approximately 49% of the catastrophe business in 2011 at 209.8 million.
progress, with January 2012 premium of expected to be written for the year, were The structure of our reinsurance programmes 163.6 million, up 32.3% on 2011.
The up for Amlin London and Amlin Bermuda.
for London and Bermuda has been revisited business was able to broaden out its footprint US catastrophe rates were back to peak levels.
with a view to providing deeper reinsurance with good support from brokers, an increased Loss affected business witnessed substantial protection across the Group.
The London number of submissions and an expanded client increases in rates.
This trend is expected to programme worked well in 2011 and broadly base.
The business has been underwritten in continue for the 1 April Japanese renewals the structure has been renewed, but with lower line with expected profitability targets.
and peak rating levels are expected to be held retentions for the first event.
The Bermuda into the US windstorm renewals in the middle In the past five years we have added to the team have largely replicated that structure, of the year.
quality and diversity of our core businesses which has provided much greater protection through investment in niche acquisitions, The marine markets in London and on the for 2012 than was previously the case.
start-ups in Singapore and Zurich and a Continent were stable at the start of the year.
In addition, an insurance linked catastrophe significant increase in senior underwriters Some further increases are expected in the bond of $150 million has been placed into with the objective of broadening the range energy portfolio in 2012 and the recent Costa the capital markets, which covers US perils Concordia vessel loss is expected to exert of growth opportunities for the Group.
and European windstorm events above upward pressure on marine rates.
The ACI As well as already benefiting from higher a pre-set scale and in the aggregate.
This marine account was reduced modestly again rates on renewal business in 2012, we are provides greater protection against severity at 1 January, with the retention ratio at 84%.
better positioned than ever before to grow and frequency of catastrophe events.
wherever the stronger pricing environment Reinsurance expenditure as a proportion The US property and casualty sector is starting creates opportunities.
of income is expected to increased to 15.3%.
to see a change in its rating environment, with large US insurers reporting price increases across sections of their business.
In the London market, some rate correction was evident in the property market in the second half of 2011 and we expect to see this trend continued through 2012.
57 Outlook continued Investment markets Summary Investment markets rallied in the fourth We expect that 2012 will bring a return quarter of 2011 as action was taken in to stronger profitability for the Group.
Continental Europe to address the Eurozone Much of our business is seeing improved debt crisis.
The possibility of policy error premium rating and we will naturally benefit in the management of the crisis remains if catastrophe activity returns to more normal significant and has the ability to worry levels.
The underlying profitability of our markets.
However, confidence around the London and Bermuda business is strong and pace and sustainability of the US economic with Amlin UK moving into a better trading recovery appears to be growing and this, environment, these divisions should see along with evidence of improving prospects strong growth in 2012.
Amlin Re Europes for global growth, has seen a strong start success in attracting new business, without to 2012 for our investment portfolios.
compromising its profit targets, should also provide a better trend, as the underwriting We continue to believe that short dated profits will be better able to absorb its start safe haven government bond yields remain up expenses.
too low from a medium term perspective and we have continued to control our In our Continental European insurance exposures to these assets.
Higher yields businesses we also anticipate an improvement and strong corporate balance sheets make in performance, even without an improvement non-government bonds more attractive in the underlying trading environment.
Amlin and we retain our equity weighting, albeit France was affected heavily on its modest at reduced levels from the first half of 2011. income base by the international catastrophes of 2011 and in 2012 should revert to its However it is important to recognise that, underlying satisfactory trading position.
With with low interest rates in developed the action taken at ACI over the last two years economies, our expectations for investment to remove badly underwritten marine business, returns have been lowered compared to what we expect that ACI will also achieve a better we have seen in the past.
Its non-marine businesses are performing satisfactorily and on much of its core marine account, while profitability is still not at acceptable levels, there is an evident improving trend.
Investment markets are expected to remain challenging, but we expect that we should fare better in 2012 than last year.
Amlins focus on underwriting profit should ensure that the lower interest rate environment is one where we can trade successfully.
For insurers that have been reliant on investment return to generate profit it will not be as easy.
With a strong capital position we expect to grow into improving market conditions when they emerge.
58 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 Governance Board of directors 60 Board corporate governance statement 62 Nomination Committee report 72 Audit Committee report 74 Risk & Solvency Committee report 76 Corporate responsibility 78 Directors remuneration report 80 Other statutory information 94 Statement of directors responsibilities 96 59
