Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 Amlin Re Europe W e made good progress in our first full year of business, establishing Amlin Re Europes market position as a client focused and well capitalised full service European reinsurer.
The positive response of cedants and brokers to our business proposition is reflected in the development of the portfolio across a range of classes and territories.
Philippe Regazzoni, Chief Executive In addition to establishing a robust operational Key performance indicators 2011 highlights framework, a key focus during the year was Amlin Re Europe established as a full service Gross written premium ensuring that ARE set a high standard in European reinsurer service delivery and responsiveness to client Recruitment of experienced and high quality 123.7m needs, for example, in underwriting certain underwriting team covering all main lines complex and non-standard transactions of business and European markets alongside providing professional quotes Positive response from brokers and clients Combined ratio in all main lines of business and products.
reflected in strong new business growth Income significantly ahead of business plan Key components of AREs business 105% at 123.7m proposition include the quality of the underwriting team, their established client Broad book of business with more than relationships and knowledge of local markets.
250 clients Further differentiators are the ability to offer Amlin Re Europe ARE commenced a comprehensive and flexible underwriting underwriting in October 2010 as a full service approach across a clients entire portfolio, reinsurance operation with the objective together with the strength of the Amlin AG of providing European reinsurance buyers, balance sheet and the Amlin brand.
especially small and mid-sized companies, The outcome of January 2012 renewals with high quality reinsurance capacity as an confirmed the strong initial response from alternative to the small number of established AREs target markets, with 170.0 million reinsurers already operating in the Continental of gross written premium January 2011: European market.
The overall portfolio 70.0 million, representing more than 300 comprises a mix of proportional and clients on over 600 programmes.
non-proportional treaty reinsurance business, with a focus on property and casualty and The division generated a combined ratio some special lines of business, mainly marine of 105% in the year.
Net earned premium and engineering.
AREs portfolio is largely was 59.0 million reflecting the first full year complementary to the existing reinsurance of trading.
The claims ratio of 72% was books of Amlin London and Amlin Bermuda.
satisfactory with no individual claims above 2011 GWP by class 3.5 million.
The expense ratio of 33% reflects In its first full year of operation, the business material start up costs.
Over the longer term made good progress, attracting more than 5% this expense ratio is expected to reduce.
8% 250 clients, generating 123.7 million of gross 28% written premium on approximately 500 11% reinsurance programmes.
During 2011, targeted recruitment in line Underwriting performance table 13% with the business plan increased the ARE team 2011 22% to 37 experienced reinsurance professionals Gross written premium 123.7m 13% Net earned premium 59.0m from leading European reinsurance players.
Combined ratio 105% As well as substantial market and underwriting Motor Engineering Claims ratio 72% expertise, senior recruits also brought actuarial, Liability Property Expense ratio 33% Catastrophe Classes 4% risk management and finance capabilities.
