Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Expert analysis and judgement Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 Solvency II of a Group wide risk management framework During 2011, we made further progress towards Solvency II in accordance with Pillar 2.
Key components, compliance and started to realise tangible business benefits such as the ORSA, the Risk Assessment Process and the Internal Model have now through the development of our Target Operating Model.
We become integrated business as usual remain confident that full implementation will improve cross-cycle components across the Group.
earnings quality by further enhancing our risk management and We also submitted to Lloyds our Internal capital efficiency.
Amlin has been at the forefront of the Solvency II initiatives taken Richard Hextall, project sponsor by Lloyds and throughout the process Amlin has been in the upper quartile of businesses Solvency II is an EU directive aimed at Pillar 3 focuses on disclosure and reporting in relation to our progress in Solvency II overhauling the regulation of life and non-life requirements, including an annual report compliance and operational embedding.
The key objective of Solvency II to supervisors.
is to introduce a more risk-based approach We also continued to work to bring ACI into Progress during 2011 to regulation, with strong incentives for firms line with Solvency II requirements and further Amlins Solvency II programme set out to assess their own capital requirements substantial progress was made in 2011, to the to achieve five key objectives: internally.
The directive goes beyond existing extent that ACIs level of preparation is now 1.
To improve risk and capital management regulation by aiming to instil a high standard ahead of many local peers.
across the Group so that Amlin remains ahead of risk management and governance within Although many of the expected business of its peers in terms of quality risk taking and each insurer.
Implementation of the directive benefits from the Solvency II programme delivering cross-cycle capital returns.
has been repeatedly delayed, but Amlin has are yet to emerge, gains realised so far have continued to pursue the objectives set in 2009 2.
To supplement our expertise in underwriting already overtaken the cost of the programme.
at the launch of its Solvency II programme and investments with improved risk These include improvement across the Group and the business is now beginning to reap management capability supported by in our catastrophe risk modelling and aggregate the benefits.
analytical and modelling tools, while risk analysis, which in 2011 allowed outwards maintaining Amlins philosophy of relying Solvency II regulation is predicated upon and internal reinsurance to be structured more on expert judgement rather than models.
efficiently with significant cost savings.
To demonstrate to our customers, Additionally, the use of more flexible analytical Pillar 1 sets out the minimum level of capital shareholders and other external stakeholders tools and more robust modelling have led required, how it is to be calculated and the that Amlin is adequately capitalised and to more informed underwriting decisions and nature of the assets held to support this a global leader in risk management.
in some business lines identified areas where capital.
There are two prescribed methods 4.
To prepare the Group for compliance with more underwriting risk can be taken against for assessing an insurers regulatory capital Solvency II regulation.
available capital within risk appetite.
requirements using either a standard formula 5.
To deliver the Target Operating Model within set by the regulator or an internal model Other benefits include standardised a three year timeframe.
specific to that insurer, which reflects its risks management information at executive level and which is subject to regulatory approval.
During 2011, the focus of the programme and a common Group policy framework across divisions, both important in managing a larger We continue to believe that obtaining approval was on the Pillar 1 aspects relating to risk and more diverse business.
for Amlins internal model will give the and capital management, and the embedding business greater capital flexibility and competitive advantage over insurers operating Operation of the internal model under the standard formula.
Expert analysis and The goal of Pillar 2 is to strengthen the internal judgement corporate governance and control processes within European insurance firms.
As part of Underwriting Investment Internal model Pillar 2, companies are required to deliver activities activities Dynamic financial analysis an Own Risk & Solvency Assessment ORSA, Catastrophe models to the Board, at least on an annual basis.
This Investment models defines the companys internal risk tolerance, assesses its own individual risk profile and derives a capital requirement that is consistent Economic capital assessment Risk level calculation with these.
