Business review Governance Financial statements Directors report The Directors present their Annual Report and financial statements Details of the constitution and powers of the Board and its for the year ended 30 June 2011.
The Company, formerly committees are set out in the corporate governance report on registered as a private company and named Ashmore Group pages 37 to 41.
The corporate governance report also summarises Limited, was re-registered as a public limited company on 3 October the Companys rules concerning appointment and replacement 2006, changing its name on that date to Ashmore Group plc.
The Company was admitted to the Official List of the London Stock Exchange Admission on 17 October 2006.
Directors conflicts of interests Since October 2008, the Companies Act 2006 has imposed upon The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with directors a new statutory duty to avoid unauthorised conflicts of International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the interest with the Company.
The Company has adopted revisions EU IFRS.
to its Articles of Association which enable Directors to approve conflicts of interest and which also include other conflict of interest Principal activity and business review provisions.
The Company has implemented processes to identify The principal activity of the Group is the provision of investment potential and actual conflicts of interest.
Such conflicts are then management services.
The Company is required to set out in this considered for approval by the Board, subject, where necessary, report a fair review of the business of the Group during the financial to appropriate conditions.
year ended 30 June 2011 and of the position of the Group at the end of that financial year and a description of the principal risks and Executive Directors do not presently hold any external appointments uncertainties facing the Group referred to as the business review.
with any non-Ashmore related companies.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the business review can be found in the financial and operational highlights on page 10, Directors share interests the Chief Executive Officers statement on pages 14 to 17, the The interests of Directors in the Companys shares and in options business review on pages 21 to 24 and 26 to 29 and the corporate over the Companys shares are shown on page 48 within the governance report on pages 37 to 41. remuneration report.
The principal risks facing the business are detailed in the business review on pages 21 to 24 and 26 to 29 and in the corporate Significant agreements with provisions applicable governance report on pages 37 to 41. to a change in control of the Company Save as described, there are no agreements in place applicable to a change in control of the Company.
Results and dividends The results of the Group for the year are set out in the consolidated Resolution 16 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting will seek statement of comprehensive income on page 51. approval from shareholders to a waiver of the provisions of Rule 9 of the Takeover Code in respect of the obligation that could arise The Directors recommend a final dividend of 10.34 pence per share for Mark Coombs to make a mandatory offer for the Company in 2010: 9.34 pence which, together with the interim dividend of the event that the Company exercises the authority to make market 4.16 pence per share 2010: 3.66 pence already declared, makes purchases of its own shares.
Further details are contained in the a total for the year ended 30 June 2011 of 14.5 pence per share separate Notice of AGM.
Details of the interim dividend payment are set out in note 10 to the financial statements.
Restrictions on transfer of shares Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final Employees of the Company who held ordinary shares in the dividend will be paid on 2 December 2011 to shareholders on Company or who held options in respect of ordinary shares at the the register on 4 November 2011 ex-dividend date being time of Admission were, subject to certain exceptions, restricted 2 November 2011. by lock-in arrangements from selling, pledging or otherwise disposing of their holding of or options in respect of such shares Related party transactions at the time immediately following Admission Lock-in Shares.
Details of related party transactions are set out in note 29 to the These restrictions came to an end in September 2009 and, save financial statements.
as described below, no other restrictions now exist.
On 31 May 2011 the Company completed the acquisition of Post-balance sheet events Emerging Markets Management LLC now renamed Ashmore EMM As set out in note 32 to the financial statements there were no LLC.
A proportion of the initial and earnout consideration paid and post-balance sheet events.
to be paid to the selling shareholders of AshmoreEMM is in Ashmore Group plc shares which are subject to certain restrictions on sale Directors for a period of up to three years from either completion or the date The members of the Board together with biographical details are of earnout.
shown on page 30, all of whom served as Directors throughout Dealings in the Companys ordinary shares by persons discharging the year.
managerial responsibilities, employees of the Company and, in each Details of the service contracts of the current Directors are shown case, their connected persons, are subject to the Groups Dealing in the remuneration report on pages 43 to 48.
Code which adopts the Model Code of the Listing Rules contained in the Financial Services Authoritys Handbook.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 31 Directors report continued Certain restrictions, customary for a listed company, apply to produced in respect of a transfer: and iii the transferor has been transfers of shares in the Company.
served with a restriction notice as defined in the Articles after failure to provide the Company with information concerning The Board may, in its absolute discretion, decline to register any interests in those shares required to be provided under the transfer of a share which is not fully paid or where there are more Companies Acts, unless the transfer is shown to the Board to be than four joint holders.
pursuant to an arms length sale.
Registration of a transfer of In the case of certificated shares, registration of a transfer may also shares may be refused in the case of uncertificated shares in the be refused where i the instrument of transfer is not duly stamped circumstances set out in the Uncertificated Securities Regulations unless exempt from stamping : ii insufficient evidence of title is as defined in the Articles.
Substantial shareholdings The Company has been notified of the following significant interests over 3 per cent in accordance with the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules other than those of the Directors which are disclosed separately on page 48 in the Companys ordinary shares of 0.01 pence each as set out in the table below.
Number of Number of shares as at shares as at 30 June Percentage 12 September Percentage 2011 interests 2011 interests Jerome Paul Booth 47,412,690 6.70 47,412,690 6.70 Carey Pensions and Benefits Limited as Trustees of the Ashmore 2004 1 Employee Benefit Trust 24,555,042 3.47 24,555,042 3.47 BlackRock Inc 30,997,089 4.41 30,997,089 4.41 FMR LLC 35,376,536 4.99 35,376,536 4.99 1.
In addition to the interests in the Companys ordinary shares referred to above, each Director and senior manager who is an employee of the Group has an interest in the Companys ordinary shares held by Carey Pensions and Benefits Limited under the terms of the Ashmore 2004 Employee Benefit Trust.
Percentage interests are based upon 707,916,106 shares in issue which excludes 5,368,331 shares held in Treasury.
Share capital Power to issue and allot shares The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided The Directors are generally and unconditionally authorised to allot into ordinary shares of 0.01 pence, each of which rank pari passu unissued shares in the Company up to a maximum nominal amount in respect of participation and voting rights.
The shares are in of 23,451.89 and 46,903.78 in connection with an offer by way registered form.
The issued share capital of the Company at of a rights issue.
30 June 2011 is 713,284,437 shares in issue of which 5,368,331 A further authority has been granted to the Directors to allot the shares are held in Treasury.
Companys shares for cash, up to a maximum nominal amount of Details of structure of and changes in share capital are set out in 3,540.00, without regard to the pre-emption provisions of the note 22 to the financial statements.
No such shares have been issued or allotted under these authorities, nor is there any current intention to do so, other than to satisfy outstanding obligations under the employee share Restrictions on voting rights schemes where necessary.
A member shall not be entitled to vote at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of any share held by him if any call or other These authorities are valid until the date of the next Annual General sum then payable by him in respect of that share remains unpaid or Meeting.
A resolution for the renewal of such authorities will be if a member has been served with a restriction notice as defined in proposed at the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
the Articles after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under Employees the Companies Acts.
Votes may be exercised in person or by proxy.
Details of the Companys employment practices including the The Articles currently provide a deadline for submission of proxy employment of disabled persons can be found in the corporate forms of 48 hours before the meeting.
governance report on pages 37 to 41.
Carey Pensions and Benefits Limited as trustee of the Ashmore 2004 Purchase of own shares Employee Benefit Trust the EBT has discretion as to the exercise of The Company is, until the date of the next Annual General Meeting, voting rights over shares which it holds in respect of employee share generally and unconditionally authorised to buy back up to options that have not vested and other restricted share awards.
In the year under review the The current arrangement is that the EBT considers the Companys Company did not purchase any shares for Treasury.
The Company recommendation s before voting such shares at a general meeting retains a total of 5,368,331 shares for Treasury which were acquired of the Company, subject to an overriding duty to act in the interests at an average price of 129 pence per share.
The Company is seeking of the EBT.
a renewal of this authority at the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
32 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review Governance Financial statements After making enquiries, the Directors are satisfied that the Company Corporate governance and the Group have adequate resources to continue to operate The Company is governed according to the applicable provisions of for the foreseeable future and confirm that the Company and the company law and by the Companys Articles.
As a listed company, Group are going concerns.
For this reason they continue to adopt the Company must also comply with the Listing Rules and the the going concern basis in preparing these financial statements.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules issued by the United Kingdom Listing Authority UKLA.
Listed companies are expected to comply as far as possible with the Financial Reporting Councils UK Companies Act 2006 Corporate Governance Code, and to state how its principles have This Directors report on pages 31 to 33 inclusive has been drawn been applied.
A report on corporate governance and compliance up and presented in accordance with and in reliance on English with the provisions of the Code is set out on pages 37 to 41. company law and the liabilities of the Directors in connection with that report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
Charitable and political contributions During the year, the Group made charitable donations of References in this Directors report to the financial highlights, 0.3 million 2010: nil.
The work of the Ashmore Foundation the business review, the corporate governance report and the is described further below in the corporate social responsibility remuneration report are deemed to be included by reference in section of this report.
It is the Groups policy not to make this Directors report.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Creditor payment policy Michael Perman The Groups policy and practice in the UK is to follow its suppliers Company Secretary terms of payment and to make payment in accordance with those terms subject to receipt of satisfactory invoicing.
Unless otherwise 12 September 2011 agreed payments to creditors are made within 30 days of receipt of an invoice.
At 30 June 2011, the amount owed to the Groups trade creditors in the UK represented approximately 28 days average purchases from suppliers 2010: 30 days.
Auditors and the disclosure of information to auditors The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as Directors to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Resolutions will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors and to authorise the Directors to agree their remuneration.
Note 6 to the financial statements sets out details of the auditors remuneration.
2011 Annual General Meeting The 2011 Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 12.00 noon on Thursday 27 October 2011 at Kingsway Hall Hotel, 66 Great Queen Street, London WC2B 5BX.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting are given in the separate circular and notice of meeting.
Going concern The Company and Group have considerable financial resources and the Directors believe that both are well placed to manage their business risks successfully.
Further information regarding the Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position is set out on pages 14 to 29.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 33
