Ashmore Outperformance KLKPJH[PVU [V LTLYNPUN THYRL[Z Eastern Europe Where we invest Offered greatly contrasting Ashmores experienced team and local presence in the macro dynamics and exposure to movements in global currencies Emerging Markets allows wide coverage of the investible via Euro proxies.
Ashmore played universe of close to 60 countries, the scope of which Eastern European currencies in differs in emphasis between different asset classes.
corporate and sovereign dollar debt through resources plays in former Soviet Republics.
Ashmore investment of ces $14.0bn $7.9bn $21.4bn $22.5bn Latin America Middle East and Africa Asia Pacific Strong growth was supported by Healthy external balances, low Increasingly turned to domestic tight commodity markets, FDI debt levels and strong sovereign demand-led growth amidst inflows, and a commitment in most support transformed Middle Eastern intra-regional reserve diversification countries to stable macro-economic credits into attractive safe-haven to further extend the regions policies.
Upside was captured mainly destinations in volatile global already strong resilience to slower through currency appreciation and markets.
The region offered tactical trading of local rates as well corporate exposures offered considerable upside to currency as corporate exposures and active significant spread tightening and longs, special situations, and selective management of high beta positions yield compression following the alpha calls in equities and local rates.
Istanbul, Turkey 4 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Investor geography The Groups clients are drawn from developed markets and emerging markets across the globe.
The centrally managed but globally located distribution of ces are our link to these clients.
UK Europe Ashmore distribution of ces The Ashmore business has developed European investors in a number of a strong following in the UK from European jurisdictions have been public, corporate and local authority some of the most progressive pension funds.
investors in the emerging markets asset classes and the long established SICAV structures underpin this.
$15.1bn $8.6bn $9.2bn $13.2bn $19.7bn Americas Middle East Asia Ashmore has been successful in Ashmore has long associations with Asia Pacific has both developed developing AuM sourced from North a number of significant sovereign and emerging markets pools of American institutional investors over funds and governments in this capital which Ashmore manages.
many years and this has combined region and has been instrumental These include government pensions, with AshmoreEMMs historic AuM in working with them in developing sovereign wealth funds and its from a large range of US public and strategies to diversify their US dollar successful retail multi-strategy fund.
private pensions and foundations reserves.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 5
