Board of Directors The Hon.
Michael Benson, Non-executive Chairman Jonathan Asquith, Non-executive Director Age 54 Jonathan Asquith joined the Board on 1 September 2008 and is Age 68 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
He was formerly Vice Michael was appointed to the Board as Non-executive Chairman Chairman of Schroders plc and held the position of Chief Financial on 3 July 2006.
He is Chairman of the Companys Nominations Officer between 2002 and 2007.
Prior to that he worked for Committee.
Michael began his career in the City in 1963 and, after Morgan Grenfell and was appointed as Chief Financial Officer of a series of senior positions in the investment management industry, Deutsche Morgan Grenfell in 1995 and Chief Operating Officer was, from 2002 to March 2005, Chairman of Invesco and Vice in 1997.
He is also Non-executive Chairman of AXA UK plc and a Chairman of Amvescap plc.
Prior to that he was CEO of Invesco Non-executive Director of AXA Investment Managers, 3i Group plc, Global 1997-2002.
Michael is a Non-executive Director of Trinity Dexion Capital plc, and a member of the Finance and Audit Street Asset Management, is the Director of the York Minster Fund A, N, R N, R Committees of the Tate galleries.
and is CEO of the York Minster Revealed project.
Melda Donnelly, Non-executive Director Age 61 Mark Coombs, Chief Executive Officer Age 51 Melda Donnelly joined the Ashmore Group plc Board as a Mark Coombs was appointed a Director on the incorporation of the Non-executive Director in July 2009, and is also a member of the Company in December 1998, and has served as its Chief Executive Audit Committee.
Melda is an Australian citizen and a Chartered Officer since then.
He held a number of positions at Australia and Accountant.
She was the Founder and Chairperson of the Centre New Zealand Banking Group ANZ and led Ashmores buyout from for Investor Education.
Current directorships include Victorian Funds ANZ in early 1999.
He is Co-Chair of EMTA, the trade association for Management Corporation.
Ms Donnellys past investment experience emerging markets, having been on the Board since 1993.
Mark has includes being CEO of Queensland Investment Corporation, Deputy an MA in Law from Cambridge University.
Managing Director of ANZ Funds Management and Managing Director of ANZ Trustees.
She is currently a member of the Advisory Graeme Dell, Group Finance Director Age 45 A Committee of the Oxford University Centre for Ageing.
Graeme Dell was appointed to the Board as Group Finance Director in December 2007.
Prior to joining Ashmore Graeme was Group Finance Director of Evolution Group plc from 2001 to 2007, Key to membership of committees where he had group-wide responsibility for finance, operations, A Audit technology, compliance, risk and HR which included playing a N Nominations R Remuneration significant role in the foundation and development of Evolutions Chinese securities business.
Graeme previously worked for Deutsche Bank and Goldman Sachs in a range of business management, finance and operations roles both in Europe and in Asia Pacific.
Graeme qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Coopers & Lybrand and is a graduate of Hertford College, Oxford University.
Nick Land, Senior Independent Non-executive Director Age 63 Nick Land was appointed to the Board as Senior Independent Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee on 3 July 2006.
He is a qualified accountant and was a partner of Ernst & Young LLP from 1978 to 2006 and its Chairman from 1995 to 2006.
Nick is a Non-executive Director of BBA Aviation plc, Alliance Boots GmbH and Vodafone Group plc and a trustee of the Vodafone Group Foundation.
He is a Board member of the Financial Reporting Council, a member of the Finance and Audit Committees of the National Gallery and is Chairman of the Board of Trustees of A, N, R Farnham Castle.
30 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011
