Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 93 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors report The directors submit their annual report and accounts for The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary Aviva plc, together with the consolidated financial statements shares and preference shares, together with the powers of the of the Aviva Group of companies, for the year ended Companys directors, are set out in the Companys articles of 31 December 2011. association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies The Companies Act 2006 requires the directors to present a House and the Companys website, www.
com investorbusiness review in this Directors Report.
The requirement is for relations corporate-governance , or by the Company to set out in this Directors Report a fair review writing to the group company secretary.
of the business of the Group during the financial year ended With the exception of restrictions on transfer of the ordinary 31 December 2011, including an analysis of the position of the shares under the Companys employee share incentive plans Group at the end of the financial year and the trends and factors while the shares are subject to the rules of the plans, there are no likely to affect the future development, performance and position restrictions on the voting rights attaching to the Companys of the business.
ordinary shares or the transfer of securities in the Company.
The contents of this Directors Report, together with the Where, under an employee share incentive plan operated by Performance review on pages 20 to 70, the Corporate the Company, participants are the beneficial owners of shares but Responsibility Report on pages 72 to 88, Shareholder Information not the registered owners, the voting rights are normally exercised on pages 138 to 164 which includes the risks relating to our at the discretion of the participants.
No person holds securities business, the Corporate Governance Report on pages 97 to 105, in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of and the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 114 to 136, the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements constitute the business review and are therefore incorporated into between holders of securities that may result in restrictions in the this Directors Report by reference.
Details of material acquisitions transfer of securities or voting rights.
Unless expressly specified and disposals made by the Group during the year are contained to the contrary in the articles of association of the Company, the in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements IFRS.
Companys articles of association may only be amended by special resolution of the Companys shareholders in general meeting.
Results There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company, such as The Group results for the year are shown in the consolidated commercial contracts and joint venture agreements.
None is income statement on page 183. considered to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
All of the Companys Dividends employee share incentive plans contain provisions relating to The directors are recommending a final dividend of 16.00 pence a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options would per ordinary share 2010: 16.00 pence, which, together with normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, the interim dividend of 10.00 pence per ordinary share paid on subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions and 17 November 2011 2010: 9.50 pence, produces a total dividend pro rata reduction as may be applicable under the rules of the for the year of 26.00 pence per ordinary share 2010: 25.50 employee share incentive plans.
The total cost of ordinary dividends paid in 2011, was At the 2012 AGM, shareholders will be asked to renew the 738 million 2010: 681 million.
Subject to shareholder directors authority to allot shares.
Details are contained in the approval at the 2012 Annual General Meeting AGM, the final Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice of AGM.
dividend for 2011 will be paid on 17 May 2012 to all holders of ordinary shares on the Register of Members at the close of Authority to purchase own shares business on 23 March 2012 and approximately five business days At the Companys AGM held on 4 May 2011, shareholders later for holders of the Companys American Depositary Receipts.
renewed the Companys authorities to make market purchases 3 of up to 282 million ordinary shares, up to 100 million 8 4% Share capital and control 3 preference shares and up to 100 million 8 % preference shares.
8 The issued ordinary share capital of the Company was increased These authorities were not used during the year or up to the date by 85,564,296 ordinary shares during the year.
At the 2012 AGM, shareholders will be asked to were allotted under the Groups employee share and incentive renew these authorities for another year and the resolution will plans and 83,989,590 shares were allotted under the Aviva once again propose a maximum aggregate number of ordinary Scrip Dividend Scheme for the May 2011 and November 2011 shares which the Company can purchase of less than 10% of the dividends.
At 31 December 2011 the issued ordinary share capital issued ordinary share capital.
Details are contained in the Notice totalled 2,905,712,938 shares of 25 pence each and the issued of AGM.
The Company held no treasury shares during the year preference share capital totalled 200 million shares of 1 each.
or up to the date of this report.
Accordingly, the issued and paid-up ordinary share capital constituted 78% of the Companys total issued share capital Major shareholdings and the issued preference share capital constituted 22% of the In accordance with the provisions of the Disclosure and Companys total issued share capital at 31 December 2011.
All Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority, as at the Companys shares in issue are fully paid up and the ordinary 31 December 2011, the Company had received the following and preference shares have a Premium and Standard listing notifications relating to their holdings percentage of the total respectively on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company is voting rights attaching to the issued ordinary share capital of the listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE in the form of Company: BlackRock, Inc. held 4.99%: Legal & General Group plc American Depositary Shares, referenced to ordinary shares, under held 3.98% and AXA SA held 3.86%.
As at 7 March 2012, the a depositary agreement with Citibank.
Details of the Companys Company had been notified of the following holdings of voting share capital and shares under option at 31 December 2011 and rights in the ordinary share capital of the Company: BlackRock, Inc. shares issued during the year are given in notes 29 to 32 of the 5.15%: Legal & General Group plc 3.98%: and AXA SA 3.86%.
94 Aviva plc Directors report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors Financial instruments The following persons served as directors of the Company Aviva Group companies use financial instruments to manage during the year and up to the date of this report: certain types of risks, including those relating to credit, foreign currency exchange, cash flow, liquidity, interest rates, and equity Glyn Barker appointed 27 February 2012 and property prices.
Details of the objectives and management of Mary Francis these instruments are contained in the Shareholder Information Richard Karl Goeltz section on pages 155 to 164 and an indication of the exposure of Euleen Goh the Group companies to such risks is contained in note 56 to the Michael Hawker consolidated financial statements.
Gay Huey Evans appointed 20 October 2011 Mark Hodges resigned 2 June 2011 Health and safety Trevor Matthews appointed 2 December 2011 Aviva is committed to providing a safe and healthy working John McFarlane appointed 1 September 2011 environment for all staff, contractors and anyone who is or may Igal Mayer appointed 19 January 2011 be affected by the business undertakings.
The Groups health Andrea Moneta resigned 19 January 2011 and safety standard sets out the range of policies, procedures and Andrew Moss systems required to manage risks and promote wellbeing.
This Carole Piwnica resigned 1 December 2011 includes appropriate staff consultation through nominated health Patrick Regan and safety representatives.
The group chief executive has overall Lord Sharman of Redlynch accountability for health and safety across the organisation and Leslie Van fide Walle regularly reviews health and safety performance.
Russell Walls Scott Wheway Developing communities Aviva takes its corporate citizenship seriously and recognises the The biographical details of the persons currently serving as role it plays in the communities in which it operates and the role directors appear on pages 90 to 91. they play in its business.
The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code provides that The Company pays attention to global issues such as the all directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual Millennium Development Goals set by the United Nations to re-election by shareholders and that directors should be subject to focus governments, businesses and civil society on major global election by shareholders at the first annual general meeting after concerns, including the local needs of people in the places where their appointment.
The Company complied with this provision in the Group operates.
The Company works in partnership with 2011 and at the 2012 AGM, all directors of the Company will field experts across the public and third sector and aims to use again offer themselves for election re-election in compliance with the Groups core capability as it focuses its activity on education, this provision of the Code.
life trauma and financial literacy.
A total contribution of over 12.4 million was made in 2011.
This includes cash donations, Directors interests and indemnity marketing expenditure, the value of volunteering hours by the arrangements Groups employees, non-cash resources committed to community activities, management and project costs.
The Groups employees At no time during the year did any director hold a material interest in any contract of significance with the Company or any are entitled to up to three paid days leave per year to volunteer and in 2011 the Group delivered over 60,300 hours of of its subsidiary undertakings other than an indemnity provision between each director and the Company and employment volunteering in our communities.
There is mutual benefit in the Groups community contracts between each executive director and a Group company.
There is no arrangement or understanding with any shareholder, development activity as employees feel engaged, communities where the Group operates feel the impact and the Groups brand customer, supplier, or any other external party, to appoint a director or a member of the Group Executive Committee.
The Groups flagship global community development programme, that embodies the approach above, Company has purchased and maintained throughout the year directors and officers liability insurance in respect of itself and is Street to School, which is now in year two of a five-year commitment to help 500,000 children fulfil their potential.
The directors also have the benefit of the indemnity provision contained in the Companys articles of association.
end of 2011, the Group had already helped 274,000 children through prevention work, community outreach, healthcare, safe The Company has executed deeds of indemnity for the benefit of each director of the Company, and each person who was a housing programmes and a significant focus on education and training projects, delivered in 17 countries.
The Group has also director of the Company during the year, in respect of liabilities that may attach to them in their capacity as directors of the partnered with the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights to deliver a study to support the implementation of best Company or of associated companies.
These indemnities were granted at different times according to the law in place at the practice with street children globally.
The Groups community development activity also included time and where relevant are qualifying third-party indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006. grassroots athletics and rugby activity, financial literacy work in schools and adult education.
The Group recently renewed its These indemnities were in force throughout the year and are currently in force.
Details of directors remuneration, service long term partnership with Oxfam 365, helping it respond promptly to emergencies in areas such as Philippines and the contracts, employment contracts and interests in the shares of the Company are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 95 Aviva plc Directors report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Political donations Corporate responsibility At the 2011 AGM, shareholders passed a resolution, on a The Group has a well-embedded corporate responsibility precautionary basis, to authorise the Company to make political programme helping to deliver sustainable business practices.
donations and or incur political expenditure as such terms are The Company continues to use its position as a large procurer, defined in sections 362 to 379 of the Companies Act 2006, in business partner and investor to influence other companies to each case in amounts not exceeding 100,000 in aggregate.
engage in sustainable behaviour and report on their progress As the authority granted will expire on 3 May 2012, renewal of and forward looking strategy.
The Company puts its Corporate this authority will be sought at this years AGM.
Further details Responsibility Report, which is included in the Annual Report and are available in the Notice of AGM.
The definitions of political Accounts, to an annual advisory vote of shareholders at the donations and political expenditure used in the Companies Act Companys AGM as a means of obtaining feedback on the Report 2006 are broad in nature and this authority is sought to ensure and the Companys performance in this area.
The Report is set that any activities undertaken throughout the Groups businesses, out on pages 72 to 88 and details of the resolution for the 2012 which could otherwise be construed to fall within these AGM are set out in the Notice of AGM.
provisions, can be undertaken without inadvertently infringing them.
It is not the policy of the Company to make donations to Creditor payment policy and practice EU political organisations or to incur other political expenditure.
It is the Groups policy to pay creditors when they fall due for During the year, the Aviva USA Political Action Committee, payment.
Terms of payment are agreed with suppliers when which is funded solely by voluntary contributions from employees negotiating each transaction and the policy is to abide by those of Aviva USA Corporation a subsidiary of the Company, made terms, provided that the suppliers also comply with all relevant contributions to six candidate campaigns and industry political terms and conditions.
In respect of Group activities in the UK, action committees.
The total sum of the donations made was the amounts due to trade creditors at 31 December 2011 $11,250 and the donations were used to support candidates represented 22.2 days of average daily purchases through for nomination and or election to public office.
Group employees Corporate Governance Statement The Groups statement on its employees is set out in the In compliance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules the Corporate Responsibility Report.
In summary, the Groups DTRs, the disclosures required by DTR 7.2.
7 can be commitment to communication and dialogue with employees found in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 97 to 105, continues.
The existence of a Group-wide intranet enables which is incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
engagement and communication with employees throughout the Group on a single platform.
It also helps management to Disclosure of information to the auditor share information, ideas and opportunities quickly across the The directors in office at the date of approval of this Directors entire business and to achieve a common awareness on the part Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no of all employees of the financial and economic factors affecting relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor, the performance of the Company.
A strong emphasis is placed on Ernst & Young LLP, is unaware and each director has taken all the provision of news and information through a range of media.
steps that ought to have been taken as a director to be aware Employees have opportunities to voice their opinions and ask of any relevant audit information and to establish that Ernst & questions through intranet sites, question-and-answer sessions Young LLP are aware of that information.
with the group chief executive, via telephone conferencing, The above statement is made in accordance with Section 418 opinion surveys and the Groups Employee Promise Survey of the Companies Act 2006. which is open to all employees.
Face-to-face briefings and team The Audit Committee reviews the appointment and the terms meetings are actively encouraged and are held in all business of engagement of the auditor, the auditors effectiveness, units across the Group.
The Groups businesses in the UK have independence and relationship with the Group, including the level established employee consultative forums and a European of audit and non-audit fees paid.
Further details on the work of Consultative Forum convenes annually to discuss matters the auditor and the Audit Committee are set out in the Audit impacting the business across Europe.
The Group ensures that Committee Report on pages 108 to 110. involvement of employees in its performance is encouraged by allowing eligible employees to participate in the Groups all Appointment of new auditor employee share ownership plans.
In order to ensure good corporate governance and that the services of the external auditor remained of the highest quality, Employee practice the Audit Committee recommended that the provision of external The Group respects all fundamental human rights and is guided in audit services be put to tender in 2011.
Following a transparent the conduct of its business by the provisions of the United Nations and competitive tender, including presentations from all Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International candidate firms and discussions with management, the Audit Labour Organization core labour standards.
The Group also Committee recommended to the Board of Directors that supports the United Nations Global Compact Principles.
The  LLP be appointed to replace Ernst & Group companies are committed to providing equal opportunities Young LLP as the external auditor of the Aviva Group to all employees, irrespective of their gender, sexual orientation, commencing with the 2012 financial year.
This appointment is marital status, race, nationality, ethnic origin, disability, age, subject to shareholder approval and a resolution to that effect religion or union membership status.
Aviva is an inclusive will be proposed at the Companys 2012 AGM.
employer and values diversity among its employees.
These commitments extend to recruitment and selection, training, career development, flexible working arrangements, promotion and performance appraisal.
96 Aviva plc Directors report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 A resolution will also be proposed authorising the directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
Details of these resolutions will be set out in the Notice of AGM.
As resigning auditor, Ernst & Young LLP has confirmed an intention to resign on completion of the 2011 audit.
A statement of circumstances will be included as an appendix to the Notice of AGM.
Annual General Meeting The 2012 AGM of the Company will be held on Thursday, 3 May 2012 at the Barbican Centre, Silk Street, London EC2Y 8DS at 11am.
The Notice of AGM convening the meeting will describe the business to be conducted thereat and will include details of proposed amendments to the Companys articles of association.
By order of the Board Andrew Moss Group chief executive 7 March 2012 Registered Office: St Helens, 1 Undershaft, London EC3P 3DQ Registered in England No.
2468686 Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 97 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate governance report The UK Corporate Governance Code Allocation of Board agenda time % The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council dated June 2010 is applicable to companies with a UK Premium Listing with financial years Succession planning, Board composition and effectiveness 11 beginning on or after 29 June 2010.
The Company opted for Group strategy, business plans early adoption of some of the provisions of the Code in 2011. and performance monitoring 33 However, this is the first time the Company will report in full on Financial reporting and controls, capital structure compliance with the Code, in respect of the 2011 financial year.
and dividend policy 24 The Code sets out standards of good practice in the form of Corporate governance 7 principles and provisions on how companies should be directed Group risk management policies, risk appetite and framework 14 and controlled to follow good governance.
The Financial Services Others 11 Authority FSA requires companies with a UK Premium Listing to disclose how they have applied the main principles of the Code The full terms of reference for the Board are available from the and whether they have complied with its provisions throughout group company secretary.
Matters that are not specifically the accounting period.
Where the provisions have not been reserved for the Board and its committees under its terms of complied with, companies must provide an explanation for this.
reference, or for shareholders in general meeting, are delegated The Directors Report is therefore based on compliance with to the group chief executive.
The Boards terms of reference also the Code.
Details of how the Company has applied the Code set out those matters that must be reported to the Board, such principles and complied with its provisions are set out on pages as senior leadership changes, significant litigation or material 97 to 136. regulatory breaches, and cover how matters requiring It is the Boards view that the Company has been fully consideration by the Board that arise between scheduled compliant throughout the accounting period with the relevant meetings should be dealt with.
Further information on the Code can The Board and its Committees operate in line with annually be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website, agreed work plans.
At Board and Committee meetings, directors www.
receive regular reports on the Groups financial position, risk appetite, risk management, regulatory compliance, key business The Board operations, customer satisfaction, human resources and other The directors are responsible to shareholders for ensuring that material issues.
Directors are fully briefed in advance of Board and the Company is appropriately managed and that it achieves its Committee meetings on all matters to be discussed and the chairs objectives.
The Board meets regularly to determine the Companys of the Board Committees provide oral updates on Committee strategic direction, to review the Companys operating and financial discussions to the Board meetings.
The group company secretary performance, to set the Companys risk appetite and to provide is responsible for following Board procedures and advising the oversight that the Company is adequately resourced and effectively Board, through the chairman, on governance matters.
The specific duties of the Board are clearly set out in have access to the group company secretarys advice and services.
its terms of reference which address a wide range of corporate The Board has adopted a procedure whereby directors may, governance issues and list those items that are specifically in the performance of their duties, seek independent professional reserved for decision by the Board.
Matters requiring Board advice at the Companys expense if considered appropriate.
approval include: During the year, the members of the Remuneration Committee Group strategy and business plans: sought independent advice from AON Hewitt New Bridge Street Financial reporting and controls, capital structure and and FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP on issues concerning dividend policy: senior executive remuneration.
FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP Group risk appetite and framework: is an independent consultancy and did not have any other Corporate governance: connection with the Company.
AON Hewitt New Bridge Street Remuneration policy: is part of AON, which provided insurance broking services to the Significant transactions and expenditure: and Company in 2011.
During the year, the Audit Committee and the Other matters e. g. appointment and removal of group Risk Committee sought independent advice from Keith Nicholson, company secretary and chief risk officer, Board and a former partner at KPMG LLP.
Committee succession planning and constitution of Board Committees.
The directors The Board currently comprises the chairman, ten independent non-executive directors and four executive directors.
Each director is required to be elected by shareholders at the AGM following his her appointment by the Board and thereafter all directors are subject to annual re-election as recommended by the Code.
98 Aviva plc Corporate governance report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Board ensure an international perspective, which is invaluable Balance of executive and non-executive directors for the Group as a global business.
In addition to the strengths of experience and diversity, the Board also complies with the requirements of the Code on the independence of directors.
Chairman 1 The aim is that the Board as a whole should have an appropriate Executive directors 4 Non-executive directors 10 balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge to enable each director and the Board as a whole to discharge their duties and responsibilities effectively.
During the year, following a thorough search by external recruitment consultants, The Zygos Partnership and JCA Group, the Nomination Committee recommended a number of appointments to the Board as part of its succession planning process.
John McFarlane was appointed to the Board as an independent non-executive director and will take over the Gender split of directors chairmanship of the Board following Lord Sharmans retirement planned for the end of June 2012.
Gay Huey Evans was appointed as an independent non-executive director and Male 12subsequently as chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Female 3 Committee following the retirement of Carole Piwnica.
In February 2012, Glyn Barker was appointed as an independent non-executive director.
Each director must be able to devote sufficient time to the role in order to discharge his or her responsibilities effectively.
On average, directors spend at least 44 days a year on Company business, with the chairmen of the Audit, Risk and Remuneration Committees spending substantially more.
The Code requires that at least half the Board, excluding the Length of tenure of non-executive directors chairman, should comprise independent non-executive directors as determined by the Board.
The Nomination Committee performs an annual review of directors interests in which all 03 years 5 potential or perceived conflicts, including time commitments, 36 years 2length of service and other issues relevant to their independence, 69 years 4 are considered.
Where a non-executive director has served on the 9 years 0 Board for up to nine years, the Board, through the Nomination Committee, assesses whether such a director remains independent in character and judgement.
The Nomination Committee report, including a description of its duties and its activities during the year in relation to succession planning, is set out on pages 106 to 107.
It is the Boards view that independent non-executive directors Geographical mix need to be able to present an objective, rigorous and constructive challenge to management, drawing on their wider experiences to question assumptions and viewpoints and where necessary defend a given position.
The independent non-executive directors UK 8 Continental Europe 1should also assist management in the development of the US 2Companys strategy.
To be effective, an independent director Other 4 needs to acquire a sound understanding of the industry and the Company so as to be able to evaluate properly the information provided.
Having considered the matter carefully, the Board is of the opinion that all of the current non-executive directors are independent and free from any relationship or circumstances that could affect, or appear to affect, their independent judgement.
Accordingly, over half of the Board members, excluding the The Boards policy is to appoint and retain non-executive chairman, are independent non-executive directors.
All of the directors, who can apply their wider business knowledge and current directors that served during 2011 have been subject to experiences to their understanding of the Aviva Group, and to a formal performance evaluation during 2011 and 2012.
Nonreview and refresh regularly the skills of the Board.
In line with executive directors who have served on the Board for more than the Code, several non-executive directors, including the Company six years were subject to a particularly rigorous review of their chairman, are due to retire in 2012 and 2013, after serving on independence.
As at the date of this report, there are four nonthe Board for up to nine years.
During the year, the Nomination executive directors who have served on the Board for more than Committee continued to undertake succession planning for six years.
More details about all the directors are set out in the the Board to ensure that an appropriate balance of skills and Notice of AGM and their biographical details are set out on pages experience is maintained.
As part of the process for the 90 to 91.
Below is a summary of some of the skills and experience appointment of new directors, the Nomination Committee, on they possess and which they bring to the Board.
behalf of the Board, considers the diversity of the Board, including gender.
The diverse nationalities which currently make up the Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 99 Aviva plc Corporate governance report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 John McFarlane OBE Summary of directors skills and experience Mr McFarlane has substantial global listed company experience Glyn Barker and an excellent track record spanning 37 years in the UK and Mr Barker has extensive experience as a business leader and a international financial services industry, culminating in ten years senior adviser to the boards of FTSE 100 companies on a wide as the highly successful CEO of ANZ Australia and New Zealand variety of corporate and finance issues.
He brings to the Board Banking Group and as a director of The Royal Bank of Scotland a deep understanding of audit and regulatory issues as well as Group.
He has extensive experience in banking, including in-depth transactional experience.
investment, corporate and retail banking as well as, general management, insurance, strategy, risk and cultural change.
His Mary Francis CBE wide-ranging board and executive experience provides him with Mrs Francis has a long and distinguished career and broad the requisite skills for his succession to the chairmanship of the experience as a non-executive director.
With her background in Company and the Board upon Lord Sharmans retirement.
government affairs and the financial services industry, coupled with long-standing senior and governance positions across a range of Andrew Moss industries, she has the financial knowledge and business acumen Mr Moss has extensive experience in the financial services industry to provide rigorous challenge in the discussions of the Board.
and a track record of successfully leading businesses through challenging economic conditions.
He has successfully led the Richard Karl Goeltz Group since 2007, and through his clear strategic vision and Mr Goeltz has over 40 years experience in corporate finance, strong leadership skills he has strengthened the Companys including 20 years in the financial services industry.
He has a position as one of the worlds leading insurers.
broad range of both executive and non-executive business experience in major global corporations.
His experience of audit Patrick Regan and governance committees has been invaluable in providing Mr Regan has extensive global experience in various executive effective oversight as a member of the Companys Audit functions within the insurance industry.
He also has an excellent Committee.
As the senior independent director he has provided track record of driving change programmes and corporate actions strong support to the Board and Nomination Committee, to deliver improved profitability.
With his significant financial particularly in relation to the chairmans succession.
experience and global perspective, he has helped to develop and execute the Groups strategy in a challenging macroEuleen Goh economic environment.
Ms Goh has over 20 years of global executive experience in the financial services industry.
In addition, she also has substantial Lord Sharman of Redlynch OBE non-executive and board committee experience, including Lord Sharman has wide-ranging international experience in membership of a number of board committees at DBS and the financial services industry and a wealth of non-executive Singapore Airlines.
She has a strong understanding of risk and experience which includes numerous non-executive directorships product issues in financial services and continues to provide and the chairmanship of various listed companies.
He has an valuable insight to the Companys operations, particularly in excellent track record of working with and leading diverse the Asia Pacific region.
international businesses and has applied these skills to his chairmanship of the Companys Board.
Michael Hawker AM Mr Hawker has a wealth of financial services knowledge gained Leslie Van fide Walle over 28 years in the banking and insurance industry in both Mr Van fide Walle has had a career spanning over 20 years in executive and non-executive roles in Europe, Asia and Australia.
senior management in addition to his experience as a nonHe also has significant experience of risk committees which has executive director.
He brings to the Board extensive marketing been invaluable in the review and implementation of the Groups and brand knowledge together with a wealth of experience risk management framework.
in growing and developing businesses.
With his multi-sector background and strong analytical ability, he has contributed Gay Huey Evans significantly to the deliberations of the Board.
Ms Huey Evans has over 30 years of experience within the financial services industry, having held key positions in Russell Walls government and in a number of global financial and banking Mr Walls has a strong financial background and significant institutions.
In addition to the financial expertise she brings to the international business experience.
With his financial acumen, Board, her experience at the FSA provides insight on the priorities thorough, common sense approach and experience on the audit and focus of the Groups lead regulator.
committees of a number of listed companies, he has provided an invaluable contribution to the discussions of the Board and Trevor Matthews of the Audit Committee, most recently in relation to the external Mr Matthews has over 30 years of executive experience in the audit tender.
He has an outstanding track record of achievement in the insurance sector globally and brings to Scott Wheway the Board in-depth operational and strategic knowledge of life Mr Wheway has a wealth of business experience in the retail assurance and financial services operations.
sector and has been a champion of excellent customer service.
He has provided key insights into the Companys strategy of putting Igal Mayer the customer at the heart of business.
As the chairman of the Mr Mayer has had a long and diverse career at Aviva with an Companys Remuneration Committee, he led the strategic review excellent track record of improving business performance.
Most of executive remuneration within the Group and consulted closely recently, he has led the restructuring of Avivas European regional with major investors to ensure that the Groups executive operations to strengthen the businesses and create a leaner cost remuneration is aligned with stakeholder needs.
He brings to the Board a truly international perspective and a detailed knowledge of the insurance industry.
100 Aviva plc Corporate governance report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 The chairman and group chief executive Training and development The respective roles of the chairman and group chief executive The Board believes strongly in the development of all of its are set out in the Boards terms of reference.
The chairmans employees and directors and it is a requirement of each directors priority is leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness: appointment that they commit to continue their development.
the group chief executives priority is the management of the The form that this development takes is subject to individual Company.
The chairmans commitment to the Company is two to directors requirements and the relevance of the training available.
three days per week and his main interests outside the Company During the year, directors attended a number of internal and are set out in his biographical details on page 90.
During the year, external courses including training on Solvency II for the Board the chairman of the Company, Lord Sharman of Redlynch, and the Audit Committee and on IFRS Phase II for members of the stepped down as a non-executive director of Reed Elsevier plc Audit Committee.
There was a joint training session for members with effect from 20 April 2011 and as a non-executive director of the Risk and Audit Committees on the global corporate of BG Group plc with effect from 12 May 2011. structure and the Risk Committee members also attended training on economic capital methodology and stress testing.
Training Senior independent director sessions have also been built into the Boards and Committees work plans for 2012.
The Board made visits to the Groups Under the Code the Board appoints one of the non-executive businesses located in the UK during the year to gain a closer directors to act as senior independent director.
Richard Goeltz has understanding of their operations.
served as the senior independent director since January 2009.
The The Board has a comprehensive induction programme for role of the senior independent director is to provide a sounding new non-executive directors which is tailored to their particular board for the chairman and to serve as an intermediary for the needs and which consists of several separate sessions over a other directors where necessary.
His main responsibility is to be number of months.
These include presentations from key available to shareholders should they have concerns that they members of senior management, visits to the Groups main have been unable to resolve through normal channels, or when operating businesses, and meetings with the external auditor such channels would be inappropriate.
The senior independent and one of the Companys corporate brokers.
Further or followdirector is also responsible for leading the Boards discussion on up meetings are arranged where a director requires a deeper the chairmans performance and on the appointment of a new understanding on a particular issue.
During the year, the non-executive directors led by the senior independent director have twice met Directors attendance without the chairman present.
Mr Goeltz led the process for the selection, assessment and appointment of the chairman The Company requires directors to attend all meetings of the designate, John McFarlane.
Board and the Committees on which they serve and to devote sufficient time to the Company in order to perform their duties.
Board effectiveness The attendance of the directors at the Board meetings held in 2011 is shown in the table below and the attendance at The effectiveness of the Board is vital to the success of the Group Committee meetings is shown in the Committee reports.
and the Company undertakes a rigorous evaluation each year in order to assess how well the Board, its Committees, the directors Board attendance 2011 and the chairman are performing.
The aim is to improve the Number of meetings Percentage effectiveness of the Board and its Committees and the Groups 1 Director attended attendance performance.
The process for 2011 was led by the chairman Mary Francis 15 100% designate and supported by the group company secretary.
The Richard Karl Goeltz 15 100% 2 review was carried out by Boardroom Review, an independent Euleen Goh 13 87% # 2 Gay Huey Evans 3 75% consultancy with no other connection with the Company and Michael Hawker 15 100% focused on the Boards role and its approach to its work, the way 2 Mark Hodges 3 60% ## 2 in which the Board works together and the way in which the John McFarlane 4 80% Trevor Matthews 1 100% Board uses its time.
Boardroom Review prepared a report based Igal Mayer 14 100% on interviews with the directors and the overall results of the Andrea Moneta 0 n a evaluation will be incorporated into the Boards processes and Andrew Moss 15 100% 2 Carole Piwnica 12 86% activities for 2012.
2 Patrick Regan 14 93% The performance of the chairman was reviewed by the Lord Sharman 15 100% 2 executive and non-executive directors.
The chairmans evaluation Leslie Van fide Walle 14 93% Russell Walls 15 100% was managed by the senior independent director who provided Scott Wheway 15 100% feedback to the chairman.
As part of the chairmans evaluation, Resigned on 2 June 2011 the non-executive directors met separately under the Appointed on 19 January 2011 Resigned on 19 January 2011 chairmanship of the senior independent director.
# Appointed on 20 October 2011 The Board evaluation process assessed the executive directors ## Appointed on 1 September 2011 Appointed on 2 December 2011 in their capacities as directors of the Company.
They were Resigned on 1 December 2011 evaluated in respect of their executive duties through a separate 1 This shows the percentage of meetings which the director attended during the year while a member of the Board 2 The director was unable to attend Board meeting s due to prior commitments and the meetings being called at process whereby the chairman and the non-executive directors short notice assessed the group chief executive and the group chief executive assessed the other executive directors.
During 2011, there were 15 Board meetings held, of which, nine The directors have concluded that the Board and its were scheduled Board meetings and six were additional Board Committees operate effectively and agreed that the actions meetings called at short notice.
In addition the Board delegated identified for improvement in previous reviews had been responsibility for certain items to a Committee of the Board and implemented.
Additionally, the chairman has concluded that each six meetings by such a Committee were held at short notice director contributes effectively and demonstrates full commitment during 2011. to his her duties.
Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 101 Aviva plc Corporate governance report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 The chairman and the non-executive directors met several times Risk management and internal control in the absence of the executive directors and the non-executive statement directors met in the absence of the chairman, including one The Board has overall responsibility for: meeting chaired by the senior independent director to appraise determining the nature and extent of the significant risks it the chairmans performance.
is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives: and maintaining the Groups risk management and internal Board committees control systems and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The Board has established the following standing Committees to oversee and debate important issues of policy and oversight To discharge this responsibility, the Board has established outside the main Board meetings: frameworks for risk management and internal control.
The Audit Committee: Groups systems of risk management and internal control play Corporate Responsibility Committee: a key role in the management of risks that may impact the Nomination Committee: fulfilment of its objectives.
Internal control facilitates effective Remuneration Committee: and and efficient operations, the development of robust and reliable Risk Committee.
internal reporting and compliance with laws and regulations.
These systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, Throughout the year the chairman of each Committee provided the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only the Board with a summary of the key issues considered at the provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material meetings of the Committees and the agendas and minutes of the misstatement or losses.
meetings were circulated to the Board.
The Committees operate These systems are regularly reviewed and comply with the within defined terms of reference which are available on the Turnbull Guidance Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Companys website, www.
com investor-relations corporateDirectors published by the Financial Reporting Council.
governance terms-of-reference, or from the group company The Audit Committee, working closely with the Risk secretary upon request.
Board Committees are authorised to Committee, on behalf of the Board, last reviewed the engage the services of external advisers as they deem necessary effectiveness of the systems of risk management and internal in the furtherance of their duties at the Companys expense.
control in March 2012, covering all material controls, including Reports of the Committee chairmen are set out on pages financial, operational and compliance controls and the risk 106 to 136. management framework and processes.
The necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy any significant failings Aviva plc governance structure and weaknesses identified from these reviews.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, measuring, managing, monitoring and reporting the significant Aviva plc Board Aviva plc Board risks faced by the Group, which has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The principal features of the systems of risk management and Audit Corporate Nomination Remuneration Risk internal control and the methods by which the Board satisfies Committee Responsibility Committee Committee Committee Committee itself that these systems operate effectively are set out below.
Control environment Disclosure Group Executive Performance Committee Committee Management The Group operates a three lines of defence model.
Primary Monitoring responsibility for the application of the risk management Committee framework risk identification, measurement, management, monitoring and reporting lies with business management the Group Technical Group Asset Group first line of defence.
Management is therefore responsible for Committee Liability Committee Operational Risk Committee implementing and monitoring the operation of the system of internal control and for providing assurance to the Group Executive Committee GEC, the Audit Committee, the Risk Conflicts of interest Committee and the Board.
Support for and challenge of the completeness and accuracy In line with the Companies Act 2006, the Companys articles of risk assessment, risk reporting and adequacy of mitigation of association allow the Board to authorise potential conflicts plans are performed by the specialist risk function the second line of interest that may arise and to impose such limits or conditions of defence.
The design of the risk management framework is as it thinks fit.
The decision to authorise a conflict of interest can also primarily the responsibility of the second line of defence.
only be made by non-conflicted directors those who have no The risk function operates globally with teams in all major regions interest in the matter being considered and in making such a and business units.
Independent and objective assessment on decision the directors must act in a way they consider in good the robustness of the risk management framework and the faith will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The appropriateness and effectiveness of internal control is provided Board has established a procedure whereby actual and potential by the Internal Audit the third line of defence to the Audit and conflicts of interest are regularly reviewed and for the appropriate Risk Committees, regional and business unit audit committees, authorisation to be sought prior to the appointment of any new the Board and the GEC.
director or if a new conflict arises.
During 2011 this procedure operated effectively.
Risk governance and oversight The Board is responsible for setting the Groups risk appetite and monitoring the establishment and operation of prudent and 102 Aviva plc Corporate governance report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 effective controls in order to assess and manage risks associated The Performance Management Monitoring Committee, led by with the Groups operations.
the group chief executive, oversees regional performance and The Risk Committee assists the Board in its oversight of risk provides a forum for review and challenge on strategic, and risk management across the Group.
The Risk Committee operational and financial performance, including capital and reviews the Groups risk appetite and future risk strategy and risk management.
makes recommendations on risk appetite to the Board.
It also Control activities reviews the risk profile against the risk appetite, reviews the principal risk policies, approves any material changes to these The Group has a set of formal risk management and internal policies, and reviews the Groups internal models and stress and control policies that facilitate a consistent approach to the scenario testing.
The oversight of the design, completeness and management of all the risks across all the businesses and locations effectiveness of the risk management framework relative to the in which the Group operates.
These risk policies define the Groups Groups activities is performed on behalf of the Board by the appetite for different risk types and set out risk management and Risk Committee.
This includes the oversight of the quality of the control requirements for the Groups worldwide operations.
The risk function and the effectiveness of risk reporting.
The Risk risk policies also set out the roles and responsibilities of businesses, Committees oversight covers all aspects of risk including market, regions, risk policy owners and the risk oversight committees.
credit, liquidity, general insurance, life insurance, operational, As the business responds to changing market conditions reputational and regulatory risks.
and customer needs, we regularly monitor the appropriateness The Audit Committee, working closely with the Risk of our risk policies to ensure they remain up to date.
This helps to Committee, is responsible for assisting the Board in discharging provide assurance to the various risk oversight committees that its responsibilities for the integrity of the Companys financial there are appropriate controls in place for all our core business statements, the effectiveness of the system of internal control and activities, and that the processes for managing risk are understood for monitoring the effectiveness, performance and objectivity of and followed consistently across our global businesses.
In the internal and external auditors.
preparation for Solvency II, the Company reviewed the existing risk These Committees receive reports on risk management and management policies and enhanced the risk management and internal controls and consider where relevant whether internal control framework through the introduction of updated appropriate actions have been undertaken as well as monitoring risk policies and business standards which took effect at the the completion of any Group-level actions.
These Committees have clearly defined terms of reference and Businesses regularly review the risks identified against the full reports for these Committees are set out on pages 108 to tolerances specified in the risk policies, and where risks are 112. outside of tolerance, action plans are required.
Similarly, controls The parts of the governance framework relating to the are regularly reviewed for effectiveness and remediation actions operational management of the Groups businesses include limits are implemented where necessary.
on the authority delegated by the Board in respect of matters The Audit Committee receives regular reports from which are necessary for the effective day-to-day running and management to assist with its review and assessment of the management of the business.
The Board delegates day-to-day effectiveness of the system of internal control including financial management, including risk management, to the group chief reporting.
A governance certification process is conducted executive, who has delegated operational aspects of day-to-day throughout the Group in support of this review.
The necessary management to executives within the Group through a delegated actions have been or are being taken to remedy significant failings authority framework.
The GEC assists the group chief executive and weaknesses identified from these reviews.
with regard to strategic, monitoring and control aspects of The chief executive and chief financial officer of each region day-to-day management including the development and have certified compliance with the Groups governance, internal implementation of group strategies, plans and policies, the control and risk management requirements, supported by monitoring of operational and financial performance, the consideration of evidence from all three lines of defence.
They assessment and control of finance, business and operational have certified that all the key inherent risks within the business risks and the maintenance and ongoing development of a have been identified and assessed and that the business operates robust control framework and environment.
in a manner which conforms to the minimum standards outlined In turn, the GEC has established the Asset Liability Committee in Group risk policies as well as the business ethics code.
The chief ALCO and the Operational Risk Committee ORC to assist with executives and chief financial officers in the regions have also the execution of its duties.
The ALCO provides a key focus on confirmed that there is a governance structure that is appropriate business and financial risks and the ORC on operational risks.
to oversee risk management activities and that the business has Together, the ORC and ALCO provide the GEC with a mechanism complied with the terms of its delegated authority cascaded by to oversee the implementation of Avivas risk strategy and risk the Group and has operated a delegated authority structure that policies, providing assurance that key risks significant to the is appropriate to oversee its activities.
achievement of the Groups business objectives are adequately Any key risks not previously identified, control weaknesses identified, measured, managed, monitored and reported.
The or non-compliance with the Group policy framework or local Board Committees also monitor the Groups risk profile relative delegation of authority, must be highlighted as part of this process.
to its risk appetite and provide a focal point for the escalation of The chief risk officers of each region have also certified their significant risk exposures and ensure mitigating actions are being responsibility for providing effective challenge and independent taken when risks are, or expected to move, out of appetite.
oversight of the business management of all risks and of the The Board Committees are in turn supported by similar system of internal control.
The chief risk officers have certified governance structures in the regions and markets.
The group in each region that they have reviewed, and where appropriate, chief risk officer is a member of the GEC and has a reporting line challenged the completeness, appropriateness and adequacy of to the group chief executive and to the Risk Committee with risk assessments irrespective of risk appetite, risk reporting and access to the Risk Committee chairman, assuring independence of the adequacy of risk mitigation plans, including proactively the function.
Similarly, the regional chief risk officers are members advising senior management of emerging risk issues.
They have of the regional executive committees.
Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 103 Aviva plc Corporate governance report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 also certified that they have monitored the implementation of, country region head of Internal Audit has a direct reporting and compliance with, the risk policies and standards, providing line to the chief audit officer with the exception of Delta Lloyd challenge and escalating all material breaches of limits, appetite and some of the Groups joint ventures.
The chief audit officer or policy to the appropriate forum as necessary.
reports to the group chief executive and to the chairman of the The chief risk officer reports regularly to the GEC and Risk Audit Committee.
Committee on the key risks and the Groups position relative to The effectiveness of Internal Audit is reviewed annually by its risk appetite.
the Audit Committee, against guidance criteria provided by the The Group risk function has reviewed any matters identified Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and by regions in their certification and also assessed the risk and by the Institute of Internal Auditors IIA.
An independent review control issues that arose and were reported during the year by is conducted every five years as required by the IIA standards.
the three lines of defence.
The last independent review was conducted in 2008.
Throughout 2011, Internal Audit, through the chief audit Internal controls over financial reporting officer, provided quarterly reporting on issues arising and the status of action items to the Audit Committee and Risk A Group Reporting Manual including International Financial Committee.
Similar reporting is undertaken on a regional and Reporting Standards IFRS and Market Consistent Embedded business unit basis to local executive management and local Value MCEV requirements has been defined and rolled out audit committees.
A Financial Reporting Control Framework FRCF is in place across the Group.
FRCF relates to the Share capital and control preparation of reliable financial reporting and preparation of local and consolidated financial statements in accordance with The information required to be provided by the directors pursuant IFRS and MCEV.
FRCF also ensures compliance with the to section 992 of the Companies Act 2006 can be found on page requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002.
The FRCF process follows a risk-based approach, with Communication with shareholders management identification, assessment documentation and testing, remediation as required, reporting and certification over The Company places considerable importance on communication key financial reporting-related controls.
Management regularly with shareholders and engages with them on a wide range undertakes quality assurance procedures over the application of of issues.
the FRCF process and FRCF controls.
The results of the FRCF The Group has an ongoing programme of dialogue and process are signed off by business unit and regional chief meetings between the executive directors and institutional executives and chief financial officers and at a Group level by investors, fund managers and analysts.
At these meetings a the group chief executive and group chief financial officer.
wide range of relevant issues including strategy, performance, The Disclosure Committee, which has the role of overseeing management and governance are discussed within the constraints the design and effectiveness of the Groups disclosure controls, of information already made public.
for both financial and non-financial information, evaluates the The Companys investor relations department is dedicated Groups disclosure controls and reviews and endorses the Groups to facilitating communication with institutional investors.
The key periodic external reports, including the consolidated financial directors consider it important to understand the views of statements.
This Committee is chaired by the chief financial shareholders and, in particular, any issues which concern them.
officer and reports to the Audit Committee.
A Group Technical The Board receives reports on matters that have been raised with Committee, reporting to the Disclosure Committee is in place, management at the regular meetings held with the Companys which presides over significant technical matters and reviews major investors.
During the year, the chairman and the senior technical decisions including key judgements, issues and independent director met with some of the Companys major application of assumptions.
In addition, the senior independent director is available to meet with major investors to discuss any areas of Risk management concern that cannot be resolved through normal channels of A Risk Management Framework RMF, designed to identify, investor communication, and arrangements can be made to meet measure, manage, monitor and report significant risks to the with the senior independent director through the group company achievement of business objectives is in place and embedded secretary.
Similarly, arrangements can be made for major throughout the Group.
The RMF is codified through the risk investors to meet with newly appointed directors.
The Board also policies and standards described above under control activities consults with shareholders in connection with specific issues and includes a cascade of the Board-approved risk appetite by where it considers appropriate.
In 2011 the Board, through the risk type and to business units.
The RMF also sets risk limits for Remuneration Committee chairman, consulted with institutional individual risks.
investors on executive remuneration and the introduction of new The risk management process has been in place for the year share plans which were put to shareholders at the 2011 AGM.
under review and up to the date of approval of the Companys The Board is equally interested in the concerns of private Annual Report and Accounts.
shareholders and, on its behalf, the group company secretary Further details on procedures for the management of oversees communication with this group of investors.
The risk operated by the Group are given in the section on risk Company has a dedicated email address to which questions can management set out on pages 61 to 68. be sent, in addition to the facility on the Companys website, which are both highlighted in the shareholder information section Internal Audit of the 2012 Notice of AGM.
These can be used by shareholders to put relevant questions, related to the business of the meeting, Internal Audit reports to the Board primarily via the Audit and to the directors.
These are considered to be particularly helpful Risk Committees and management on the effectiveness of the for those shareholders who are unable to attend the AGM.
Companys system of internal control and the adequacy of this All material information reported to the regulatory news service system to manage business risk and to safeguard the Groups assets and resources.
Internal Audit is fully centralised and each 104 Aviva plc Corporate governance report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 is simultaneously published on the Companys website, allowing New York Stock Exchange listing requirements all shareholders full access to material Company announcements.
The Company was admitted to the New York Stock Exchange The Company has taken full advantage of the provisions NYSE on 20 October 2009 and its ordinary shares are traded within the Companies Act 2006 allowing communications to as American Depositary Shares.
As a foreign company listed on be made electronically to shareholders where they have not the NYSE, the Company is required to comply with the NYSE requested hard copy documentation.
As a result, the Companys corporate governance rules to the extent that these rules apply to website has become the primary method of communication for foreign private issuers.
As a foreign private issuer, the Company is the majority of its shareholders.
Details of the information therefore required to comply with NYSE Rule 303A.
11 by making available for shareholders on the website can be found in a disclosure of the differences between the Companys corporate the Shareholder Services section on page 367 and the governance practices and the NYSE corporate governance rules Shareholder Services section of the website at applicable to US companies listed on the NYSE.
are summarised below: The Companys AGM provides a valuable opportunity for the Board to communicate with private shareholders.
At the meeting, Independence criteria for directors the Company complies with the Code as it relates to voting, the Under the NYSE listing rules applicable to US companies, separation of resolutions and the attendance of Board Committee independent directors must form the majority of the board of chairmen.
Whenever possible, all directors attend the AGM and directors.
The Code requires that at least half the Board, excluding shareholders are invited to ask questions related to the business the chairman, should comprise independent non-executive of the meeting during the meeting and have an opportunity to directors, as determined by the Board.
The NYSE listing rules meet with the directors following the conclusion of the meeting.
for US companies also state that a director cannot qualify as In line with the Code, details of proxy voting by shareholders, independent unless the Board affirmatively determines that the including votes withheld, are made available on request and are director has no material relationship with the company, and the placed on the Companys website following the meeting.
NYSE rules prescribe a list of specific factors and tests that US The Companys Annual Report and Accounts, together with companies must use for determining independence.
The Code the Companys half-year report, interim management statements, sets out its own criteria that may be relevant to the independence reports on Form 20F for filing with the United States Securities determination, but permits the Board to conclude affirmative and Exchange Commission SEC and other public independence notwithstanding the existence of relationships or announcements, are designed to present a balanced and circumstances which may appear relevant to its determination, understandable view of the Groups activities and prospects so long as it states its reasons.
and are available on the Companys website, Non-executive director meetings www.
The Pursuant to the NYSE listing standards, the non-management chairmans statement, the group chief executives review and directors of each listed company must meet at regularly scheduled the Performance Review provide an assessment of the Groups executive sessions without management and, if that group affairs and they will be supported by a presentation to be made includes directors who are not independent, listed companies at the AGM, which can also be viewed by webcast on the should at least once a year schedule an executive session Companys website at www.
com agm after the meeting.
Under the Code, the chairman should hold meetings with the non-executive directors Aviva Investors without the executive directors present.
Aviva Investors, the Groups core asset management company, considers good governance to play an important role in protecting Committees and enhancing shareholder value.
In keeping with the Groups Under the NYSE standards, US companies are required to have values, Aviva Investors looks to act as a responsible investor, a nominating corporate governance committee.
In addition to monitors the governance of the companies in which it invests identifying individuals qualified to become Board members, this and seeks to maintain an effective dialogue and engagement committee must develop and recommend to the Board a set of with companies on matters which may affect shareholder interests corporate governance principles.
The Companys Nomination and the future performance of those companies.
Committees terms of reference do not require the committee Aviva Investors applies and complies with the UK Stewardship to develop and recommend corporate governance principles Code maintained by the Financial Reporting Council and has for the Company.
published detailed Stewardship and Corporate Governance and Voting Policies as part of its investment strategy, which underpin Code of business conduct and ethics its approach to engaging and voting at Company general The NYSE listing standards require US companies to adopt and meetings.
These policies encompass social, environmental and disclose a code of business conduct and ethics for directors, ethical issues and are applied pragmatically after careful officers and employees, and promptly disclose any waivers of the consideration of all relevant information.
In addition, Aviva code for directors or executive officers.
While the Company does Investors makes detailed voting reports available to clients, not strictly follow this NYSE standard applicable to US companies, and provides some summary reporting on its website, it is committed to ensuring that its business is conducted in all www.
respects according to rigorous ethical, professional and legal standards.
The Company has adopted a Business Ethics Code to which all employees are bound and a Code of Ethics for senior management, to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002.
Shareholder approval of equity-compensation plans Under the NYSE listing standards, shareholders must be given the opportunity to vote on all equity-compensation plans and material revisions to those plans, with limited exceptions.
Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 105 Aviva plc Corporate governance report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Under the Code, shareholder approval is also necessary for certain Directors responsibility statement pursuant equity-compensation plans and significant changes thereto, to Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1.
The Code does not provide a Each of the directors listed on pages 90 to 91 confirms that, to detailed definition or explanation of what are considered to be the best of their knowledge: significant changes, in contrast to the detailed definition of a the Group and Company financial statements in this report, material revisions provided by the NYSE.
which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, International Financial Reporting Directors responsibilities Interpretations Committees interpretation and those parts of The directors are required to prepare financial statements for each the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting accounting period that comply with the relevant provisions of the under IFRS, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, Companies Act 2006 and the IFRS as adopted by the European financial position and results of the Company and of the Union EU, and which present fairly the financial position, Group taken as a whole: and financial performance and cash flows of the Company and the b the Directors Report includes a fair review of the Group at the end of the accounting period.
A fair presentation development and performance of the business and the of the financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the position of the Company and the Group taken as a whole, directors to: together with a description of the principal risks and select suitable accounting policies and verify that they are uncertainties that they face.
applied consistently in preparing the accounts, on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the By order of the Board Company and the Group will continue in business: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that is relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the Andrew Moss Pat Regan specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users Group chief executive Chief financial officer 7 March 2012 to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Company and the Groups Going concern financial position and financial performance: and The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to state that the Company and the Group have complied with affect its future development, performance and position are set applicable IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed out in the Essential Read on pages 2 to 18, which includes the and explained in the financial statements.
section on Aviva worldwide on pages 16 to 17.
The Performance review is set out on pages 20 to 70 and includes the Risk and The directors are responsible for maintaining proper accounting capital management on pages 61 to 68.
In addition, the financial records, which are intended to disclose with reasonable accuracy, statements sections include notes on the Groups borrowings at any time, the financial position of the Company and the note 48, its contingent liabilities and other risk factors note 51 : Group.
They are ultimately responsible for the system of internal its capital structure and position note 54 : management of its control maintained by the Group for safeguarding the assets of risks including market, credit and liquidity risk note 56, and the Company and the Group and for the prevention and derivative financial instruments note 57. detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Further details of the The Group has considerable financial resources together with system of internal controls maintained by the Group are more a diversified business model, with a spread of businesses and fully described on pages 101 to 103.
The Directors are also geographical reach.
As a consequence, the directors believe that responsible for the preparation of the Companys Annual Report.
the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group as a whole have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
106 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Nomination Committee report This report provides details of the role of the Nomination meetings of the Board on the Committees work and the Board Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
receives a copy of the agenda and the minutes of each meeting of the Committee.
Committee role and responsibilities Committee activities during 2011 The Board strongly believes that good governance and strong, responsible, balanced leadership by the Board are critical to The chart below shows how the Committee allocated its time creating long-term shareholder value and business success.
The Committee assists the Board by reviewing the composition of the Board regularly and conducting a rigorous and transparent Nomination Committee allocation of agenda time % process when recommending or renewing the appointment of directors to the Board.
The key responsibilities of the Committee are: Board composition and evaluating and reviewing the balance of skills, knowledge, succession planning 67 Independence and and experience of the Board, taking into account the Conicts of interest 8 Companys risk appetite and strategy: Others including monitoring succession plans for the appointment of noncorporate governance 25 executive directors, the group chief executive and other executive directors to the Board: identifying and nominating suitable candidates for appointment to the Board, including chairmanship of the Board and its Committees, against a specification of the role and capabilities required for the appointment: The Committee continued its review of the Company succession assessing the independence of each of the non-executive plans for appointments to the Board, to ensure that an directors including any conflicts of interest: appropriate balance of skills and experience was maintained and reviewing the external interests and time commitments that there was progressive refreshing of the Board.
The Company of the directors to ensure that each has sufficient time chairman is due to retire in 2012 and two non-executive directors to undertake his her duties to the Company: and are due to retire in 2013 in line with the Code on the basis of approving a report on the Committees activities for their completion of nine years of service.
The Committee inclusion in the Companys Annual Report and Accounts.
recommended the appointment of two new independent nonexecutive directors to strengthen the Board in advance of their The full terms of reference for the Committee can be found on retirement and to aid future succession planning.
com terms-of-reference and John McFarlane was appointed to succeed Lord Sharman are also available from the group company secretary.
as the Companys chairman following his retirement.
The Committee prepared a comprehensive candidate search brief Committee membership and attendance including an assessment of the time commitment expected.
The search for a suitable candidate began within the Group The following directors served on the Committee during the year: before an external search agency, The Zygos Partnership, was Period retained.
Several interviews were conducted with the chairman, Member FromTo senior independent non-executive director, Committee members Lord Sharman Chairman 25 January 2006 To date and the group chief executive and, additionally, executive and Mary Francis 2 December 2009 To date non-executive directors met with the preferred candidate, before Richard Karl Goeltz 29 July 2008 To date the Committee recommended Mr McFarlanes appointment to John McFarlane 1 September 2011 To date Andrew Moss 12 July 2007 To date the Board.
The senior independent director chaired the Committee Russell Walls 23 January 2007 To date and the Board when it was dealing with the appointment of the The Nomination Committee notes that the UK Corporate Governance Code does not preclude the group chief successor to the chairmanship of the Company.
executive from membership of the Committee.
The Committee believes that the input of the group chief executive is Gay Huey Evans was appointed to succeed Carole Piwnica, essential and invaluable to the discussions of the Committee and that this is best obtained through his membership of the Committee.
Any concerns about his membership are allayed by the predominance of independent non-executive following her retirement from the Board and as the chairman directors on the Committee.
of the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
A candidate search was conducted internally prior to the appointment of an external Attendance agency, JCA Group, and the Committee undertook a thorough Percentage Number of meetings Committee member attended attendance review before recommending Ms Huey Evans appointment to Lord Sharman Chairman 6 100% the Board.
Mary Francis 6 100% In February 2012, following a thorough candidate search Richard Karl Goeltz 6 100% # by an external agency, JCA Group, Glyn Barker was appointed John McFarlane 1 100% Andrew Moss 6 100% as an independent non-executive director.
Russell Walls 6 100% The Committee strongly believes that diversity throughout the # John McFarlane attended all Committee meetings following his appointment in September 2011.
Group and at Board and senior management level is a key driver This shows the percentage of meetings which the Committee member attended during the year while a member of the Committee.
of success and brings a broader, more rounded perspective to decision-making and risk management, making the Board more The Committee met on six occasions in 2011, of which three effective.
During the year, candidate searches were conducted were scheduled Committee meetings and three were additional and Board appointments were made on merit, against the criteria Committee meetings called at short notice.
The members identified by the Committee having regard to the benefits of attendance record is set out above.
The group company secretary diversity on the Board, including gender.
acts as the secretary to the Committee.
Members of the Committee take no part in any discussions concerning their own circumstances.
The chairman of the Committee reports to Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 107 Aviva plc Nomination Committee report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 The Board wholly supported Lord Davies report, Women on Boards, and its recommendations and the Group has embedded gender KPIs throughout the talent management process.
Currently three female directors make up 20% of the Board and it is intended that the Company will maintain a minimum of 25% female representation on the Board by 2013.
At the date of this report, 20% of senior executives in the Company are female.
It is the Companys intention to increase this number as it is recognised that a higher number of women in senior management will create a stronger talent pipeline and is better for business.
Committee performance and effectiveness The Board undertook an annual review of the Committees performance and effectiveness and the results of the review will be incorporated into the Committees processes and activities for 2012.
Nomination Committee Report This Nomination Committee Report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 7 March 2012.
Lord Sharman of Redlynch OBE Chairman, Nomination Committee
