140 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Services provided to other related parties Related party disclosures Related party transactions 2011 2010 2009 For more information relating to related party transactions, Income Receivable Income Receivable Income Receivable earned at year earned at year earned at year including more information about the transactions described in year end in year end in year end m m m m m m below, please see Financial statements IFRS Note 59 Related Associates 47 49 3 party transactions.
Joint ventures 23 125 18 375 17 327 Employee Subsidiaries pension Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries are 13 9 10 2 9 2 schemes eliminated on consolidation.
Total 36 134 75 377 75 332 However, the Company has transactions and outstanding balances with certain unit trusts, Open Ended Investment In addition to the amounts disclosed for associates in the table Companies, collateralised debt obligations and similar entities above, at 31 December 2011 amounts payable at year-end which are not consolidated and where a Group company acts were 49 million, and expenses incurred during the period were as manager.
These entities are regarded as related parties for 3 million.
the purposes of International Accounting Standard IAS 24.
Transactions with joint ventures relate to the property The balances are included in the Groups statement of financial management undertakings, the most material of which are listed position at fair value or amortised cost in accordance with their in note 18 b.
Our interest in these joint ventures comprises a mix IAS 39 classifications.
The transactions are included in the income of equity and loans, together with the provision of administration statement and include amounts paid on issue of shares or units, services and financial management to many of them.
Our UK life amounts received on cancellation of shares or units and paid in insurance companies earn interest on loans advanced to these respect of the periodic charge and administration fee.
entities and our fund management companies also charge fees to these joint ventures for administration services and for arranging Directors and key management external finance.
The total compensation to those employees classified as key Our UK fund management companies manage most of the management, being those having authority and responsibility for assets held by the Groups main UK staff pension scheme, for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, which they charge fees based on the level of funds under including the executive and non-executive directors is as follows: management.
The main UK scheme holds investments in Group-managed funds and insurance policies with other Group 2011 2010 2009 companies, as explained in note 47 e iii.
m m m The related parties receivables are not secured and no Salary and other short-term benefits 36 36 39 Post-employment benefits 9 75 guarantees were received in respect thereof.
The receivables will Equity compensation plans 18 21 16 be settled in accordance with normal credit terms.
Details of Termination benefits 2 21 guarantees, indemnities and warranties provided on behalf of Total 65 66 61 related parties are given in Financial statements IFRS Note 51 contingent liabilities and other risk factors.
Various directors and key management of Aviva may from time to time purchase insurance, asset management or annuity products, Loans to joint ventures or be granted mortgages marketed by Aviva Group companies in We make loans to our property management joint ventures to the ordinary course of business on substantially the same terms, fund property developments which we undertake with our joint including interest rates and security requirements, as those venture partners.
Movements in these loans may be found in prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with other Financial statements IFRS Note 18 Interests in, and loans to, persons.
Total loans at 31 December 2011 and at the Apart from the disclosed transactions discussed above and end of each of the last three financial years are shown in the in the Governance section of this report, no director had an table below: interest in shares, transactions or arrangements that requires disclosure under applicable rules and regulations.
2011 2010 2009 m m m Loans to joint ventures 100 375 327 Other related parties The Group received income from and paid expenses to other related parties from transactions made in the normal course of business.
Loans to other related parties are made on normal arms length commercial terms.
Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 141 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 For the 2007 final dividend and previous final and interim Dividend data dividends, shareholders on record were provided with the The Companys dividend policy is to sustain a target dividend opportunity to elect to receive dividends in the form of newly cover of between one and a half and two times our adjusted issued ordinary shares through the Aviva Scrip Dividend Scheme.
operating profit after tax before amortisation of goodwill and For the 2008 interim dividend, the Aviva Scrip Dividend Scheme adjusting items.
Under UK company law, we may only pay was replaced by a dividend reinvestment plan DRIP.
For those dividends if the company has distributable profits available.
shareholders participating in the DRIP, the Company paid a cash Distributable profits are accumulated, realised profits not dividend, which was then used to buy existing shares on the open previously distributed or capitalised, less accumulated, unrealised market.
For the 2008 final dividend, Aviva withdrew the DRIP and losses not previously written off based on IFRS.
Even if reintroduced the Aviva Scrip Dividend Scheme.
distributable profits are available, we pay dividends only if the An interim dividend is generally paid in November of each amount of our net assets is not less than the aggregate of our year.
A final dividend is proposed by the Companys Board after called-up share capital and undistributable reserves and the the end of the relevant year and generally paid in May.
The payment of the dividend does not reduce the amount of our following table shows certain information regarding the dividends net assets to less than that aggregate.
that we paid on ordinary shares for the periods indicated in As a holding company, the Company is dependent upon pounds sterling and converted into US dollars at the noon buying dividends and interest from our subsidiaries to pay cash dividends.
rate in effect on each payment date.
Many of the Companys subsidiaries are subject to insurance regulations that restrict the amount of dividends that they can Interim Interim Final Final pay to us.
dividend dividend dividend dividend per share per share per share per share Historically, the Company has declared an interim and a final Year pence cents pence cents dividend for each year with the final dividend being paid in the 2006 10.82 20.49 19.18 37.88 year following the year to which it relates.
Subject to the 2007 11.90 24.37 21.10 41.31 2008 13.09 19.69 19.91 30.31 restrictions set out above, the payment of interim dividends on 2009 9.00 14.75 15.00 23.55 ordinary shares is made at the discretion of our Board, while 2010 9.50 15.20 16.00 25.80 payment of any final dividend requires the approval of the 2011 10.00 15.70 16.00 na Companys shareholders at a general meeting.
Preference shares are irredeemable and dividends on preference shares are made at the discretion of our Board.
The Company pays cash dividends in pounds sterling, although the articles of association permit payment of dividends on ordinary shares in other currencies and in forms other than cash, such as ordinary shares.
If dividends on ordinary shares held by the American Depositary Shares ADS depositary are paid in pounds sterling, the ADS depositary will convert the pounds sterling that it receives on behalf of the ADS holders into US dollars according to the prevailing market rate on the date that the ADS depositary actually receives the dividends.
142 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Limited liability partnerships classified as joint ventures Guarantees, securitised assets and off-balance As part of their investment strategy, the UK and certain European sheet arrangements long-term business policyholder funds have invested in a number As a normal part of our operating activities, various Group of property limited partnerships PLPs, either directly or via companies have given financial guarantees and options, including property unit trusts PUTs, through a mix of capital and loans.
interest rate guarantees, in respect of certain long-term assurance The PLPs are managed by general partners GPs, in which the and fund management products, as set out in Financial long-term business shareholder companies hold equity stakes and statements IFRS Note 41 Financial guarantees and options.
which themselves hold nominal stakes in the PLPs.
The PUTs are These are accounted for on-balance sheet as either part of the managed by a Group subsidiary.
host insurance contract or as financial instruments under IFRS.
Accounting for the PUTs and PLPs as subsidiaries, joint Information on operating lease commitments can be found ventures or other financial investments depends on the in Financial statements IFRS Note 52 Commitments.
shareholdings in the GPs and the terms of each partnership It is standard business practice for our Group companies to agreement.
If a partnership is managed by a contractual give guarantees, indemnities and warranties in connection with arrangement agreement such that no party exerts control, disposals of subsidiaries and associates to third parties.
As of notwithstanding that the Groups partnership share or economic 31 December 2011, we believe no material loss will arise in interest in the PLP including its indirect stake via the relevant respect of these guarantees, indemnities and warranties.
Standard PUT and GP may be greater than 50%, such PUTs and PLPs financial warranties include the accuracy and completeness of have been classified as joint ventures.
Of the PLPs accounted the statement of financial position at the completion date, for as joint ventures at 31 December 2011, the Groups details of outstanding litigation, the position on tax filings and economic interest exceeded 50% in respect of one partnership, any outstanding clearance items.
In addition, specific clauses The Mall Limited Partnership, in which the Group had a 50.5% cover such matters as regulatory approvals and licences, the economic interest.
adequacy of actuarial insurance liabilities, reinsurance contracts Financial statements IFRS Note 18 Interests in, and loans and the status of employee pension plans.
Their exact terms are to, joint ventures provides a list of the principal PLPs accounted tailored to each disposal and are set out in the respective sale and for as joint ventures, as well as summarised information on the purchase agreement.
Similarly, the open warranty periods, within revenue, expenses, assets and liabilities of the Groups interests in which the purchaser could claim, and limits on the maximum its joint ventures in aggregate.
In respect of these PLPs, there are amount potentially recoverable will vary for each item covered no significant contingent liabilities to which we are exposed, nor in each disposal.
do we have any significant contingent liabilities in relation to our There are a number of outstanding claims on recent disposals, interests in them.
External debt raised by the PLPs is secured on none of which are material.
There are also open claim periods on their respective property portfolios, and the lenders are only other recent disposals on which we have neither received, nor entitled to obtain payment of both interest and principal to the expect to receive, any such claims.
We believe that there is no extent there are sufficient resources in the respective PLPs.
material exposure in this respect.
The lenders have no recourse whatsoever to the policyholder We have loans receivable, secured by mortgages, which and shareholders funds of any companies in the Aviva Group.
have then been securitised through non-recourse borrowings At 31 December 2011, we had 258 million capital commitments by special purpose entities in our UK Life business and, prior to to these PLP joint ventures.
its deconsolidation, our Dutch business, as set out in Financial statements IFRS Note 24 Securitised mortgages and related assets.
These special purpose entities have been consolidated and included in the statement of financial position, as we retain the residual interest in them.
