Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 37 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Information on the company History and development of Aviva Business overview General Our aims and strategy We have simplified and streamlined the Group, moving from Aviva provides around 43 million customers with long-term insurance and savings, general and health insurance, and fund a federation of independent businesses to a successful global business under a single brand, Aviva.
However, there is no management products and services.
Over the last few years we have simplified and streamlined Aviva, changing it from doubt the world has changed significantly in the last few years.
This is particularly true for Avivas customers, who are a federation of insurance businesses into a unified operation united under a single brand.
responding to the uncertain economic climate and lower disposable incomes by paying off debt and saving more, to ensure We are committed to serving our customers well in order to build a strong, sustainable business which makes a positive a more secure financial future for themselves and their families.
For insurance companies such as Aviva, current capital constraints contribution to society and which our people are proud to work for.
demand investment discipline, greater strategic focus and strong balance sheets.
We are a public limited company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales.
In 2010, we assessed our strategic direction against the backdrop of these changes and came away with three principal Our main activities are the provision of long-term insurance and savings, fund management and general insurance products conclusions: Increasing geographic focus and services.
We will focus on markets where we have strength and scale.
Our history In determining our focus, we will judge markets on their potential to generate both US$100 million of adjusted The Group was formed by the merger of CGU plc and Norwich operating profits and a 12% return on capital employed, Union plc on 30 May 2000.
CGU plc was renamed CGNU plc on or US$1 billion of franchise value for younger businesses.
completion of the merger, and subsequently renamed Aviva plc This focus will allow us to capitalise on our leading market on 1 July 2002. positions in the UK and Europe, the worlds largest life and CGU plc and Norwich Union plc were both major UK-based 1 pensions market.
insurers operating in the long-term insurance business and Benefiting from the combination of life and general insurance markets.
Both companies had long corporate general insurance histories.
Hand in Hand, which was incorporated in 1696, was Our life and general insurance operations are excellent acquired by Commercial Union in 1905, which itself was businesses in their own right, but in addition to their incorporated in 1861.
General Accident plc was incorporated inherent strengths there are significant advantages to in 1865.
Norwich Union plc was founded as a mutual society in running these businesses under one brand and in one 1797 and operated as such until 1997 when it demutualised and group, supported by Aviva Investors.
became an English public limited company.
CGU plc was formed Building on our core strengths in 1998 from the merger of Commercial Union plc and General To be the best in both life and general insurance, we will Accident plc.
focus on our four core strengths of marketing and Between 2000 and 2002, we actively withdrew from lines of distribution, financial discipline, technical excellence and business and markets that did not offer the potential for marketoperational effectiveness, benefiting from a powerful brand leading positions or superior returns, or did not otherwise meet and growing customer franchise.
We did this principally through the disposal of property and casualty businesses in the UK London Our business Market, the US, Australia, New Zealand and certain European Overview countries.
In 2005 we acquired RAC, which was subsequently We provide around 43 million customers with long-term sold to buyout firm Carlyle Group in 2011 for 1 billion.
In 2006, insurance and savings, general and health insurance, and fund we acquired US financial services company AmerUs.
During 2009, we disposed of our long-term savings and Our business is managed through a regional management wealth management business in Australia and through an IPO structure based on four geographic regions: UK, Europe, North we sold approximately 42% of our Dutch business, Delta Lloyd.
The four regions, together with Aviva In January 2010, we integrated our life, general insurance and Investors, function as six operating segments.
Due to the size of health businesses in the UK.
We also announced the acquisition the UK region it is split into the UK Life and UK General Insurance of River Road Asset Management, a US equity manager, to segments, which undertake long-term insurance and savings support the expansion of Aviva Investors business.
business and general insurance, respectively.
Aviva Investors, In 2011, we sold a further 15% of Delta Lloyd bringing our our fund management business, operates across all four regions holding down to approximately 43%.
We also sold the Aviva providing fund management services to third-party investors Investors business in Australia and we exited UAE as part of our and to our long-term insurance businesses and general geographic focus.
In January 2012, we announced the sale of Czech Republic, On 6 May 2011, the Group ceased to hold a majority of the Hungary and Romania life and pensions businesses to MetLife Inc. shareholder voting rights in Delta Lloyd.
The results of Delta Lloyd The transaction, which is subject to regulatory approvals in each up to that date are therefore presented as discontinued jurisdiction, is expected to be completed during 2012. operations.
Avivas distribution arrangement with Allied Irish Bank AIB For information on the main categories of products sold in for long-term business will cease in 2012 and the bancassurance each of these geographic segments over the last three years, see partnership with AIB is being unwound.
A strategic review is Financial and operating performance Regional performance.
underway to determine the most effective distribution channels going forward.
Further details of recent acquisitions and disposals can be found in the section Financial statements IFRS Note 3 Subsidiaries.
1 Based on Swiss Re, Sigma, No2 2011 38 38 Aviva plc Information on the company continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Life insurance and savings business General insurance and health insurance Long-term insurance and savings business from continuing General insurance and health insurance together accounted for operations accounted for over 77% of our total business based 23% of our total worldwide sales for the year ended 31 December 2011.
In the year ended 31 December 2011, we reported general on worldwide total sales from continuing operations for the year ended 31 December 2011.
We reported total long-term insurance and health insurance net written premiums of 9.2 billion.
and savings new business sales from continuing operations of Market position 27.9 billion and investment sales of 3.5 billion for the year ended We are a leading general insurer in the UK and we are the 31 December 2011.
Our focus remains on growing our business second-largest general insurer in Canada based on gross written profitably and improving our operational efficiency so that we can premiums for the year ended 31 December 2010.
The Group has fully benefit as our major markets return to economic growth.
general insurance operations in France, Italy, Poland, Ireland and Market position Turkey, and in Asia Pacific we sell general insurance and health In the UK we have a market share of 12% based on annual products in Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia and Sri Lanka.
2 premium equivalent APE according to the Association of British In the year ended 31 December 2011, 54% of our total Insurers ABI quarter three 2011 data.
Long-term insurance and general insurance and health new business from continuing savings products in the UK represented 32% of our worldwide operations was written in the UK.
sales for the year ended 31 December 2011.
Brands and products In Aviva Europe long-term insurance products represented The sale of RAC in September 2011 means that our general 30% of total Group worldwide sales for the year ended insurance business now operates under a single brand across 31 December 2011. the world.
In North America our life and annuity business is a leading Our general insurance business concentrates on: provider of both fixed indexed life and fixed indexed annuity 3 Personal lines motor, household, travel and creditor: products.
Commercial lines fleet, liability and commercial In the Asia Pacific region we operate in ten countries.
property insurance: Brands and products Health insurance private health insurance, income We have operated under the brand name Aviva globally since protection and personal accident insurance, as well as June 2010. a range of corporate healthcare products: and Our long-term insurance and savings businesses offer a broad Corporate and speciality risks products for large clients range of life insurance and savings products.
Our products are or where the risk is specialist.
split into the following categories: Distribution Pensions a means of providing income in retirement for an Customers can buy our products through a range of distribution individual and possibly his or her dependants.
Our pension channels, including: products include personal and group pensions, stakeholder Direct In many of our markets, customers can buy our pensions and income drawdown.
products over the telephone or via the internet.
This method Annuities a type of policy that pays out regular amounts of distribution is most commonly available for simple, lowof benefit, either immediately and for the remainder of a cost products which do not require advice.
persons lifetime, or deferred to commence from a future Direct sales force In some of our European and Asia Pacific date.
Immediate annuities may be purchased for an markets we operate direct sales forces that only sell Avivas individual and his or her dependants or on a bulk purchase products and the sales forces receive commission on the basis for groups of people.
Deferred annuities are asset products they sell.
accumulation contracts, which may be used to provide Intermediaries We offer a range of long-term insurance, benefits in retirement, and may be guaranteed, unit-linked savings, retirement, general insurance and health insurance or index-linked.
products which can be bought through an intermediary, Protection an insurance contract that protects the such as an independent financial adviser or an insurance policyholder or his or her dependants against financial loss broker.
Intermediaries receive a commission on sales of on death or ill-health.
Our product ranges include term Avivas products.
assurance, mortgage life insurance, flexible whole life and Corporate partnerships, bancassurance and joint ventures critical illness cover.
Aviva is a corporate partner for many organisations, Bonds and savings accumulation products with single or including banks and other financial institutions, who wish regular premiums and unit-linked or guaranteed investment to offer their customers insurance products.
Our product ranges include single premium distribution agreements with bancassurance partners and investment bonds, regular premium savings plans, mortgage joint ventures across the markets in which we operate.
endowment products and funding agreements.
Depending on our line of business in that market, the Investment sales comprise retail sales of mutual fund type agreements offer long-term insurance products, general products such as unit trusts, individual savings accounts insurance and health products, asset management services ISAs and Open Ended Investment Companies OEICs.
In return for offering our products Other, which includes equity release and structured settlements.
to their customers, the bank or joint venture partners receive a commission as a percentage of sales and in some cases Some of our insurance and investment contracts contain a achieve extra commission if agreed target levels of sales are discretionary participating feature, which is a contractual right met.
Certain agreements have a profit sharing element to receive additional benefits as a supplement to guaranteed based on predetermined percentage.
In some cases, if the benefits.
These are referred to as participating contracts.
agreed targets are not met, certain terms of the contract can be renegotiated.
Under the joint venture agreements, the costs of running the venture are often split between the partners.
2 APE is a recognised sales measure in the UK and is the total of new annual premiums plus 10% of single premiums.
com Indexed Sales & Market Report 3rd Quarter, 2011.
Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 39 Aviva plc Information on the company continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Further details of the distribution channels specific to each margins and an Internal Rate of Return IRR in excess of the market are included in the following regional analysis.
Groups minimum of 12% overall and at a product level.
We are focused on increasing our market share in Group Fund management Personal Pensions ahead of auto-enrolment.
During 2011, we Aviva Investors, our fund management business, provides fund grew sales at more than twice the market rate, largely in the small management services to Avivas long-term insurance and savings, and medium-sized enterprise SME marketplace where we expect and general insurance operations as well as to a growing number to see the most growth following auto-enrolment.
The main fund management operations We lead the `at retirement market covering individual are in the UK, North America, Europe, Asia Pacific and the Middle annuities and equity release with market shares of 25% and 5 East.
All sales of retail fund management products are included in 36%, respectively.
our long-term insurance and savings business sales.
We have made significant headway in our aim to be the clear market leader in protection by extending our distribution through Market position partnerships with Santander and Barclays during 2011.
Aviva Investors is ranked 42nd globally by assets under In our opinion, our underwriting, and risk management management, according to the Towers Watson World 500 largest expertise, together with our strong brand, service and broad asset managers study 2010 ranking of asset managers by assets distribution, give us a competitive advantage.
Aviva Investors operates under a single brand across our regions of the UK, Europe, North America and Market and competition Asia Pacific.
Total worldwide funds managed by Aviva Investors The industry is entering a period of unprecedented change with at 31 December 2011 was 263 billion, the substantial majority significant regulatory changes, such as the Retail Distribution of which currently relates to Avivas insurance and savings Review RDR and auto-enrolment, which will transform the way operations.
that long-term savings products are bought and sold.
We are well positioned ahead of the implementation of RDR Brands and products and have an extensive programme underway to ensure both Our business invests in most significant asset classes on behalf regulatory compliance and ongoing success in our chosen markets.
of institutional, pension fund and retail clients.
We also hold strong positions in the protection and annuities marketplaces which will be largely unaffected by the RDR.
Operating segments The UK long-term savings market is highly competitive and Each operating segment has a member of our executive we consider our main competitors to be Standard Life, Prudential, management team who is responsible for it and who is Legal & General, and Lloyds Banking Group.
The principal accountable to the group chief executive for the operating competitive factors for our life insurance business in the UK are: performance of their segment.
The full membership of our financial strength and ratings: executive management team is set out on page 92.
This structure brand strength and our customer advocacy: for our operating segments is intended to ensure the Groups risk management: ability to take advantage of market opportunities, improve speed focus on customers needs and quality of service: of response, eliminate duplication of effort, and encourage the product range and the quality of products on offer: sharing of best practice in the interests of our customers and breadth of distribution: shareholders, while providing local knowledge.
pricing: and investment management performance.
Aviva United Kingdom Business overview and strategy The underlying fundamentals for our business remain Our aim is to provide prosperity and peace of mind to our 6 compelling.
Research by Aviva and Deloitte shows there is 14 million customers, who trust us with their long-term savings, potentially a total annual pensions gap of around 317 billion general insurance and healthcare needs.
This gap represents the difference between what distribution network and our products can be bought direct, individuals in the UK save today and what they need to save through intermediaries, or via our partnerships with leading UK to maintain a comfortable standard of living in retirement.
In addition, there is an estimated total protection gap of 2.4 We employ more than 17,500 people and operate from a 7 trillion in the UK according to analysis by Swiss Re.
It shows the number of locations throughout the UK, including York, Norwich, overall gap between the protection cover individuals in the UK Perth, Glasgow, Eastleigh, London and Sheffield.
have and what they need to meet their requirements.
Our combination of life, general insurance and health is exceptional, we believe, exceptional in its scale and breadth in the Products UK market.
We aim to excel in each of these markets and create We provide a comprehensive product range focused on both the significant additional value for stakeholders by operating our consumer and corporate market with a 70%:30% split.
The pensions and `at retirement products we offer include We have a strong brand, and awareness levels reached their stakeholder and personal pensions, equity release, annuities, 4 highest levels yet in 2011. income drawdown and with-profits products.
Our annuity offerings include immediate life, enhanced, fixed-term annuities United Kingdom Aviva Life and with-profits pension annuities.
Business overview and strategy We provide a number of traditional life insurance products, We are a leading long-term insurance and savings provider in the including level-term, decreasing-term with or without critical UK with an overall market share of 12%, based on third quarter illness, guaranteed whole life insurance, and guaranteed lifelong 2011 ABI returns.
Our strategy is to hold dominant positions in workplace savings, individual annuities and protection while delivering strong 5 25% market share in the individual annuities market based on ABI returns and 36% market share in equity release based on Safe Home Income Plans SHIP returns 6 Europes Pension Gap, Aviva and Deloitte, 2010 4 ICM Research, January 2012 7 Term and Health Watch, Swiss re, June 2010 40 40 Aviva plc Information on the company continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Our savings and investment products include ISAs, investment strong brand: bonds, funds, base rate trackers, investments with guarantees customer satisfaction: and with-profits products.
claims handling skills: and Our products are predominantly non-profit with some withmanagement of costs.
Non-profit business means that shareholders retain 100% of the distributed profit.
The with-profits products share the Insurance profits in the UK general insurance market are cyclical profits or losses of the with-profits fund between shareholders and in nature, with different segments of the market at different policyholders.
This is achieved through a system of bonuses.
Aviva stages in the cycle.
In 2011, the general insurance market aims to smooth the return of the policyholders plan through remained competitive and we managed the cycle with disciplined declaring regular bonuses.
As bonuses are added to the plan, underwriting across all lines of business while seeking to grow valuable guarantees build up.
These guarantees are unique to within attractive sectors.
In personal motor we continued to see profits investments.
At the close of the plan the investor receives a significant premium rate increases in 2011 in response to recent terminal bonus based on the performance of the fund.
increases in claims costs and frequencies.
Commercial motor rates have also hardened noticeably over the course of the year, and Distribution this is expected to continue into 2012.
Homeowner rates We have a multi-distribution strategy, which means we sell our excluding indexation have seen little movement reflecting a products through intermediaries, corporate partners, in the competitive environment and the depressed housing market, workplace, and directly to customers.
We are a leading provider although underlying profitability remains good.
Conditions in 8 in the intermediary market with a 13.4% share.
commercial non-motor lines have remained competitive.
In 2011, we extended our distribution agreements with In recent years, the growing proportion of commercial brokers Santander and Barclays.
We are also the provider of choice to the seeking to trade with us online has led us to invest more heavily Royal Bank of Scotland and other leading organisations including in our e-commerce propositions, ensuring we remain competitive the Post Office.
We remain committed to building on our existing and alert to evolving customer needs in this important relationships and distribution partnerships as well as growing our distribution channel.
Products United Kingdom Aviva General Insurance We provide a wide range of general insurance products focused Business overview and strategy on personal and commercial customers with a business mix of 9 Aviva is a leading general insurer in the UK.
We focus on approximately 60% personal lines and 40% commercial lines.
We hold top three positions Our products include personal motor, home, travel, payment in all our major classes of business, including personal motor, protection, commercial motor, commercial property and homeowner, commercial motor and commercial property.
10 We are also the leading insurer in the SME marketplace.
Our personal motor insurance product range includes cover We believe our key strengths include underwriting excellence, for cars, motorcycles and vans.
For businesses we offer cover for and product and distribution leadership.
We aim to build on our fleets and commercial vehicles.
Our home insurance products market-leading position while focusing on the fundamentals of the include building and contents insurance and home emergency insurance business to maximise returns through the insurance cycle.
We also offer single trip and annual travel insurance.
We seek to provide excellent customer service, maintain disciplined Our commercial products focus on insurance for SMEs and underwriting and pricing and control the impact of claims inflation.
We are growing our capability in corporate and speciality risks CSR, and building on our core underwriting and pricing Distribution strengths to win in these markets.
Our personal products We were named General Insurer of the Year at the 2011 are sold directly to customers over the phone and through our Insurance Times awards in December 2011 based on our financial websites www.
com, via performance, service performance and broker reviews.
We were brokers and through more than 100 corporate partnerships.
identified in the 2011 Brand Finance rankings in September 2011 We are a member of RACs panel of insurers.
Our quotemehappy as the strongest general insurance company in the UK, based on insurance products are also available through price comparison brand strength and customer service.
For commercial insurance, we focus on broker distribution and believe that independent brokers remain the best Market and competition source of the advice required by business customers.
The UK is the third-largest insurance market in the world according As part of our strategy to grow in CSR, we have a bespoke to the ABI based on data for 2010.
In 2010, the top four companies trading floor, in the City of London, providing brokers with direct had an approximate 35% share of the general insurance market, access to our underwriting specialists.
based on Datamonitor figures for gross written premiums.
We consider our main competitors to be Direct Line Group, Europe RSA, AXA, Zurich, Lloyds Banking Group, Allianz and The Admiral Regional overview and strategy Group.
The principal competitive factors for our general insurance We have a major presence in the five markets of France, Ireland, business in the UK are: Italy, Poland and Spain, which between them represent over 90% range and quality of our products: 11 of our Europe new business premiums.
We are also focused access to distribution: on increasing our presence in the growing markets of Russia pricing and underwriting discipline: and Turkey.
risk management: Through our multi-distribution bancassurance franchise and established retail networks, we offer a range of life, pensions, and general and health insurance, providing the diversity and competitive strength that we believe only a composite insurance 8 ABI Stats Q3 2011 9 Based on GWP from FY11 published results 10 Datamonitor, 2010 11 As calculated on both a long-term savings PVNBP basis and a general insurance net written premium basis Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 41 Aviva plc Information on the company continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Market model can offer.
We are a top six provider in our seven largest 12 markets for life products and have a strategy to grow our The life insurance market is driven by individual savings.
The market is dominated by bancassurance, which has accounted for general insurance presence.
around 60% of the life insurance market over the past decade Aviva Europe according to the FFSA.
We believe that the long-term insurance We are geographically focused on the markets of France, Ireland, and savings market in France has longer-term growth potential Italy, Poland, Spain, Russia and Turkey.
We operate a composite due to the ageing population and the growing need for private model, selling life and pensions products, general insurance pensions.
We also believe that the current volatility in the financial products in all locations, except Russia and Spain, where we only markets has affected customer confidence in purchasing risksell life products.
bearing products, although we believe that over a longer period This model enables us to exploit our existing relationships and multi-funds policies and unit-linked funds are the best insurance networks in order to develop higher margin customer-targeted vehicles for performance.
We believe our customers want to be products, to improve our product mix by increasing sales of reassured and protected financially, and need to safeguard their protection and unit-linked products and to expand our general wealth and make provisions for long-term care.
Our strategy is focused on building on our: The general insurance market in France is mature and highly geographic focus in the five markets of France, Ireland, Italy, competitive.
For several years, price competition was high as Poland and Spain: insurers fought to gain market share, particularly in the personal growth in Turkey and Russia: lines market.
We believe that price competition has, however, customer-focused multi-channel distribution: reached its limits as the market faced increased claims frequency multi-distribution strength through established retail and and a higher average claims cost.
In our opinion, the market has bancassurance models: and now entered a phase of price increases that currently makes up excellence in life and general insurance.
the majority of its marginal growth.
Products We have a strong bancassurance model that serves customers throughout Europe via 63 banking agreements.
We have strong Aviva France provides a wide range of insurance solutions: life and long-term savings, general insurance and asset management partnerships, including Credit du Nord, a subsidiary of Socit Gnrale in France, six savings banks in Spain and relationships through Aviva Investors France.
The products sold through our life channel are long-term savings, pensions and regular premium with three major banks in Italy.
We also have a significant retail franchise, with a presence in products and a broad range of protection products.
We are the manufacturer and main distributor of the AFER product which we all of our markets, operating through more than 8,000 direct and tied agents across 30 networks and with an independent sales believe is a leading savings product benefiting from high customer confidence, a strong reputation and strong financial performance.
Aviva France holds a majority stake in Union Financire fide France France UFF which we believe has gained a reputation for Business overview and strategy expertise in managing, selecting and distributing mutual funds Aviva France is one of the top ten insurance businesses in France, and sourcing tax optimisation products.
being sixth in life insurance and seventh in general insurance as In the general insurance market, our product range includes measured by gross written premiums, according to LArgus fide household, motor, health, legal protection products and also a lAssurance, as at 31 December 2010.
Our life business has a broad range of insurance products for farms, craftsmen, 4.5% market share according to the Fdration Franaise des tradesmen and small to medium-sized entities and specific Socits dAssurances FFSA as at 31 December 2010, based on products for building firms and motor fleets.
Our general insurance business has a 1.9% share of the market as based on 2010 premium income, Distribution measured by gross written premiums.
Our health business has Aviva France has developed a multi-distribution model combining a 2.2% share of the market based on 2010 premium income.
retail, direct and bancassurance networks through owned We offer a range of long-term insurance and savings distribution channels, independent networks and partnerships.
products, primarily for individuals, which focus on the unit-linked Our retail networks sell through 896 tied agents, a direct sales market.
We have a longstanding relationship with the Association force made up of more than 280 advisers and over 700 UFF Franaise dEpargne et fide Retraite AFER, which is the largest consultants and more than 1,000 active brokers in the life, health retirement savings association in France with 735,000 members and construction markets.
Direct distribution is sold through as at 31 December 2011.
We have a strong partnership with Eurofil for personal general insurance, Aviva Direct for health and Crdit Du Nord, which operates through 936 bank branches protection and Epargne Actuelle for the AFER product.
according to its website as of December 2011.
Aviva France Eurofil is the second-largest direct general insurer and Aviva operates through two main companies: Aviva Vie and Antarius Direct is the leading provider of direct protection in France and the JV structure with Crdit Du Nord.
third-largest insurer of funeral expense plans in France by number In our general insurance business we predominantly sell of policies according to the FFSA as at 31 December 2011. personal and small commercial lines insurance products through We also operate in the bancassurance market through our an agent network and our direct insurer, Eurofil.
partnership with Crdit du Nord, a subsidiary of Socit Gnrale, Aviva Frances strategy is to continue to diversify and grow selling life, savings, protection and general insurance products.
our business and to maintain a high level of profitability.
We seek This partnership gives Aviva access to over 1.9 million customers, to accomplish these goals through our distribution expertise, as at December 2011.
We also have several partnerships with car innovation of products and services, greater communication and manufacturers, including Volvo, Ford, Mazda, Mercedes Benz and brand visibility.
GM through whom we sell motor insurance.
12 Based on regulatory data from the FFSA Fdration Franaise des Socits dAssurances, IIF Irish Insurance Federation, ANIA Associazione Nazionale fra le Imprese Assicuratrici, KNF Polish Financial Supervision Authority, ICEA Investigacin Cooperativa entre Entidades Aseguradoras y Fondos fide Pensiones, AIRCT Association of Insurance and Reinsurance Companies of Turkey and the FSMS Federal Securities Market Service 42 42 Aviva plc Information on the company continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Spain Aviva Vida y Pensiones distributes our products through Business overview and strategy professional intermediaries financial advisers, agents and brokers Aviva Spain is the countrys fifth-largest long-term insurer by gross and a direct sales force, supported by a branch office network and written premiums with a market share of 6% in the third quarter call centres: 2012 will see the start of distribution through Pelayos of 2011 according to Investigacin Cooperativa entre Entidades network of 200 branches and around 1,000 exclusive agents.
Aseguradoras y Fondos fide Pensiones ICEA.
Aviva Spain sells We believe the strength of our distribution relationships has long-term insurance and savings, and health and accident enabled us to maintain our position as the second-largest provider insurance in Spain through a bancassurance network based on of protection products in the market according to the ICEA at joint ventures with six banks Bancaja, Caja Espaa, Caixa Galicia, 30 September 2011.
Unicaja, Caja Granada and Cajamurcia and through Aviva Vida y Italy Pensiones, the wholly owned Aviva branded long-term insurance Business overview and strategy company.
Aviva Italy is the countrys seventh-largest life insurer, with a Our strategy in Spain is to further develop our bancassurance market share of 5% based on 2010 premiums excluding Eurovita, and retail operations and attract new partners when the according to Associazione Nazionale fra le Imprese Assicuratrici opportunities arise.
The close of 2011 saw the signing of a new ANIA.
We believe that we are in the top six largest life insurers exclusive distribution agreement with Spanish Mutual Insurance based on 2010 premiums when we include Eurovita.
We are the Company Pelayo to expand its national life and pensions 12th-largest general insurance company in Italy with a market distribution capability.
We also intend to develop general share of 1% according to ANIA as at 31 December 2010, with insurance offerings through our existing partnerships.
Overall, we over 2.5 million customers.
will continue to be customer-focused, to react quickly to market Our strategy is to continue to work with our partners on new trends and to maximise the sales of our core products, such as products, suited to the current markets, to develop our pensions and savings.
bancassurance relationships and to expand our customer reach Market through customer penetration and distribution reach.
We believe Spains savings banks, the cajas, will continue to be Market under pressure given the current financial sector restructuring The Italian life market is dominated by big insurers such as process and the number of mergers taking place.
Any Generali, Fonsai, Allianz and Poste Vita.
The top four providers opportunities arising from this will be considered by Aviva on their wrote over 40% of the life premium income in 2010 according merits.
In relation to distribution agreements with bancassurance 13 to ANIA.
The life insurance industry in Italy reported a decline partners, Aviva is protected financially within our contracts with in volumes as of 30 September 2011 with gross written premiums the cajas should a merger result in the insurance services of the down by 19% against the same period in 2010 according to the newly merged company being awarded to the insurer of the local regulator Istituto per la Vigilanza sulle Assicurazioni Private other party involved.
The general insurance segment grew by 3% in the same The top positions in the long-term insurance market are period according to ISVAP, due mainly to increased motor dominated by bank-owned or bank-insurer joint ventures, with insurance sales.
the overall bancassurance channel accounting for more than 73% In the Italian market, we believe many customers prefer to of gross written premiums at the end of 2010 in the Spanish life buy investment products from well-established providers.
We also insurance market according to ICEA in the publication Canales fide think that Italys consumers prefer a personal relationship with Distribucin Estadstica 2010. financial services providers, and are reluctant to buy over the Customers in Spain are accustomed to receiving advice telephone or on the internet.
through banking channels, and we use our relationship with the Over the last few years, the Italian government has introduced cajas to capitalise on this.
legislation breaking the exclusive relationship between general Products insurance companies and their tied agents.
This has opened up We offer a wide range of bonds, savings and protection products.
the general insurance marketplace to increased competition.
Investment products include both unit-linked and traditional Products plans, where profit sharing is regularly used to increase the policy Our long-term insurance and savings business offers a wide range return.
Our traditional plans include savings schemes and income of products covering protection, bonds and savings and pensions.
Pension savings products have valuable tax advantages.
The largest segment is single premium savings and investment We offer a flexible range of individual and group plans with products.
These include unit-linked policies linked to a range of alternative investment choices.
We also offer protection products, investment funds as well as profit-sharing policies where there is covering both mortgages and credit loans typically providing a minimum annual return credited to the policy and the potential cover for the family in the event of death or disability.
Also, we provide index-linked products Distribution where there is typically some protection of capital at the end of Through bancassurance partnerships we have established the policy term and a pay-out linked to the performance of an subsidiaries to distribute our products with each of the banks index or basket of shares.
as set out below: We have been focusing on selling protection products and as Aseval in conjunction with Bancaja since 2000: at 30 September 2011 our share of this market was over 35%, Unicorp Vida in conjunction with Unicaja since 2001: making us a market leader for sales of protection products in Italy CxG in conjunction with Caixa Galicia since 2001: based on gross written premiums according to ISVAP.
Individual Caja Espaa Vida in conjunction with Caja Espaa since and group pension plans are also available and this part of the 2001: market is expected to grow in the long-term given the ageing Caja Granada Vida in conjunction with Caja Granada population and government reforms to reduce the cost of state since 2002: and retirement provision.
Our general insurance business in Italy Cajamurcia Vida in conjunction with Cajamurcia since 2007. mainly provides motor and home insurance products to 13 ANIA: www.
it PUBBLICAZIONI Premi del Lavoro diretto Italiano.
html Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 43 Aviva plc Information on the company continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 individuals, as well as small commercial risk insurance, including We believe that customers have moved away from traditional life marine insurance, to businesses.
For reporting purposes, the products in Ireland because of volatility in the stock markets and Italian general insurance business is shown within Other Europe a slowdown in the housing market in the last three years.
in the general insurance segment.
The general insurance operating environment remains difficult as competition is intense and the economic downturn is adversely Distribution impacting business volumes.
The market contracted by 7.6% in Our products are distributed principally through bancassurance 16 2008, a further 6.3% in 2009 and 2.6% in 2010.
The market partnerships with UniCredit Group, Banco Popolare Italiana Group has been slow to harden with a market combined operating ratio BPI, Banca Popolari Unite BPU and Unione di Banche Italiana COR of 108.9% in 2009.
We expect rates to remain soft.
These partnerships give us access to more than 6,400 There have been significant changes in GI distribution with branches.
In addition, we also have more than 690 insurance competitors seeking to grow market share.
RSA acquired the agents and access to approximately 5,700 sales advisers as at 123. ie brand in September 2010 and continues to develop it 30 January 2012. through marketing spend.
Liberty entered the market in 2011 We distribute general insurance products primarily through a joint venture.
Aggressive competition continues in the through agents and brokers, with a growing proportion of private motor market.
The home insurance market is showing bancassurance sales.
Rate increases have been put through on less profitable commercial business by Aviva and Liberty in an attempt Ireland to drive profitability.
However, these actions are being used by Business overview and strategy some competitors to target business to increase market share.
Ireland is one of Aviva's 12 priority markets and the company is fully committed to ensuring that its Irish customers continue to receive Products excellent service and products at competitive prices.
However, the Our long-term insurance and savings business offers a economic environment in Ireland is challenging and there is a comprehensive range of protection, bonds and savings and pressing need to ensure the Irish cost base is at a market-leading pension products.
Our protection products include life insurance, level to secure the long-term success of the business.
mortgage protection, specified illness and guaranteed whole life Following a detailed structural review, Aviva has proposed cover products.
The pension range covers retirement and to make its Irish business part of a new UK and Ireland region, investment products including government promoted personal aligning many of the activities and services provided for retirement savings account PRSA schemes.
The Irish business would benefit from Aviva UKs insurance business provides a wide range of products, including investment in technology, underwriting capability and significant property, motor, travel, farm and business insurance.
Our health purchasing power, enabling Aviva Ireland to offer more insurance business provides a range of plans in both the personal competitive pricing and to introduce new products and services.
Avivas distribution arrangement with Allied Irish Bank AIB for long-term business will cease in 2012 and the bancassurance Distribution partnership with AIB is being unwound.
A strategic review is Aviva Ireland has a wide range of distribution channels, including underway to determine the most effective distribution channels intermediary channels such as brokers, bancassurance partners, going forward.
corporate partners and direct channels including call centres, the Aviva Ireland had a 15% share of the Irish long-term internet and a nationwide branch network.
insurance and savings market in 2010 based on new business Our long-term insurance and savings products are distributed APE excluding investment only business according to the Irish through our broker network.
Our general insurance business is sold 14 Insurance Federation IIF, and is the fourth-largest life and through all of our distribution channels, with an increasing pension provider in Ireland.
Our general insurance business is the proportion offered by direct and corporate partners.
We also largest in Ireland, with a market share of 16% in 2010 according provide branded products for financial institutions such as AIB, to the IIF.
Aviva has a 14% market share of the lives insured Ulster Bank and One Direct.
Traditionally, the majority of our health 15 according to the Health Insurance Authority HIA at the end business was sold via our direct channels: however there was a of 2010 making it the third-largest health insurer in Ireland.
significant increase in the business sold through the intermediary Aviva Ireland has over one million customers across its general channel in 2010 which has continued to grow in 2011. insurance, life and pensions, asset management which is Avivas distribution arrangement with AIB for long-term managed by Aviva Investors and health insurance businesses.
business will cease in 2012 and the bancassurance partnership with AIB is being unwound.
A strategic review is underway to Market determine the most effective distribution channels going forward.
The economic environment in Ireland remains challenging.
During the past three years, there has been a constant and Poland including Lithuania unprecedented decline in the Irish life insurance market.
The Business overview and strategy market contracted by 29% in 2008, a further 28% in 2009 and Our Polish life operation is the fourth-largest overall life insurer 6% in 2010 based on the IIF Factfile.
in Poland including JV Life, with a market share of 8% based on The life insurance market in Ireland is largely consolidated total premium income as at 30 June 2011 according to the Polish 17 with approximately 81% of the market share held by the top four Financial Supervision Authority KNF.
Aviva Poland completed providers, including Aviva, according to a report by IFF based on its rebrand to Aviva in June 2010.
It has more than 830,000 2010 new business APE.
Some 50% of the life and pensions individual and group life customers and manages over 2.9 billion market is now controlled by companies which are, or will be, of customers assets, providing both long-term insurance and under government control following the state control of Irish Life savings products as at 30 September 2011.
Our businesses have & Pensions 2010 market share of 27.9%.
The government also approximately 2,400 direct sales force members with 56 sales has a minority shareholding in New Ireland through Bank of branches across the country as at 31 October 2011.
Ireland 2010 market share of 20.5% based on IIF Factfile.
14 Irish Insurance Federation: http: www.
ie 16 Based on GWP reported IIF Factfile 2008, 2009, 2010 and the draft IIF GWP data for 2010 15 Health Insurance Authority: http: www.
xls 44 44 Aviva plc Information on the company continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Distribution Aviva Poland has been one of the leaders of the second-pillar pension fund market since its launch in 1999.
The second-pillar The direct sales force is the main distribution channel for most of the Polish group and is made up of 2,200 tied insurance agents market consists of the obligatory but privately managed pension funds.
The first pillar is an obligatory, state run, pay as you go whose work is co-ordinated by a network of our sales branches run by over 220 sales managers.
system where reserves are not accumulated and in which the current contributors to the system pay the expenses for those We are developing our bancassurance distribution channel.
Our biggest relationship is a joint venture with Bank Zachodni currently drawing their pensions.
The third pillar funds are made up of voluntary contributions.
WBK a subsidiary of Banco Santander that sells both life and general insurance products through the banks network of over We have witnessed two significant legislative changes to the 19 second pillar in Poland in the last two years.
We also co-operate with independent insurance agencies and was made to pensions legislation limiting pension funds potential income by reducing contractual fees and capping total asset brokers.
We believe that these insurance brokers play a key role in selling commercial lines general insurance.
Our mutual funds management revenues.
From 1 May 2011, a further change was introduced whereby contributions received by the second are also sold in brokerage houses and our individual products are supported by call centre and website sales.
We also have pillar pension funds were reduced from 7.3% of gross salary 18 to 2.3%.
a direct platform internet and call centre for distribution of motor insurance.
As a consequence, our pensions business in Poland has a market share of around 23% down from 24% last year and 18 Turkey 2.7 million customers as at 31 December 2011.
Our product Business overview and strategy strategy for pensions is to retain our status as one of the market AvivaSA, our long-term insurance and savings business in Turkey, leaders in terms of assets and customers.
In the short term we is the second-largest pension provider in the market in terms of overhauled our pay and bonus structure for our sales force to link assets under management, with a market share of 20.7% as at compensation directly with the value generated by the sale.
11 November 2011 as reported by the Turkish Pensions Our general insurance business in Poland started in 1997 Monitoring Centre www.
Our largest competitor in and continues to develop.
For reporting purposes the general this market, Anadolu, ranks first with a market share of 21.3%.
insurance business is shown within Other Europe in the general We are also the sixth-largest life insurer in Turkey with a market insurance segment.
share of 5% as at 31 August 2011, as reported by the Association of Insurance and Reinsurance Companies of Turkey.
Market AvivaSA has a bancassurance agreement with Akbank T. A. S. The Polish market for protection products has seen significant Turkeys fourth-largest privately owned bank based in terms of total growth since 1999, although penetration rates remain relatively assets according to The Banks Association of Turkey.
low according to our analysis of KNF statistics.
Aviva Sigorta, our general insurance business in Turkey, is the In 1999, Poland launched a comprehensive reform of its state 15th-largest general insurer in Turkey with a market share of pension system and created privately managed funds.
This 1.9% as of September 2011 according to the TSRBS Insurance allowed private companies to offer pension products and made 20 Union of Turkey.
Aviva Sigorta has over 675,000 customers it obligatory for all employees under 30 years of age to join one and a sales force of over 750 independent agents and brokers.
As described above, from 2010 the Polish government Our strategy in Turkey is to pursue the high growth potential started to implement restrictions on the fees that pension fund that we believe this market offers.
management companies can charge, and in 2011 changed the allocation of premiums between the first and second pillar, with Market a reduction of contribution to the latter.
We believe that Turkey, with its large population and strong The general insurance market is continuing to grow, driven economic growth, is a highly attractive market in the medium mainly by increases in rates in motor and property insurance in term.
The life market, for example, is growing very fast.
It grew 2011 following increased weather-related claims in 2010.
20 by 32% in the year to 30 August 2011 according to the TSRBS as measured in life premiums, including accidental death.
Products The general insurance market is slightly more tempered, Our life business in Poland provides a broad range of unit-linked, growing 21% in the year to 30 September 2011, according annuities and bonds and savings products.
For individuals it offers 20 to the TSRBS.
unit-linked life policies, annuities, single premium savings and health insurance.
For institutions it offers group life insurance Products and employee pension programmes, which are both unitAvivaSAs life and savings products include unit-linked pensions, linked products.
supplemented by protection insurance and other savings Our pension business offers a standard product for all products, which are aimed at medium to high-net-worth customers as part of the privately managed second pillar customers and the leading national and multinational pensions market.
We offer general insurance products to both commercial Aviva Sigorta sells a diverse range of products including entities and individuals in Poland.
For institutions we offer selected personal motor, household, commercial property, SME, personal commercial lines risks such as fire and loss-of-profit insurance, accident, marine and travel insurance.
technical insurance, insurance against loss of property during transportation, civil liability insurance and commercial health insurance.
For individuals we offer home, accident and travel insurance, which are primarily sold by tied agents, as well as motor insurance, which is sold primarily through our direct operation.
19 Bank Zachodni WBK: http: indywidualni.
xls 20 Insurance Union of Turkey: http: www.
tr Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 45 Aviva plc Information on the company continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Distribution North America In Turkey, we operate through a multi-channel distribution Regional overview and strategy framework consisting of bancassurance, direct sales force, Aviva North America consists of two businesses: an indexed life corporate sales, agencies, telemarketing and brokers.
insurance and annuity business in the US, and a general insurance business in Canada.
The region is a net capital contributor to the Russia Group and our strategic priorities are to continue to grow Business overview and strategy profitably and to improve our position and competitiveness.
Avivas business in Russia is made up of a life company and We plan to do this by: a non-state pension fund.
Providing our customers with competitive products that are As at 30 September 2011, Aviva Russia had 1.4 million tailored to their individual needs, with an enhanced and customers compared with 966,000 as at 31 December 2010. personalised customer services experience: Aviva Russia is ranked fifth in the life insurance market with Building on our strong relationships with our distribution a 7.2% market share according to the data published by the partners: 21 market regulator, the Federal Securities Market Service FSMS, Growing our life insurance business and strengthening our and first in the non-captive Pillar III pension market with a 19.3% leading annuity franchise: 22 market share, as at 30 June 2011.
We began trading in early Maximising the opportunities created by the proven 2006, with a strategy to position the business to take advantage sophisticated underwriting capabilities of our general of the growth expected to occur as the Russian life insurance insurance business: and industry develops.
Becoming the most recommended company in our markets.
Market Market and competition Over the last six years the life insurance market in Russia has The North American region is home to two of the worlds largest grown rapidly.
It has an estimated compound annual growth rate and richest economies, which are served by a large number of CAGR of 24% 2006-2011 according to the Russian insurance insurers in highly fragmented and competitive markets.
However, we believe it is still underdeveloped.
competitors in North America include global insurers such as Life insurance penetration in Russia was at only 0.08% of GDP Allianz, RSA, ING and AEGON and local market competitors such in 2010, and is much lower than in other BRIC countries Brazil, as Intact Financial, John Hancock, Hartford, Pacific Life and Russia, India and China.
We expect that the overall insurance American Equity.
and savings culture will improve and be a key driver for growth We consider our competitive advantages in the North America in insurance.
In the long term we believe the potential for Russia region to be: is significant as the outlook for growth is stronger than its skilful product innovation with a clear customer focus: 23 counterparts in more established markets.
sophisticated pricing and underwriting capabilities: the quality of our distribution partnerships: Products and distribution high-quality investment management: and In Russia, we sell a range of products, including credit life and financial strength.
standalone personal accident products which are distributed via the bancassurance channel.
We sell group life contracts including USA accident, disability and death cover which are distributed via Business overview and strategy a dedicated corporate channel and through brokers.
We also Aviva USA is a leading provider of fixed indexed life insurance and sell personal accident products which are distributed via a fixed indexed annuities according to AnnuitySpecs Indexed Sales worksite marketing channel, and voluntary Pillar III corporate & Market Report for the third quarter 2011.
Aviva USA has pension plans.
approximately one million customers and employs more than Aviva Russia has 21 distribution agreements with banks, 1,700 people across the country, with headquarters in West operating in 63 out of 83 Russian regions.
Des Moines, Iowa and offices in Topeka, Kansas and Melville, New York.
Other Europe Our strategy is to accelerate the growth of our life insurance In January 2012, Aviva announced the sale of Aviva Czech Life, business and strengthen our leading annuity franchise.
Aviva Hungary Life and Aviva Romania Life & Pensions to MetLife Underpinning our strategy is a focus on compelling customer Inc.
This transaction is consistent with Avivas strategy to focus on value propositions, enhanced product offerings, personalised markets where it has strength and scale.
The transaction, which is service and deeper relationships with key distribution partners.
subject to regulatory approvals in each jurisdiction, is expected to Our market research shows consumers want to be understood be completed during 2012. and recognised as individuals with unique financial needs.
In 2011, Delta Lloyd associate Aviva USA expanded its brand campaign, Building Insurance The Groups share of the profits of its retained interest in Delta Around You.
The campaign seeks to demonstrate our commitment Lloyd as an associate are shown within the Delta Lloyd segment to treating customers as people, not policies.
The national brand within continuing operations.
Please see page 49 for more launch, agent training sessions in Aviva USAs home offices, plus information on Delta Lloyd.
other proactive steps to strengthen customer relationships, resulted in favourable feedback from our agents.
Market The US is the worlds largest economy based on 2010 Gross 24 Domestic Product.
It is also the largest insurance market based on total premiums and has more than 79 million members of the nations baby boomer generation moving into retirement in the 24 next few years.
ru ru contributors polled investment npf reports 23 Russian Federation Federal State Statistics Service: http: www.
ru wps wcm connect rosstat rosstatsite main account, http: www.
ru free doc new site vvp tab1.
xls 24 World Insurance in 2010, New Swiss Re Sigma study World insurance in 2010 46 46 Aviva plc Information on the company continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 The indexed annuity and indexed life markets in which Aviva USA We believe that we are well placed for continued growth and operates are dominated by a small number of insurers.
According that our success is underpinned by our two strategic priorities of to third quarter 2011 data compiled by AnnuitySpecs.
com, the building strong broker relationships and maintaining sophisticated top five indexed annuity providers hold 58% of the indexed pricing and underwriting.
The transformation of our personal lines annuities market 3Q10:61%, with the top five indexed life business over the last few years has ensured the business is highly insurance providers accounting for 56% of the market competitive.
We expect that continued refinement to our models 3Q10:68%.
The indexed life product segment grew 38% over will allow us to leverage this position to positively react to market the prior year through the third quarter of 2011, attracting new opportunities.
We are using the lessons learned from personal carriers and increasing market competition.
The market for index lines to enhance and grow our commercial lines business.
We will annuity sales did not grow in the first nine months of 2011, as also continue to address increasing customer demand for choice, consumers increased purchases of variable annuity products by simplicity and self-service by working with our broker partners on 18% according to the Life Insurance and Market Research processes and technology solutions to help them compete with 25 Association LIMRA.
Products Market Aviva USAs broad product portfolio offers flexible solutions to As the eighth-largest in the world, Canadas general insurance 27 a wide variety of customer needs.
We offer both protection market is established and stable.
The four largest provinces and savings products, with traditional fixed as well as indexed generate around 89% of total premiums with Ontario, the 28 accumulation options that pay interest based on the movement largest, representing 48% of total Canadian premiums.
Depending on such movement, indexed The Canadian general insurance industry is highly fragmented policies can deliver higher returns than traditional fixed products, with many small players and no dominant consumer brand.
especially when interest rates are low.
Indexed products also serve Steady consolidation has resulted in the top five companies to protect the customers investment and provide a guaranteed representing 40% of the market and the top two companies, 28 income even when the market is down.
Intact Financial and Aviva, controlling 24% of the market.
Aviva USA also offers a wide array of optional extras or riders The rest of the industry includes several national carriers as well that can be added to policies to meet customised individual needs.
as smaller, provincially based or niche companies.
An example would be our Wellness for Life rider, which allows While direct and affinity channels are gradually increasing life insurance customers to reduce the cost of their policies if they in market share, the traditional broker channel accounts for over 29 maintain certain medical criteria.
Through an exclusive 65% of distribution.
In addition to the growth of direct and relationship with Mayo Clinic Health Solutions, a best in class affinity channels, insurance carriers are increasingly supporting healthcare provider, participants are provided with a range of and controlling distribution through investment in brokers.
practical and accessible health information and wellness services Products to help them lead a healthier lifestyle.
The general insurance products we provide through our In the savings market, Aviva USAs fixed annuity portfolio Canadian companies are: offers tax-advantaged savings opportunities and protection personal, home and motor insurance: against the risk of outliving ones assets.
We provide, for example, small and medium-size enterprise commercial insurance, a guaranteed lifetime withdrawal benefit, a feature that allows including motor, property, liability, boiler and machinery, customers to make guaranteed minimum withdrawals from their and surety: and annuity for the entirety of their lives.
niche personal insurance products including holiday and We also operate within the managed account guaranteed park model trailers, hobby farms, boats as well as antique, investment contract GIC market with a product that leverages classic and custom cars.
the investment management capabilities of both our life insurance business and those of Aviva Investors North America.
Distribution Aviva also issues funding agreements in the institutional market.
We operate in Canada through a distribution network focused on approximately 1,700 independent group and retail brokers Distribution who distribute our core personal and commercial line products.
Aviva USA uses a multi-channel distribution strategy to bring its In addition, we work closely with both independent and products to market by focusing on more than 50 key distribution wholly owned specialty brokers to distribute specialty personal partners.
Our distribution channels include career marketing line products.
organisations, independent marketing organisations, brokerage general agents and personal producing agents.
We work with Asia Pacific them to promote and sell our annuity and life insurance products Regional overview and strategy nationwide.
Our network covers all 50 states with over 33,000 Avivas Asia Pacific business operates in ten countries across the active agents largely contracted through key distribution partners.
region through associates, joint ventures and wholly owned Canada operations.
We have a balanced portfolio, comprising businesses Business overview and strategy in key strategic markets such as China and India, which have large 26 Aviva Canada is the countrys second-largest general insurer.
populations and relatively high economic growth.
Singapore is Through its distribution partners it provides a range of personal our largest business in the developing markets in South East Asia, and commercial lines insurance products to nearly 3 million and we are growing strongly in the more mature South Korean policyholders.
It has an 8.2% market share and a top-five position market.
We serve our customers through a multi-channel 26 in all major provinces.
The company employs 3,600 people and distribution strategy, with particular strength in bancassurance.
operates from a head office in Toronto, with offices located Aviva Asia Pacific is focused on creating franchise value through throughout Canada.
Increasing the value of our new business remains 27 World Insurance in 2010.
New Swiss Re sigma study World insurance in 2010 25 3rd Quarter 2011 report of US Individual Annuities sales, Life Insurance and Market Research Association.
28 MSA Research Inc. 2010 online database 26 MSA Research Inc. 2010 online database.
29 Axco Insurance Report for Canada Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 47 Aviva plc Information on the company continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 our first priority.
We are achieving this through scale benefits and scale and profitable distribution business in this competitive by focusing our product mix on higher margin products.
market by expanding our distribution channels and broadening our products.
Market and competition In Malaysia, our business is a joint venture with CIMB Group, We believe that the fundamentals of the Asian markets are Malaysias second-largest financial institution and one of South attractive and that strong domestic demand and intra-regional East Asias leading universal banking groups.
We own a 49% trade are likely to sustain the regions growth.
stake in two companies, Commerce Life Assurance Berhad and We expect Asia to be the fastest growing region for life Commerce Takaful Berhad.
At 30 June 2011, we ranked 12th by insurance globally over the next decade with strong double-digit 34 APE in Conventional Life & Family Takaful Players in Malaysia.
We expect the Asian insurance market to continue to In Sri Lanka, we own a 51% stake in listed company Aviva outpace the West owing to currently low penetration rates of NDB Insurance.
We were ranked the second-largest life insurer insurance products in many markets, high GDP growth, the with 25% market share and fifth-largest general insurer with 8% presence of a growing middle class and rising wealth.
market share in the country based on gross written premiums in 35 Changing customer attitudes also open up new opportunities 2010 according to the Insurance Board of Sri Lanka.
such as retirement, wealth management and protection.
The In Indonesia, we have a 60% stake in PT Asuransi Indonesia, demand for products with guarantees is increasing due to current in partnership with PT Asuransi Wahana-Tata, a private national market volatility.
Local companies are our main competitors in general insurer.
We are a major provider of group health and most markets.
pension products and we have started to offer traditional life We have several strengths that we believe give us a products such as credit life protection and group life during the competitive advantage, which include: year to provide a full suite of general and life products to the multi-channel distribution, with particular strength and local market.
expertise in bancassurance: In Vietnam, Aviva has a 50:50 joint venture with Vietinbank, balanced portfolio of fast-growing and high-margin a state-owned bank ranked second in the country in terms of its markets: and retail branch network.
We are capitalising on an untapped retail sharp focus in promoting higher margin products and and SME customer base and aim to be the leading bancassurance improving persistency.
player and top market share leader by new business premium within five years.
Business overview and strategy Our joint venture in Taiwan is classified as held for sale.
Operating in ten markets in Asia, we have a range of businesses See section Financial statements IFRS Note 3Subsidiaries.
at different stages of development.
In China, through our 50% joint venture with COFCO Ltd, Market we are ranked in the top three among the foreign life insurers in We believe the fundamentals of the Asian markets are strong.
We have a presence in 12 provinces at The Asian Development Bank predicts GDP growth for emerging 31 December 2011, and over 50 branches.
Faced with regulatory 36 markets in Asia of 7.2% in 2012.
Despite inflationary pressures, changes in bancassurance sales model at bank outlets, we aim we believe, Asias strong domestic demand and intra-regional to defend volumes and margins by developing alternative trade is likely to sustain this growth momentum, with China and distribution channels to reach high net worth customers as well India driving the overall trend.
as mass affluent customers with an annual household income We expect Asia to be the fastest growing region for life of at least RMB 200,000. insurance globally, with the potential for 1520% average market In India, with a wide distribution network of 140 branches growth per annum over the next decade.
We believe that South spreading across nearly 3,000 towns and cities, we operate in East Asia in particular offers one of the highest insurance margins partnership with the Dabur Group through a 26% interest in in the world.
Aviva Life Insurance Company India Ltd.
Tighter regulations By strengthening our multi-channel distribution capability as on unit-linked products are driving an industry shift towards well as managing our product portfolio for margin and profit, we traditional products such as endowment and health policies.
believe we are well-positioned to continue delivering strong We currently rank 13th among the private life insurance growth in franchise value.
companies in India based on APE as at 31 August 2011 according 31 to the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority IRDA.
Products Our Singapore subsidiary ranks fifth by APE as at 30 June Our Asian businesses offer a range of protection, bonds and savings 32 2011 according to the Life Insurance Association.
We are one and pension products, including universal life, participating and of the biggest providers of employee benefits and healthcare non-participating endowments, unit-linked single and regular insurance.
We have a strong relationship with DBS Bank.
In premium life insurance, other savings and pensions products and September 2010, we launched our financial advisory channel a range of accident and health insurance products.
Due to the internationalisation and appreciation of Chinas In South Korea, we own a 47% stake in Woori Aviva Life currency the Renminbi RMB, we launched RMB insurance savings Insurance Co. Ltd. through a partnership formed with stateproducts in Hong Kong and Singapore, thereby tapping into the owned Woori Finance Holdings Company Ltd, South Koreas growing demand for RMB insurance products in this market.
Woori Bank is the second-largest Distribution commercial bank in South Korea by market capitalisation.
By 33 We operate a multi-distribution strategy in Asia, with particular November 2011, we had market share of 2.1% based on initial strength in bancassurance.
We aim to continue to harness the monthly premiums.
benefits of multi-distribution in all of our markets so that we In Hong Kong, our business is ranked 22nd in the long-term can expand our presence to a wider range of profitable insurance market by APE as at 30 June 2011 according to the customer segments.
Office of the Commissioner of Insurance.
Our strategy is to build 30 APE data released by National Insurance Industry Communication Club which is a non official organization 31 http: www.
in ADMINCMS cms frmGeneral List.
8 34 Life statistics from Life Insurance Association Malaysia, Family Takaful statistics from Insurance Services Malaysia 32 Life Insurance Association quarterly emails to the Principal Officer.
lk publications IBSL Annual Report 2010. pdf 33 http: www.
asp?num 647&page 1 36 Asian Development outlook 2011 update, December 2011.
48 48 Aviva plc Information on the company continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Aviva Singapore has a multi-channel distribution strategy building Deep knowledge of the needs of sophisticated institutional on a core bancassurance relationship with DBS Bank, expanding clients such as pension funds, local government the network of IFAs and Aviva Advisors and online general organisations and sovereign wealth funds: insurance platform.
Clear focus on, and commitment to, our major strengths In China and South Korea, we distribute the majority of our in fixed income, real estate and regional equities: products through bancassurance and IFAs.
Our ability to combine these strengths in multi-asset In Hong Kong, India and Malaysia, bancassurance is the main solutions suitable for the volatile environment in which distribution channel.
We are investing in other channels such as we are operating: direct marketing to diversify our sources of revenue.
Our large-scale, low-cost provider status, which enables us to prosper in an intensely competitive market: and Aviva Investors Our risk management expertise, which helps us to deliver returns that are matched to our clients risk appetite.
Business overview and strategy Aviva Investors was established in 2008 when the Aviva Group Investment capabilities combined all of its major fund management components into a Aviva Investors offers a wide range of investments across all asset single global fund management business.
We have 263 billion in classes in all significant financial centres worldwide.
Where we do assets under management as at 31 December 2011 and offer a not directly manage assets, we believe we have the skills and broad range of expert investment skills and experience around the experience to select the right third-party asset managers to world, most notably in the UK, Europe, the US, Asia Pacific and complement our own products.
Our primary investment capabilities include: Our largest clients are the long-term insurance and savings, Fixed income our fixed income teams cover a and general insurance businesses of Aviva, to whom we provide comprehensive product set: UK government securities, bespoke asset management services across a broad spectrum of liquidity products, corporate bonds, European and global asset classes.
sovereigns, index-linked bonds, emerging markets hard and We provide external clients with bespoke segregated solutions local currency debt and high-yield instruments: or offer access to a variety of fund ranges.
Our principal target Real estate we offer funds specific to property assets clients for the larger segregated solutions tend to be large in the UK, Europe and Asia, in addition to a global multipension funds and financial institutions such as insurance manager service: companies and banks.
Multi asset solutions constructing client solutions across Our strategy is to rapidly grow our share of higher-margin, markets and asset classes: external business, offering client-focused solutions and products Equities locally based teams focused on generating above to our customers across our international network.
market performance: and Alternatives we offer a range of alternative investment Business review products including private equity fund of funds and single In the final quarter of 2011, we undertook a detailed review of hedge funds.
our business to ensure that Aviva Investors remains well-placed to compete in what we expect will be a period of continuing Investment strategies and solutions economic instability, subdued growth, increased regulatory Aviva Investors and Aviva have long recognised that the most scrutiny and reduced risk-appetite among investors.
important driver of investment returns for any institutional The conclusion of the review was that the business strategy manager is asset allocation.
We have built capabilities to create is sound but that greater focus in core areas of strength would an optimal mix of assets according to our clients' needs.
This improve profitability and enable us to continue to make important capability lends itself to tailored dynamic strategic asset allocation, investments in the development of our global infrastructure.
medium-term asset allocation and tail risk hedging strategies.
As a result, we propose to streamline our business, We have built a comprehensive range of global, local and concentrating fund management activity in fixed income, real specialist fixed income capabilities which draw upon a range of estate and multi asset solutions, where we see growth potential sources to deliver investment solutions for sophisticated institutional and already have a strong competitive position.
To satisfy the growing demand for diversified fixed income committed to the active management of local equities in the UK, solutions we have created a flexible platform, Global Markets continental Europe, the US and Singapore, but we have seen Alpha, to match our clients liabilities and we believe, deliver a reduced appetite for riskier assets such as equities, notably excess returns by drawing on and combining a range of fixed in Europe, and we propose to respond to this, and eliminate income capabilities.
duplication, by reducing the scope of active equity management Our insurance background also means that we have the skills in London.
to offer Liability Driven Investment LDI solutions to clients, A majority of business already comes from institutional clients, focusing our efforts where we believe we have a competitive so we are proposing to focus sales and marketing activity on key advantage in particular insurance LDI in Europe and pensions institutional markets.
We will, however, continue to support Aviva LDI in North America.
networks distributing to retail investors globally.
In the UK in Within real estate we are seeking to leverage our expertise particular, we will continue to offer high-quality investment to address long-term requirements from pension funds.
In 2011 products and solutions to retail investors through our network we created REaLM Return Enhancing and Liability Matching, a of banks, insurers including Aviva, and brokers.
proposition whereby the investor gives up potential future capital gains on underlying real estate assets in favour of enhanced Market and competition returns throughout the life of the funding typically 30 to 40 years.
We consider our competitor peer group to include large Originally developed for our Aviva client, REaLM has already insurance-owned asset managers and major independent global attracted interest and financal commitment from external clients.
Key identified competitive factors for Aviva Investors include: Our Aviva Group parentage and the associated brand strength, reach and recognition: Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 49 Aviva plc Information on the company continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Where a client is looking for a solution, outcome focused product During 2011, Delta Lloyd offered a scrip dividend.
Aviva did not or is working within a specific risk budget our multi-manager, exercise this option which resulted in a further dilution of Avivas asset allocation and multi-asset fund teams draw on the wider shareholding by 0.8% to 41.9% of ordinary share capital, and capabilities within Aviva Investors or externally to create the 39.3% of shareholder voting rights.
The recoverable amount of Delta Lloyd NV has been Our global platform has enabled us to generate significant determined based on fair value less costs to sell.
The fair value has sales across borders with successes in 2011 including a substantial been based on the market price of ordinary shares of Delta Lloyd mandate from a Middle East client into River Road Asset NV quoted on NYSE Euronext Amsterdam as at 31 December Management, our US equity investment manager.
As a result of this test an impairment of 217 million has Real Estate Multi Manager platform offers global exposure to real been recognised in respect of the associate, reducing its carrying estate markets that we believe few competitors can match.
Products Business overview and strategy Our product range covers a broad range of asset classes.
In Delta Lloyd operates in the life insurance and pensions, general Europe, we have a range of SICAVs open-ended collective insurance, fund management and selected banking markets in investment schemes, which are domiciled in France, Luxembourg the Netherlands and Belgium.
The group employs approximately and Poland.
These funds have different share classes depending 5,400 permanent staff as at 31 December 2011. on the size and type of investor.
Our traditional distribution model In September 2011 Delta Lloyd announced the sale of its for these funds focuses on wholesale distributors, asset allocators German business to Nomura Holdings Inc.
The sale was in line and small to mid-size institutional investors but following our with Delta Lloyd's stated strategy of focusing on its core markets.
business review we propose to focus our pooled fund range and It follows Delta Lloyd's decision, announced in March 2010, to segregated capabilities on institutional clients needs.
place its German business into run-off and to stop writing new In the UK, we supply products to the retail and wholesale policies.
The German business is not reported as held for sale as markets, principally distributing equity and bond funds in our UK at 31 December 2011 by Delta Lloyd.
This is due to the year-end domiciled OEIC range, and a market-leading range of open ended valuation of the German business which under year-end market real estate funds.
These are promoted to investors via IFAs, fund conditions did not support a probable sale.
platforms, fund supermarkets and discretionary asset managers Market and we remain fully committed to this business.
In addition, Delta Lloyd continues to operate in competitive and mature we have a range of pooled pension funds which are aimed markets.
Customers in the Netherlands increasingly demand that at the smaller pension fund market.
These funds are normally suppliers provide value-for-money, high-performing products with defined benefit schemes and tend to be advised by transparent charges.
The Dutch savings market is competitive investment consultants.
with banks now able to offer retirement products on the same We manage hedge funds in the UK and the US.
These funds terms as insurers.
Delta Lloyd has taken the opportunity to sell are generally registered offshore and are primarily sold to the these bank saving products.
In addition, Delta Lloyd expects hedge funds industry, although we also promote single growth in the Group pension market.
Delta Lloyd has taken strategy funds to institutional clients, family offices and wealth the opportunity to extend its distribution of the Group pension managers.
The asset classes include fixed interest, multi-asset market through its Be Frank joint venture.
In the general insurance market there continues to be We also have an expanding range of specialist property funds.
competition on premium rates, particularly in the motor sector, These funds are targeted at specialist real estate buyers and large due to increasing claims frequencies linked with the economic institutions mostly pension funds and local authorities, and downturn and weather-related events.
provide real estate solutions to a wide range of risk appetites, ranging from secure income generating funds to highly leveraged Products growth funds.
The long-term insurance and savings business of Delta Lloyd We have six money market funds, domiciled in Dublin and offers a range of protection, bonds and savings and pensions Paris, addressing the sterling and euro money market segments.
services, including group pension schemes, annuities, unit-linked These funds are sold by a specialist sales team based in London bonds, savings products and protection insurance.
The general and Paris and target corporate treasury functions.
insurance business offers a well-diversified product portfolio including personal, motor, travel and home insurance and small Delta Lloyd to medium-sized commercial policies.
Delta Lloyd also sells retail Delta Lloyd is a financial services provider in the Netherlands and investment fund and mortgage products in the Netherlands and has a growing operation in Belgium.
The business has been listed retail banking products in Belgium.
on the NYSE Euronext Amsterdam since November 2009.
When it was listed Aviva retained 58.3% of the ordinary share Distribution capital and 54.0% of the voting rights in Delta Lloyd.
The IPO Delta Lloyd distributes long-term insurance and savings and raised 1 billion of gross disposal proceeds.
In May 2011, Aviva general insurance products under three brands: Delta Lloyd, sold a further 25 million shares in Delta Lloyd, reducing our OHRA and through a joint venture with ABN AMRO.
holding to 42.7% of Delta Lloyds ordinary share capital.
This Individual investment products are sold through private banks represents 40% of shareholder voting rights.
As Aviva no longer including ABN AMRO, ING and Rabobank.
On 30 December commands a majority of shareholder voting rights, it no longer 2011, Delta Lloyd Group confirmed a 30-year joint venture for the controls Delta Lloyd.
exclusive distribution and sales of insurance products under the Accordingly, the results of Delta Lloyd up to 6 May 2011 Friesland Bank Insurances label.
Friesland Bank Assurantin BV are presented as discontinued operations.
After this date, Aviva is a 100% subsidiary of FBA Holding BV.
Delta Lloyd Group has ceased to consolidate Delta Lloyd.
Avivas share of the profits acquired 51% of the shares of FBA Holding BV.
of its retained interest in Delta Lloyd as an associate are shown within the Delta Lloyd segment within continuing operations.
