70 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Accounting basis of preparation Critical accounting policies and estimates Accounting basis of preparation The preparation of financial statements requires the Group to International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS select accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions Our consolidated financial statements are prepared under IFRS, that affect items reported in the consolidated income statement, using standards issued by the International Accounting Standards consolidated statement of financial position, other primary Board IASB and endorsed by the EU.
In addition to fulfilling this statements and notes to the financial statements.
These are set legal obligation, the Group has also complied with IFRS as issued out on pages 168 to 182. by the IASB and applicable at 31 December 2011.
The financial data contained in the report and accounts has Critical accounting policies been prepared using the Groups accounting policies set out on The major areas of judgement on policy application are pages 168 to 182.
Where applicable, the financial statements considered to be whether Group entities should be consolidated have also been prepared in accordance with the Statement of set out in policy D, product classification set out in policy F and Recommended Practice SORP on accounting for insurance the classification of financial investments set out in policy S. The business issued by the Association of British Insurers ABI, the loss of control of Delta Lloyd in May 2011, and its classification as most recent version of which was issued in December 2005 a discontinued operation in the current and preceding years, is and amended in December 2006. discussed in notes 2 and 3 b to the financial statements.
Market Consistent Embedded Value MCEV basis of reporting Use of estimates We present the results and financial position of our life and All estimates are based on managements knowledge of current related businesses on an MCEV basis, in addition to the IFRS basis.
facts and circumstances, assumptions based on that knowledge MCEV methodology represents an alternative basis of reporting and their predictions of future events and actions.
Actual results the value of the Groups life and related businesses and the can always differ from those estimates, possibly significantly.
This basis values cash flow from assets The table below sets out those items that we consider particularly consistently with market prices and is consistent with the way susceptible to changes in estimates and assumptions, and the pricing is assessed and the business is managed.
The MCEV methodology adopted is in accordance with the MCEV Principles published by the CFO Forum in October 2009.
Accounting Under this methodology, the total profit recognised over the full Item policy lifetime of an insurance policy is the same as under the IFRS basis Insurance and participating investment contract liabilities F & K Goodwill, AVIF and other intangible assets N of reporting.
However, the MCEV basis gives a market-consistent Fair values of financial investments S indication of the profitability of business on inception.
Impairment of financial investments S Additionally, shareholders funds on an MCEV basis Fair value of derivative financial instruments T Deferred acquisition costs and other assets W incorporate internally-generated additional value of in-force Provisions and contingent liabilities Z business AVIF, which is excluded for IFRS reporting.
These Pension obligations AA financial statements include supplementary information on Deferred income taxes AB MCEV reporting in the MCEV financial statements section.
Future accounting developments Longer-term investment return We continue to take an active role in the development of The long-term nature of most of our operations means that shortnew accounting standards, via industry forums and working term realised and unrealised gains and losses are shown as an parties, and reviewing and providing comment on proposals from adjustment to operating profit.
We focus instead on operating the IASB.
Phase II of the IASBs project on insurance contracts profit incorporating a longer-term investment return LTIR.
The continues to be the most significant area of development for us, rates of return that we use for equity and property in our LTIR and we continue actively to engage in the debate.
We fully methodology are aligned with the rates that we use under MCEV support the timely development of a global standard for principles.
For fixed interest securities, we include the amortisation insurance accounting that reflects the economics of our business, of premiums or discounts arising on purchase, thereby producing and are working directly and through the CFO Forum of leading an LTIR that is equivalent to the gross redemption yield.
European insurers to achieve this.
While this standard is still under development, we will continue to focus on embedded value as the best measure of value for our long-term business.
We continue to monitor other major IASB projects, including financial instruments, revenue recognition and leasing.
Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 71 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate responsibility Page In this section Highlights 72 Our strategy 72 Governance 72 Trust and transparency 73 Attracting and retaining talent 74 Developing communities 76 Climate change and environment 77 Sustainable products and services 78 External benchmarking and recognition 79 Affiliations and engagements 79 Key indicators 80 Accounting for Sustainability 82 Independent assurance statement 87
