Lord Sharman of Redlynch OBE Radio plc media, The Securities Association investigations at Grant Thornton professional Chairman Age 69 UK securities regulator, the Auditing Practices services.
Member of the supervisory board of Appointed to the Board in January 2005 and Board auditing regulator and the Business Delta Lloyd N. V. became chairman in January 2006.
Trevor Matthews president of GamCare charity.
Member of the Executive director Age 59 chairman of Aegis Group plc media services Nomination Committee.
Appointed to the Board in December 2011 and KPMG International auditors, deputy as chief executive, Aviva UK.
Andrew Moss chairman of Group 4 Securicor plc security Group chief executive Age 53 executive officer and vice-chairman of Friends services, member of the supervisory board of Appointed to the Board in May 2004.
Joined Life insurance and chief executive officer of ABN AMRO Holding N. V. banking and an as group finance director and became group Friends Provident plc insurance.
Former chief independent non-executive director of Young chief executive in July 2007.
Currently treasurer executive of Standard Life Assurance Company & Cos Brewery plc drinks, AEA Technology and a member of the board of The Geneva Limited, president and chief executive officer of plc commercial technology, BG Group plc Association and a member of the board of Manulife Japan and executive vice-president, oil and gas and Reed Elsevier Group plc the Association of British Insurers.
Previously Canadian operations and chairman, Manulife publishing.
Chairman of the Board and the director of finance, risk management and Bank, Toronto.
He has also held senior Nomination Committee and a member of the operations at Lloyds of London insurance management positions at National Australia Corporate Responsibility Committee.
and formerly held a number of senior Bank and Legal & General Assurance Holdings 2.
John McFarlane OBE management positions at HSBC plc banking.
Independent non-executive director and Member of the Corporate Responsibility and deputy chairman chairman designate 6.
Igal Mayer Nomination Committees and a member of the Age 64 Executive director Age 50 supervisory board of Delta Lloyd N. V. Appointed to the Board in January 2011 as Appointed to the Board in September 2011.
Currently a non-executive director of The Royal 4.
Patrick Regan chief executive, Aviva Europe.
Joined the Bank of Scotland Group plc banking until 30 Chief financial officer Age 45 Group in 1989 and held various senior March 2012, Westfield Holdings Limited retail Appointed to the Board in February 2010 as management positions before becoming chief mall developer and operator and Old Oak chief financial officer.
Previously group chief financial officer and executive vice-president Holdings Limited financial holding company.
financial officer and group chief operating of Aviva Canada, managing director, London Former chief executive officer of Australia and officer at Willis Group Holdings Limited markets for CGU Insurance and finance New Zealand Banking Group Limited, insurance broking, group financial controller director for Norwich Union Insurance.
He was for RSA Insurance Group plc insurance and also previously president and chief executive executive director of Standard Chartered plc, finance and claims director, UK general officer of Aviva Canada, chief executive of head of Citicorp and Citibank UK and Ireland, and managing director of Citicorp Investment insurance for AXA Insurance insurance.
He Aviva UK General Insurance and chief Bank.
Former director and council member of also held a number of senior management executive of Aviva North America.
The London Stock Exchange financial services positions at GE Capital financial services and former non-executive director of Capital and specialised in corporate finance and Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 91 Aviva plc Board of directors continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 7.
Leslie Van fide Walle Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Age 58 Age 56 Age 55 Appointed to the Board in February 2012.
Appointed to the Board in January 2009.
Appointed to the Board in May 2009.
Currently a non-executive director of The Currently a non-executive director of Currently chairman of SIG plc construction Berkeley Group Holdings plc construction Singapore Airlines Limited aviation, DBS Bank and non-executive director of La Seda fide and a trustee of the English National Limited banking, DBS Group Holdings Limited Barcelona, SA plastic packaging and DCC plc Opera.
Formerly vice-chairman UK of banking, Singapore Exchange Limited business support.
Formerly chief executive  LLP and responsible financial services, CapitaLand Limited real officer of Rexam plc packaging, executive for leading the executive team for the estate and the Singapore Chinese Girls vice-president of retail for oil products and Europe, Middle East, Africa and India region.
Chairman of the Singapore head of oil products, Shell Europe, for Royal Formerly also UK head of assurance and a International Foundation.
Former chairman Dutch Shell plc and previously held a number member of the UK management board of of the Accounting Standards Council of of senior management positions with Cadbury  LLP.
Singapore and former chief executive officer Schweppes plc consumer goods and United of Standard Chartered Bank in Singapore Biscuits Ltd consumer goods.
Member of the Audit and Corporate executive director of Aegis Group plc media Independent non-executive director Responsibility Committees.
Member of the Remuneration and Age 63 Risk Committees.
Appointed to the Board in October 2005.
Michael Hawker AM Currently senior independent director of Independent non-executive director 14.
Russell Walls Centrica plc utilities and a non-executive Age 52 Independent non-executive director director of Cable & Wireless Communications Appointed to the Board in January 2010.
A senior adviser to Chatham Currently a non-executive director of Appointed to the Board in May 2004.
House and chair of governors, James Allens Macquarie Bank Limited banking, Macquarie Currently non-executive director of Biocon Girls School.
Formerly a senior civil servant, Group Limited banking and Australian Rugby Limited healthcare, Signet Jewelers Limited director general of the Association of British Union.
Chairman of The George Institute for retail and Mytrah Energy Limited wind Insurers, and a non-executive director of the Global Health and director trustee of the power producer.
Former group finance Bank of England, Alliance & Leicester plc George Institute for Global Health UK.
Also director of BAA plc transport, Wellcome banking, St Modwen Properties plc a member of the advisory council at General plc pharmaceuticals and Coats Viyella plc property development and the Almeida Enterprise Management Services International textiles, treasurer and trustee of the British Theatre Company Limited.
Member of the Limited private equity.
Formerly chief Red Cross and a member of the Finance Audit, Nomination and Risk Committees.
executive and managing director of Insurance Commission of the International Federation Australia Group insurance and chairman of of the Red Cross.
Richard Karl Goeltz the Insurance Council of Australia.
Chairman non-executive director of Stagecoach Group Senior independent non-executive of the Risk Committee and a member of the plc transport and Hilton Group plc leisure director Age 69 Audit and Remuneration Committees.
and a non-executive director of Delphic Appointed to the Board in May 2004.
Diagnostics Limited medical and Mersey Currently a non-executive director of the 12.
Gay Huey Evans Docks and Harbour Company transport.
Warnaco Group Inc. clothing, the New Independent non-executive director Chairman of the Audit Committee and Germany Fund investment trust, the Central Age 57 a member of the Nomination and Europe and Russia Fund investment trust Appointed to the Board in October 2011.
and the European Equity Fund investment Currently a non-executive director of The trust, a member of the Council and Court London Stock Exchange Group plc financial 15.
Scott Wheway of Governors of The London School of Independent non-executive director services and Clariden Leu Europe Limited Economics and Political Science and a trustee Age 45 financial services.
Member of the of the American Academy in Berlin.
Former Appointed to the Board in December 2007. management board and of the panel of vice-chairman and chief financial officer of Currently a strategic adviser to Best Buy Co. finance experts of the Panel of Recognised American Express Company financial services Inc. retail services.
Former chief executive International Market Experts in Finance and director and chief financial officer of officer of Best Buy Europe retail services, PRIME Finance, a trustee of Wellbeing of NatWest Group plc banking.
Former nondirector of The Boots Company plc pharmacy Women UK charity and The Wigmore executive director of Delta Air Lines, Inc. now known as The Boots Company Limited Hall Trust charity.
Formerly vice-chairman transport and Federal Home Loan Mortgage and managing director and retail director of the board and non-executive chairman, Corporation Freddie Mac financial services of Boots the Chemist at Alliance Boots plc.
Europe of the International Swaps and and a former member of the Accounting Formerly held a number of senior executive Derivatives Association, Inc. ISDA financial Standards Board UK.
Member of the Audit positions at Tesco plc retail services, including trade association, vice-chairman, Investment and Nomination Committees.
chief executive of Tesco in Japan.
Chairman of Banking & Investment Management at Barclays the Remuneration Committee and a member Capital banking and held senior management of the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
positions at Citi Alternative Investments EMEA banking, the Financial Services Authority UK regulator and Bankers Trust Company banking.
Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
