74 Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 1 The Net Promoter Score NPS is our leading, group-wide Our chief executive, Andrew Moss, gave the Henley Lecture in measure of customer advocacy, comprising a globally consistent 2011 and spoke about the need to create greater understanding relationship and benchmarking survey which is conducted of the insurance industry, including saving for retirement.
The focus for the business is to ensure we are acting also chaired our Future Prosperity Panel, a team of nine leading on the feedback from our customers as well as including NPS thinkers who gathered to consider the challenges and solutions performance targets as part of our executive directors annual for savings in peoples future prosperity.
published in our Future Prosperity report in collaboration with We listen carefully to what our customers tell us, and we the Economist Intelligence Unit.
Please see respond quickly and effectively to meet their needs.
clear communication on every one of our products and services, Referral fees and reform of the personal injury system including the risks and benefits to customers.
Over the last eight We have been calling for a complete ban on referral fees and a years in our annual consumer survey, we have asked more than reform of the personal injury system for the last six years in the 200,000 people across 25 countries what they think about risk, UK.
Our own policy is that we do not sell customer data and we savings, retirement, financial advice and other important issues.
are very pleased that referral fees will be banned.
We are now The latest results show that consumers remain cautious about the focusing on helping to get a fairer deal for our customers by general economic situation and are nervous about taking high calling for a deduction in personal accident legal fees and costs.
We found that: 68% of people globally are worried about risk: Aviva Europe restructure 30% of people in the UK and 27% in Ireland have already In October 2011 we announced a proposal to combine Aviva dipped into their savings to make ends meet: Ireland with Aviva UK to form a new UK and Ireland Region.
45% of people think that the general economic situation We also announced that the European regional operations would in the country will get worse in the next 12 months: and be restructured to strengthen the business and create a leaner people are becoming more interested in protecting what cost base.
It is expected to take up to two years for the full implementation of these changes which started in March 2012.
Pensions gap We are engaging with our employees on the impact of the Growing pressure on Europe's pensions systems caused by ageing proposals and we remain committed to a full and open populations is a widely acknowledged problem, with the ratio of consultation process with them and their representatives.
retirees to workers only set to increase.
We hope to achieve any proposed job reductions through In September 2010 Aviva calculated Europe's pension gap voluntary means where possible and will support employees the difference between the amount that people retiring from through this transformation.
2011 to 2051 will need to maintain an adequate standard of living and what they will receive from public and private pensions Fair pay at 1.9 trillion.
As this gap cannot be reduced with a single Since 2005 Aviva has been a London Living Wage employer.
solution, the report makes a series of recommendations designed During the year we have communicated with Fairpensions, the to change attitudes to saving and encourage more people to Living Wage organisation, to discuss our involvement in the wider better understand the financial choices they need to make to UK national living wage.
Consultation with our employee forum prepare for retirement.
and UK executive committee has led to a change to our minimum In 2011 new research in Avivas Mind the Gap series showed pay grades which align with the UK living wage for our direct that although it is possible to make a significant positive impact to employees.
This change will be effective from April 2012. retirement income by saving more and saving earlier, consumers across the region are ignoring the warning signs about the gap Attracting and retaining talent between retirement expectations and levels of saving, leaving As a global financial services organisation we recognise our role them financially under-prepared for retirement.
For example, in finding and building new skills for the workforce, developing only 23% of Europes 1834 year olds take an interest in a workplace that employees want to join and where they want information on personal finance.
This group should be encouraged more to increase their Delivering on our strategic plans and commitments requires interest in saving and their understanding of the choices they strong leadership and the energy, dedication and belief of all our need to make to plan for their retirement.
Over the past three years we have built a strong such as annual pension statements designed in a clear, simple and global HR function to lead our cultural transformation.
We have engaging way is clearly one of the actions required.
As such, a a clear purpose to bring to life our employee promise to deliver new report published in November, Towards annual pension exceptional business performance: statements across the EU called on the European Commission We believe everyone in Aviva has talent and that to support action to raise peoples awareness of how much they performance matters.
stand to receive in retirement.
We work as a team, we are One Aviva, and we aim The European Commission has subsequently signalled its to do things once, globally.
intent to build a more secure platform for individuals to plan Our CR agenda drives sustainability that delivers prosperity for their retirement through its White Paper An Agenda for and peace of mind.
Adequate, Safe and Sustainable Pensions which champions We take personal responsibility.
recommendations made by Aviva, such as annual pension statements and measures to increase consumer confidence In 2011, we have advanced our people agenda by maintaining in retirement savings products.
one global approach to talent management, performance management, leadership, and the deployment of Workday, our first common global online HR system is on track.
We achieved a strong and improved global participation rate of 85% in our 1 Net Promoter, NPS, and Net Promoter Score are trademarks of Satmetrix Systems, Inc. Bain & Company, and Fred Reichheld.
Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 75 Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 annual employee engagement survey 2010: 80%.
consistent experience for those transitioning roles to lead people Employee engagement globally has improved by 5% to 68%.
Improvements are particularly strong on satisfaction at 69% Leadership development needs to be continually refreshed 2010: 62% and commitment at 58% 2010:51%.
to ensure leaders are equipped to deal with the emerging trends Moving forward, our strategy is to help Aviva achieve its and business needs.
We have done this for 2012 by including strategic priorities and vision by: assessment and development at points of leadership transition Building the capability of our regions and functions to achieve and coaching to meet emerging business challenges.
Our employee promise Developing a culture of performance, where we play to win, Our employee promise is central to our HR strategy.
take personal responsibility and recognise our people as I am recognised for who I am and my contribution matters.
We deliver on our promise by listening, respecting people, Helping Aviva develop and be a sustainable business.
recognising and rewarding good work, and by providing Making it easier to work at Aviva by simplifying and focusing continuous development for our employees.
on key global HR tools and processes.
We want to employ great people and encourage them Simplifying HR to stay with us.
We match the right people to the right roles In line with our One Aviva strategy, we have taken significant and encourage their best performance.
We are developing steps forward in the last year toward alignment, consistency a strong, gender-balanced leadership and talent management and simplicity of our people processes and tools.
Our efforts are reflected in continuous improvement We have continued to roll-out a global HR information system in employee feedback since 2008, despite the climate of that, for the first time, will put all our people and organisational uncertainty and economic challenge.
This will make it easier to operate as One For the second year, we continued our global brand campaign Aviva and will allow us to manage the consistency and security of under the banner of: You Are the Big Picture.
A key aspect of our employees personal information.
It will also put more control this effort was to engage and recognise the great work of our into the hands of managers and employees to manage their own employees, which is why we put employee engagement and personal information.
It enables a new level of self-service access recognition at its heart.
We included more stories recognising for basic people-related requests and processes.
our employees and celebrating the small human touches that can Since our talent process was launched in 2007, we have fully make a real difference to our customers.
Please see our website globalised the approach.
Every employee is covered by the annual www.
In 2011, we applied our experience and expertise Our employee survey to further simplify the tools and definitions.
It remains one of our Each year we ask our employees how we are delivering against greatest success stories in this area.
It was one of the first people our employee promise.
Headlines from our 2011 survey include: processes along with the Employee Promise Survey for which strong improvements across the board and particularly on we truly achieved global consistency.
It remains the cornerstone our success in communicating a vision of the future that of Avivas belief in honest conversations and development motivates staff, up 12% from 2010: planning for staff.
up 10% on employee recognition to 71%: In 2011, we announced a new global approach to job levels.
employee engagement in all aspects of our CR agenda Once fully implemented, this will align all roles across Aviva into has shown increases for the two last years, a 14% uplift a common system.
We expect this to aid and facilitate global since 2009: and mobility as well as to create opportunities in future to simplify out of 58 questions of the core survey only two declined other, related elements of reward.
from the past year 2010 by 1% point each.
Developing leadership capability In 2010 we introduced a globally consistent definition of Our employee survey drives local and global change.
The results leadership called Living Leadership.
During 2011 we have are used by directors and managers to identify areas for focused on moving this from concept to reality by listening to our improvement across Aviva.
Managers of five or more people employees in fishbowl settings at our summits, embedding it in receive local survey results to use with their teams.
how we deliver our business strategy and how we lead practically Employee wellbeing in our work every day.
Providing a safe and healthy environment for employees, We want everyone in Aviva to be a leader, regardless of their contractors, customers and visitors remains a priority across the position.
This year, we have aligned leadership development to group.
We have well-established policies and systems in place a globally consistent definition of Living Leadership, the act of to ensure wellbeing and minimise risks.
making a difference and developed a new leadership capability Our new group Health and Safety Standard, introduced at the framework.
We have continued to build alignment to a global beginning of 2012, sets out our global approach to health and organisation through our improved on-boarding experience for safety.
Each business has an occupational health and safety senior leaders.
management system that is designed to suit local operating In support of our goal of embedding risk management more conditions.
These requirements apply to every business and cover strongly in Avivas culture, our top 350 leaders attended the a wide range of topics, from risk assessments and emergency and Better Business Decisions programme in 2011.
It was designed incident management, to driving on company business and stress to create a common understanding of the vital role that every management.
employee regardless of role or function must play in In addition, many of our businesses have implemented their understanding and managing risk.
own initiatives to promote safety, health and wellbeing among In Asia Pacific we wrapped leadership development around their staff, including employee assistance programmes on finance the strategy work we are doing, an approach that will become and health issues, fitness centres, subsidised travel and free bike global during 2012.
Our Frontline Manager Programme has been checks for commuters.
Flexible benefits packages also give revised to meet the needs of our global audience and ensures a 76 Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 employees an array of options to suit individual needs, including Globally, we contributed over 12.4 million to develop discounted dental and healthcare.
communities in 2011, a 9% increase on 2010 2010: 11.4million and we have improved our measurement approach Diversity, equality and human rights to record our inputs and outputs more accurately in order to Being respectful of each others differing backgrounds, cultures, demonstrate the benefit of this investment for our employees, needs and views is key to our delivery of the employee promise.
our communities and our brand.
Our Diversity and Inclusion practices remain aligned with the Engaging our employees is vital.
Employees are allocated United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the three days volunteering leave and over the past year we have International Labour Organisations core labour standards.
In seen an increase in volunteering to 60,392 hours.
Some 91% addition, our new global risk standard for corporate responsibility of the volunteers surveyed reported positive development and includes a set of minimum requirements for all Aviva businesses morale benefits.
Overall we have seen a 10% uplift in employees with regard to diversity, equality and human rights.
This reinforces who think we do a good job of contributing to our communities our commitment to fairness and consistency across all our and a 5% increase in employees who believe Avivas commitment businesses and ensures we are measuring our effectiveness to CR is genuine.
Employee giving to charity has also increased on an annual basis.
In 2010, our Employee Promise survey results showed that Aviva has a clear track record of working with field experts in our commitment to valuing diversity in our organisation could community development across the third and public sector.
We made some notable improvements in 2011: recognise the importance of our partnerships with organisations 76% of employees believe we have a climate in which such as UK Athletics, Save the Children, Consortium for Street diverse perspectives are valued 2010: 66%.
Children and Oxfam to enable us to develop and share best 83% of employees believe that Aviva provides an practice programmes and to work effectively in areas of environment free from bullying and hostilities 2010: 77%.
This partnership work helped us to develop 78% indicated that Aviva has an environment where people our Child Safeguarding guidelines as an aid to employees working from diverse backgrounds can succeed 2010: 73%.
or volunteering with children on Avivas behalf.
We recognise the mutual benefit of our community We are taking special interest in the gender balance of the development activity: our employees feel engaged and proud, our organisation in order to create a more gender-balanced communities benefit and our brand reputation is enhanced.
Our total female population is 50.4%, whereas the number of senior women in the workplace is 20%.
We currently Street to School have three female non executive directors, making up 21% of Our flagship global community development programme Street our board with a target of maintaining a minimum of 25% by to School, a five-year commitment to help 500,000 children fulfil 2015 as a commitment to the Lord Davies review.
their potential, shows our approach in action.
We have followed through with many of the commitments 2011 saw a significant increase in the volume and profile we made last year, including: of our partnership work to help children off the streets and into Developing a more diverse talent pipeline and measuring education.
In collaboration with leading charities and experts, our gender mix.
and supported by our employees, partners and customers we Establishing a mentoring programme to help develop have helped 274,245 children this year through preventative executive directors awareness of diversity issues.
education, outreach, healthcare, safe housing and education Raising awareness of gender diversity through articles projects.
To date we have helped a total of 400,000 children, on our intranet and external sponsorships.
23 Street to School partnerships and programmes are up and running in our markets and we use Street to School to improve Our employee network groups continue to make an impact to the advocacy of street children.
Here are just a few examples of what organisation and in the community.
In 2011 we held a Womens we have achieved: Network event for International Womens Day to discuss equality We have helped more than 180,000 children in India in the workplace, the Aviva UK Pride network had a visible through partnerships including CRY Child Rights and You presence at local pride celebrations and the US business ran and Save the Children in 2011.
Aviva also partnered with a Diversity & Inclusion Week.
The Times of India and Vodafone to highlight the issues We are recognised in the Stonewall 100, a ranking of street children face and how a simple book can make a gay-friendly employers in the UK.
Now in its third year, the call to action went nationwide through the use of television and social media Developing communities attracting over one million books and 104,000 followers on Facebook.
We believe a sustainable business is one which plays an active role We are working with SHEK, Turkeys Social Services and in society.
As well as providing employment to 36,600 people, we Child Protection agency, to help children in Istanbul.
In provide prosperity and peace of mind to our 43 million customers.
2011, SHEK awarded Aviva a silver medal in its annual To deepen our impact on society we invest the talent of our awards for our support to street children.
Aviva Turkey people as well as financial resources in a range of community colleagues continue to support the charity donating cash, programmes.
Our approach is based on building partnerships clothes, books and homemade goods.
across three main areas strategic to our business: education, life In 2011, more than 14% of our UK employees were actively trauma and financial literacy.
We are actively contributing to the involved in Street to School through volunteering, fundraising Millennium Development Goals and we demonstrate our or donating.
We reached over 4.6 million customers with commitment to being at the leading edge of addressing Street to School messaging and donated over 69,000 to environmental, social and governance issues through our Railway Children through per policy customer incentives.
UN Global Compact LEAD membership.
