Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 69 69 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Basis of preparation Accounting basis of preparation Basis of preparation In addition to presenting our results and financial position on This review complies with the recommendations of the European an International Financial Reporting Standards basis, we also use Union EU Modernisation Directive, the Companies Act 2006 Market Consistent Embedded Value MCEV as an alternative Contents of Directors Report: Business Review and is in line performance measure.
Details of the accounting basis of with current best practice.
It is addressed to, and written for, preparation are set out on the following page.
the members of Aviva plc with the aim of providing a fair review of our business development, performance and position at the Forward-looking statements current time.
In producing this review, we aim to present a view This business review contains forward-looking statements that is balanced and comprehensive and that is consistent with about: the size and complexity of our business.
The review is written in our future plans: the context of the risks and uncertainties facing our business.
our current goals: and We anticipate that the format and content of the review will our expectations of our future financial condition, evolve over time, along with developments in our business and performance and results.
By their nature, all forward-looking statements involve risk and Key performance indicators uncertainty because they relate to future events that are beyond The Companies Act requires that a fair review of the business our control.
For example, certain insurance risk disclosures are contains financial and, where applicable, non-financial key dependent on our choices about assumptions and models, which performance indicators KPIs.
We consider that our financial KPIs by their nature are estimates.
As such, actual future gains and are those that communicate to the members the financial losses could differ materially from those that we have estimated.
performance and strength of the Group as a whole.
Other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially These KPIs comprise: from those estimated by the forward-looking statements include, earnings per share International Financial Reporting but are not limited to: Standards basis : global economic business conditions: proposed ordinary dividend per share and dividend cover: monetary and interest rate policies: adjusted operating profit before tax: foreign currency exchange rates: worldwide sales: equity and property prices: operating capital generation: and the impact of competition, inflation and deflation: return on equity shareholders funds.
changes to regulations, taxes and legislation: the timing and impact of acquisitions and business Management also use a variety of other performance indicators combinations in relevant industries: OPIs in both running and assessing the performance of natural and other disasters: individual business segments and units, rather than the Group changes to consumer saving and spending habits: and as a whole.
OPIs include measures such as new business margin, our success in managing the above factors.
combined operating ratio and underwriting profit.
In addition to reporting on our financial performance, it is Consequently, our actual future financial condition, performance important that as a forward-thinking company we are aware of and results of operation could differ materially from the plans, our wider responsibilities and report on the non-financial aspects goals and expectations set out in our forward-looking statements.
We consider that our employees and We undertake no obligation to update the forward-looking customers are fundamental to the success of our business: statements contained in this review or any other forward-looking as such, they form the basis for our non-financial measures, statements we make.
and include: employee engagement and leadership: and customer advocacy.
