16 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Aviva worldwide North America 4 million customers UK and Europe the p 15% of group operating profits worlds largest life and p Canada, United States pensions markets Asia Pacific 7 million customers UK 14 million customers p 2% of group operating profits 11 p 48% of group operating profits p China, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, p Nine major centres in the UK Malaysia, Singapore, South Korea, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, Vietnam 12 Europe 18 million customers p 32% of group operating profits Aviva Investors p France, Ireland, Italy, Lithuania, p 3% of group operating profits Netherlands, Poland, p Canada, China, France, Netherlands, Russia, Spain, Turkey UK North America Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Poland, p Delta Lloyd: Belgium, Luxembourg, Europe Asia Pacific Singapore, Spain, Taiwan, United Netherlands Kingdom, United States underwriting and disciplined risk-selection in general UK insurance.
In life insurance, our strategy and strong market p Operating profit up 8% to 1,451 million positions mean we are well-placed to take advantage of 13 p L ife operating profits up 9% to 931 million with sales regulatory changes, such as the Retail Distribution Review and up 10% to 11,315 million and new business IRR of 15% auto-enrolment.
We will also maintain our strong position in 14 p G eneral insurance and health operating profit up 7% markets less likely to be affected by these changes, such as 14 to 520 million with net written premiums up 8% at protection and annuities.
4,844 million and COR of 96% As the UKs leading insurer, having our life and general Europe insurance businesses under one powerful brand, combined p Operating profit up 4% to 937 million with our scale and broad product offering and distribution, p Life operating profits up 1% to 898 million with gives us a strong competitive advantage.
sales down 20% at 10,891 million and life new Our life insurance business goes from strength to business IRR of 14% 11 strength, with operating profits at a record level.
Our broad p General insurance and health operating profit up product range and unrivalled distribution network helped to 26% to 137 million with net written premiums up drive up our overall share of the UK life and pensions market 5% at 2,059 million and COR of 101% 15 to 12% with gains in our core markets of workplace savings, at retirement annuities and equity release and protection.
Aviva has a strong presence in France, Spain, Italy, Poland and As we continue to serve customers and price our products Ireland, and growing businesses in Russia and Turkey.
We are well, customers are choosing to stay with us.
For example we a top six life insurer in all our markets, which together account have achieved further increases in the already high proportion for 15% of the worlds insurance premiums.
of people continuing to invest with us when their Aviva Consistent with our strategic aim to sharpen our pension policies mature.
geographic focus we ended our partnership in UAE and, in The general insurance business, which is the UK market January 2012, we agreed the sale of our businesses in the leader, generated good, profitable growth as a result of our Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania and our exit from Slovakia.
expertise in underwriting and claims management, our risk In France our pricing and underwriting expertise enabled selection and sophisticated pricing.
We achieved particularly us to deliver a very strong general insurance result.
Our life strong results in personal motor insurance with net written business is resilient and delivered robust profits.
We continued premiums excluding RAC up 32% at more than 1.1 billion.
to focus on value over volume reducing sales of capital We have more than two million personal motor intensive with-profit products.
Sales through Credit du Nord customers in the UK, as a result of the successful roll out of grew 13%, a successful performance in a challenging market.
direct pricing to brokers and the launch of quotemehappy.
Spain, despite difficult economic conditions, delivered com, which offers low-cost insurance to careful drivers and record operating profits of 216 million.
As part of our focus already contributes more than 10% of our total new personal on delivering good value and service for customers we motor customers.
introduced a new unit-linked product, helping to support Customer satisfaction levels and employee engagement our strong life new business IRR at 23%.
have increased, with customer complaints down 20% in In Italy our key focus was value over volume, taking 2011.
Weve been changing the way we look after our strong actions to reduce sales of capital intensive with-profit customers by simplifying our processes and making them products, resulting in increased life operating profits and a more customer-friendly.
In our existing annuity business this smaller Italian balance sheet.
Our general insurance business has delivered a 26 point improvement in our Transactional in Italy was significantly impacted by adverse development on Net Promoter Score, achieved significant cost savings and prior year reserves in motor.
We initiated management actions helped reduce call volumes by around 20%.
to start to return COR to Group target.
Our progress has been recognised by the industry.
In Poland we refocused our direct sales force ahead of We were voted General Insurer of the Year Insurance Times pension legislation changes, equipping them with the skills and Health Insurer of the Year Health Insurance Awards.
and tools to offer customers a broader range of insurance Looking ahead, we aim to become the undisputed UK products.
This resulted in significant growth in unit-linked market leader in life and general insurance.
We will focus on products, protection sales and general insurance.
11 The Groups accounting policy for operating profit also referred to as Group adjusted operating profit remains consistent with prior periods and is set out on page 168.
13 Includes 11 million of fund management operating profit.
14 Excludes Aviva Re and agencies in run-off.
Essential read 17 Aviva plc Aviva worldwide continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 We are combining the Irish business with the UK to improve We produced a strong performance in Singapore, where our competitiveness and efficiency and management actions have bancassurance agreement with DBS Bank grew from strength begun to capitalise on our UK capability and scale.
This enabled us to reach more customers and In Russia and Turkey our life and pension sales growth contributed to a 56% increase in life and pension sales.
continues as we begin to take advantage of the market potential.
In China, a combination of regulatory changes, coupled In the short-term we expect that volume and mix in our with the impact of high interest rates on short term deposits mature markets of France, Italy and Spain, will be impacted by led to reduced sales across the industry.
Throughout this subdued consumer demand as a result of the macroperiod, we continued to focus on building our customer base economic environment.
in the high-net-worth market, restructured our agency force In the longer term our combination of life and general and emphasised the importance of long term savings and insurance, strong market franchises and our underwriting and retirement planning to our customers.
As a result our pricing expertise will enable us to benefit from the significant profitability increased.
In India regulatory changes caused the industry to shift towards traditional endowment and protection products.
We were early in identifying the trend and started to offer North America these products in 2010, resulting in significantly higher 16 p Operating profit up 15% to 433 million margins in 2011.
The longer-term outlook for our business in Asia remains p Life operating profits up 13% to 197 million with sales down 17% at 3,932 million and life new positive with the low penetration rates of insurance products in many markets, high GDP growth, a growing middle-class business IRR of 14% p General insurance operating profit up 14% to and rising wealth.
We remain focused on increasing our franchise value through profitable, organic growth.
254 million with net written premiums up 6% at 2,083 million and COR of 95% Aviva Investors In North America we produced a third consecutive year of growth in operating profits as a result of our pricing, p Operating profit down 9% to 91 million sophisticated underwriting and cost management.
While 18 p U nderlying net funded external sales excluding liquidity the insurance market in North America is exceptionally funds up 137% to 5.6 billion competitive, we improved operating profits by 15% and p 60% of institutional funds performed above benchmark generated 0.4 billion of operating capital.
p Further improvement in internal and external client service We increased profits in the US as a result of pricing rankings Investit discipline and the growth in profitability of our life and annuity in-force book.
Weve increased sales of life insurance We achieved record net funded external sales up 137% on an 18 products, which now account for more than a quarter of underlying basis with in addition 1 billion of committed but our total US sales.
Weve achieved this by offering attractive unfunded sales.
We did this by focusing our sales effort on a products which provide financial security for our customers, range of core investment solutions and strategies in key delivering excellent customer service and by maintaining institutional markets.
Independent internal and external client deep relationships with our key distribution partners.
In Canada, where we are the second-largest general We continued to invest in our global infrastructure to insurer, we continued to improve our results by focusing support future business growth and meet the increasing on profitable business, reducing our costs to make Aviva expectations of regulators and clients.
Combined with market significantly more competitive and using technology to movements and the impact of clients lower risk appetite, this enhance our underwriting capabilities.
We believe we are led to slightly lower operating profits of 91 million.
one of the more sophisticated insurers in the market at In the fourth quarter we reviewed our business to ensure assessing and selecting risks.
we are well-placed to prosper despite challenging market We are confident that by maintaining strong pricing conditions.
We propose to streamline our business, discipline, focusing on customer service, and building on concentrating on our core strengths in fixed income, real strengths in underwriting, we will deliver further estate and multi asset solutions, and focusing sales and profitable growth.
marketing activity on institutional markets.
We plan to scale back distribution to retail investors, although in the UK in particular we will continue to offer Asia Pacific investment products and solutions to retail investors through Aviva and our network of banks, insurers and brokers.
p Operating profit up 126% to 70 million p Life operating profits up 52% to 108 million with sales up 10% to 1,782 million and life new business 17 IRR of 13% We more than doubled operating profit as we redesigned and promoted products to address consumers changing needs, reduced our costs and developed new ways to reach our customers, including internet sales and the introduction of Aviva Advisors in Singapore and Hong Kong.
16 The Groups accounting policy for operating profit also referred to as Group adjusted operating profit remains consistent with prior periods and is set out on page 168.
17 Excluding Taiwan, regional IRR is 14%.
18 Underlying sales exclude an exceptional impact of -0.5 billion arising from the sale of Aviva Investors equity manufacturing business which completed on 1 10 2011.
