92 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Executive management Andrew Moss Amanda Mackenzie Group chief executive Age 53 Chief marketing and communications officer Age 48 See page 90 Joined the Group in 2008.
Currently a non-executive director of Mothercare plc.
Previously commercial and marketing director for Patrick Regan British Gas.
Holds a Bachelor of Science in Psychology from the Chief financial officer Age 45 University of London and is a graduate of the INSEAD Advanced See page 90 Management Programme.
President of the Marketing Society, a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts and a member of the board Trevor Matthews of the National Youth Orchestra of Great Britain.
She is also a Chief executive, Aviva UK Age 59 member of the Lord Davies steering group which was formed See page 90 to support his independent review into Women on Boards.
Igal Mayer Cathryn Riley Chief executive, Aviva Europe Age 50 Chief information officer Age 49 See page 90 Joined the Group in 1996.
Formerly UK commercial director for Aviva UK and chief operating officer and chief information John Ainley officer, Aviva Europe.
Previously held senior management roles at Group human resources director Age 55 Commercial Union, CGU plc and Norwich Union.
Holds a Master Joined the Group in 1999.
Formerly held senior HR positions at of Arts in Manpower Studies from Polytechnic of Central London WH Smith plc, ICL Limited and GEC Avionics Limited.
Previously now Westminster University and is a graduate of the CEDEP Group HR Director for Norwich Union Insurance and Norwich general management programme at INSEAD and of the Institute Union Life.
Holds a Law degree and is a Companion of the of HR Management.
Chartered Institute of Personnel Development.
Robin Spencer Alain Dromer Chief risk officer Age 42 Chief executive, Aviva Investors Age 57 Joined the Group in 1995.
Formerly chief executive officer of Joined the Group in September 2007.
Formerly global head of Aviva Canada, chief financial officer and executive vice-president group investment businesses at HSBC, senior executive viceof Aviva Canada and held various senior management positions president and head of asset management and insurance at in the finance function, including finance director for London & Credit Commercial fide France and director of capital markets at Edinburgh Insurance Company Limited.
Previously spent five La Compagnie Financire Edmond fide Rothschild.
Previously held years with Procter & Gamble Limited.
Holds a Master of Arts senior positions at the French Treasury in the Ministry of Finance in Economics from Aberdeen University and is a chartered and the French Institute for Statistics and Economic Studies.
Currently chairman of the European Educated at lcole Polytechnique, Paris and lcole Nationale Chief Risk Officer Forum.
Former chairman of Canadas Property fide la Statistique lAdministration conomique, Paris.
and Casualty Insurance Compensation Corporation.
Richard Hoskins Chief executive, Aviva North America Age 47 Joined the Group in 2009.
Formerly executive vice-president and chief financial officer of Aviva North America.
Previously executive vice-president and chief financial officer for Old Mutual US, acting group finance director and deputy group finance director for Old Mutual plc, London and chief executive officer of National Australia Insurance Services, a subsidiary of National Australia Banks UK operations.
Previously also held several senior management roles at Lend Lease Corporation, Qantas Airways and Deloitte and Touche.
Holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in Business Studies from Sheffield University and is a Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales.
Simon Machell Chief executive, Aviva Asia Pacific Age 48 Joined the Group in 1994.
Formerly chief executive of Norwich Union Insurance and managing director of RAC plc.
Previously held positions with Ernst & Young LLP and Legal & General plc.
Holds a BA Honours in Economics from the University of Durham and is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales.
He was chairman of the Motor Insurance Bureau the UK fund that pays out to the victims of uninsured drivers from 2001 to 2007.
