The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2011 19 Directors Richard Brewster Richard Burns Richard Killingbeck Matthew Thorne Peter Sullivan Richard Brewster FCA Chairman was appointed as a Matthew Thorne FCA, MA Audit Committee Chairman director in 1991 and became Chairman in 2005.
Having was appointed as a director in 2008.
Mr Thorne is an adviser qualified as a Chartered Accountant he has spent over 30 to the Consensus Business Group.
He was Group Finance years in industry.
From 1983 he was Chief Executive Officer of Director of McCarthy & Stone plc and also Investment Director D. S. Smith plc until 1991 when he became Chief Executive of Beazer plc.
A qualified Chartered Accountant, he has Officer of Jarvis Porter plc until 1998.
Since then he has taken significant experience as a finance director, predominantly in an interest in a number of private equity investments both as the property sector.
He is a Council Member of Cheltenham Chairman and investor.
He is also Chairman of BlackRock Ladies College and Chairman of the Finance and Executive Smaller Companies Trust plc.
Richard Burns was appointed a director in 2006.
He is a Peter Sullivan was appointed a director in February 2011. former joint senior partner of Baillie Gifford & Co and former He was formerly executive director and CEO Hong Kong at fund manager of Monks Investment Trust plc.
He is also a Standard Chartered Plc, also responsible for operations in director of EP Global Opportunities Trust plc, Euronova Japan, The Philippines, Australia and the joint venture in European Smaller Companies Fund, JPMorgan Indian China.
He is currently a non-executive director of Axa China Investment Trust plc, Mid Wynd International Investment Region, Techtronic Industries, JPMorgan Indian Investment Trust plc and Standard Life Equity Income Trust plc.
From Trust plc, chairman of Cenkos Securities plc and chairman of 1999 to 2006 he was a director of the AIC.
Richard Killingbeck Senior Independent Director was appointed as a director in 2003.
He has been involved in the Member of the Management Engagement Committee financial services industry for 25 years, initially as a fund Member of the Audit Committee manager and latterly in a number of senior management Member of the Nominations Committee roles, at Singer & Friedlander Investment Management and Close Brothers.
During his career he has been based primarily in London, but has also spent part of this time in New York.
He is currently a Managing Director of Credit Suisse UK Private Bank.
Management Alex Crooke Tim Stevenson Antony Gifford Mike Kerley Michael Wood-Martin Wendy King The portfolio is managed by Alex Crooke who is engaged full time in investment trust management.
He is assisted by Tim Stevenson Europe, Antony Gifford North America, Michael Kerley Pacific ex-Japan and Michael Wood-Martin Japan.
Wendy King acts as the Company Secretary and is the representative of Henderson Secretarial Services Limited, the corporate secretary to the Company.
