The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2011 5 Managers Review Europe in the summer but such was the collapse in share prices over the second half of the year that timing other moves were very difficult.
We are currently positioned for a recovery in Asian markets, and China in particular, although it may be that emerging markets in a wider context will still struggle because of the declining levels of credit from developed nation banks.
Alex Crooke Number of holdings in each region at 31 October There has been a notable shift within stock markets towards No.
the value end of the investment spectrum.
It must be said 120 though, that markets are not entirely value focused as good 103 2011 100 2006 growth stocks are still doing well, however, with economic 80 66 growth easing back, there are fewer and fewer growth stocks 60 46 beating expectations.
In contrast, stocks with higher dividend 35 40 31 28 yields have performed well as investors have sought out 25 24 23 18 20 income, especially those companies that have delivered 5 3 0 dividend growth.
Our performance, in terms of the United Europe North Japan Pacific Others Kingdom ex UK America contribution from stock picking, has materially improved with positive outperformance in all four major markets.
The Source: Henderson Global Investors Limited momentum of this performance strengthened in the latter part of 2011.
There is plenty of statistical evidence that economic activity is hugely influenced by the availability of credit.
To drive growth We try in this report to reveal a little of the inner workings of it is important that credit is expanding either from financial the portfolios management and this year we will look at the sources or the government.
It is clear that in the coming year change in recent years to the number of holdings.
The bar credit will tighten further in the euro region due to the chart compares the number of holdings in each region this austerity programmes and a restricted bank funding market.
year and the position five years ago.
The total number of The same withdrawal of bank credit is likely to limit expansion holdings have been reduced to 178 from 230 five years ago.
in many emerging markets, although governments there have We have been trying to distil our favourite stocks into more leeway to fund the gap.
The impulse from expanding portfolios of around 30 stocks per region.
This ensures credit will be the key metric we will be monitoring in order to diversification but maximises our potential for stock picking.
determine where companies and consumers may be The UK and North America have seen the largest fall in the experiencing easier economic conditions.
number of holdings and further progress is anticipated in the UK.
We still passionately believe that specialists in each market The lower level of revenue this year can be attributed to the sale can best identify investment opportunities.
Our model, of of the bond investments, although our increased investment in combining focused portfolios from the best fund managers the US, a lower yielding market, has not helped.
The outlook for into a global portfolio, maximises the potential for dividend growth is still good with many companies prioritising performance while providing lower risk and diversification.
dividends and indicating special dividends may be paid alongside share repurchase programmes.
We have a number of The past year has been difficult in terms of allocating capital levers to pull to rebalance the revenue account without across the regions.
There has been a considerable degree of affecting capital performance, as our investment style naturally volatility month to month and the highest rated markets have favours cash generative companies, which typically distribute performed the best North America and Japan.
In normal dividends as a consequence of their success.
times, there are often strong correlations between market performances.
For instance Asia usually does well when America performs, but many of these correlations broke down this year.
The volatility in the period created opportunities and Alex Crooke we increased Japanese investments in March and reduced 13 January 2012
