20 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2011 Report of the Directors The directors present their report and the audited financial The Manager has the flexibility to invest in any geographic region and has no set limits on individual country or sector statements for the Group for the year ended 31 October 2011. exposures, although the Board regularly monitors the Business Review Companys investments and the Managers investment activity.
The following review is designed to provide information The Manager primarily employs a bottom up value based primarily about the Companys business and results for the year investment process to identify suitable opportunities and pays from 1 November 2010 to 31 October 2011.
The business particular regard to cash generation and dividends.
review should be read in conjunction with the Chairmans While the Company will mainly invest in international equities Statement on pages 3 and 4 and the Portfolio Managers there is the flexibility to invest in debt securities, such as Review on page 5, which gives a detailed review of the convertibles, corporate bonds or sovereign debt, if it is investment activities for the year and an outlook for the future.
deemed that these will, at a particular time or for a particular a Status period, enhance the performance of the Company in the pursuit of its objectives.
The use of any derivative instruments The Company is incorporated in England and Wales and such as financial futures, options and currency hedges will domiciled in the United Kingdom registered number only be for the purposes of efficient portfolio management.
It traded throughout the year.
It is an investment company as defined in Section 833 of the Companies Act The Company will not invest more than 15% of its investment 2006 and operates as an investment trust in accordance with portfolio in any single investment on acquisition, nor will it Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
It is required to invest more than 15% of its investment portfolio in any other seek HM Revenue & Customs approval of its status as an UK listed investment trusts or investment companies.
investment trust under the above-mentioned Section 1158 The Company will at times borrow money, both short and every year, and this approval will continue to be sought.
long term, in order to enhance performance.
The draw down Approval of the Companys status as an investment trust has of borrowings may be in currencies other than Sterling, been received in respect of the year ended 31 October 2010 provided that the borrowings do not exceed the assets in that although this approval is subject to there being no subsequent particular currency.
The gearing range is between 0% and enquiries under Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
The directors 20% and gearing will not exceed 20% of Net Asset Value at are of the opinion that the Company has continued to conduct the time of draw down of the relevant borrowings.
its affairs in a manner that will enable it to continue to gain such approval.
The Company has no employees.
The Company achieves an appropriate spread of investment risk principally through a broadly diversified portfolio which at The Company is not a close company.
At 31 The Company intends to continue to manage its affairs so October 2011 the largest single investment was BP which that its investments fully qualify for a stocks and shares accounted for 3.1% of total investments, while the top 25 component of an ISA.
holdings totalled 32.3% of total investments.
Investment risk may be further reduced through the use of currency hedging, b Investment objectives and policy foreign borrowings and derivatives.
The Companys objectives are to achieve long term asset growth in excess of the FTSE All-Share Index and regular Information regarding the Companys investment exposures dividend growth in excess of the increase in the Retail Prices can be found on page 18, and performance attribution Index.
To achieve these objectives the Companys investment against our composite benchmark is contained on page 17. policy is to invest its assets in a portfolio primarily composed Further information regarding investment risk and activity of international equities.
The portfolio is broadly diversified by throughout the year can be found in the Managers Review both geography and sector in order to reduce investment risk.
The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2011 21 Report of the Directors continued c Financial review equity shareholders funds x 100.
Total net assets at 31 October 2011 amounted to Future developments 496,331,000 compared with 501,955,000 at 31 October While the future performance of the Company is dependent, 2010 and the net asset value per ordinary share decreased to a large degree, on the performance of international by 1.1% from 451.9p to 446.9p.
financial markets, which, in turn, are subject to many Revenue external factors, the Boards intention is that the Company will continue to pursue its stated investment objectives in 2011 2010 % Change accordance with the strategy outlined earlier.
Further Net assets as at comments on the outlook for the Company for the next 31 October 496.3m 502.0m -1.1 twelve months are set out in both the Chairmans Statement Revenue return for on pages 3 and 4 and the Managers Review on page 5. the year 13.3m 13.7m -2.9 Going Concern Dividend payable per The directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to share for the year 12.70p 12.10p 5.0 adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial Dividend statements as the assets of the Company consist mainly of The final dividend, if approved by shareholders at the securities which are readily realisable and, accordingly, that AGM, will be paid on 28 February 2012 to shareholders on the Group has adequate financial resources to continue in the register at 3 February 2012.
The Companys shares go operational existence for the foreseeable future.
ex-dividend on 1 February 2012. d Performance measurement and key performance Payment of Suppliers indicators It was the payment policy for the financial year to In order to measure the success of the Company in meeting 31 October 2011 to obtain the best possible terms for all its objectives and to evaluate the performance of the business and, therefore, there is no single policy as to the Manager, the directors take into account the following key terms used.
In general the Company agrees with its performance indicators: suppliers the terms on which business will take place and Performance measured against the Benchmark it is the Companys policy to abide by such terms.
There The Board reviews and compares, at each meeting, the were no trade creditors at 31 October 2011 2010: nil.
performance of the portfolio as well as the net asset value Borrowings and share price for the Company and its benchmarks.
The Board has in place a facility which allows the Company Discount to Net Asset Value NAV to borrow as and when appropriate.
At 31 October 2011 At each Board meeting, the Board monitors the level of the the Company had a committed short term facility of 20m.
Companys discount premium to NAV and reviews the The facility is subject to regular review.
average discount premium for the Companys relevant The Company also has two debentures, details of which Association of Investment Companies AIC sector.
can be found in note 16 on page 49.
The Board considers the use of share buy-backs to enhance Gearing shareholder value.
During the year 34,000 shares were Gearing is defined as the difference between the values of purchased.
The Company publishes a NAV per share figure investments and equity shareholders funds, divided by on a daily basis through the official newswire of the 22 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2011 Report of the Directors continued London Stock Exchange.
This figure is calculated in The basic annual management fee is 0.30% per annum of the accordance with the AIC formula.
average gross assets on the last day of October of the preceding two years.
Performance against the Companys peer group In addition to comparison against the benchmarks and The Manager is eligible for a fee based on the degree of various indices, the Board also considers the performance outperformance, calculated on the basis of the average net asset of its AIC peer group at each Board meeting.
value total return over a rolling three year period compared to a composite index representing in equal proportions the FTSE AllTotal expense ratio TER Share Index and the FTSE World ex UK Index.
The TER is a measure of the total expenses incurred by the Company, including those charged to capital, expressed as The payment of a performance fee in any year is subject to an a percentage of the average shareholders funds over the outperformance hurdle rate of 1.5% per annum.
The TER is defined here as the total annual pre tax For the first 1% of outperformance in excess of the hurdle operating expenses management fee and other rate, a performance fee of 0.15% of average gross assets administration costs expressed as a percentage of average will be paid, and in respect of each further 1% of shareholders funds at the beginning and end of the year.
outperformance, a fee of a further 0.2% of average gross The TER, before performance fees and borrowing costs, assets up to a maximum performance fee in any one year of amounted to 0.45% 2010: 0.42% of the assets of the 0.55% of average gross assets, so that the maximum total fee Company.
No performance fee was paid during the year.
payable in any one year is 0.85% of average gross assets.
The Board regularly monitors all Company expenses.
No performance fee will be paid in any year if either the e Related party transactions Companys net asset value or its share price is lower at the Investment management, accounting, company secretarial and end of the financial year than at the end of the previous administration services are provided to the Group by wholly financial year.
owned subsidiary companies of Henderson Group plc Henderson.
This is the only related party arrangement No performance fee will be paid if in any financial year currently in place.
Other than the fees payable by the distributable income plus revenue reserves is lower than the gross Company in the ordinary course of business and the dividends payable in the previous financial year.
No performance investment in the Deutsche Bank Liquidity Fund formerly the fee is payable in respect of the year ended 31 October 2011.
Henderson Liquid Assets Fund, a money market fund see The notice period for termination of the management note 12 on page 48, there have been no material transactions contract is six months.
with this related party which has affected the financial All publications of the Companys NAV take account of any position or performance of the Company in the financial year.
performance fee owing or potentially owing.
f Custody arrangements During the year under review the Manager used certain Global custody services are provided by BNP Paribas Securities services which were provided by or paid for by various Services.
In return it placed business, which may have included g Management arrangements transactions relating to the Company, with these brokers.
Investment management, accounting, company secretarial and administrative services are provided to the Group by wholly h Principal risks and uncertainties owned subsidiary companies of Henderson.
Under the terms The Board has drawn up a matrix of risks facing the Company of the management contract: and has put in place a schedule of investment limits and The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2011 23 Report of the Directors continued restrictions, appropriate to the Companys investment liquidity risk, and credit and counterparty risk.
Details of objectives and policy, in order to mitigate these risks as far as these risks and how they are managed are contained in practicable.
The principal risks which have been identified and Note 17 to the Financial Statements on pages 49 to 57. the steps taken by the Board to mitigate these are as follows: Operational Portfolio and market Disruption to, or failure of, the Managers accounting, Although the Company invests almost entirely in securities dealing or payment systems or the custodians records that are quoted on recognised markets, share prices may could prevent the accurate reporting and monitoring of the move sharply.
The companies in which investments are Companys financial position.
The Company is also exposed made may operate unsuccessfully, or fail entirely.
A fall in to the operational risk that one or more of its suppliers the market value of the Companys portfolio would have may not provide the required level of service.
Details of an adverse effect on shareholders funds.
The Board how the Board monitors the services provided by the reviews the portfolio each month and mitigates this risk Manager and its other suppliers, and the key elements through diversification of investments in the portfolio.
designed to provide effective internal control, are explained further in the internal controls section on pages 28 and 29.
Investment activity and performance An inappropriate investment strategy for example, in terms Corporate Governance Statement of asset allocation or the level of gearing may result in a Application of the AIC Codes Principles underperformance against the Companys benchmark index and the companies in its peer group.
The Board The Board is accountable to shareholders for the governance monitors investment performance at each Board meeting of the Companys affairs.
6 of the UK Listing and regularly reviews the extent of its borrowings.
Rules requires all listed companies to disclose how they have applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the Tax and regulatory risks UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Code.
As an A breach of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 investment trust, most of the Companys day-to-day could lead to a loss of investment trust status, resulting in responsibilities are delegated to third parties, the Company capital gains realised within the portfolio being subject to has no employees and the directors are all non-executive.
A breach of the UKLA Listing Rules could Thus, not all the provisions of the UK Code are directly result in suspension of the Companys shares, while a applicable to the Company.
breach of the Companies Act 2006 could lead to criminal proceedings, or financial or reputational damage.
The The Financial Reporting Council the FRC confirmed in Company must also ensure compliance with the listing September 2010 that it remained the view of the FRC that by rules of the New Zealand Stock Exchange.
The Manager following the Corporate Governance Guide for Investment has contracted to provide investment, company secretarial, Companies produced by the Association of Investment administration and accounting services through qualified Companies the AIC Guide, boards of investment companies professionals.
The Board receives internal control reports should fully meet their obligations in relation to the UK Code produced by the Manager on a quarterly basis, which and paragraph 9.8.
The AIC Code of confirmed regulatory compliance during the year.
Corporate Governance the AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in Section 1 of Financial the UK Code, as well as setting out additional principles and By its nature as an investment trust, the Companys business activities are exposed to market risk including recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to market price risk, currency risk and interest rate risk, investment trusts.
24 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2011 Report of the Directors continued The Board of The Bankers Investment Trust PLC believes that d Directors reporting against the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Board Composition Guide will provide the most appropriate information to The Board currently consists of five directors, all of whom shareholders and has therefore followed the principles and are non-executive.
recommendations set out in the AIC Code.
Copies of the AIC The names and biographies of the directors holding office Code and the AIC Guide can be found on www.
at the date of this report are listed on page 19.
With the b New Zealand Listing exception of Peter Sullivan, who joined the Board on It should be noted that the UK codes of Corporate 22 February 2011, all the current directors served on the Governance may materially differ from the New Zealand Stock Board throughout the year.
Exchanges corporate governance rules and principles of the Corporate Best Practice Code.
Directors appointment, retirement and rotation The Board may appoint directors to the Board without c Statement of compliance shareholder approval.
Any director so appointed must The AIC Code comprises 21 principles.
The Board attaches stand for appointment by the shareholders at the next importance to the matters set out in the AIC Code and lists AGM in accordance with the articles of association.
below how the AIC Codes principles have been applied.
The total number of directors shall not be less than three The directors believe that during the year under review they nor more than eight.
have complied with the provisions of the AIC Code, insofar as they apply to the Companys business, and with the provisions Under the articles of association, shareholders may remove of the UK Code except as noted below.
a director before the end of his term by passing a special resolution.
A special resolution is passed if more than The role of chief executive Since all directors are non-executive and day-to-day 75 per cent of the votes cast, in person or by proxy, are management responsibilities are sub-contracted to the in favour of the resolution.
Manager, the Company does not have a Chief Executive.
The Companys articles of association provide that one third Executive directors remuneration of directors retire by rotation each year.
Directors are also As the Board has no executive directors, it is not required required to retire if they have served more than nine years to comply with the principles of the UK Code in respect of on the Board, but may then offer themselves for annual reexecutive directors remuneration and does not have a appointment.
Notwithstanding these requirements, the UK Remuneration Committee.
Directors fees are detailed in Code requires all directors of FTSE 350 Companies to retire the Directors Remuneration Report on page 32. annually.
Therefore all the directors will retire at the Internal audit function forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for As the Company delegates to third parties its day-to-day re-appointment.
operations and has no employees, the Board has Board Independence and Tenure Policy determined that there is no requirement for an internal The Board is conscious of the need to maintain continuity audit function.
The directors annually review whether a on the Board, and believes that retaining directors with function equivalent to an internal audit is needed and will sufficient experience of both the Company and the continue to monitor its systems of internal controls in order to provide assurance that they operate as intended.
markets is of great benefit to shareholders.
The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2011 25 Report of the Directors continued The Board believes that each of the directors exercises Directors Remuneration independent judgement and that length of service does A report on directors remuneration is on page 32. not diminish the contribution from a director: indeed a Directors Interests in Shares directors experience and extensive knowledge of the Ordinary shares of 25p 31 October 1 November Company is a positive benefit to the Board.
Moreover, 2011 2010 long-serving directors are less likely to take a short-term With beneficial interest: view.
This view is supported by the AIC Code.
Richard Brewster 73,733 72,975 The directors biographies, on page 19, demonstrate their Richard Burns 60,000 60,000 breadth of investment, commercial and professional Richard Killingbeck 30,000 25,000 experience relevant to their positions as directors on the 1 Francis Sumner 55,800 Board of the Company.
2 Peter Sullivan Matthew Thorne 19,000 16,000 There were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of Non beneficial interest: the year in which a director of the Company is or was Richard Burns 33,000 33,000 materially interested and which is or was significant in relation to the Companys business.
No director has a Or date of appointment if later.
1 service contract with the Company.
No director is entitled Francis Sumner retired from the Board on 22 February 2011.
2 Peter Sullivan joined the Board on 22 February 2011. to compensation for loss of office on the takeover of the Company.
The interests of the directors in the ordinary shares of the The directors annually review their independence.
The Company at the beginning and end of the financial year Nominations Committee has considered the continued are shown in the preceding table.
Since the year end, appointment of Richard Brewster who has served on Richard Brewster became interested in a further 192 shares the Board for over nine years.
He has no other links to due to the reinvestment of dividends.
the Manager: in addition he has a wide range of other Directors Conflicts of Interest interests and is not dependent in any way on the Directors have a duty to avoid situations where they have, or Company itself and the Nominations Committee could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or concluded that he continues to make a valuable possibly could conflict, with the Companys interests.
With contribution to the Board and, notwithstanding length effect from 1 October 2008, the Companies Act 2006 the of service, he remains independent in character and Act, has allowed directors of public companies to authorise judgement.
such conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, but Board Succession and Policy for Recruitment only if the articles of association contain a provision to this effect.
The Act also allows the articles of association to contain The Boards tenure and succession policy seeks to ensure that the Board is well-balanced and refreshed regularly by other provisions for dealing with directors conflicts of interest the appointment of new directors with the skills and to avoid a breach of duty.
There are two safe harbours either experience necessary, in particular, to replace those lost by the situation cannot reasonably be regarded as likely to give directors retirements.
Directors must be able to rise to a conflict of interest or the matter has been authorised demonstrate their commitment to the Company, including in advance by the directors.
The Companys Articles of in terms of time.
The Board seeks to encompass relevant Association give the directors the relevant authority required to past and current experience of various disciplines.
deal with conflicts of interest.
26 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2011 Report of the Directors continued Each of the directors has provided a statement of all Directors Indemnity conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of interest Directors and officers liability insurance cover is in place in applicable to the Company.
A register of conflicts of respect of the directors.
The Companys articles of interest has been compiled and approved by the Board.
association provide, subject to the provisions of UK The directors have also all undertaken to notify the legislation, an indemnity for directors in respect of costs Chairman as soon as they become aware of any new which they may incur relating to the defence of any potential conflicts of interest that would need to be proceedings brought against them arising out of their approved by the Board and added to the Register, which positions as directors, in which they are acquitted or will be reviewed annually by the Board.
judgement is given in their favour by the Court.
The directors advise the Chairman and the Company e The Board Secretary in advance of any proposed external appointment Chairman and new directors will be asked to submit a list of potential The Chairman, Richard Brewster, is an independent nonsituations falling within the conflicts of interest provisions executive director who has no conflicting relationships.
of the Act in advance of joining the Board.
The Chairman Senior Independent Director determines whether the relevant appointment causes a Richard Killingbeck has been the Senior Independent conflict or potential conflict of interest and should Director since 22 February 2011, when the previous Senior therefore be considered by the Board.
Independent Director, Francis Sumner, retired.
Only directors who have no interest in the matter being Responsibilities of the Board and its Committees considered are able to participate in the Board approval The Board has appointed a number of Committees as set out process.
In deciding whether to approve a conflict of below.
Copies of the terms of reference which clearly define interest, directors act in a way they consider, in good faith, the responsibilities and duties for each Committee are will be most likely to promote the Companys success in available on the website, www.
The Board can impose limits or or on request and will be available for inspection at the AGM.
conditions when giving authorisation if the directors consider this to be appropriate.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises Matthew Thorne, Richard The Board has reviewed its conflicts of interest procedures Killingbeck and Peter Sullivan, all of whom are considered during the year and confirms that its powers of independent.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee is authorisation of conflicts has operated effectively since they Matthew Thorne.
The Board has satisfied itself that at least were introduced on 1 October 2008 and that its one of the Committees members has recent and relevant procedures for the approval of conflicts of interest have financial experience.
The Committee has written terms of been followed by all the directors.
reference, which clearly define its responsibilities and duties.
Directors professional development The Committee meets at least three times each year to review When a new director is appointed he or she is offered a the internal financial and non-financial controls, to consider training seminar which is held by the Manager.
Directors and recommend to the Board for approval the contents of the are also provided on a regular basis with key information on the Companys activities including regulatory and Half-Year and Annual Report & Financial Statements to shareholders and to review the accounting policies and statutory requirements and internal controls.
Changes affecting directors responsibilities are advised to the Board significant financial reporting judgements.
Representatives of as they arise.
Directors also regularly participate in relevant the Managers internal audit and compliance departments training and industry seminars.
attend these meetings at the Chairmans request.
In addition, The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2011 27 Report of the Directors continued the Committee reviews the auditors independence, objectivity Management Engagement Committee and effectiveness, appointment and remuneration, the quality The Management Engagement Committees membership of the services of the service providers to the Company, and, comprises all the members of the Board.
The Chairman of together with the Manager, reviews the Companys the Committee is Richard Brewster.
The Committee meets at least annually to review the investment management compliance with financial reporting and regulatory agreement with the Companys Manager and to review the requirements.
With effect from 30 April 2011, in accordance services provided by the Manager.
with changes made by the Auditing Practices Board and the Financial Reporting Council to the APBs Ethical Standards for Nominations Committee Auditors and the FRCs Guidance on Audit Committees, audit The Nominations Committee comprises Richard Brewster, committees are required to formulate a written policy on the Richard Burns and Richard Killingbeck.
The Chairman provision of non-audit services by the Companys statutory of the Nominations Committee is Richard Brewster.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the Committee, which meets at least annually, reviews the guidance and has formulated a policy on the provision of nonBoards size and structure and is responsible for Board audit services by the Companys auditors.
The other members of the Board may Committee has determined that the Companys appointed attend meetings of the Nominations Committee by invitation.
auditors will never be considered for the provision of nonCharities Committee audit services, such as accounting and preparation of the The Charities Committee was dissolved during the year and financial statements, internal audit and custody.
The auditors any requests for charitable donations are considered by the may, if required, provide non-audit services relating to a review Board.
During the year donations were made totalling of the Companys half year report and a review of the 1,500 2010: 4,000. calculation of any performance fee provision.
All other nonaudit services will be judged on a case-by-case basis.
Board Attendance Currently, the Board meets seven times per annum and is During the year the Company engaged responsible for the effective stewardship of the Companys  in Taiwan for tax compliance affairs.
Certain strategic issues have been considered at services in respect of the Taiwanese investments.
various meetings of the Board and additional meetings of The Audit Committee remains satisfied with the the Board may be arranged as required.
The Board has a effectiveness of the audit provided by formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its  LLP, the Companys auditors, and decision which are categorised under various headings therefore has not considered it necessary to date to require including strategy, management, structure, capital, financial an independent tender process.
A new audit partner was reporting, internal controls, gearing, asset allocation, share introduced for the audit of the 31 October 2011 accounts.
price discount, contracts, policy, finance, risk, investment restrictions, performance, corporate governance and Board Representatives of  LLP attend the membership and appointments.
In order to enable them to Committee meeting at which the Annual Report and discharge their responsibilities, all directors have full and Financial Statements are reviewed and are given the timely access to relevant information.
At each meeting, the opportunity to speak to the Committee members without Board reviews the Companys investment performance and the presence of the representatives of the Manager.
considers financial analyses and other reports of an The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be present operational nature.
The Board monitors compliance with the at the AGM to deal with questions relating to the Companys objectives and is responsible for setting asset Financial Statements.
allocation parameters, investment and gearing limits within 28 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2011 Report of the Directors continued which the Manager has discretion to act.
The Board thus Board to be constructive in terms of identifying areas for supervises the management of the investment portfolio, improving the functioning and performance of the Board which is contractually delegated to the Manager.
The Board and the Committees, the contribution of individual has responsibility for the approval of unquoted investments directors, as well as building on and developing individual and all investments in in-house funds managed or advised by and collective strengths.
In accordance with the UK Code, the Manager.
It also has adopted a procedure for directors, the Company is required to engage an external facilitator in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent for the Board evaluation every three years.
The evaluation professional advice at the expense of the Company.
for the year under review was conducted internally.
The Chairman attends meetings of all the chairmen of the The Board has direct access to company secretarial advice investment trust companies managed by the Manager: these and services provided by the Manager which, through its meetings provide a forum to discuss a variety of relevant nominated representative, is responsible for ensuring that matters and the Chairman reports on them to the Board.
the Board and Committee procedures are followed and that applicable regulations are complied with.
During the The number of meetings of the Board and its Committees held year the Company has maintained insurance cover in during the year and the attendance of individual directors are respect of legal action against the directors: this does not shown below.
All directors attend the Annual General Meeting.
cover fraud, negligence or wilful default.
Management Audit Nominations Engagement g Internal Controls Board Committee Committee Committee The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys systems No.
of meetings 7 3 2 1 of internal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness.
Richard Brewster 7 n a 2 1 These controls aim to ensure that assets of the Company are Richard Burns 7 n a 2 1 safeguarded, proper accounting records are maintained, and Richard Killingbeck 7 3 2 1 the financial information used within the business and for 1 Francis Sumner 321 1 publication is reliable.
Control of the risks identified, covering Matthew Thorne 7 3 n a 1 financial, operational, compliance and risk management, is 2 Peter Sullivan 5 1 n a n a embedded in the controls of the Company by a series of regular investment performance and attribution statements, 1 Francis Sumner retired from the Board on 22 February 2011. financial and risk analyses and Managers reports, and a 2 Peter Sullivan joined the Board on 22 February 2011. quarterly control report.
Key risks have been identified and The membership of each Committee is shown on page 19. controls have been put in place to mitigate such risks, including those risks that are not directly the responsibility of f Performance Evaluation the Manager.
The effectiveness of the internal controls is The Company assessed by the Managers compliance and risk departments The performance of the Company is considered in detail at on a continuing basis and is also reviewed by the Company.
The Manager and the custodian maintain their own systems of The Board internal controls and the Board and Audit Committee receive In order to review the effectiveness of the Board, the regular reports from the Manager.
The control systems are Committees and the individual directors, the Chairman has designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance put in place and carried out a thorough appraisal process.
against material misstatement or loss, and to manage rather This was implemented by way of a questionnaire and than eliminate risk of failure to achieve objectives.
In respect of the Chairman, interviews were held between the directors and the Senior The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, Independent Director.
The process is considered by the evaluating and managing any major risks faced by the The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2011 29 Report of the Directors continued Company.
The process has been in place since 2000 and is The Board has reviewed the implications of the Bribery Act subject to regular review by the Board.
Up to the date of this 2010, which came into force on 1 July 2011 and confirmed its report, the process accords with the Revised Guidance for zero tolerance of bribery and corruption in its business Directors on the Combined Code published in October 2005 activities.
It has sought assurances from its main contractors by the Financial Reporting Council.
and suppliers that they will maintain adequate safeguards to protect against any potentially illegal behaviour by their The Board, assisted by the Manager, has undertaken an annual employees and agents.
review of the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control and the business risks have been analysed and recorded in i Continued appointment of the Investment Manager a risk map which is reviewed regularly.
The Board receives each The Board reviews the performance of the Investment Manager quarter from the Manager a formal report which details the steps Manager at each Board meeting and the Management taken to monitor the areas of risk, including those that are not Engagement Committee meets annually to review the directly the responsibility of the Manager, and which reports the continuing appointment of the Manager.
In the opinion of the details of any known internal control failures.
The Board receives Directors the continued appointment of the Manager on the each year from the Manager a report on its internal controls terms agreed is in the best interests of the Companys which includes a report from the Managers reporting shareholders as a whole.
The Manager has extensive accountants on the control policies and procedures in operation.
investment management resources and wide experience in managing and administering investment companies.
The Board confirms that in the event of any significant failings or weakness identified from the annual review of the j Share capital and Shareholders effectiveness of the Companys system of Internal Control, Share capital necessary actions would be taken to remedy them.
No At 31 October 2011 the Company had in issue significant failings or weaknesses in respect of the Company 111,051,839 ordinary shares of 25p each.
The voting were identified in the year under review.
rights of the ordinary shares on a poll are one vote for every four shares held.
There are no restrictions on the h Accountability and relationship with the Manager transfer of the Companys shares and there are no shares The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the which carry specific rights with regard to control of the Financial Statements is set out on page 33, the Report of the Company.
The market price per share at that date was Independent Auditors on page 61 and the Statement of 385.0p, giving the Company a market capitalisation of Going Concern on page 21.
Equity shareholders funds totalled The Board has delegated contractually to the Manager and 496.3 million, the net asset value per share at that other external third parties, the management of the date being 446.9p per share inclusive of retained investment portfolio, the custodial services which include the revenue for the year.
Accordingly, the market price per safeguarding of the assets, the day-to-day accounting, share stood at a discount of 13.9% to the net asset company secretarial, administration and registration services.
value inclusive of retained revenue for the year.
The Each of these contracts was entered into after full and proper Company seeks shareholder authority annually to buy consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of the back its shares in the market for cancellation.
During services offered, including the control systems in operation in the year the Company bought back 34,000 of its so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
ordinary shares at an average discount of 12.4% for a total consideration of 140,000.
The Board receives and considers regular reports from the Manager and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to Since the end of the year and the date of this report the the Board as required.
Company has bought back a further 32,000 ordinary shares.
30 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2011 Report of the Directors continued Substantial Share Interests At each AGM a presentation is made by the Manager following the business of the meeting.
Shareholders have Declarations of interests in the voting rights of the the opportunity to address questions to the Chairman and Company, at 31 October 2011, are set out below.
the Chairmen of the Committees of the Board at the AGM.
Shareholder % of voting rights All shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM.
F&C Asset Management 5.03 It is the intention of the Board that the Annual Report and Investec Wealth & Investment Management 4.01 Financial Statements and Notice of the AGM be issued to Legal & General 3.96 shareholders so as to provide at least twenty working days Since the year end, no changes in substantial share notice of the AGM.
Shareholders wishing to lodge interests have been notified to the Company.
questions in advance of the AGM are invited to do so by writing to the Company Secretary at the address given on In addition, the Board is aware that, at 31 October 2011, page 64.
At other times the Company responds to letters 14.37% of the issued share capital was held on behalf of from shareholders on a range of issues.
participants in the Halifax Share Dealing products run by Halifax Share Dealing Limited HSDL, which is now part of General presentations to both shareholders and analysts Lloyds Banking Group.
In accordance with the arrangements follow the announcement of the annual results.
All made between HSDL and Henderson, the participants in the meetings between the Manager and shareholders are Halifax Share Dealing products are given the opportunity to reported to the Board.
instruct the nominee company of HSDL to exercise the voting k Corporate Responsibility rights appertaining to their shares in respect of all general Responsible investment meetings of the Company.
HSDL has undertaken to instruct its Responsible Investment is the term Henderson uses to cover nominee company to exercise the voting rights of any shares its work on corporate governance and corporate held through the Halifax Share Dealing products that have not responsibility or social, environmental and ethical issues in been exercised by the individual participants in them.
It will do the companies in which it invests on its clients behalf, across so by voting for or against all resolutions to be put at all all funds.
In May 2005 Henderson became a founding general meetings of the Company or by withholding votes on signatory to the United Nations Principles for Responsible such resolutions pro rata to the aggregate voting instructions Investment.
The Principles, developed under the auspices of for each resolution received from those participants who have the UN Secretary-General, are a voluntary and aspirational chosen to exercise their voting rights.
framework for incorporating environmental, social and corporate governance issues into mainstream investment Relations with Shareholders decision-making and ownership practices.
Shareholder relations are given high priority by both the Board and the Manager.
The prime medium by which the The way companies respond to sustainability and corporate Company communicates with shareholders is through the responsibility can affect their business performance, both Half-Year and Annual Report and Financial Statements which directly and indirectly.
An investee companys policy on aim to provide shareholders with a clear understanding of social responsibility and the environment is therefore the Companys activities and their results.
This information is considered as part of the investment risk decision.
supplemented by the daily calculation and by the publication Voting policy at the Stock Exchange of the net asset value NAV of the Hendersons Responsible Investment Policy sets out the Companys ordinary shares and a monthly fact sheet.
Managers approach to corporate governance and corporate Information about the Company can be found at responsibility for all the companies in which it invests on www.
com behalf of its clients, and its policy on proxy voting.
The Policy The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2011 31 Report of the Directors continued also sets out how Henderson implements the Stewardship Separate resolutions will be proposed for each substantive Code.
The Company has delegated responsibility for voting issue.
The formal notice of the AGM as well as full details to the Manager.
The Board will receive a report, at least of the resolutions to be put at the AGM are contained in annually, on the voting undertaken by the Manager on the separate circular being sent to shareholders with this behalf of the Company.
The Board and Henderson believe that voting at general  have indicated their willingness to meetings is an important aspect of corporate stewardship continue in office.
Accordingly, resolutions to and a means of signalling shareholder views on board re-appoint  LLP as auditors to the policy, practices and performance.
Voting recommendations Company, and to authorise the directors to determine their are guided by the best interests of the investee companies remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
Depending on the nature of the resolution, the Portfolio Manager and or members of the Board will Directors Statement as to Disclosure of Information give specific instructions on voting non-routine and unusual to Auditors The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of or controversial resolutions.
Decisions not to support approving this Report are listed on page 19.
Each of those resolutions and the rationale therefore are fed back to Directors confirms that: the investee company prior to voting.
to the best of his knowledge and belief, there is no The Henderson Responsible Investment Policy and further information relevant to the preparation of the Annual details of Hendersons responsible investment activities can Report and Financial Statements of which the Companys be found on the Henderson website, www.
com auditors are unaware: and Employee and Environmental matters he has taken all the steps a Director might reasonably be The Companys core activities are undertaken by Henderson expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit which has implemented environmental management information and to establish that the Companys auditors practices including systems to limit the use of non-renewable are aware of that information.
resources and to minimise the impact of operations on the By order of the Board environment.
Henderson is focused on reducing greenhouse gas emissions and minimising waste, where possible.
Wendy King FCIS For and on behalf of Henderson Secretarial Services Limited Annual General Meeting AGM Secretary The AGM will be held on 23 February 2012 at 12 noon.
13 January 2012 Warning to Shareholders Many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
They can be very persistent and extremely persuasive.
Shareholders are therefore advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
Please note that it is very unlikely that either the Company or the Companys Registrar, Equiniti Limited, would make unsolicited telephone calls to shareholders and that any such calls would relate only to official documentation already circulated to shareholders and never in respect of investment advice.
If you are in any doubt about the veracity of an unsolicited phone call, please call either the Company Secretary or the Registrar at the numbers provided on the inside back cover.
