46 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Directors report Principal Activities and Business Review Board of Directors Barclays is a major global financial services provider engaged in retail The names of the current Directors of Barclays PLC, along with their banking, credit cards, corporate and investment banking and wealth biographical details, are set out on pages 50 to 52 and are incorporated management, with an extensive international presence.
The Group operates into this report by reference.
Sir Richard Broadbent left the Board with through branches, ofces and subsidiaries in the UK and overseas.
There were no other changes to Directors in 2011.
The Directors are required to set out in this report a fair review of the business of the Group during the financial year ended 31 December 2011 Appointment and retirement of directors and of the position of the Group at the end of the financial year and a The appointment and replacement of Directors is governed by the description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group Companys Articles of Association the Articles, the UK Corporate known as a Business Review.
The purpose of the Business Review is to Governance Code the Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related enable shareholders to assess how the Directors have performed their legislation.
The Articles may only be amended by a special resolution duties under section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 to promote the of the shareholders.
The information that fulls the requirements of the Business Review can be found in this report and the following sections The Board has the power to appoint additional Directors or to ll a casual of the Annual Report, which are incorporated into this report by reference: vacancy amongst the Directors.
Under the Articles, any such Director holds ofce only until the next AGM and may offer himself herself for Pages re-election.
The Articles also require that at each AGM at least one-third Chief Executives review 06-07 rounded down of the Directors retire by rotation.
The retiring Directors are eligible to stand for re-election.
The Code recommends that all Our strategy and business model 10-11 Finance Directors Review 22-23 Directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual re-election, however, and all Directors will stand for re-election at the 2012 AGM.
Financial review 160-191 Key performance indicators 20-21 and 160-163 Directors indemnities Citizenship 18-19 The Company maintains directors and ofcers liability insurance which Market and operating environment 08-09 gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its Directors.
People 53 In addition, qualifying third party indemnity provisions as dened by Risk management 16-17 section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 were in force during the course Risk factors 74-78 of the financial year ended 31 December 2011 for the benefit of the then Divisional review 24-27 Directors and, at the date of this report, are in force for the benefit of the Directors in relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may incur Other information that is relevant to the Directors Report, and which or have incurred in connection with their duties, powers or ofce.
is incorporated by reference into this report, can be located as follows: Creditor payment policy Pages Barclays policy follows the Department for Business, Innovation & Skills Likely future developments 04-11 and 24-27 Prompt Payment Code, copies of which can be obtained from the Prompt Employee involvement 53 Payment Code website at www.
The trade Policy concerning the employment of 53 creditor payment days for Barclays Bank PLC for 2011 were 33 days 2010: disabled persons 27 days.
This is an arithmetical calculation based on the Companies Act Financial instruments 68-150, 220-223 regulations and does not necessarily reect our practice, nor the and 225-237 experience of any individual creditor.
Remuneration policy, including details of the 54-65 remuneration of each Director and Directors Political donations interests in shares The Group did not give any money for political purposes in the UK or the Corporate Governance Statement 32-45 rest of the EU nor did it make any political donations to political parties Rights and obligations attaching to shares 276-279 or other political organisations, or to any independent election candidates, Restrictions on the transfer of securities 276-279 or incur any political expenditure during the year.
Absa Group Limited, in Restrictions on voting rights 276-279 which the Group has a majority stake, made donations totalling 224,158 in 2011 2010: 123,295 in accordance with its policy of making political profit and dividends donations to the major South African political parties as part of their The profit for the financial year, after taxation, was 3,951m 2010: Democracy Support Programme.
The Group made no other political 4,549m.
The final dividend for 2011 of 3.0p per share will be paid on donations in 2011.
16 March 2012 to shareholders whose names were on the Register of Members at the close of business on 24 February 2012.
With the interim Charitable donations dividends totalling 3.0p per ordinary share, paid in June, September and Barclays provides funding and support to over 8,000 charities and December 2011, the total distribution for 2011 is 6p 2010: 5.5p per voluntary organisations, ranging from small, local charities, such as the ordinary share.
The interim and final dividend for 2011 amounted to Bromley by Bow Centre, supporting young people in East London with 728m 2010: 653m.
employability and job-readiness programmes, to international organisations such as Unicef.
The Group committed 30.3m in support of the community in the UK 2010: 28.6m, including charitable donations of 22.6m 2010: 22.9m.
Further information on our community involvement can be found on pages 18 to 19.
The strategic report Governance Risk management Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport 47 Environment Substantial shareholders In 2011 we launched the Barclays Climate Action Programme a four-year Substantial shareholders do not have different voting rights from those of plan which focuses on addressing environmental issues where we believe other shareholders.
Information provided to the Company by substantial we have the greatest potential to make a difference.
The Climate Action shareholders pursuant to the Financial Services Authoritys FSA Programme focuses on managing our own carbon footprint and reducing Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR is published via a Regulatory our absolute carbon emissions: developing products and services to help Information Service and is available on the Companys website.
As at 31 enable the transition to a low-carbon economy: and managing the risks December 2011, the Company had been notied under Rule 5 of the DTR of climate change.
We invest in improving the energy efficiency of our of the following holdings of voting rights in its shares: operations and offset the emissions remaining through the purchase of % of total % of total carbon credits.
We also have a long-standing commitment to managing voting rights voting rights the environmental and social risks associated with lending and a Number of attaching to attaching to governance structure is in place to facilitate clear dialogue across the Barclays issued share Number of issued share a business and with suppliers around issues of potential environmental and Holder Shares capital Warrants capital b social risk.
More details may be found on our website at www.
Qatar Holding LLC 827,411,735 6.79 379,218,809 1.62 Nexus Capital d Essential contracts or arrangements Investing Ltd 851,584,564 6.98 There are no persons with whom the Group has contractual or other Legal & General arrangements that are considered essential to the business of the Group.
Group plc 480,805,132 3.99 Contracts of signicance Powers of the Directors to issue or buy back the Companys shares Barclays provided BlackRock, Inc. BlackRock with customary warranties The powers of the Directors are determined by the Companies Act 2006 and indemnities in connection with the sale of Barclays Global Investors and the Companys Articles.
The Directors are authorised to issue and allot BGI to BlackRock in 2009.
Barclays will continue to provide support in shares, and to repurchase shares subject to annual shareholder approval respect of certain BGI cash funds until December 2013 and indemnities at the AGM.
Such authorities were granted by shareholders at the 2011 in respect of certain of BGIs fully collateralised securities lending activities AGM.
It will be proposed at the 2012 AGM that the Directors be granted until November 2012. new authorities to allot and buy-back shares.
Research and development Repurchase of shares In the ordinary course of business the Group develops new products and The Company did not repurchase any of its Ordinary Shares during services in each of its business units.
As at 2 March 2012, the Company had an unexpired authority to repurchase Ordinary Shares up to a maximum of Share capital 1,218,343,534 Ordinary Shares.
Share capital structure The Company has Ordinary Shares in issue.
The Companys Articles also Change of control allow for the issuance of Sterling, Dollar, Euro and Yen preference shares If there is a change of control of Barclays PLC following a takeover bid, preference shares.
No preference shares have been issued as at 2 March Barclays PLC must so far as legally possible use all reasonable endeavours 2012 the latest practicable date for inclusion in this report.
Ordinary to cause the corporation which then controls Barclays PLC to execute a shares therefore represent 100% of the total issued share capital as at deed poll providing that holders of the Warrants shall have the right during 31 December 2011 and at 2 March 2012.
Details of the movement in the period in which the Warrants are exercisable to exercise the Warrants Ordinary Share capital during the year can be found on page 254. into the class and amount of shares and other securities and property receivable upon such a takeover by the holders of the number of Ordinary On 31 October 2008, Barclays PLC issued, in conjunction with a Shares as would have been issued on exercise of the Warrants had such simultaneous issue of Reserve Capital Instruments issued by Barclays Warrants been exercised immediately prior to the completion of such Bank PLC, warrants the Warrants to subscribe for up to 1,516.9 million takeover.
The Warrants contain provisions for the adjustment of the gross new Ordinary Shares at a price of 1.97775.
As at 31 December 2011 number of ordinary shares in the event of the occurrence of certain dilutive there were unexercised Warrants to subscribe for 379.2 million Ordinary events including, amongst others, extraordinary dividends, bonus issues, Shares.
These Warrants may be exercised at any time up to close of alterations to the nominal value of Ordinary Shares and rights issues.
There are no other significant agreements to which the Company is a Exercisability of rights under an employee share scheme party that are affected by a change of control of the Company following a Employee benefit Trusts EBTs operate in connection with certain of takeover bid.
There are no agreements between the Company and its the Groups Employee Share Plans Plans.
The trustees of the EBTs may Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of ofce or exercise all rights attached to the shares in accordance with their duciary employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
duties other than as specifically restricted in the relevant Plan governing documents.
The trustees of the EBTs have informed the Company that their normal policy is to abstain from voting in respect of the Barclays shares held in trust.
The trustees of the Global and UK Sharepurchase EBTs may vote in respect of Barclays shares held in the Sharepurchase EBT, but only as instructed in those Plans in respect of their Partnership shares and when vested Matching and Dividend shares.
The trustees will not otherwise vote in respect of shares held in the Sharepurchase EBT.
Notes a The percentages of voting rights detailed above have been calculated without including Special rights the new shares to be issued when the Warrants are exercised.
This results in the percentage gures being artificially high.
There are no persons holding securities that carry special rights with b The number of Barclays shares includes 8,003,236 contracts for difference to which regard to the control of the Company.
c Total shown includes 13,447,183 options on ordinary shares.
d Total shown includes 93,146,946 cash-settled options referencing ordinary shares.
48 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Directors report continued Risk management and internal control Legal entity governance The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that management maintain During 2011, the Group developed an enhanced policy for the governance an effective system of risk management and internal control and for of subsidiary entities, increasing focus on, and ensuring senior reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather managements line of sight to, the legal entity structure of the Group.
than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can A framework of varying minimum standards has been introduced, with only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material the most onerous requirements being placed on larger or more complex misstatement or loss.
subsidiaries that are deemed to carry greater risk.
Compliance with the enhanced policy is overseen by the Group's Legal Entity Review Committee.
Barclays is committed to operating within a strong system of internal control that enables business to be transacted and risk taken without Controls over financial reporting exposing itself to unacceptable potential losses or reputational damage.
A framework of disclosure controls and procedures is in place to support The Group Internal Control and Assurance Framework GICAF is the the approval of the Groups financial statements.
The Legal and Technical overarching framework that sets out Barclays approach to internal Review Committee is responsible for reviewing the Groups financial reports governance.
It establishes the mechanisms and processes by which the and disclosures to ensure that they have been subject to adequate Board directs the organisation, through setting the tone and expectations verication and comply with legal and technical requirements, and reports from the top, delegating its authority and monitoring compliance.
its conclusions to the Disclosure Committee.
The Disclosure Committee, The purpose of the GICAF is to identify and set minimum requirements which is chaired by the Group Finance Director, considers the content, accuracy and tone of the disclosures, reporting its conclusions to the in respect of the main risks to achieving the Groups strategic objectives and to provide reasonable assurance that internal controls are effective.
Group Executive Committee and the Board Audit Committee, both of which review its conclusions and provide further challenge.
Finally, the The key elements of the Groups system of internal control, which is aligned to the recommendations of The Committee of Sponsoring Board reviews and approves results announcements and the Annual Report for publication and ensures that appropriate disclosures have been made.
Organizations of the Treadway Commission COSO, are set out in the risk control frameworks relating to each of the Groups Key Risks and in This governance process is in place to ensure both management and the Board are given sufficient opportunity to review and challenge the Groups the Group operational risk framework.
As well as incorporating our internal requirements, these reect material Group-wide legal and regulatory financial statements and other significant disclosures before they are made public.
It also provides assurance for the Chief Executive and Group requirements relating to internal control and assurance.
The GICAF is reviewed and approved on behalf of the Chief Executive by the Group Finance Director when providing certications as required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 and recommended by the Turnbull Guidance.
Governance and Control Committee at least annually.
The Board Risk Committee also reviews the GICAF annually.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2011, and to date, the Group Effectiveness of internal controls has operated a system of risk management and internal control, which The Directors review the effectiveness of the system of internal control provides reasonable assurance of effective and efficient operations semi-annually.
An internal control compliance certication process is covering all controls, including financial and operational controls and conducted throughout the Group in support of this review.
Key compliance with laws and regulations.
controls are also assessed on a regular basis for both design and operating effectiveness.
Issues arising out of business unit risk and Managements report on internal control over financial reporting control assessments are considered to identify pervasive themes.
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate Where appropriate, issues affecting more than one business unit may internal control over financial reporting.
Internal control over financial be categorised as having Group level signicance and are reported to reporting is a process designed under the supervision of the principal the Board Audit Committee via the Group Governance and Control executive and principal financial ofcers to provide reasonable assurance Committee.
The Board Audit Committee monitors resolution of any regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of identied control issues of Group level signicance through to a financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with satisfactory conclusion.
In addition, regular reports are made to the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the Board Audit Committee by management, internal audit and the finance, European Union and the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
compliance and legal functions covering in particular financial controls, compliance and operational controls.
Internal control over financial reporting includes policies and procedures that pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, Risk control framework accurately and fairly reect transactions and dispositions of assets: provide Processes are in place for identifying, evaluating and managing the reasonable assurances that transactions are recorded as necessary to significant risks facing the Group in accordance with the guidance permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS and Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code that receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with published by the Financial Reporting Council the Turnbull Guidance.
authorisations of management and the respective Directors: and provide The Board regularly reviews these processes through its principal Board reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of Committees.
During 2011, the Principal Risks Policy, a material component unauthorised acquisition, use or disposition of assets that could have a of the GICAF, was updated to ensure that governance of non-financial material effect on the financial statements.
risks was expanded and aligned to the structures already in place for financial risks.
Regular risk reports are made to the Board covering risks Internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent of Group signicance including credit risk, market risk, funding risk, limitations and may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections operational risk and legal risk.
The Board Risk Committee receives reports of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk covering the Principal Risks as well as reports on risk measurement that internal controls may become inadequate because of changes in methodologies and risk appetite.
Further details of risk management conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures are given in the Risk Management section on pages 67 to 158. procedures may deteriorate.
com annualreport 49 Management has assessed the effectiveness of internal control over The Directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are financial reporting as of 31 December 2011.
In making its assessment, reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to Management has utilised the criteria set forth by COSO.
Management prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
concluded that, based on its assessment, the internal control over financial reporting was effective as of 31 December 2011.
Our independent The Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge that: registered public accounting rm has issued a report on the Groups a The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable internal control over financial reporting, which is set out on page 196. set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of Barclays PLC and the The system of internal financial and operational controls is also subject undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and to regulatory oversight in the United Kingdom and overseas.
Further information on supervision by the financial services regulators is provided b The management report, which is incorporated into the Directors under Supervision and Regulation in the Risk Management section on Report on pages 46 to 49, includes a fair review of the development pages 154 to 158. and performance of the business and the position of Barclays PLC and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, Changes in internal control over financial reporting together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that There have been no changes in the Group's internal control over financial they face.
reporting that occurred during the period covered by this report which have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect the Group's internal control over financial reporting.
By order of the Board Going concern The Groups business activities and financial position: the factors likely to affect its future development and performance: and its objectives and policies in managing the financial risks to which it is exposed and its capital are discussed in the Business Review and Risk Management section.
Lawrence Dickinson The Directors have assessed, in the light of current and anticipated Company Secretary economic conditions, the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
7 March 2012 The Directors confirm they are satisfied that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable Barclays PLC future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis Registered in England, Company No.
Disclosure of information to auditor Each Director confirms that, so far as he she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and that each Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Directors Responsibilities The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the Auditors report set out on page 195, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors and of the auditors in relation to the accounts.
The Directors are required by the Companies Act 2006 to prepare accounts for each financial year and, with regards to Group accounts, in accordance with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Directors have prepared individual accounts in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The accounts are required by law and IFRS to present fairly the financial position of the Company and the Group and the performance for that period.
The Companies Act 2006 provides, in relation to such accounts, that references to accounts giving a true and fair view are references to fair presentation.
The Directors consider that, in preparing the accounts on pages 197 to 274, and the additional information contained on pages 79 to 158, the Group has used appropriate accounting policies, supported by reasonable judgements and estimates, and that all accounting standards which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company and the Group keep accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company and the Group and which enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 2006.
