10 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Our strategy and business model Barclays moves, lends, invests and protects money for customers and clients worldwide.
Business model Customers Our purpose: Store and Manage Offer financial Provide Manage risks Make transfer and invest advice and access to and different markets To help individuals, institutions and economies money money other services loans and maturities and trade progress and grow payments liquidity Our vision: Integrated universal banking model One of the premier globally integrated universal banks providing superior benets to each of Diversication by business, geography, client and funding our stakeholders customers, shareholders, colleagues, and communities Relentless customer and client focus Our execution: Operational Excellence Risk Management Financial Discipline Deliver cost effective, Increase resilience by Allocate capital efficiently Execute our strategy focusing on four priorities high quality solutions for matching, balancing, and across our businesses to capital, funding and liquidity, returns, income customers, particularly those diversifying income and maximise returns growth, and citizenship with global and complex funding and in managing needs our risks Create value for shareholders and deliver a top quartile Total Shareholder Return Shareholders The ultimate objective of our strategy is to create and deliver long-term As banking markets around the world continue to evolve, with regulatory sustainable shareholder value.
We full our purpose by delivering the change, and with the distinct need for rebuilding trust in the banking fundamental functions of a bank to our customers.
We do this through industry post crisis, our strategy and our execution priorities allow us to an integrated universal banking model which we believe is the best continue to serve the wide ranging needs of our customers in a safe and model through which to build strong and stable relationships with our stable manner that is aligned with our responsibilities as corporate citizens customers, employees and suppliers to deliver operational excellence: and is able to deliver attractive returns for shareholders.
manage our risks appropriately: and allocate scarce resources, including capital, efficiently.
We take a long-term view on our strategy and have not changed it for many years.
Changes in the environment continue to influence Barclays, especially how we choose to execute our strategy.
We are currently focused on four execution priorities: Capital, Funding and Liquidity: Returns: Income Growth: and Citizenship.
The strategic report Governance Risk management Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport 11 Implementing our strategy To achieve the primary objective of maximising Total Shareholder Returns, we focus on four key execution priorities.
These execution priorities drive Barclays performance and continue to improve our competitive position.
We have made solid progress, with a resilient financial performance despite the difficult trading conditions in 2011, and the bank is well positioned to generate the financial returns that we are targeting over time.
Strategy Total Shareholder Return TSR Our focus is on execution and in particular delivering our promises Our primary objective is to maximise returns for shareholders and in in four key areas.
doing so, we aim to deliver top quartile TSR.
At the beginning of 2011 we set out our execution priorities based on a TSR consists of two components: the movement in market value of three year plan to improve both the banks performance and its position.
the shares and the income received on those shares in the form of We have made solid progress in 2011 despite the market uncertainty.
Over the past five years there has been a clear relationship between TSR and return on equity RoE with the market value of 1.
Capital, Funding and Liquidity shares improving with higher reported RoE.
Increased dividend We remain mindful of the changing regulatory environment and our rock payments positively affect both TSR and RoE.
Therefore, improving solid capital, funding and liquidity positions give us confidence that we the banks RoE is a key driver in the way we manage the business to will meet future requirements.
Our robust Core Tier 1 ratio of 11.0% is maximise TSR.
supported by our ability to generate capital organically and we do not expect to seek additional capital from our shareholders.
We have also While we seek to have a progressive dividend policy, we must balance maintained resilient funding and liquidity proles despite recent market this with requirements for capital in order to ensure sustainable and stresses caused by the Eurozone crisis.
This has allowed us to access long term TSR creation.
diverse funding sources, minimising the cost of funding and providing protection against unexpected uctuations.
As RoE declined throughout the crisis to a low point in 2008, so too did TSR.
Barclays maintained positive RoE and outperformed peers 2.
Returns during the crisis as we remained profitable.
Our focus on delivering returns is a key driver in the way we manage the business.
We seek to improve return on equity to ultimately increase In recent years TSR and RoE have become more closely aligned as shareholder returns, reecting the strong link between the share price share prices have reected market uncertainty, low sector RoEs, and and return on equity.
In doing so we also look to maintain strong capital, low dividend payout ratios.
This has strengthened the link between liquidity and leverage ratios, to enable us to deliver returns on a market valuation and returns, and therefore TSR and RoE.
Although the worse than predicted macroeconomic conditions as well as new regulatory constraints mean that we may not be able to deliver 13% returns by 2013, we will continue to focus on delivering a steady improvement in returns and achieve 13% over time.
Income Growth A component of delivering improved returns is generating income growth.
Despite the macro environment depressing income growth, we generated momentum and improved the competitive positions of all our major businesses in 2011.
We grew net operating income in all businesses, except Barclays Capital which was most affected by difficult trading conditions, as we remain focused on improving the quality of assets to ensure that we do not grow at the expense of future credit losses.
Citizenship We believe that being a valued, respected and trusted citizen is vital in creating long term value for all our stakeholders.
We produce a Citizenship Report each year in order to benchmark our progress in the key areas of focus: contributing to growth in the real economy: the way we do business: and supporting our communities.
For more detailed information, please see Financial review, please see page 159 12 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Board of Directors Key responsibilities of the Board of Directors The non-executive Directors are independent The Boards principal duty is to promote the long-term success of management.
Their role is to advise and of Barclays by creating and delivering sustainable shareholder value.
It does this by setting strategy and overseeing its implementation constructively challenge management and by management.
While the ultimate focus is long-term growth, monitor the success of management in the Board seeks to ensure that management strikes the right balance between long and short-term objectives.
delivering the agreed strategy within the risk appetite and control framework set by the Board.
In setting and monitoring the execution of strategy, the Board aims to ensure that the Group maintains an effective system of internal control and an effective risk management and oversight process across the For more detailed information, please see Board of Directors Group, delivering growth in a controlled and sustainable way.
page 50 Marcus Agius 65 Alison Carnwath 59 Reuben Jeffery III 58 Dambisa Moyo 43 Group Chairman, Chairman of Non-executive Director, Non-executive Director Non-executive Director the Board Corporate Governance Chairman of the Board and Nominations Committee, Remuneration Committee Sir Andrew Likierman 68 Sir Michael Rake 64 Chairman of the Board Citizenship Non-executive Director Senior Independent Director, Committee Fulvio Conti 64 Chairman of the Board Audit Non-executive Director Chris Lucas 51 Committee Bob Diamond 60 Group Finance Director Chief Executive Simon Fraser 52 Sir John Sunderland 66 Non-executive Director Non-executive Director David Booth 57 Non-executive Director, Chairman of the Board Risk Committee The strategic report Governance Risk management Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport 13 Charter of Expectations Executive Committee The role proles, responsibilities, time commitments, key competencies and behaviours we expect of our Directors, together with the key indicators of high performance, are set out in our Charter of Expectations, which was reviewed and updated during 2011 to take account of the best practice recommendations set out in the Guidance on Board Effectiveness issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
The Charter of Expectations is available on our website at www.
Key responsibilities of the Executive Committee The Board delegates responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Group to the Chief Executive, who is responsible for ensuring that the business is operating effectively within the strategy and risk appetite agreed by the Board.
The Chief Executive is supported by the Executive Committee, which he chairs.
Bob Diamond Mark Harding Jerry del Missier Rich Ricci Chief Executive Group General Counsel Co-Chief Executive of Corporate Co-Chief Executive of Corporate and Investment Banking and Investment Banking Chris Lucas Antony Jenkins Group Finance Director Chief Executive of Maria Ramos Sally Bott Retail and Business Banking Group Chief Executive, Group Human Resources Director Robert Le Blanc Absa and Chief Executive of Chief Risk officer Thomas L. Kalaris Barclays Africa Chief Executive of Barclays Wealth
