14 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Governance Board Group Chairman, two executive Directors, nine non-executive Directors Board Committee oversight Board Corporate Board Audit Committee Board Risk Committee Board Remuneration Board Citizenship Governance and Five independent Five independent Committee Committee Nominations Committee non-executive Directors non-executive Directors Three independent Group Chairman and Group Chairman and four non-executive Directors two independent independent nonand the Group Chairman non-executive Directors executive Directors Management Chief Executive Executive Committee Business Unit Heads and the Heads of Key Group Control Functions Management Committees including Disclosure Committee, Group Governance and Control Committee, Financial Risk Committee, Operational Risk Committee, Treasury Committee Board Corporate Governance and Board Audit Committee Nominations Committee Marcus Agius Sir Michael Rake Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee % Board Audit Committee % Allocation of time 2011 2010 Allocation of time 2011 2010 5 1 1 2 1 Corporate governance matters 19 29 1 Control issues 4 8 6 4 2 Board and committee 2 Financial results 42 41 2 composition 31 13 3 Internal audit matters 6 8 3 Succession planning and talent 30 34 4 External audit matters 6 5 4 Board effectiveness 16 17 5 Business control environment 23 23 5 Other 4 7 6 Other including Governance 5 4 and Compliance 19 15 3 3 In order to deliver our strategy, we need the right people.
The Board It is important that we generate income in a sustainable way and Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee has a key role manage our risks and costs properly, without eroding the controls in reviewing new appointments and succession plans to ensure that we have in place.
The Board Audit Committee has a key oversight we have a Board and an executive management team with the role in ensuring that our financial statements are a true and fair appropriate skills, knowledge and experience to operate effectively representation of our financial position and strength and that our in an ever challenging environment.
control environment is robust and maintained.
For more detailed information on the Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee, For more detailed information on the Board Audit please see page 38 Committee, please see page 40 The strategic report Governance Risk management Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport 15 Good corporate governance is vital in supporting the delivery of our strategic priorities.
Our Board Committees play an important role in working with management to ensure our business is nancially strong, that it is well-governed and that any risks are identied and mitigated.
Our corporate governance practices have been brought together in Corporate Governance in Barclays, which is available on our website at www.
This framework provides the basis for promoting the highest standards of corporate governance in Barclays.
The fundamental purpose of any company is the creation and delivery Actions taken in this respect during the year included: of long-term sustainable shareholder value in a manner consistent once again conducting a rigorous, externally facilitated Board with its obligations as a responsible corporate citizen, and corporate Effectiveness Review: governance must be seen in this context.
in addition to our scheduled Board meetings, we held eight additional meetings to discuss key issues that our business has faced: We aim to create and sustain value over the long term by understanding the external factors that present risks and opportunities for our business, creating, in late 2011, a Board Citizenship Committee to have oversight thereby ensuring our strategy is appropriate: building strong and stable of our conduct with regard to our wider value and obligations to society relationships with our customers, employees and suppliers: and ensuring and our reputation as a responsible corporate citizen: and that we manage our risks and resources, including capital, appropriately.
Our strategy is focused on four key priorities: Capital: Returns: Income while ensuring that all Directors are appointed on merit, and ensuring that there is an appropriate range and balance of skills, experience and Growth: and Citizenship and we ensure our Board discussions are focused on these issues.
background on the Board, we have set ourselves the aspirational target of ensuring that at least 20% of our Board is made up of women by the We have complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code and applied end of 2013 and for this position to exceed 25% by the end of 2015. its principles throughout 2011 and we continue to review our corporate governance processes and practices to ensure they remain t for purpose.
Marcus Agius Group Chairman 7 March 2012 Board Risk Committee Board Remuneration Committee David Booth Alison Carnwath Board Risk Committee % Board Remuneration Committee % Allocation of time 2011 2010 Allocation of time 2011 2010 1 5 1 4 1 Risk profile Risk appetite 1 Incentive awards 43 49 3 including capital and 3 2 Compensation frameworks liquidity management 45 51 and policy 39 42 2 Key risk issues 38 24 3 Financial performance, 3 Internal control Risk polices 6 2 risk and regulation 18 9 4 Regulatory frameworks 4 4 5 Other including Remuneration 2 2 and Governance issues 7 19 Understanding, monitoring and mitigating risk is a fundamental The debate on executive remuneration has continued, with particular task for any board.
The Board Risk Committee plays a critical role focus on the relationship between bonus payments and company in setting the tone and culture that promotes the achievement of performance.
It is essential that we reward our people appropriately, effective risk management across the Group and has provided that their pay reects performance and that we do not incentivise oversight of, and advice on, both our risk appetite and risk them to take inappropriate levels of risk.
The Board Remuneration management and our capital and liquidity strategies.
Committee provides direction and oversight of remuneration policy.
For more detailed information on the Board Risk For more detailed information on the Board Committee, please see page 43 Remuneration Committee, please see page 54 16 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Risk management Banking involves risks that must be understood and managed to successfully deliver sustainable returns and play our key role in supporting wider economic growth.
Risk management Barclays has clear risk management objectives and a well-established strategy to deliver them, through core risk management processes.
Responsibility for risk management resides at all levels within the Group, from the Board and the Executive Committee down through the organisation to each business manager and risk specialist.
Barclays distributes these responsibilities so that risk return decisions are taken at the most appropriate level: as close as possible to the business, and subject to robust and effective review and challenge.
Risk appetite, which is the level of risk Barclays is prepared to sustain whilst pursuing its business strategy, is approved by the Board.
Financial Risk Committee, Treasury Committee, Operational Risk Committee and Tax Risk Committee monitor their relevant risk proles against risk appetite and the output is presented to the Board Risk Committee.
Management assurance processes are assessed by Barclays Internal Audit and the effectiveness of the Groups control framework is assessed by the Governance and Control Committee.
During 2011, the Principal Risk Policy, which covers the categories of risk Our impairment performance and asset to which Barclays has its most significant actual or potential exposures, was updated resulting in risks being grouped into four categories: Credit, quality continued to improve in spite of the Market, Funding and Operational.
Each risk owned is by a Group Principal difficult economic environment.
Risk Owner, who is a senior individual within the Group Risk function.
There was no significant change to the underlying risk types monitored Robert Le Blanc as a result of this regrouping.
Chief Risk officer Performance in 2011 Loan impairment charges reduced 33% on 2010 reecting the generally improving underlying trends across the retail and wholesale businesses.
The Group loan loss rate decreased to 77bps 2010: 118bps, which was a very strong performance for this point in the economic cycle.
Retail loan impairment decreased as portfolio quality improved across almost all businesses.
This included lower charges in our cards businesses in the UK and internationally.
Similarly, impairment rates in unsecured loans and mortgages remained very moderate in the domestic and international markets.
Loan impairment also dropped in our wholesale portfolios across all businesses.
Our corporate portfolios in Spain and Portugal remained under pressure from the difficult economic environment in those countries.
Key developments in relation to capital funding and liquidity are covered in the Finance Directors review on page 22.
Market exposures decreased in 2011 although there was a moderate increase in daily value at risk due to higher market volatility.
There have been no significant changes in our operational risk prole during 2011.
The strategic report Governance Risk management Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport 17 Our risk management overview Barclays has clear risk management objectives and a well-established strategy to deliver them, through core risk management processes.
This enables us to fully understand and minimise the impact of uncertainty on the business.
Board Board Corporate Governance Board Audit Board Risk Board Remuneration Board Citizenship and Nominations Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Authority controls appetite Assurance Reporting and control Chief Executive Group Executive Committee Financial Risk Committee Treasury Committee Operational Risk Committee Tax Risk Committee Credit risk Market risk Funding risk Operational risk Four Principal Risks Credit risk Funding risk Credit risk is the risk of the Group suffering financial loss if any of its Funding risk comprises three key risks: customers, clients or market counterparties fails to full their contractual Liquidity risk the Group is unable to meet its obligations as they fall obligations to the Group.
This arises mainly from wholesale and retail due resulting in: an inability to support normal business activity: failing loans and advances together with the counterparty credit risk arising from to meet liquidity regulatory requirements: or changes to credit ratings.
derivative contracts entered into with its clients.
Other sources of credit Capital risk the Group is unable to maintain appropriate capital ratios risk arise from trading activities, including debt securities, settlement which could lead to an inability to support business activity: failing to balances with market counterparties, available for sale assets and reverse meet regulatory requirements: or changes to credit ratings.
This can also arise when an entitys credit rating is Structural risk management of non-contractual risks and primarily arises downgraded, leading to a fall in the value of Barclays investment in its from the impact on the Groups balance sheet of changes in primarily issued financial instruments.
interest rates on income or foreign exchange rates on capital ratios.
Market risk Operational risk Market risk is the risk of the Group suffering financial loss due to being Operational risk is the risk of direct or indirect impacts resulting from unable to hedge its balance sheet at prevailing market levels.
The Group human factors, inadequate or failed internal processes and systems or can be impacted by changes in both the level and volatility of prices e. g. external events.
Operational risks are inherent in the Groups business interest rates, credit spreads, commodity prices, equity prices and foreign activities.
The key risks that this principal risk includes are external exchange rates.
The risk is reported as traded risk where Barclays supports suppliers, fraud, financial reporting, information, legal, product, payments, customer activity primarily via Barclays Capital: non-traded risk to support people, premises & security, regulatory, taxation, technology and transaction customer products primarily in the retail bank: and pension risk in relation operations.
For denitions of these key risks see pages 74 to 78. to investment returns within the dened benefit scheme.
For more detailed information, please see the Risk Management section pages 67 to 158
