Business review Performance by division Property Rate improvements follow the restructuring of our US portfolio to focus on excess and surplus lines business.
$359.4m Gross premiums written Portfolio mix Commercial property 67% Jewellers & homeowners 13% Small property business 12% Engineering 8% Gross premiums written $m 400 Jonathan Gray Head of property 320 240 160 80 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Beazley Singapore: In the vanguard Today there are 18 service companies Construction business is unusual in representing 21 Lloyds syndicates comprising one-off risks that do not and, outside London, Singapore is renew.
The key to success, according the biggest concentration of Lloyds to Byran Lee, Beazleys regional underwriting expertise in the world.
underwriting manager, construction Lloyds Asia underwriters are and engineering, is strong local broker established local service companies relationships.
Beazley Singapore and may deal directly with clients, derives approximately two-thirds of its brokers and agents, both local business from global broking firms such and foreign.
as Aon, Marsh, Willis and Jardine Lloyd Beazleys Singapore office opened its Thompson, and the balance from local doors in 2006, as it was beginning to The focus of Beazleys Singapore office indigenous brokers, particularly from dawn on London insurers that if they has historically been engineering and Taiwan, Korea and Indonesia.
wanted a share of business from one construction risks, tapping into the fast of the fastest growing regions in the growing economies of the region.
In world, they would have to come and 2008 Beazley began to underwrite get it.
At that time there were only political risks locally, and in 2009 three Lloyds businesses with a local commercial property business was presence in Singapore.
Beazley was added to the mix.
In 2011, Beazleys in the vanguard.
team in Singapore underwrote in total S$15.8m US$12.6m in premiums.
com 376.0 331.5 394.4 382.5 359.4 Business review All global property teams saw rates rise in 2011.
Whereas we had originally anticipated rates to fall by 3%, we in fact saw continuous rate rises in 2011 averaging 3% over the year a total six percentage point upswing.
Will Roscoe joined Beazley as an underwriter on the Highlights open market property team.
Will joined Beazley from the global markets international division of Willis, where he had held a series of senior positions, including most recently director of broking.
Beazleys property division, led by Jonathan Gray, is a major In March we also made the decision to withdraw from the underwriter of commercial property risks in the London market admitted market for US commercial property business.
Capacity and, as such, was not immune to the catastrophe losses that for these risks, which contain little or no catastrophe exposure, pummelled the market in 2011.
No one event was of major continues to be abundant, and we took the view that we could significance for us, but their cumulative effect weighed on our achieve higher margins across the cycle by focusing on the more performance.
The divisions diversified premium base catastrophe exposed business underwritten by Beazley E&S.
comprising large, medium and small scale commercial property Business brought to us by coverholders agents underwriting risks, homeowners business in the UK and US, and construction on our behalf through delegated authorities has always and engineering risks underwritten in London, Singapore and been important to Beazley, and during the course of 2011 we the US maintained balance in our portfolio.
The division consolidated this business into a new small business unit, led recorded a 109% combined ratio for the year.
Paul and his team proactively manage their coverholder relationships, around half of which relate to small After such an eventful year, premium rates are rising, scale commercial property business from around the world, a notwithstanding the substantial capacity still available in the quarter to homeowners risks predominantly in the UK and US, market.
Having budgeted for rate declines of 3% in 2011, we and a quarter to jewellers block business, where we are the UK have in fact seen rates rise by approximately 3%.
for all of the teams within the property division, regardless of product or geography, were in positive territory by the end of the The focus of our small business unit is to seek out the best, year.
The sharpest upswing was in our open market property most experienced coverholders we can find and support them book, comprising large scale property risks underwritten at the with exceptional service.
The rating environment in the United Beazley box at Lloyds, where rates have risen by 5% on average States for our covers book has been positive and, although we over the year.
paid some jewellers block claims in the UK as a result of the riots that swept through parts of the country in August, we The strength and variety of our Lloyds broker relationships expect to recover most of this under the terms of the UK Riot Act.
remain important assets for Beazleys property team.
The global reach of our broker partners was once again demonstrated Our construction and engineering team enjoyed mixed fortunes in 2011 as we opportunistically expanded our portfolio in a in 2011.
We continue to see growth opportunities for our locally number of regions, notably Mexico, where premium rates on based underwriters in London and in Asia.
In Singapore we have government owned properties have increased significantly.
a successful and growing team that has been able to access In September we further strengthened our open market team regional business that we would not normally see in London see with the arrival of Will Roscoe, who joined us from Willis.
However, market conditions for construction and engineering risks have been challenging, particularly in London.
The exceptional series of natural catastrophes in 2011 was We experienced some claims deterioration on certain large and doubly unusual in occurring predominantly outside the United complex multi-year projects and have scaled down our States, although the tornadoes that hit a number of southern underwriting of such business, focusing instead on shorter states in April and May were the most destructive and deadly term projects.
Premium rates for medium sized US property risks, which we underwrite locally through our Beazley E&S excess Looking ahead, we see numerous areas of opportunity in 2012 and surplus team, have not risen nearly as steeply as have rates in the context of a much more positive rate environment.
Our for the larger risks, and we reduced our underwriting in this premium retention rates testify to the service we provide.
However, we expect rates to strengthen continue to invest in claims expertise and in underwriters who, during 2012 and our premium volume once again to increase.
while being sensitive to market conditions, are also alive to the importance of strong broker and client relationships.
