Diversified business Entrepreneurial spirit Strong partnerships This mix served us well in 2011, At Beazley, diversification has been enabling the company to record an deliberately and carefully built into our underwriting profit during a year that insurance and reinsurance portfolio proved very challenging for more in a variety of ways.
We diversify by catastrophe exposed insurers.
geography, by class of business, by size of risk, and by the speed with which the cost of claims emerges.
Our business is a balance of short-tail, meaning that claims usually emerge within a year of the policys inception and medium-tail, which means that claims can take up to six years to crystallise fully.
The complexity of the underwriters job Entrepreneurial spirit is something we has increased significantly over time value highly.
Over 26 years we have as the information available to make found that the greatest success comes decisions has expanded.
But the core from taking highly motivated and competences the ability to assess experienced individuals and giving them a risk from all possible angles and, the tools and resources to develop equally, to spot an opportunity their business.
that others may have missed remain unchanged.
Our broker relationships are also The success of our business depends critically important to us.
Many of the on strong client relationships.
In our broking firms we work with are larger reinsurance business, for example, and more complex than was the case 80% of our top 20 clients have been even a decade ago.
And as we have with us for more than 15 years.
Almost expanded internationally, the number a third of the large law firms that rely on of our broker relationships has us for lawyers professional liability increased.
Understanding the needs insurance a sector in which we are of brokers and maximising the flow a market leader have insured with of profitable business are key to Beazley for more than a decade.
the success of all our underwriters.
From a corporate perspective, they are also strategic priorities that are the focus of Dan Jones and his broker relations team.
