Business review Performance by division Marine Another profitable year with a combined ratio of 72%.
$274.2m Gross premiums written Portfolio mix Energy 43% Hull & misc 27% Cargo 13% War 11% Liability 6% Gross premiums written $m 300 Clive Washbourn 250 Head of marine 200 150 100 50 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Lifeline to Misrata War perils such as this are usually Marine war policies are not just excluded from traditional hull and purchased when a conflict is raging.
machinery policies, with only a limited Cover can also include confiscations market available for those looking to and detention of the vessel which arrange cover.
Beazley has been writing is a pre-requisite for vessels entering a marine war book since 1998 and is potentially dangerous waters such the largest insurer for this type of risk in as the Indian Ocean where piracy the world.
With the support of insurance is an ever present danger or a port cover provided by Beazley and other where the political situation is London market insurers, numerous volatile or uncertain.
During the Libyan civil war, vessels voyages were successfully completed delivering medical supplies and to and from Misrata.
medical assistance provided a lifeline to anti-government militia in the Beazleys market leading position is central coastal city of Misrata.
underpinned by a wealth of knowledge With the rebel forces pegged back, and expertise to understand and price sea transportation provided the only war risks.
Tailored policies were put route for evacuating the wounded together for Mediterranean ferry and refugees.
operators to protect their vessels and crew, often at very short notice, allowing them to perform a vitally important role.
com 279.6 275.1 265.0 261.7 274.2 Business review Matthew Holmes joined Beazley in October 2011 to head the energy team.
He has more than a decades experience in the Lloyds energy market.
The marine team has consistently delivered underwriting profits, achieving an average combined ratio of 77% over Highlights the last seven years.
Our marine division, led by Clive Washbourn, has established We have historically taken a very cautious approach to energy over many years a reputation as one of the strongest performers liability business, seeing it as substantially underpriced.
at Lloyds, and 2011 was no exception.
The team achieved a Following the strong focus on this section of the market from combined ratio of 72% 2010: 71% at a time of flat or declining the Lloyds performance management directorate in 2011, premium rates for all main classes of cover except for energy this may change in 2012 and we will be alert to opportunities.
In addition to energy, the team insures a broad array of Overall, we expect energy premium rates to remain flat hull, cargo and marine liability risks, as well as war and terrorism in 2012 in the absence of further catastrophe losses.
risks for both ships and aircraft.
In 2011, we led the cover for 52% of the business by volume that we underwrote.
An important initiative that we launched in 2009 the creation of underwriting capacity and expertise for marine professional The breadth of the teams expertise served us well in 2011. liability risks within the Lloyds market continued to develop Demand for tanker and container shipments declined, while well under the leadership of Zareena Hussain, who has headed trade in bulk goods and liquefied petroleum gas sectors in our entire marine liability team since 2010.
The team which Beazley specialised remained relatively robust.
Across underwrites a broad range of professional liability risks for our hull and cargo accounts, we saw renewal rates fall by an a wide array of maritime professionals, from average adjustors average of 1%.
However, demand for war risks cover was high, to yacht brokers.
The Beazley name is of course extremely particularly as a result of the civil war in Libya see case study.
strong in the wider world of professional liability and we have Beazley insures around a fifth of all war risks business placed found the strong broker relationships forged by our colleagues in the London market.
in Beazleys specialty lines division very valuable.
Piracy in the Gulf of Aden and around the Horn of Africa Our UK marine unit continues to grow under the leadership of a severe menace to shipping since 2008 continued unabated, Stephen Smyth.
In addition to serving Lloyds brokers, the team with an increasing number of attacks in 2011.
However, owing also partners with UK regional brokers, offering a wide range of to improved security on ships the incidence of vessel captures products including cargo, freight liability, hull and machinery, fell and we saw lower claims frequency than in 2010. and marine liability.
Many segments of this market are highly competitive but by careful risk selection Steve and his team Energy risks accounted for 43% of the business underwritten have succeeded in growing the account profitably.
In October, we welcomed Matthew Holmes to Beazley as the new head of our energy team.
Energy risks have accounted for a growing proportion of the business underwritten by the division in recent years and we expect this share to continue to grow, market conditions permitting.
Rates for energy business rose by 4% in 2011, driven by the tightening in capacity that followed the Deepwater Horizon explosion in the Gulf of Mexico in 2010.
Our Oslo office, opened early in 2010 to access locally placed Scandinavian energy business, wrote $8.0m of premium in 2011. www.
