Business review Performance by division Political risks & contingency Continued expansion of our global presence, with underwriters in the US, Singapore and Australia, and plans for France.
$102.5m Gross premiums written Portfolio mix Terrorism 42% Political 34% Contingency 24% Gross premiums written $m 150 Adrian Lewers 2011 Head of political risks & contingency 120 2010 90 60 2009 30 2008 0 2007 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Claims service tested in eventful year 2011 was an active year for political Beazleys PCG claims team, led by risks claims and the PCG claims team Hannah Purves, has built up a strong handled claims arising from the unrest in reputation in the London market for the Middle East and North Africa MENA speed and efficiency of claims region as the events of the Arab Spring settlement.
The team also handles took their toll on foreign investments in recoveries on claims paid in earlier the region, notably in the oil and defence years, which were substantial in 2011, industries.
The claims team also dealt amounting to over $20m.
with claims in both the MENA and West Africa regions for property damage and The claims team enjoys a close working Political risks claims including contract business interruption losses arising from relationship with Beazleys underwriters frustration and trade credit risks are civil commotion.
ensuring that claims experience can traditionally low frequency but, when be swiftly reflected in enhanced policy they occur, they can be significant.
Additionally, the contingency account wordings and with London market was impacted by claims arising from the brokers, ensuring that insureds are kept raft of natural catastrophes during fully informed as claims are processed.
2011, including the earthquakes in Japan and New Zealand which forced the cancellation or relocation of events insured by the team.
There were no claims arising from the Thai flooding at the end of 2011.
com 129.6 130.2 127.6 100.9 102.5 Business review Crispin Hodges will relocate from Singapore to the Paris office in 2012 to help grow the European business of the political risks and contingency team.
Chris Parker joined Beazley to head up the terrorism and political violence underwriting team.
Chris started his Highlights career in the marine LMX reinsurance market in 1990 and then joined the political risk market in 1995.
He was responsible for the terrorism and political violence business of Marsh from 2006 to 2011.
Beazleys political risks and contingency division, led by Beazleys contingency team is one of the largest and most Adrian Lewers, insures a broad array of exposures, including experienced in the Lloyds market.
Given the breadth of business conventional political risks confiscation, nationalisation and insured by the team, it is not surprising that the exceptional expropriation : political violence and terrorism: and costs arising sequence of natural catastrophes that occurred in 2011 should from the cancellation of events ranging in size from major sports have had some impact, and we received contingency claims tournaments to specialist trade shows and fairs.
In 2011, from both Japan and New Zealand following the earthquakes despite significant political turbulence in many parts of the world in those countries.
In the main, the claims that we paid were and a series of natural catastrophes that had knock-on effects not for outright event cancellation but for rescheduling and on our event cancellation business, the team achieved a relocating events out of harms way.
Premium rates have combined ratio of 79% on gross premiums of $102.5m.
generally held up better than we expected, with renewal rates for the contingency book as a whole declining by 1%.
The political risks market remained highly competitive in 2011, reflecting a 40% increase in available capacity for trade related In addition to event cancellation insurance, which accounted risks since the financial crisis of 2008.
We have, however, for 72% of our $27m contingency book in 2011, we are a major maintained our disciplined approach to risk assessment and market for promotional events such as prize indemnity and pricing, and continued to make sizeable recoveries on claims over-redemption risks.
paid out in earlier years.
It is possible that this pattern of recoveries will be repeated in Libya, where in the course of 2011 The past year saw us continue to expand our global presence we incurred a number of claims to European exporters for outside Lloyds, although 95% of our premiums are still contract frustration in respect of their relationships with the underwritten at the Beazley box, reflecting the strong reputation previous government.
of the London market in the political risks and contingency lines.
We now have political risks underwriters in New York Our claims team under the leadership of Hannah Purves and Singapore and plan to establish an underwriting presence is one of the most experienced in the Lloyds market and in Paris in 2012.
Our contingency team has an underwriter in continued in 2011 to win praise from brokers and clients alike Australia and we are expanding our business in the UK regional for our sensitive handling of complex claims.
In the case of broker market through Beazley Access, an online platform for Libya, for example, many of our clients have a strong interest in small and mid sized event cancellation risks.
establishing good relationships rapidly with the new regime and we are supporting their efforts to do this.
Political violence was also widespread last year, particularly in the Middle East and North Africa.
In April, we strengthened our team with the arrival of Chris Parker, who joined us from Marsh to head the team, and Andrew Page.
The largest single component of our political violence account is not in developing economies but in the US and Europe, where we underwrite specialist terrorism cover for property owners a risk that has not been easily insurable under standard property policies since the terrorist attacks of 2001.
Premium rates on this business have declined in recent years but it continues to be profitable.
We have a well diversified book with prudently managed aggregate exposures.
