Business review Performance by division Reinsurance Multiple events impacted the performance of this division during the worst year on record for insured natural catastrophes.
$178.3m Gross premiums written Portfolio mix Property catastrophe 80% Property risk pro rate 16% Misc 3% Casualty clash 1% Gross premiums written $m 200 Patrick Hartigan Head of reinsurance 150 100 50 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Supporting our clients following the catastrophe Japanese losses in 2011 More than 15,000 people died during Beazley has been reinsuring Japanese and after the quake, which registered insurance companies since 1993. nine on the moment magnitude scale, Events such as the Tohoku earthquake destroying or damaging 125,000 and tsunami are what the cover is for.
buildings, according to the Japanese national police agency.
The Japanese prime minister, Naoto Kan, described the disaster as the greatest crisis to hit the country since World War Two.
Rarely in history have insurers been Insured market losses for these events confronted by challenges comparable are estimated to have cost $35bn to to that facing them on Saturday 12 $40bn.
Beazleys share of the loss, March, the day after a massive although modest by comparison with earthquake and tsunami that many reinsurers, nevertheless devastated the Tohoku region of Japan.
accounted for our largest catastrophe loss event in 2011.
com 115.6 129.5 142.2 174.4 178.3 Business review The exceptional series of natural catastrophes witnessed in 2011 drained an estimated $105bn from the resources of the worlds insurers and reinsurers.
This has fuelled significant increases in reinsurance premium rates ranging from 30% to 300% in areas affected.
Highlights Beazleys reinsurance team has been at the forefront of driving changes to the catastrophe risk environment by limiting territorial coverage and more closely assigning a rate per peril.
In the worst year ever for insured natural catastrophes, it was Reinsurance rates, as a consequence of the events described inevitable that our reinsurance division, led by Patrick Hartigan, above, have increased by approximately 50% to 100% in would incur substantial losses.
Beazleys reinsurance losses Australia: 150% to 300% in New Zealand: 50% to 100% were in line with our market share, resulting in a combined ratio in Japan: 25% in the US: and more than 100% in Thailand.
In other areas, rate increases have been more modest.
A succession of severe events impacted the reinsurance market An additional consequence of these events has been to drive in 2011, beginning with widespread flooding in Queensland, a significant improvement in terms for low frequency, high Australia during January costing approximately $2.3bn.
In severity areas, typically exposed to earthquake or extreme February, a shallow but deadly earthquake hit Christchurch, flood.
Beazleys reinsurance team has been at the forefront of New Zealand causing in the region of $12bn in insured damage.
driving changes to the catastrophe risk environment by limiting Less than three weeks later, the Tohoku earthquake, with territorial coverage and more closely assigning a rate per peril, a magnitude of 9.0 the strongest ever recorded in Japan which has enabled us to calibrate the price of cover more devastated the north east coast of Japan through the accurately with the exposures we are running.
combination of shock and, more overwhelmingly, tsunami.
Insured damage has been estimated at $35bn-$40bn with Estimating the scale of natural catastrophe losses, particularly economic damage of some $200bn.
While the US was spared in the early days after the event, is notoriously difficult.
Our a significant hurricane in 2011 Hurricane Irene proved less methodology in catastrophe loss assessment and reserving is costly than at first feared, at $7bn, the combination of winter primarily based on using a ground-up approach to our portfolio.
storms in the first quarter followed by two of the most violent We apply a probable maximum loss PML factor to the insured tornadoes on record in the second quarter caused insured values for the clients in the region affected and subsequently losses of approximately $14bn, double the figure of the previous relate this to the relevant reinsurance programmes in which we year.
The last quarter of the year provided no respite as participate.
We also apply a loss amplification factor to account prolonged rainfall in Thailand led to flooding in the industrial for any uncertainties associated with the loss, which we adjust parks north of Bangkok.
While the event is still being assessed, depending on the complexity of the event.
By these means, we insured losses are estimated at $10bn-$20bn.
aim to provide our investors with robust loss estimates that do not require subsequent upward revision.
Beazleys reinsurance team manages its exposures to strict territorial limits with a bias towards the worlds more mature Beazleys reinsurance account benefits from two other important insurance economies.
This enables us to manage our risk features.
We have very strong, long term client relationships: in areas where data quality is strong, counterparties are 80% of our top 20 reinsureds have been buying cover from us experienced and effective in their own risk management, and for more than 15 years.
We also have a very well diversified profit margins are generally more robust.
This also mitigates account by geography and peril.
the risk of a private catastrophe from which our share of a loss would be disproportionate to our market share.
Our strategy One element in this diversification is our continental European has mitigated the effect of the losses of 2011 to the reinsurance business, which we underwrite both at Lloyds and through team, ensuring that they are both proportionate to our market our Munich office, opened in October 2008.
The Munich office, share and within our risk appetite.
which underwrote just under $20m in premiums last year, enables us to access business from continental Europe that would not normally come to Lloyds.
