Business review Financial review Capital structure The information on this page forms an integral part of the audited financial statements.
Beazley has a number of requirements for capital at a group and subsidiary level.
Capital is primarily required to support underwriting at Lloyds and in the US and is subject to prudential regulation by local regulators FSA, Lloyds, Central Bank of Ireland, and the US state level supervisors.
Further capital requirements come from rating agencies on a groupwide basis and for Beazley Insurance Company Inc. and the Lloyds syndicates on a standalone basis.
In both cases we aim to manage our capital to obtain a financial A rating from the rating agencies for these entities.
Beazley holds a level of capital over and above its regulatory requirements and targets a level of surplus capital that would enable it to take advantage of new underwriting opportunities such as the acquisition of insurance companies or managing general agents MGAs whose strategic goals are aligned with our own.
The group actively seeks to manage its capital base to target capital levels.
Our preferred use of capital is to deploy it on opportunities to underwrite profitably.
However there may be times in the cycle when the company will generate excess capital and not have the opportunity to deploy it.
If such a point were reached the board would consider returning capital to shareholders.
In 2011 Beazley acquired 0.7m of its own shares.
These were acquired at an average price of 117.4p and the cost to the group was $1.2m.
Our funding comes from a mixture of our own equity of $1,071.0m alongside 150m of tier 2 subordinated debt and $18m subordinated long-term debt and an undrawn banking facility of $225m mentioned above.
This facility was renewed in July 2011 to cover the 2012 and 2013 underwriting years and converted to a $225m facility.
The following table sets out the groups sources and uses of capital: 2011 2010 $m $m Sources of funds Shareholders funds 1,071.0 1,082.9 Tier 2 subordinated debt 231.0 230.8 Long-term subordinated debt 18.0 18.0 1,320.0 1,331.7 Uses of funds Lloyds underwriting 742.9 776.9 Capital for US insurance company 107.7 107.7 850.6 884.6 Surplus 469.4 447.1 Unavailable surplus 129.5 80.2 Fixed and intangible assets 137.8 126.6 Available surplus 202.1 240.3 Unutilised banking facility 225.0 150.0 Unavailable surplus primarily represents profits earned that have not yet been transferred from the Lloyds syndicates.
The cash transfers occur half-yearly in arrears and are reflected as unavailable until the cash is received into Beazley corporate accounts.
In addition certain items other than fixed and intangible assets such as deferred tax assets are not immediately realisable as cash and have also accordingly been reflected as unavailable surplus.
com Business review Individual capital assessment The group is required to produce an individual capital assessment ICA which sets out the amount of capital that is required to reflect the risks contained within the business.
Lloyds reviews this assessment to ensure that ICAs are consistent across the market.
In order to determine the ICA, we have made significant investments in both models and process: We use sophisticated mathematical models that reflect the key risks in the business allowing for probability of occurrence, impact if they do occur, and interaction between risk types.
A key focus of these models is to understand the risk posed to individual teams, and to the business as a whole, of a possible deterioration in the underwriting cycle: and The ICA process is embedded so that the teams can see the direct and objective link between underwriting decisions and the capital allocated to that team.
This gives a consistent and comprehensive picture of the risk reward profile of the business and allows teams to focus on strategies that improve return on capital.
The decrease in our funds at Lloyds from 505.0m to 482.9m in spite of the broadly unchanged level of premium reflects the changes in our reinsurance programmes particularly the professions programme and the increased duration on our bond portfolio.
These numbers are presented in the table on the previous page in US dollars, being $742.9m and $776.9m for 2011 and 2010 respectively, which have been translated at the spot exchange rate at reporting dates.
Solvency II Solvency II is a proposed EU-wide legislation on capital adequacy and risk management for all insurers.
The central elements of Solvency II are: Pillar 1: Demonstrating adequate financial resources quantification Pillar 2: Demonstrating an adequate system of governance risk assessment Pillar 3: Public disclosure and regulatory reporting requirements.
Beazley has set two guiding principles for Solvency II, namely: to develop a framework that can be used to inform management and assist with business decision making: and to hold an appropriate and efficient level of capital for the agreed risk appetite through risk identification and mitigation.
Beazleys dedicated project management team and subject matter experts have continued throughout 2011 to build the framework required to make Beazley Solvency II compliant.
The Solvency II internal model, which calculates our solvency capital requirements based on Beazleys risk profile in line with the new principles, was built and tested.
The internal model has incorporated new design characteristics which increase the level of sophistication and granularity.
The Solvency II Final Application Pack for the syndicates was submitted to Lloyds on 16 December 2011, containing our estimated capital requirements under the new regime, as well as detailed information on the status of the programme and the activities remaining to be completed in order to reach the full Solvency II standard.
The team also completed a comprehensive training programme tailored to educate all our staff on their specific knowledge requirements as well as what business as usual will look like under Solvency II.
Our objective for 2012 is to complete our outstanding activities in line with the Lloyds plan and to embed the model and the changes into the business.
This will include going through a review process with the FSA in relation to the Lloyds application, and with the Central Bank of Ireland to achieve Beazley Re model approval.
We will also continue to take advantage of the benefits delivered by the programme, such as better management information and strengthened decision making.
com Beazley Annual report 2011 39 Business review Financial review Capital structure continued Group structure The group operates across both Lloyds and the US through a variety of legal entities and structures.
The main entities within the legal entity structure are as follows: Beazley plc group holding company and investment vehicle: quoted on the London Stock Exchange: Beazley Underwriting Limited corporate member at Lloyds writing business through syndicates 2623, 3622 and 3623: Beazley Furlonge Limited managing agency for the groups five syndicates 623, 2623, 3622, 3623 and 6107 : Beazley Re Limited reinsurance company that accepts reinsurance premium ceded by the corporate member, Beazley Underwriting Limited: Syndicate 2623 corporate body regulated by Lloyds through which the group underwrites its general insurance business excluding accident and life.
Business is written in parallel with syndicate 623: Syndicate 623 corporate body regulated by Lloyds which has its capital supplied by third-party Names: Syndicate 6107 special purpose syndicate writing reinsurance business on behalf of third-party Names: Syndicate 3622 corporate body regulated by Lloyds through which the group underwrites its life insurance and reinsurance business: Syndicate 3623 corporate body regulated by Lloyds through which the group underwrites its personal accident and BICI reinsurance business: Beazley Insurance Company, Inc. BICI insurance company regulated in the US.
Licensed to write insurance business in all 50 states: and Beazley USA Services Inc. BUSA managing general agent based in Farmington, Connecticut.
Underwrites business on behalf of Beazley syndicates and BICI.
Beazley plc Beazley Re Ltd Beazley Group Ltd Reinsurance Beazley Underwriting Ltd Beazley Furlonge Ltd contract Beazley USA Corporate member Managing agency Management Capital Syndicate 623 Beazley Beazley Syndicate 2623 USA Insurance Services, Company, Inc. Inc. Third party capital providers Syndicate 3622 Service Admitted company insurance Syndicate 3623 company: A Rated Syndicate 6107 Quota share Quota share and surplus treaties 40 Beazley Annual report 2011 www.
