Business review Performance by division Specialty lines Cycle management expertise contributed to a 94% combined ratio in often challenging markets.
$711.2m Gross premiums written Portfolio mix Professions 24% Small business 19% Management liability 19% Technology media 19% and business Healthcare 14% Treaty 5% Gross premiums written $m 800 Adrian Cox Head of specialty lines 600 400 200 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Healthcare team targets growing market by five claims professionals, and quotes teams watchword: Beazleys for business in both the US and London.
underwriters pride themselves on being The team insures professional liability able to tailor coverage to the specific risks for a wide array of service needs of individual clients.
Unlike some providers, including healthcare staffing insurers, the team can consider risks agencies, home care providers, mental with operations and exposures outside health services, chemical detox the US.
facilities, tissue and blood banks, organ procurement organisations, contract Providing exceptional service is a major research organisations, correctional focus of the team, which includes two Miscellaneous medical risks often healthcare care provided in penal underwriting assistants in Chicago to abbreviated to misc med and also institutions, medi-spas, dialysis clinics, help ensure a rapid response to known in the insurance market as allied and ground and air ambulances.
healthcare is a label that applies to a As medical science advances and the broad range of professional liability The teams message to brokers is US population ages, the status of risks.
For Beazley, it is a market with simple: if you have an unusual healthcare as Americas largest and significant growth potential that plays healthcare risk, we can probably find fastest growing industry looks secure.
to our strengths as a specialist insurer.
The message is welcome And demand from brokers for well because many of the risks the team designed insurance cover for the Led by Evan Smith in Beazleys Chicago handles on a daily basis are unfamiliar industrys more unusual and hard office, the misc med team currently to brokers that lack experience in this to place risks looks likely to grow.
comprises four underwriters supported sector of the market.
Flexibility is the 28 Beazley Annual report 2011 www.
com 660.2 753.5 754.2 744.0 711.2 Business review Beazley launched a new fidelity and crime unit led by Bill Jennings.
The unit writes limits of up to $25m for fidelity bond coverage for financial institutions and for commercial crime coverage for non-financial organisations.
Highlights We were chosen as preferred cyber liability insurer for UHC, an alliance of Americas leading non-profit academic medical centres for their 114 centres and 255 affiliate hospitals.
Beazley leads 95% of the specialty lines risks it writes.
Specialty lines, led by Adrian Cox, is Beazleys largest division, in the boom years have also found themselves targets of litigation accounting for 42% of the companys gross written premiums in when those deals subsequently soured.
At a time of frequent and severe natural catastrophes, specialist claims staff have been working closely with our clients specialty lines representing in the main professional liability, to support them during these challenging times.
This focus, management liability, and medical malpractice business combined with our recession planning, has had a beneficial has been a source of stable and consistent underwriting returns.
effect on our loss ratios.
The division recorded a combined ratio of 94% 2010: 93%.
We are also seeing a change in the types of claim brought The price of long term success in our markets is constant against directors and officers, away from traditional SEC class vigilance.
We manage our portfolio actively to maximise our actions and towards claims deriving from M&A activity and profitability over the cycle.
For our clients we are not a fair increased regulatory scrutiny.
We have begun to see this trend weather friend we aim to provide them with continuity of cover contribute to a modest upturn in rates in the D&O market.
in a volatile market where capacity can become scarce very quickly.
The corollary of this is that, when capacity Claims experience in other lines of business in which Beazley is abundant, as has been the case in many lines of business has long specialised has proved more benign.
We are a leading recently, we will not be among the lowest priced markets.
insurer of US hospitals and hospital systems, with a strong focus Ours is a well diversified portfolio across geographies, lines on the best managed institutions.
Extensive claims data is a of business, and size of risks.
significant asset in pricing these risks accurately and our database is one of the most extensive in existence, covering An important contribution to our performance in 2011 more than 455,000 claims.
$61.8m derived from reserves released from prior years underwriting after it became evident that they were no longer In 2011, we insured a quarter of the top hospitals in the US as required to meet potential claims.
Beazley has historically ranked by Healthgrades, the leading independent healthcare adopted a conservative reserving approach and our reserve ratings company.
We are increasingly providing insurance to release this year, which was in line with our 2010 release, comparably well managed institutions outside the US, bears witness to this.
Our miscellaneous medical business, although far smaller in premium terms, is a major growth Underwriting conditions remain highly competitive for many of area see case study.
the lines of business in which the team specialises.
Insurance capital is still plentiful even excessive in some markets such as Healthcare providers are vulnerable to another risk that is a major architects and engineers A&E professional liability and specialist focus of Beazley data breaches.
In October we were directors and officers D&O insurance.
Simultaneously, demand selected by UHC, an alliance of Americas leading non-profit for many of the services our clients provide remains depressed academic medical centres, as the preferred cyber liability insurer due to low rates of economic growth in our principal markets, for UHCs 114 academic medical centres and 255 affiliate notably the United States.
Both of these forces put downward hospitals.
Beazley Breach Response, our flagship product, pressure on premium rates.
Furthermore the low level of insurers will be offered to all UHC members.
investment returns provides little cushion to absorb underwriting losses.
Overall, we saw renewal rates across our specialty lines Outside the United States, we have continued to develop niche business decline by 1% in 2011. markets where our underwriting expertise and high service standards give us a competitive advantage.
In India we are a Our claims experience has also to some extent reflected the leading insurer of business processing outsourcing firms, to which broader economic malaise affecting our clients.
In 2008 we we are increasingly offering three-in-one policies combining D&O, introduced a new and very rigorous underwriting approach to EPL, and errors and omissions E&O cover.
In France, we see recession planning which has paid off since.
The first class of significant growth potential in a number of lines and are business affected was employment practices liability EPL, where strengthening our underwriting and business development claims commonly increase at times of rising unemployment.
And our environmental risks team has provided high However, we saw premium rates begin to rise for EPL risks at level excess protection for parent and holding companies with the end of 2011 and we expect to grow in this class next year.
global portfolios, after the Deepwater Horizon oil spill revealed the range of suppliers that could potentially be implicated in the wake In 2011, as we had foreseen, we saw recession related claims of major pollution events.
against lawyers and architects and engineers continue to increase.
Lawyers who advised on corporate transactions initiated www.
