Business review Performance by division Life, accident & health Presence in Australia grows as a result of the acquisition of Australian Income Protection.
$86.9m Gross premiums written Portfolio mix PA direct 48% PA reinsurance 30% Life direct 16% Life reinsurance 4% Sports disability 2% Gross premiums written $m 90 Chris Branch 75 Head of life, accident & health 60 45 30 15 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Locked out, but not out in the cold While owners and players held As a recognised market leader in countless negotiations to resolve the provision of disablement cover what, at times, became a very to sports players and their governing acrimonious dispute, several players associations, Beazley was well looked overseas to play.
Europe and equipped to offer the players cover Asia were the preferred destinations.
that would protect their earnings from a Such a move was particularly attractive temporary injury and also provide cover to foreign players in the NBA who could for a career ending injury.
Beazleys play in their home countries until the sports personal accident underwriters, lockout ended.
The risks associated Peter Thompson and Charlotte Garner, On 1 July 2011, the owners of the clubs with this migration were not lost on worked closely with the players, the comprising the National Basketball David Stern, the NBA commissioner, European clubs and their brokers to Association NBA began a standoff who warned that players contracts provide appropriate cover.
with players that would last 161 days.
could be jeopardised if they were The fourth lockout in the NBAs history seriously injured.
Beazleys underwriters have been meant that professional basketball providing this type of cover to a variety one of the most popular spectator of sports most notably cricket, rugby sports in the US was suspended union and football for more than until December.
com 67.9 78.1 86.9 Business review We expanded our presence in the Australian group disability market through acquisition of two MGAs AIP and Blue-GUM.
Beazley opened a Minneapolis office in 2011 where we will begin writing admitted accident and health business Highlights in 2012.
We lead the sports consortium in the Lloyds market, covering personal accident risk for professional athletes outside the US.
As consortium leader, we set the terms, conditions and price the risk on behalf of the rest of the market participants.
Our life, accident and health division, led by Chris Branch, Since 2003, AIP has built a successful business specialising in recorded a third year of growth in 2011, boosted by a significant providing group disability insurance to industry superannuation acquisition in Australia, and achieved a combined ratio of 95% funds, retirement funds run by industry associations and trade 2010: 97% on gross premiums of $86.9m 2010: $78.1m.
Blue-GUM, a smaller firm, focuses on the distribution The team has been a pioneer in the recent development of a and management of life insurance-based group disability and specialist life insurance market at Lloyds, establishing in 2008 death benefit policies.
We are combining the two companies the first new life syndicate at Lloyds in two decades.
We are also with our existing Australian accident and health business, a London market leader for personal accident business, enabling us to offer a full product range including permanent underwritten on both a direct and reinsurance basis.
Across our and temporary disability benefits to superannuation funds, portfolio, we led 68% of the business we underwrote in 2011. employers and affinity groups.
With an extremely capable team led by Noel Nosworthy, we underwrote $30.5m in gross Claims experience on our London market core account was premiums in Australia in 2011 and see significant growth generally benign last year and the string of natural catastrophes opportunities in what remains an extremely vibrant economy.
that affected other lines of business had no impact on us.
Competition remained stiff in a number of areas, but still, overall Growth opportunities also exist in the US, where our team will be rates on renewal business increased by 1%.
We continued to rolling out a suite of gap protection products during the course identify profitable opportunities, particularly for our life of 2012 to provide employers with flexible and cost-effective syndicate, which focuses on renewable group life business that benefit options, while helping employees offset expenses or cannot readily be placed in the mainstream market.
replace lost income when it is needed most.
In the coming year we will be offering supplemental medical expense out-of-pocket Market conditions for sports disability insurance have been and limited medical fixed indemnity, critical illness and short challenging in recent years with intense competition.
We lead term disability cover.
Our team, led by Paul Gulstrand, has been the Lloyds sports consortium, the largest insurer of sports working hard to put in place the infrastructure to service this liability risks for professional athletes outside the US, focusing business efficiently, including a convenient web portal for primarily on rugby, cricket and football.
Peter Thompson, who enrolling in and maintaining benefit plans, which is intuitive underwrites this account, is a consummate professional who to use.
is well respected across the London market.
His disciplined underwriting approach has ensured that we have significantly All of these products will be offered in the US admitted market.
outperformed the market in terms of profitability.
We also continue to underwrite group personal accident cover on a reinsurance basis locally in the US from our Chicago office.
Looking beyond the Lloyds market, Australia was a major area of focus for us in 2011.
In April we significantly expanded our presence in the Australian group disability market through the purchase of two managing general agencies MGAs, Australian Income Protection AIP and Blue-GUM Special Risks BlueGUM, which focus on these business lines.
