Governance Board of directors Executive directors Andrew Horton Martin Bride Adrian Cox Andrew Horton aged 49 Martin Bride aged 48 is Adrian Cox aged 40 was was appointed chief executive group finance director having appointed to the board on on 1st September 2008. joined Beazley in 2009.
Martin 6 December 2010 and heads Previously he was finance has 26 years experience in the up the specialty lines division.
director and he joined the insurance industry with more Prior to joining Beazley in June board in June 2003.
Prior to than half of those as a finance 2001, Adrian was at General that, he was UK chief financial director.
He trained as a Cologne Re for eight years.
officer at ING and was deputy general insurance actuary He began his career writing global chief financial officer before pursuing a career in the short-tail facultative and global head of finance composite insurance sector reinsurance before moving for the equity markets division with Aviva and Zurich Financial to the treaty department in of ING Barings, having held Services.
His experience spans 1997, where he wrote both various financial positions personal and commercial lines short and long tail business, with ING Barings since January general insurance, the London specialising in financial lines.
He qualified as a market, life insurance and chartered accountant with asset management in both Coopers and Lybrand in 1987. the UK and France.
Jonathan Gray Neil Maidment Clive Washbourn Jonathan Gray aged 58 is the Neil Maidment aged 49 Clive Washbourn aged 51 head of the groups property is the chief underwriting officer is the head of the groups division.
Jonathan has 35 of the group.
Neil has 27 years marine division.
Clive has over years of experience at Lloyds, of Lloyds experience.
He 25 years experience in the joining Beazley in 1992. joined Beazley in 1990 and marine insurance industry and He is an active underwriter was appointed to the board in actively underwrites marine in his area of expertise, 1993.
In 2011 he was elected hull, marine liability and open market commercial to the board of the Lloyds marine war risks.
member of the LMA Marine Committee and chairman of the Joint War Committee.
com Governance Non-executive directors Jonathan Agnew George Blunden Gordon Hamilton Dennis Holt Jonathan Agnew aged 70 is George Blunden aged 59 was Gordon Hamilton aged 66 Dennis Holt aged 63 has the chairman of the company.
appointed on 1 January 2010. retired as a senior audit more than 40 years experience Jonathan was formerly a He is currently Chairman of partner in Deloitte & Touche in financial services markets.
managing director of Morgan Charity Bank and Chairman of LLP after more than 30 years, He was formerly a main Stanley and subsequently the Raglan HA.
He retired as senior principally involved with board Executive Director at chief executive of Kleinwort vice president and director listed multi-national company LloydsTSB 2000-2001, Chief Benson.
He has been the from AllianceBernstein Ltd in audits and major forensic Executive of AXA UK and a chairman of Limit plc, Gerrard December 2009.
He is currently member of AXAs Global Group plc, Nationwide Building previously been chief executive a non-executive director Executive Committee 2001- Society and LMS Capital plc.
of Union plc, a director of SG of a number of companies 2006.
He has been a Vice He is currently chairman of Warburg Securities, Seccombe, including the South African Chairman of the Association Ashmore Global Opportunities Marshall and Campion plc listed Barloworld and the of British Insurers and Deputy Limited and The Cayenne Trust and Meridian Investment London listed Petra Diamonds Chairman of Bank of Ireland.
plc and is senior independent Performance Services.
He is currently Chairman of director of Rightmove plc.
He Liverpool Victoria and of was a member of the Council of Bank of Ireland UK.
Lloyds and of Lloyds Market Board from 1995 to 1999.
Padraic OConnor Vincent Sheridan Ken Sroka Rolf Tolle Padraic OConnor aged 62 Vincent Sheridan aged 63 Ken Sroka aged 58 was Rolf Tolle aged 64 was is Chairman of the Irish is currently a non-executive appointed to the board on appointed to the board on Stock Exchange and a non director of FBD Holdings Ltd, 12 November 2010.
He joined executive director of Mercer Ireland Limited, formerly head of product the board of Beazley Furlonge Rabobank, JP Morgan Bank Canada Life Assurance Ireland development at Zurich Financial Limited in June 2010.
Dublin Ltd and a number of Limited and a number of other Services, retiring in 2008.
He retired as franchise other companies.
He retired as Chief During his 15 years at Zurich performance director at Lloyds Managing Director of NCB Executive of Vhi Healthcare in Financial Services, he created in December 2008 after nearly Group between 1991 and 2008 and prior to that was and directed Zurichs financial seven years in the role, during 1999 prior to which he was Group Chief Executive of the lines business in North America which time he was widely Chief Economist at the Norwich Union Insurance and more recently he focused credited for establishing firm.
Before joining NCB, Group in Ireland for ten years on the development of specialist a new and successful Mr OConnor worked at the from 1991 to 2001.
He is a products in North America as partnership between the Department of Finance and past president of the Institute president and CEO of Zurich Corporation of Lloyds and the Central Bank of Ireland.
of Chartered Accountants in North American Specialties the market.
Prior to that, He holds primary and Ireland and a former Director Division products included he served as chief postgraduate degrees in of the Irish Stock Exchange.
environmental, excess liability, underwriting officer of economics from University professional liability, financial Faraday Group, General College Dublin.
lines, healthcare, political risk Res Lloyds insurance and and accident & health.
to joining Zurich in 1993, Mr Srokas career included roles at Chubb, AIG and USF&G.
