Gold and precious metals After almost reaching its 1980 high of US$50 oz in April 2011, the Amidst the macro-economic turmoil that was 2011, the gold price rose silver price struggled to regain the same momentum in the second half 11.1% over the year in US dollar terms and averaged 28.2% higher of 2011 and closed the year down 8.0% in US dollar terms.
Lack of political leadership over the ballooning debt majority of the Companys silver exposure comes through holdings in burden facing the US and Europe, widespread interference by Fresnillo 4.0% of the portfolio and its parent company Industrias governments to weaken their currencies thereby making them more Penoles 3.5% of the portfolio.
Penoles significantly outperformed competitive, increasingly negative real interest rates in the face of low Fresnillo during the second half of the year, ending the year up over nominal rates and rising inflation and a general increase in geo- 20% versus Fresnillo which closed down 8.5% in sterling terms.
political instability, meant that by September gold reached an all-time high of over US$1,900 oz.
Strong physical demand mostly in bar and Platinum and palladium prices performed poorly in 2011, negatively coin form as well as robust ETF flows, Chinese imports and Central impacted by weak auto markets in the US and Europe, and outflows Bank purchases were coupled with more speculative buying as from the physical ETFs.
Platinum ended the year down 22.8% and represented by the increasing long position in gold futures markets.
palladium closed down 21.0% in US dollar terms.
The producers also struggled for much of the year with a stubbornly strong South African As we moved into late summer, increasing margin requirements, a Rand and significant cost inflation.
Double digit percentage increases realisation that a third round of quantitative easing by the US was not in wages and rising power costs in a falling commodity price imminent and a general contraction in global liquidity as the risk of a environment have meant the industry as a whole is barely breakeven sovereign default in the Eurozone became ever more real, triggered a after capital expenditure commitments.
As a result, the Company sharp liquidation in the gold futures markets.
To put this into context, reduced its platinum exposure over the course of the year, exiting on 2 August the net long position on the Comex gold futures market positions in Anglo Platinum and Platmin and reducing its exposure to equalled an all-time high of 33.1moz: by the end of the year this had Impala.
The longer term fundamentals for the platinum group metals almost halved to 17moz, the lowest level since April 2009.
The gold remain robust given the severe supply side challenges coupled with price pulled back sharply, falling US$200 oz in a week in September.
strong growth in demand from Asian car manufacturers: as such we For most of the fourth quarter, gold moved more in line with risky are keen to maintain some exposure to the sector.
At the end of assets as safe haven buying stepped back from the market.
December, the Company only had exposure to two platinum Interestingly, gold ETF holdings were remarkably sticky in the face of producers, Impala Platinum 3.0% of the portfolio and Aquarius such large moves suggesting longer term investors were not deterred Platinum 0.4% of the portfolio.
by the short term volatility and recognise the longer term bullish fundamentals.
Energy commodities Coking coal was the best performing commodity during the year, up Gold equities, whilst outperforming industrial metal producers, 26.7% in US dollar terms.
Coking coal prices were driven higher by the significantly underperformed the gold price.
The gold producers were severe flooding in Australia early in 2011 as this curtailed exports to dragged down by the general equity market malaise but were also key consuming nations.
The damage done by the flooding kept export impacted by concerns over cost inflation affecting margins and capacity restricted for much of the year and it was only during the last corporate managements apparent reluctance to return cash to quarter that supplies seem to have returned to more normal levels.
Pressure from Thermal coal also benefited from renewed interest following the shareholders, including ourselves, eventually led to a trend of gold nuclear power outages in Japan and a shift to large imports of thermal producers initiating dividends, increasing existing dividends or paying coal into China and India.
These two countries, historically exporters of special dividends.
Some companies even went so far as to explicitly coal, have become importers in the last couple of years: this has had a link their dividend either to production or the gold price.
Our largest powerful upward effect on coal prices and looks set to support pricing gold holding continues to be Minas Buenaventura 4.8% of the for the coming years.
As mentioned earlier, consolidation in the coal portfolio, which while it outperformed the mining sector as a whole sector was aggressive during the year and this has continued into was negatively impacted by concerns over the aforementioned 2012.
We expect prices for coal assets to continue to rise on the back presidential election in Peru, as well as the forced suspension of of the trend mentioned earlier.
The Company benefited during the year construction at their Conga project a joint venture with Newmont in from the consolidation trend: the holding in Coal & Allied was sold into November.
Concerns over Perus new president seem to have proved a bid from the controlling shareholders at a significant premium.
unfounded as he has adopted a more moderate, business friendly approach than many had feared.
At the end of December, 9.5% of the portfolio was exposed to gold producers.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 December 2011 9
