Operational risk In common with most other investment trust Social and community issues companies, the Company has no employees.
The Company As an investment trust, the Company has no direct social or therefore relies upon the services provided by third parties and is community responsibilities.
However, the Company believes that it dependent on the control systems of the Investment Manager and is in shareholders interests to consider environmental, social and the Companys service providers.
The security, for example, of the governance factors when selecting and retaining investments.
Details Companys assets, dealing procedures, accounting records and of the Companys policy on socially responsible investment are set out maintenance of regulatory and legal requirements, depend on the on page 32. effective operation of these systems.
These are regularly tested and monitored and an internal control report, which includes an Future prospects assessment of risks together with procedures to mitigate such The Boards main focus is to maximise total returns.
The future risks, is prepared by the Investment Manager and reviewed by the performance of the Company is much dependent upon the success of Audit & Management Engagement Committee twice a year.
The the investment strategy and, to a large degree, on the performance of custodian, The Bank of New York Mellon International Limited financial markets.
The outlook for the Company in the next twelve BNYM, a subsidiary of The Bank of New York Mellon and the months is discussed in both the Chairmans Statement on page 5 and Investment Manager also produce internal control reports on a the Investment Managers Report on page 11. quarterly and annual basis respectively, which are reviewed by their respective auditors and give assurance regarding the Investment management and administration effective operation of controls and are also reviewed by the Audit BlackRock provides management services to the Company under a & Management Engagement Committee.
contract terminable on six months notice.
BlackRock also acted as the Secretary and Administrator of the Company throughout the year.
Resource risk The quality of the investment management team BlackRock receives an annual management fee of 1.3% of gross employed by BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited assets.
Where the Company invests in other investment or cash funds BlackRock is a crucial factor in delivering good performance managed by BlackRock, any underlying fee is rebated.
and the loss by the management of key staff could affect investment returns.
The Investment Manager has training and No penalty on termination of the investment management contract development programs in place for its employees and its would be payable by the Company in the event that six months written recruitment and remuneration packages are developed in order to notice is given to BlackRock.
There are no provisions relating to retain key staff.
payment of fees in lieu of notice.
Market risk Market risk arises from volatility in the prices of the BlackRock is a subsidiary of BlackRock, Inc. which is a publicly traded Companys investments.
It represents the potential loss the corporation on the New York Stock Exchange operating as an Company might suffer through holding investments in the face of independent firm.
The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. and Barclays negative market movements.
In addition, it should be noted that PLC each have a significant economic interest in BlackRock, Inc. PNC the location of the companies in which the Company invests and Financial Services Group, Inc. is a US public company.
shares in the mining sector can prove to be volatile and therefore present a greater degree of risk.
The Board considers asset BNYM is the custodian of the Companys assets.
The BNYM fee is allocation, stock selection and levels of gearing on a regular basis payable at rates depending on the number of trades effected and and has set investment restrictions and guidelines which are location of securities held.
The custodian agreement is subject to six monitored and reported on by the Investment Manager.
The Board months notice by either party.
monitors the implementation and results of the investment process with the Investment Manager.
Financial risk The Companys investment activities expose it to a variety of financial risks that include market price risk, foreign currency risk, interest rate risk and liquidity and credit risk.
Further details are disclosed in note 18 on pages 50 to 56, together with a summary of the policies for managing these risks.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 December 2011 21
