Ivanhoe Nickel & Platinum Also known as Ivanplats the company Outlook and strategy for 2012 has two key projects Kamoa, a copper project in the Democratic We expect China and other emerging nations to support commodities Republic of Congo DRC, and Platreef, a platinum project in South demand again in 2012.
In addition, the outperformance of the US Africa.
In June, the company announced that ITOCHU had acquired 8% economy relative to analyst expectations brings hope that the low level of the Platreef project for US$279 million.
The drilling undertaken in of global growth seen in 2011 might be drawing to a close.
However, the second half of the year focused on increasing the confidence in we also have to be mindful of the large macro risks that still persist: the resource to upgrade it to the Indicated category and various will the European debt crisis be resolved, will the growing US deficit be environmental and metallurgical studies continued.
At Kamoa, a brought under control, will China ease monetary policy and who will bankable feasibility study was expected in 2011 but was delayed until win the US Presidential election?
the first half of 2012, but ongoing exploration has provided encouraging results.
Despite concerns that Novembers elections in Share prices of mining companies are trading close to historic lows the DRC may lead to instability in the country, the recent US$1.25 based on traditional valuation metrics and with balance sheets for billion transaction between ENRC and First Quantum for assets in the most companies conservatively positioned, unlike in 2008, risk of DRC demonstrates that companies are prepared to commit substantial financial distress is limited.
Given the strong financial position of the capital to the country.
Due to capital market conditions, the company sector, M&A activity will likely be a feature of the market in 2012, as did not IPO in the second half of 2011 but is expected to do so in already evidenced by the recent announcement of a proposed merger 2012. of equals between Glencore and Xstrata.
In addition, we are hopeful that mining companies continue on the trend of passing back surplus Derivatives activity cash to shareholders.
With this in mind, we have maintained a geared The Company sometimes holds positions in derivatives contracts with portfolio but retained capacity to be able to take advantage of virtually all the activity focused on selling either puts or calls in order opportunities from further financial market turbulence, especially as to increase or decrease position sizes.
These derivative positions, we recognise the difficulties that mid-size companies are having which are small in comparison with the size of the Company, usually gaining access to development capital.
have the effect of obliging us to buy or sell stock or futures at levels we believe are attractive.
During 2011 we focused on writing short Evy Hambro and Catherine Raw dated calls in order to reduce some of our larger positions.
The BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited income generated by such option writing enables us to maximise the 23 February 2012 potential exit price from a position.
At the end of 2011 we had no derivatives positions in the portfolio.
Gearing At 31 December 2011, the Company had bank loans amounting to 63.0 million and a cash balance of 30.1 million equating to net gearing of 2.5% of shareholders funds.
This has been drawn down primarily against the higher yielding mining company corporate debt portfolio.
Gearing, which can be drawn down or repaid at any time, is used in the portfolio to take tactical advantage of market volatility and opportunities.
Given the reduced risk appetite of banks around the world we expect numerous investment opportunities to present themselves during the year as mid-size companies look for development capital.
Retaining a cautious level of gearing at the start of the year gives us the flexibility to deploy capital quickly when these opportunities come along.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 December 2011 11
