Investment Managers Report continued Uranium, unlike in the previous year, was down sharply during 2011.
As in 2010, mineral sands producers were once again strong Fears over reduced demand on the back of a slower than expected contributors to the Companys performance.
From December to roll-out of new nuclear power generation capacity after the tsunami in October, TZMI an independent industry consultant specialising in the Japan cooled enthusiasm for the commodity.
This was compounded minerals sands industry reported price increases of 230% and 64% with news that Germany was to curtail all new nuclear capacity and to respectively for ilmenite and rutile, titanium dioxide minerals used as a phase out nuclear power by 2022.
Uranium equities were sold white pigment in paints.
They reported a 119% increase in the price of aggressively on the back of the apparent shift in long term demand zircon, a refractory mineral used in ceramics.
A lack of significant forecasts but by the second half of the year interest had returned.
production growth in recent years, coupled with strong growth in Consolidation kicked off with various bids mentioned previously and demand out of China, has significantly tightened the market over the we feel that accumulation of uranium assets as a long term investment last 18 months.
As the worlds largest producer of zircon and the plan is a prudent strategy.
The challenge for the Company is to find second largest producer of titanium mineral sands, Iluka Resources high quality projects that will eventually move from development stage 4.2% of the portfolio has been able to exert significant pricing power, into production.
This has kept exposure to the commodity at a low particularly in the zircon market.
The Companys exposure to mineral level.
sands through Iluka and Kenmare Resources 0.8% of the portfolio was one of the largest contributors to relative performance in 2011.
Diversified mining companies and industrial commodities 2011 was a strong year for the earnings of most of the diversified Pre-IPO or illiquid investments miners, driven predominantly by bulk commodity prices that averaged Glencore In December 2009, the Company made an investment in a significantly higher in 2011 versus 2010.
Iron ore prices proved convertible bond issued by Glencore.
This unique investment remarkably resilient for much of 2011, with spot prices averaging over opportunity gives exposure to the worlds largest commodity trader US$176 t for the first nine months of the year.
This was the result of that also owns stakes in a number of other mining companies e. g. strong demand for iron ore from Chinese steel producers which, when Xstrata, 34% as well as directly owning and operating mines across a coupled with government restrictions on Indian iron ore exports and range of commodities.
The income element of the bond 5% per limited production growth ex-China, required a significant amount of annum benefited the Company in 2011 in an environment where yield low-grade, high cost Chinese domestic iron ore to balance the market.
During May, Glencore completed its IPO and In October, however, China cut steel production as a result of weaker this resulted in a substantial uplift in the value of this convertible.
In than expected demand from end-consumers and this in turn led to a addition, given the improved liquidity in the bonds, this investment has sharp destocking of iron ore inventories.
Buyers of spot iron ore been moved into the general portfolio.
stepped back from the market and this triggered a price decline of over 30% over the month, hitting a low of US$116.90 t in late October.
Gentor Quoted in the US OTC Market, Gentor continued to drill Prices quickly bounced as high cost Chinese domestic production copper VMS targets on its exploration licenses in Oman.
There were came offline and traders began to restock, with iron ore spot prices pleasing results from infill drilling to increase confidence in the deposit closing the year at US$138.5 t. and also from step out drilling to increase the footprint of the deposit.
Notable drill holes included 24.4 metres of primary mineralisation Share prices for the diversified majors significantly derated over the grading 4.7% copper, 1.68% zinc and some gold and silver course of the year as macroeconomic uncertainty and worsening mineralisation.
A maiden resource is expected early in 2012 and investor sentiment depressed the multiple the market was willing to further drilling and geophysical work continues.
On the corporate pay for these companies.
Exposure to the major diversified miners is front, Gentor successfully listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange in weighted towards those producers who we believe to have the best Canada in addition to its current US listing.
commodity mix for the current stage in the commodities cycle, strong management and good growth prospects.
Rio Tinto remains our largest holding at 9.1% of the portfolio owing to its significant exposure to our preferred commodities, copper and iron ore. Having increased exposure to Anglo American in the early part of 2011, we reduced our position as a result of Anglos rather public dispute with the Chilean state miner Codelco, as well as an apparent lack of strategy to improve profitability at Anglo Platinum, and further capex increases and possible delays at their Minas Rio iron ore development project in Brazil.
10 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc
