Directors Anthony W Lea appointed 29 July 2005 Colin A M Buchan appointed 25 July 2001 Chairman Chairman of the Audit & Management Engagement Committee is chairman of The Emerging Africa Infrastructure Fund, a nonis a non-executive director of Standard Life plc, Environcom Ltd, executive director of BSI Group and The Office of Fair Trading, and a The Fettes Foundation and the Scottish Chamber Orchestra.
He was trustee of the RAF Benevolent Fund.
He was the finance director of Global Head of Equities at UBS Warburg and a member of the Group Anglo American plc in London from 1999 to 2005, one of the worlds Management Board of UBS AG until his retirement in March 2001. leading mining and natural resources companies.
He was also a non-executive director of AngloGold Ashanti Limited, the worlds Gordon H Sage appointed 25 July 2001 second largest gold producer, and fide Beers Investments SA.
Senior Independent Director was a director of Balfour Beatty plc until retiring at the end of Ian C S Barby appointed 1 December 2003 December 2010.
He was also an executive director of Rio Tinto plc is non-executive chairman of Ecofin Water & Power Opportunities plc until his retirement in 2001 and was deputy chairman of ERM Holdings and INVESCO Perpetual UK Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc, Limited, an environmental consulting concern, until retiring in October and a non-executive director of Pantheon International Participations 2006.
PLC, Schroder Income Growth Fund PLC, SR Europe Investment Trust plc and Madagascar Oil Limited.
He was managing director of Merrill Lynch Investment Managers now BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited Investment Trusts division until 2003.
Oliver A G Baring appointed 4 November 2004 is chairman of Mwana Africa PLC and First Africa Group Holdings Limited, as well as holding directorships in Robert Fox Limited, Tilley International plc and Ferrexpo plc, and is a council member of the Sentient Group, a private equity mining fund.
All the Directors are non-executive.
The Board as a whole constitutes the Audit & Management Engagement Committee.
18 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc
