Investment Managers Report Portfolio performance In addition to these sector specific events the macroeconomic picture 2011 was filled with a series of macro and sector-specific events that was far from helpful.
All year the twists and turns in the European conspired to make it a poor year for investments in the mining financial crisis and the politicians associated responses, reminiscent industry.
However, despite the share price falls, it is pleasing that the of the famous push-me-pull-you animal from Dr Doolittle, caused overall commodity allocation and investment strategy of the Company continued uncertainty for financial investors.
In China, the worlds resulted in outperformance of the sector as a whole.
In the year to largest commodity consumer, the Government kept monetary policy 31 December 2011, the Companys undiluted net asset value NAV tight all year as it sought to combat inflation.
In the US, fears of and share price fell by 22.3% and 21.5% respectively both percentages breaching financial headroom spooked markets during the middle of calculated in sterling terms with income reinvested.
In capital only the year and despite numerous calls for reduced spending no terms, the NAV fell by 22.8% and the share price by 22.1%.
By comprehensive plan has yet been put in place to deal with the huge comparison, the HSBC Global Mining Index in sterling terms fell by deficit.
With attention now shifting to the Presidential election 28.3% capital only and by 27.0% with income reinvested.
campaign it seems unlikely that much progress will be made during 2012.
Mining share overview The rebound in valuations in 2009 and 2010, which led to the As we highlighted in the interim report, we are becoming increasingly Companys NAV reaching a new all-time high at the end of 2010, failed sensitive to the re-emergence of resource nationalism globally.
The combination of a weaker than expected Governments have been looking to the mining industry as a source of global economy, continuation of the various debt crises and a series of increasing revenues: the natural resources industry is particularly events specific to the sector combined together to leave the return for vulnerable to such policies as companies cannot pick-up and move a the year comparable to the fall the Company experienced during the mine or an oil well to a more attractive jurisdiction, as can be done in Asian crisis in 1997.
However, unlike in 1997 when the Companys NAV other sectors.
In 2010, Australia shocked the market by announcing its underperformed the sector, 2011 was notably better.
intention to introduce a Mineral Resources Rent Tax in July 2012: in 2011, they proposed to introduce a Carbon Tax that will have significant implications for the cost of producing coal and aluminium, as well as steel an industry the Company continues to avoid exposure 2011 vs 2010 Mining Sector Performance to.
Increases in royalties have been announced by numerous 140 countries as have moves to increase state ownership of assets the 130 most extreme examples of which would be the nationalisation of the 120 gold industry in Venezuela and indigenisation proposals in Zimbabwe.
110 This is a challenge that cannot be avoided when investing in the 100 mining sector, but can be mitigated through owning a broad, 90 80 diversified portfolio of mining companies.
70 60 Despite the volatility in share prices, supply and demand fundamentals Dec Feb Apr Jun Aug Oct Dec in the sector were resilient for much of the year.
Commodity demand HSBC Global Mining Index in 2011 remained strong until September, at which point commodity prices started to fall.
Copper moved sharply lower during the second half of HSBC Global Mining Index in 2010 September and its move was swiftly followed by spot iron ore prices in Source: Datastream.
However, both of these commodities, which are important for the Company, stabilised before recovering during the rest of the Sector specific events ranged from flooding in the Australian coal quarter.
Despite the recovery, copper and iron ore finished the year fields, the earthquake in Japan in March, strikes at mining operations lower than they started but this does not reflect the full picture.
The around the world and changes to mining tax legislation in many average price in 2011 for these two commodities was the highest on countries.
In particular, the uncertainty created by the elections in record and, as such, margins enjoyed by the companies should reflect Peru had a significant impact on the Companys NAV during the year this as we move into the results season.
as share prices of our Peruvian holdings were hit by fears that the new president would seek to increase the Governments economic take from the mining industry.
Mining company share prices were held back by the repeated onslaught of such news items despite the following wind of positive commodity prices for most of the year.
6 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc
