Directors Report continued Appointment of the Investment Manager During the year, the Investment Manager voted at 78 general meetings The Board considers the arrangements for the provision of investment on behalf of the Company.
At these meetings the Investment Manager management services to the Company on an ongoing basis and a voted in favour of most resolutions, as should be expected when formal review is conducted annually.
The Board believes that the investing in well-run companies, but voted against 45 management continuing appointment of the Investment Manager, on the terms resolutions and abstained from 23.
Most of the votes against were in disclosed previously, is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
respect of resolutions to approve the remuneration report, particularly in relation to executive remuneration packages where there was no As part of the annual review the Board considered the quality and clear link between pay and performance, board composition where continuity of the personnel assigned to handle the Companys affairs, there was a perceived lack of independence, or capital raising the investment process and the results achieved to date.
The requests which did not preserve the pre-emptive rights of existing specialist nature of the Companys investment remit is, in the Boards shareholders.
A total of 735 proposals were voted during this period.
view, best served by the Natural Resources team at BlackRock, who have a proven track record in successfully investing in the mining Going concern sector.
The Directors, having considered the nature and liquidity of the portfolio, the Companys investment objective on page 1 and the Change of control Companys projected income and expenditure, are satisfied that the There are no agreements which the Company is party to that might be Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence affected by a change of control of the Company.
for the foreseeable future and is financially sound.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Voting policy financial statements.
The Company is able to meet all of its liabilities The exercise of voting rights attached to the Companys portfolio has from its assets and the ongoing annual expenses are approximately been delegated to the Investment Manager, whose voting policy states: 1.3% of net assets.
we intend to vote at all shareholder meetings of companies in Directors which our clients are invested.
In cases where there are significant The Directors of the Company on 31 December 2011, all of whom held obstacles to voting such as share-blocking or requirements for a office throughout the year under review and their interests in the power of attorney we will review the resolutions to assess the ordinary shares of the Company, are shown in the following table.
extent of the restrictions on voting against the potential benefits: 31 December 2011 1 January 2011 we will vote in favour of proposals which we expect to enhance A W Lea 6,000 6,000 shareholder value, and on routine issues where we are supportive I C S Barby 25,000 25,000 of a companys management: O A G Baring C A M Buchan 24,000 24,000 G H Sage 12,000 12,000 we will vote against proposals which we believe may damage shareholders rights or economic interests: and All of the holdings of the Directors are beneficial.
No changes to these holdings had been notified up to the date of this report.
we will abstain on proposals where we wish to indicate to the company issues over which we have some concerns.
At the 2012 Annual General Meeting, in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, Mr Buchan and Mr Sage are being In all situations the economic interests of our clients will be nominated for re-election as they have served on the Board for more paramount.
than nine years and, accordingly, will offer themselves for re-election for a further year.
The Companys Articles also provide that one third Further details of the Investment Managers Proxy Voting and of Directors retire by rotation each year and that each Director shall Engagement Principles may be found at www.
co. uk its, in retire and offer himself for re-election at intervals of no more than the Investment Trust Literature and Related Resources section.
The Director who is subject to re-election under this provision is Mr Lea.
All of the Directors have considerable knowledge of the mining sector worldwide, as well as wider commercial experience.
Accordingly, their re-election is recommended to shareholders.
22 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc
