Directors Report continued Donations In the interests of all shareholders, the Board will continue to keep the The Company made no political or charitable donations during the matter of treasury shares under review.
Articles of Association Payment of suppliers Any amendments to the Companys Articles of Association must be It is the policy of the Company and its subsidiaries to settle all made by special resolution.
investment transactions in accordance with the terms and conditions of the relevant market in which it operates.
Suppliers of goods and Annual General Meeting services are generally paid within 30 days of the date of any invoice.
The following information to be discussed at the forthcoming The Company has no trade creditors.
Annual General Meeting is important and requires your immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt about the action you should take, Share capital and share repurchases you should seek advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, Full details of the Companys share capital are given in note 16 on solicitor, accountant or other financial adviser authorised under the page 48.
Details of the voting rights in the Companys shares as at the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as amended.
date of this report are given in note 17 to the Notice of Annual General Meeting on page 66.
There are no restrictions on the voting rights of If you have sold or transferred all of your ordinary shares in the the shares or on the transfer of shares, and there are no shares that Company, you should pass this document, together with any other carry specific rights with regard to the control of the Company.
accompanying documents, including the form of proxy, at once to the purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other During the year, the Company repurchased and subsequently agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for onward placed in treasury 250,000 ordinary shares of 5p each, representing transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
0.1% of the issued share capital excluding shares held in treasury at the beginning of the year, for a total consideration of 1,739,000.
Resolutions relating to the following items of special business will be At 31 December 2011, the Companys issued share capital was proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
177,287,242 ordinary shares, excluding 15,724,600 shares held in treasury.
The latest authority to purchase ordinary shares for Resolution 9 Continuation of the Company as an investment trust cancellation or to be held in treasury was granted to the Directors on The ordinary resolution to be proposed will seek shareholders 4 May 2011 and expires on 19 April 2012.
The Directors are proposing authority that the Company shall continue in being as an investment that their authority to buy back shares be renewed at the forthcoming trust.
Resolution 10 Authority to allot shares The main objective of any buy back should be to enhance the net The Directors may only allot shares for cash if authorised to do so by asset value per share of the remaining shares and to reduce the shareholders in general meeting.
This resolution seeks authority for absolute level and volatility of any discount to net asset value at which the Directors to allot shares for cash up to an aggregate nominal shares may trade.
Although the Investment Manager initiates the buy amount of 443,218 which is equivalent to 8,864,362 ordinary shares backs, the policy and parameters are set by the Board and reviewed at of 5p each, and represents 5% of the current issued share capital regular intervals.
The Company intends to raise the cash needed to excluding treasury shares.
The Directors will use this authority when it finance the purchase of ordinary shares either by selling securities in is in the best interests of the Company to issue shares for cash.
This the Companys portfolio or by short term borrowing.
authority will expire at the conclusion of next years Annual General Meeting, unless renewed prior to that date at an earlier general Treasury shares meeting.
The Board has determined that up to 10% of the Companys issued shares may be held in treasury and may be subsequently cancelled or sold for cash in the market.
This would give the Company the ability to reissue shares quickly and cost efficiently, thereby improving liquidity and providing the Company with additional flexibility in the management of its capital base.
The Board currently intends only to authorise the sale of shares from treasury at prices at or above the prevailing net asset value per share plus costs of the relevant sale.
This should result in a positive overall effect on shareholders if shares are bought back at a discount and then sold at a price at or above the net asset value per share plus costs of the relevant sale.
24 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc
