Commodity exposure in the Company in 2011, like the previous year, Coal was another key area for deals.
Rio Tinto won a hostile bid battle was focused on copper and the bulk commodities.
Prices for these for Riversdale, which owns coking coal projects in Mozambique.
In commodities hit new highs during the year with copper going above addition, they also announced the buy-out of minorities in their US$10,000 t for the first time and iron ore traded above US$190 t. Australian listed coal subsidiary, Coal & Allied.
Peabody purchased Prices for coal also surged higher during the year as flooding in MacArthur and Whitehaven agreed to merge with Aston Resources.
In Australia restricted exports of coking coal in particular.
Special total over US$50 billion of deals were either announced or completed mention should also go to key industrial minerals that boosted the in the coal space globally driven by a shift in long term Companys NAV.
Prices for zircon, rutile and ilmenite surged higher as supply demand fundamentals which should support coal prices going strong demand recovery, combined with producer selling discipline, forward.
rebased the prices of these minerals to levels never seen before.
In the gold sector, Barrick made a surprise move by out-bidding China Mergers and Acquisitions M&A activity Minmetals for control of Equinox, a copper producer in Zambia.
Many After the record year for M&A in 2010 it was hard to envision another investors were confused by Barricks strategy on two fronts: first, the year in which so many deals could take place, but 2011 did not move back into Africa after it had spun out its African gold assets the disappoint.
By far the most important event in 2011 for the Company previous year: second and most controversially, did the decision to was the IPO of Glencore on the London Stock Exchange.
In December add copper assets signal a plan to move further away from gold?
2009 the Company established a significant position in bonds that are Barrick was penalised by most investors after announcing this deal convertible into Glencore ordinary shares.
As a result of the IPO in and it has since struggled to regain its rating.
Also in the gold sector, May 2011, the bonds were repriced by reference to movements in the Newmont Mining purchased Fronteer for CA$2.3 billion adding to its underlying shares.
This resulted in a material uplift in value for the holdings in Nevada: Newcrest completed the divestment of some of its bonds and added considerable value to what was already a large part non-core assets by merging them into a new company called Evolution of the overall portfolio.
However, since the IPO, the sector has fallen in and, as the year drew to a close, Eldorado announced an agreed deal value but the bonds, due to the downside protection offered by their to buy European Goldfields for US$2.5 billion.
convertible structure, sheltered the Company from part of this fall.
The holding in Glencore convertible bonds has been maintained, as we Last, but by no means least, the uranium sector appears to be expected Glencore to be able to capitalise on the new financial gathering some momentum as it seems as though there is a rush for freedom it has as a result of being listed.
uranium assets given the low values ascribed to them after the unfortunate events in Japan earlier in the year.
Rio Tinto finally In the diversified sector, BHP Billiton led the way with major deals in a managed to beat Cameco for control of promising exploration ground new business area for the company shale gas.
During the year they in Canada owned by Hathor and in Namibia a Chinese group called purchased, firstly, the Fayetteville shale gas assets from Chesapeake Guangdong Nuclear bid for control of Kalahari Minerals.
Towards the for US$4.75 billion and then Petrohawk Inc. another larger operator in end of the year the French media reported that Areva, the French US shale gas, for US$12 billion.
The move into a new business area for uranium and power group, might be broken up.
With all of this interest the company came as a surprise to many investors and as such led to in the sector we hope that the weak performance of the Companys the shares lagging the sector for much of the year.
This negative only uranium holding, UEX, might be short lived.
sentiment was compounded by the significant falls in US natural gas prices in the second half of the year.
Base metals For most of 2011 commodity prices remained at healthy levels Copper was the key area for consolidation in 2011 for the portfolio.
In seemingly unaffected by the debt issues facing Europe and the US.
Africa, Chinese groups continued to buy assets with a US$1.3 billion However, as the northern hemisphere summer drew to a close, the bid by Minmetals for Anvil after they were beaten by Barrick for market environment started to change.
The price of copper, Equinox and Jinchuan bought Metorex for US$1.1 billion.
In Canada, often seen as a barometer for the global economy, started to fall and KGHM announced a bid for Quadra FNX worth US$2.8 billion.
In Chile, by mid-October it was trading 34% below its high for the year.
Almost Codelco announced in October that they intended to exercise their in tandem, iron ore prices also capitulated from their highs for the year option to purchase part of Anglo Americans holding in Anglo and joined copper at markedly lower levels.
However, trading at these American Sur, the companys key copper growth assets in Chile.
This lows was to be short-lived and prices, especially for iron ore, move apparently came as a surprise to Anglo and it prompted them to rebounded sharply during the last two months of the year.
Soon after this news the company announced that they volatility seen during the year, metal prices year-on-year were mixed had sold half of Codelcos optioned stake in these assets to Mitsubishi but the average prices for all the metal prices of the year as a whole and subsequently that they had agreed to buy the Oppenhemier were higher than those for the prior year.
This is most important for familys stake in DeBeers.
These series of deals generated a range of company profits and we expect these moves to show up in the results opinions from shareholders as well as damaging local relations in that are due to be reported in the coming months.
Time will tell whether the decision to go against Codelco was the right one.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 December 2011 7
