BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company MANAGEMENT REPORT for the year ended 31 December 2011 A description of important events which have occurred during the financial year, their impact on the performance of the Company as shown in the financial statements and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company, together with an indication of important events that have occurred since the end of the financial year and the Companys likely future development is given in the Chairmans Statement on pages 11 to 13, the Report of the Directors on pages 28 to 37 and the notes to the financial statements on pages 54 to 82 and is incorporated here by reference.
There were no material related party transactions which took place in the financial year, other than those disclosed in the Report of the Directors and at note 6 to the financial statements.
Going Concern The performance of the investments held by the Company over the reporting year are described in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and the outlook for the future is described in the Chairmans Statement.
The Companys financial position, its cash flows and liquidity position are set out in the financial statements and the Companys financial risk management objectives and policies, details of its financial instruments and its exposures to market price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk and the risk of leverage by underlying funds are set out at note 15 to the financial statements.
During the year under review in order to cover the on-going expenses of the Company, the Company entered into a 500,000 Overdraft Facility the Facility with Barclays Private Clients International Limited Barclays.
As detailed on page 2, subsequent to 31 December 2011 the Company has redeemed a portion of its investment in each share class of AllBlue in order to generate a Cash Reserve for the purposes of managing day-to-day cash flows, for meeting expenses of the Company and for funding any repurchases of Shares.
On receipt of the Cash Reserve the Companys overdraft facility will be repaid and cancelled.
The Companys Articles incorporate a discount management provision which applies to each class of Share individually that requires a continuation vote to be proposed in respect of the particular class of Shares at a class meeting of the relevant shareholders by way of ordinary resolution in the circumstances explained on pages 5 and 6.
As at 29 February 2012, the Sterling Shares had traded at an average 0.74% premium to their net asset values, the Euro Shares at an average 1.2% premium and the US Dollar Shares at an average premium of 1.08%, all over the previous 12 month period.
As at 25 April 2012, being the latest practicable date prior to the issue of this report, the Companys Shares were trading at a discount to their net asset value of 5.65% in the case of Sterling Shares, 4.06% for Euro Shares and 5.67% for US Dollar Shares.
