BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT BY THE INVESTMENT MANAGER OF ALLBLUE LIMITED continued Volatility for the programme, measured on weekly data, was 13.2% for the year, slightly below the funds target of 15-20%.
The margin to equity of the fund, a measure that represents the risk being taken in the fund, ranged between 9.2% and 17.0%, with an average of 13.0%.
Emerging Markets Emerging Markets EM contributed -0.04% to AllBlue Limited during 2011, with the fund returning -0.43% Class A, USD for the calendar year.
The portfolio was positioned conservatively for most of the year given the pessimistic outlook for growth, however technical factors led to challenging trading conditions.
Persistent inflows into markets from long-only investors drove many valuations to rich levels, but violent short squeezes made it hard to hold short positions.
The influence of Eurozone concerns was present, but more muted, in the first half of the year.
However towards the end of Q3 the change in sentiment with respect to the Eurozone was felt in emerging markets with sharp reversals in a number of interest rate and FX markets.
Over the year, trading within local market interest rate and FX strategies generated the highest returns: looking geographically most regions contributed positively with hedges within G7 markets detracting.
BlueCrest has continued to strengthen the team supporting this fund with a number of new additions through the year.
Multi Strategy Credit Multi Strategy Credit Relative Value contributed -0.19% to AllBlue Limited during 2011, with the fund returning -1.31% Class A, USD for the calendar year.
2011 was a year in which the credit environment and the solvency of European sovereigns and banks remained a central focus.
The first half of the year saw relative value strategies in European credit corporate and sovereign and short-biased positions in Asian credits as drivers of the performance.
The team elected to remove some less liquid legacy positions at the start of Q3, incurring a small loss, but this was a prescient move given the substantial price falls seen subsequently.
Markets continued to remain challenging through to the end of the year with sudden rapid changes in sentiment resulting in sharp moves in credit markets, particularly within Europe.
Please refer to the BlueCrest disclaimer on pages 85 to 87.
