BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The directors present their report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011.
Principal Activity The Company is a self-managed closed-ended investment company incorporated in Guernsey on 21 April 2006 with an unlimited life.
The Company has three classes of Shares in issue, being Sterling Shares, Euro Shares and US Dollar Shares.
All three classes of Shares have been admitted to the Official List of the United Kingdom Listing Authority and to trading on the London Stock Exchanges main market for listed securities.
Investment Objective and Investment Policies The investment objective and policy of the Company is as stated on page 2.
Shareholder Information The Company announces the confirmed net asset value of each share class on a monthly basis and a commentary on the investment performance of AllBlue provided by BlueCrest.
The estimated net asset value of each share class is announced weekly to a Regulatory Information Service.
The daily market closing prices of Shares are available on Reuters, Bloomberg and on-line on the internet.
A copy of the Registration Document, Summary Note and Securities Note of the Company can be found at www.
All Shares may be dealt in directly through a stockbroker or professional adviser acting on an investors behalf.
The buying and selling of Shares may be settled through CREST.
The Companys register of shareholders is maintained by Anson Registrars Limited in Guernsey and they can be contacted on 44 0 1481 711301.
Results The results for the year are set out in the Statement of Comprehensive Income on pages 40 to 43.
The directors did not declare any dividends during the year under review.
Directors The directors as shown on pages 8 and 9 all held office throughout the reporting year and all directors remain in office as at the date of signature of these financial statements.
With effect from 6 February 2012 Jonathan Hooley has appointed Jeremy Sambrook as his alternate director for Board meetings and subject to Mr Sambrook not acting as alternate for any other director.
