BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company ABOUT THE COMPANY continued Currency Risk Management As AllBlues base currency is the US Dollar, BlueCrest may from time to time enter into forward exchange contracts in order to hedge the US Dollar exposure of the assets attributable to its Sterling shares and Euro shares in order to neutralise, as far as possible, the impact of fluctuations in the exchange rates between Sterling or Euro, as the case may be, and the US Dollar.
Whilst hedging of currency exposure may occur within AllBlue, the directors do not intend that the Company will carry out any additional hedging arrangements.
The Company currently offers a monthly conversion facility as at the first business day of each calendar month Conversion Day.
The directors have the discretion not to operate the conversion facility with respect to any share class or across all share classes from time to time.
Where the conversion facility is made available, shareholders shall be entitled to convert their Ordinary Shares in any class for Ordinary Shares in another class as at a Conversion Day.
All Shares in issue have been admitted to the Official List of the United Kingdom Listing Authority and to trading on the London Stock Exchanges main market for listed securities.
Further Issue of Shares The directors have authority to allot the authorised but unissued share capital of the Company and such authority shall only be exercised at prices which are not less than the prevailing net asset value of the relevant share class at the time.
The Company held the annual general meeting of Shareholders on 19 July 2011 at which the pre-emption rights granted to Shareholders were disapplied in relation to up to 500 million Shares for a period concluding on 31 December 2012, unless such resolution is previously revoked by the Companys shareholders in general meeting.
The directors intend to request that the authority to allot Shares on a non-pre-emptive basis is renewed at each subsequent general meeting of the Company.
Discount Management Provisions At the general meetings held in 2009, 2010 and 2011 the directors obtained shareholder approval to buy back up to 14.99% of each class of Shares in issue and intend to seek annual renewal of this authority from shareholders at each future general meeting held under section 199 of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, as amended the Law.
In accordance with the Law any share buy backs will be effected by the purchase of Shares in the market for cash at a price below the prevailing net asset value of the relevant class of Shares where the directors believe such a purchase will enhance shareholder value.
Any borrowings incurred to undertake the buyback would be repaid out of the proceeds of the redemption of the Companys investments.
Shares which are purchased may be cancelled or held in treasury.
