DI RECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report and the audited accounts for the ofthe companys shares that may result in restrictions on the 53 week period ended 30 September 2011.
The comparative transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Details of employee share figures are for the 52 week period ended 26 September 2010. schemes are set out in note 28.
Shares held by EES Trustees International Limited abstain from voting.
Under the rules of the Principal Activity Groups Share Incentive Plan BDSIP, shares are held in trust for The principal activity of Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC and its participants by Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited the Trustee.
subsidiaries the Group is that of Investment Management.
It Voting rights are exercised by the Trustees on receipt of the hasa Corporate Advisory and Broking division which is being participants instructions: if no such instruction is received by the discontinued.
The principal activity of Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Trustees then no vote is registered.
No person has any special the Company is that of a holding company.
rights of control over the companys share capital and all issued shares are either fully or nil paid.
Branches Operations are carried out in the UK, Channel Islands and Republic The Company has over the last three year period, issued a total of of Ireland.
Details of branches are set out on page 93.
8.4% of its issued share capital of ordinary shares in relation to the acquisition of businesses client relationships.
Review of the Business and its Future Development Accompanying this Directors Report are the Business Review, Financial Instruments and Risk Management Corporate Governance Report, Audit Committee Report and Disclosures regarding financial instruments are provided within the Directors Remuneration Report.
Business Review and note 26 to the financial statements.
Note 26 also contains details of risks and risk management.
A review of the business and its future development including the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, are set out in the Corporate Governance Business Review.
The Corporate Governance Report on pages 25 to 29 forms part of the Directors Report.
Results and Dividends The results of the Group are set out in detail on page 45.
The Directors Company paid a final dividend and an interim dividend during the The Directors are listed on page 2.
Biographies of the Directors are period, as detailed in note 14 to the financial statements.
A final given on pages 16 and 17. dividend of 3.55 pence per ordinary share is proposed and if approved, will be payable on 10 April 2012 to shareholders on the With regard to the appointment and replacement of directors, register at close of business on 16 March 2012. theCompany is governed by its Articles of Association, the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 the Code, the Companies Capital Structure Act 2006 and related legislation.
The Articles themselves may be Details of the Companys authorised and issued share capital, amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The powers together with details of the movements are set out in note 28 to ofDirectors are described in the Corporate Governance Report thefinancial statements.
This includes the rights and obligations onpage 25. attaching to shares and restrictions on the transfer of shares.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right Directors Interests in Shares and Substantial Shareholdings tofixed income.
The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company are setout on page 38 in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor interests of substantial shareholders and Directors are set out on onthetransfer of shares, which are both governed by the general page 92. provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The directors are not aware of any agreements between holders 1 8 | B R E w I N D OL P h I N hOL DI N g S P L C Directors Indemnities Employment Policies The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions Our employees are vital to the continued success of the Group.
for the benefit of its directors during the period and these remain in The Group and our employees are committed to treating our force at the date of this report.
Substantial Shareholdings Employees are encouraged to identify with, and to become As at 30 November 2011 the Company had been notified in involved with, the financial performance of the Group and service to accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency clients by extensive profit sharing arrangements, as described more Rules of the interests shown below in the voting rights of the fully in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Employees also have Company since 8 November 2010. the opportunity to participate in the Groups Share Incentive Plan BDSIP.
To encourage participation the Group has awarded one Interest in matching share for every Partnership share purchased up to the Date ordinary % of voting value of 20.
Employees Name Notified shares rights of the Group currently own approximately 25% of the Group.
Kames Capital formerly AEGON Asset Communication Management UK 02 08 2011 11,692,378 4.80% Aberforth Partners LLP 12 09 2011 12,412,400 5.10% Communication with our employees is essential.
The Group has Royal London Asset anInternal Communications Team who ensure that employees Management Limited 20 09 2011 7,299,147 3.00% have all the information they need in both their professional capacity Blackrock Inc 14 10 2011 12,136,094 4.99% and as valued members of the Group.
They ensure that information is disseminated by the most appropriate method to engage everyone Annual General Meeting in enhancing morale and productivity.
Employees are kept informed The Annual General Meeting AGM will be held at 12 noon of and consulted regularly on key issues affecting them and the on24February 2012 at Merchant Taylors Hall, 30 Threadneedle Group either by electronic means or on a face to face basis Street, London, EC2R 8JB.
The Notice of Meeting will be sent to asappropriate.
In addition, management accounts are shareholders in January 2012.
It will set out all changes in the widelydistributed.
interests of each director in the Company that occur between 10November 2011 and the last practicable date of the Training and Development Noticeofthe general meeting.
The continuing development of our people through professional sponsorship and regular training continues to be a priority for the Purchase of Own Shares Board.
The Training and Competence team, through a network of At the Annual General Meeting on 25 February 2011 shareholders Regional Training Managers, provides ongoing support for all approved a resolution for the Company to make purchases of its individuals by giving access to a wide range of learning activities own shares to a maximum number of 23,066,717 ordinary shares.
presented by highly qualified trainers as well as increasingly using This resolution remains valid until the conclusion of the next Annual more flexible methods such as e-learning.
Everybody has the General Meeting on 24 February 2012.
As at 6 December 2011 the opportunity to identify any training needs with their line manager Directors had not used this authority.
through the development review process, and the training team provides robust support for a range of continuing professional Employees development CPD activity.
The Director responsible for Training The average number of persons, including Directors, employed by and Development throughout the financial year was Ben Speke.
the Group and their remuneration, is set out in note 7 to the financial statements.
ANNU AL R E POR T AND A C C O UN TS 2011 | 19 DI RECTORS REPORT CON T I NUED The Brewin Dolphin Graduate Trainee Scheme continues to provide The Group offers a flexible benefits package for senior staff which a structured and wide ranging programme for new entrants to includes permanent health insurance and a company car facility.
The Graduate Trainee Scheme provides the opportunity to maximise the individuals experiences in the The Group recognises the need for an appropriate work life balance Group and seeks to increase their knowledge and skills.
for employees which not only improves morale within the Group, but helps to retain employees.
One of our key challenges remains the Retail Distribution Review RDR and we continue to be very active in putting in place a range We are pleased to report a low employee turnover see Business of learning activities to ensure that our people are ready for the Review.
Employee Assistance Programme Equal Opportunities We understand there may be times when employees need The Group has a strong commitment to maintaining a working specialist advice on employment, personal, financial or legal environment based on equality and diversity.
To support them and their immediate families we provide decisions are made irrespective of colour, race, age, nationality, them with free access to a confidential 24 hour helpline, where they ethnic or national origin, sex, mental or physical disabilities, marital can speak with specialist information consultants and counsellors.
For employees who may have a disability, the Group ensures where possible that procedures and Pensions equipment are in place to aid them.
All permanent employees are invited to join the senior staff pension scheme after successful completion of their probation period.
Other For the purposes of training, career development and promotion, all than those employees participating in our Total Remuneration employees are treated on equal terms with other employees.
Package, members of the senior staff pension scheme receive an employer contribution of 6% of gross salary into the scheme.
Disabled Employees Applications for employment by disabled persons are always Linda Cartwright is the Personnel Director of Brewin Dolphin fullyconsidered, bearing in mind the aptitude of the applicant Limited and reports to Ben Speke, Director of Human Resources.
In the event of employees becoming disabled every effort is made to ensure that their employment within the Group Charitable and Political Donations continues and that appropriate training is arranged and suitable The Group made charitable donations of 195,677 during the equipment is supplied in order that they can continue in their role.
period 2010: 96,000, to local and national charities serving the It is the policy of the Group that the training, career development communities across which the Group operates.
No political and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be donations were made during the period 2010: nil.
identical to that of other employees.
Charitable Fundraising Benefits Throughout the year our branches have organised a range of The Group is proud of the attractive benefits available to fundraising events for local and national charities, raising a employees.
All employees are allowed to participate in our interest combined total of 154,624.
The Group has contributed to all free loan facility in respect of an annual season ticket for travelling these great efforts, which included ten employees cycling from to and from work.
In addition, all staff have the option of joining our London to Paris to raise over 37,000 for Leukaemia and private medical insurance scheme.
Lymphoma Research: a 100km walk across the South Downs with the Ghurkhas: the Four National Peaks challenge and a cyclist crossed the whole of Jordan.
This year, eight employees ran marathons in London, Chicago, Orlando and Belfast and 18 completed half marathons.
2 0 | B R E w I N D OL P h I N hOL DI N g S P L C The Company has a policy of matching the fundraising efforts of Environmental and Ethical Matters our employees up to a specified limit and of contributing to the The Group believes firmly in the importance of conducting its appeals of our charity clients.
The Group also operates a Give As business in a responsible and sustainable way, sensitive to the You Earn Scheme and actively encourages employees to developing needs and expectations of society at large.
Many of our Divisional Directors provide pro bono is the Director responsible for environmental matters.
director and trustee services to charities.
The Board has reviewed areas where there may be environmental Sponsorship risk from direct actions by the Group.
This risk is considered to be The Group sponsors a number of sporting and charitable events minimal, as in all cases the Groups offices are located in large throughout the country, which this year included a garden at the towns and its activities are desk based.
Nearly all the premises are Chelsea Flower Show in aid of the British Heart Foundation, the leasehold and our landlords are encouraged, when replacing Durham County Cricket Club and Team Northumbria.
As usual the equipment or for the services that they supply to us, to ensure that Group sponsored the Scottish Schools Rugby Cup, the Scottish environmental issues are considered.
Series sailing regatta and the Jersey Regatta.
Most of our branches supported local charities and other events in their regions including The Groups major suppliers mainly provide market data and the Abergavenny Food Festival, the Marlborough and Wiltshire Jazz computer hardware and software.
We ensure that appropriate Festivals, Flower Shows in Shrewsbury, Taunton and Norwich and environmental considerations are considered when a new supplier Literary Festivals in Marlborough and the Borders.
Our external consultants that we work with seek to minimise our computer footprint through virtualisation or Community Policy consolidation of services wherever possible.
Replacement of The Group encourages its employees to give something back to equipment is in accordance with this policy.
Obsolete computer their local communities.
The North East branches are involved in equipment is passed to Euro Recycling who provide a fully the Young Professionals Forum YPF, a networking channel for compliant WEEE service which adheres to the EU Waste Electrical young business people in the region, there is also a forum and Electronic Equipment Directive WEEE Directive.
The Directive operating from the Edinburgh office.
The YPF identified that there aims to minimise the impact of waste electrical and electronic was a lack of opportunities for young professionals in the early goods on the environment, by increasing re-use and recycling and stages of their career and the aim of the group is to host regular reducing the amount of WEEE going to land fill.
events offering a platform for likeminded professionals to socialise and network in a relaxed environment.
The Edinburgh YPF has over The impact of the travel undertaken by our employees in the course 1,400 members and is run by three of our investment managers.
of their duties is shown in the following table: overall our CO2 Throughout the Group we also have a policy of providing work emissions were for the 53 week period to 30 September 2011: experience placements for students in our branches.
Tonnes Summary CO2e Creditor Payment Policy Air 684 It is the Groups policy to settle all of its trading transactions on the Rail 304 agreed settlement date: this policy extends to other trade creditors Road 522 whose terms are normally 28 days.
On average, creditors were 1,510 paid within 10 days in 2011 and 2010.
The Data has been collected for all our branches, and calculated in accordance with the guidelines set out in DEFRA Guidance on How to report GHG Emissions.
ANNU AL R E POR T AND A C C O UN TS 2011 | 21 DI RECTORS REPORT CON T I NUED The Group has recently installed videoconferencing facilities.
In For those invested in unitised funds, we offer the Ethical particular the ICT training team now conduct the majority of their CollectivePortfolio which is a fund based approach, investing in a training via a virtual training room called Webex, this has well diversified range of specialist ethical unit or investment trusts.
significantly reduced the number of actual branch visits by the These funds are researched, selected and monitored on an team.
The Group will continue to monitor its CO2 emissions.
ongoing basis by the Brewin Dolphin Fund Research Team.
The majority of our paper used is from sustainable sources and we To clients, who seek to apply one or a number of commonlyare looking to increase the utilisation of recycled paper for printing requested ethical criteria to their segregated investment portfolio, and photocopying across the Group.
We have reduced the use of we offer an Ethical Portfolio Service.
This allows clients to select paper wherever possible by encouraging double sided printing, anumber of areas they may wish to avoid or positively select, electronic communications with our shareholders and our clients empowering investors to align their ethics with their financial and internally by the widespread use of the intranet and email investment objectives.
Such an approach screens the investment communication.
We encourage colleagues not to print out emails.
universe and identifies stocks that are suitable for inclusion in their Recycling of paper, toners and printer cartridges is encouraged portfolio and those that should be excluded.
Fund managers use across the Group.
All paper used is produced in accordance with the stock lists identified by a range of criteria that are available the Forest Stewardship Council and where possible the materials throughout Brewin Dolphin on its extensive research intranet site.
used are made up of 50% recycled and 50% virgin wood fibre for our reports, client reports, letterhead and marketing materials.
Our For those clients with more specific criteria, an Individual Ethical printer and manufacturing mill remain environmentally accredited Portfolio can be created, monitored and managed.
In this instance and are certified according to ISO 14001, ISO 9001 and OHSAS an in-depth questionnaire is completed at the outset, allowing 18001 standards.
Our printers are carbon neutral.
Through its individual clients to select their own ethical criteria and the level to confidential paper recycling program, the Group has recycled over which they wish this to apply to their portfolio.
This is of particular 360,500 kgs during the period the equivalent of saving 7,210 trees.
importance to our charity clients.
This option is only available as a discretionary service.
The Groups environmental policy is on our website.
We debate with clients any impact their policy may have upon the While the Groups overall investment policy is solely concerned with overall investment performance, in order to agree their policy and obtaining the best return for clients, our key principal is for us to appropriate benchmarks.
protect and enhance the economic interests of our clients but it is also important for us to be able to consider the personal Health and Safety preferences of our clients in relation to ethical, environmental and The Group has a Health and Safety at Work Policy which is social governance issues.
reviewed annually by the Board.
The Group Board Executive Director responsible for health and safety throughout the financial We offer a range of ethical screening services alongside our year was Ben Speke.
portfolio management, in order to ensure that a clients individual preferences in terms of ethical criteria can be upheld.
In order to The Group is committed to the health and safety of its employees, provide this, we subscribe to the research services of EIRIS, the clients, sub-contractors and others who may be affected by our Ethical Investment Research Service, a leading provider of work activities.
The Group evaluates the risks to health and safety independent research in this area.
in the business and manages this through an effective Health and Safety Management System.
2 2 | B R E w I N D OL P h I N hOL DI N g S P L C The Group provides necessary information, instruction, training and supervision to ensure that employees are able to discharge their duties effectively.
The Health and Safety Management System used by the Group ensures compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements and internal standards and seeks, by continuous improvement, to develop health and safety performance.
Auditor Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this annual report confirms that: so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditor is unaware: and the director has taken all steps that he she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditor and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC no.
2685806 Angela Wright Secretary 6 December 2011 ANNU AL R E POR T AND A C C O UN TS 2011 | 23 2 4 | B R E w I N D OL P h I N hOL DI N g S P L C Bristol Balloon Fiesta, Clifton Suspension Bridge, Bristol
