Report of the Directors The Directors submit the Annual Report and Objective Accounts of the Company for the year ended The Companys investment objective is shown on 30 September 2011. page 1.
Investment Policy Results and Dividends The Company invests worldwide in companies The results for the year are set out in the attached which F&C Investment Business Limited FCIB or accounts.
the Managers, believe will generate a combination First, second and third interim dividends, each of of long-term growth in capital and income for shareholders.
1.442p per Ordinary Share, were paid on 8 April, 8 July and 7 October 2011 respectively.
The Board The Company has not set maximum exposures for recommends a final dividend for the year of 1.786p any geographical regions or sectors.
However, the per Ordinary Share payable on 6 January 2012 to greater part of the Companys investments will shareholders on the register at close of business on normally be UK equities.
The Company also invests 9 December 2011. in other countries or regions and in a portfolio of corporate bonds.
It would normally be expected that Principal Activity and Status most of the Companys investments will be equities The Company company number: SC 3721 is a and equity-related securities including corporate public limited company and an investment company bonds.
However, the Company is not prohibited in terms of the Companies Act 2006.
It has been from investing in other types of securities.
No approved by HM Revenue & Customs as a individual investment in the portfolio may exceed investment trust for tax purposes for previous years 10 per cent of the Companys total assets.
The up to and including the year ended 30 September Company will not normally invest more than one per 2010.
In consequence, the Company is not liable to cent of its total assets in unlisted securities at the tax on capital gains.
The Directors intend to ensure time of investment.
that the Company continues as an investment trust.
No more than 10 per cent of the Companys total The Company is required to comply with company assets may be invested in aggregate in other listed law, the rules of the UK Listing Authority, UK closed-ended investment companies unless such Financial Reporting Standards, and its Articles of investment companies themselves have published Association.
investment policies to invest no more than 15 per cent of their total assets in other closed-ended Capital Structure investment companies, in which case the limit is The Companys capital structure is set out on 15 per cent.
The Company may use derivatives, principally, but Business Review not exclusively, for efficient portfolio management, The Board of Directors is responsible for the overall that is to reduce, transfer or eliminate investment stewardship of the Company, including investment risk in its investments, including protection against and dividend policies, corporate strategy, gearing, currency risks.
corporate governance procedures, and risk management.
Biographical details of the Directors, The Company uses gearing to enhance income and all of whom are non-executive, can be found on capital returns over the long term and may borrow in page 19.
The Company has no executive Directors sterling or other currencies.
The Companys Articles or employees.
of Association contain a borrowing limit equal to the 20 British Assets Trust plc value of its adjusted total of capital and reserves.
Principal Risks and Risk Management However, equity gearing see definition on page 2 The Companys assets consist mainly of listed would not normally be expected to exceed 20 per securities and its principal risks are therefore marketcent of shareholders funds.
The Company is also exposed to currency risk in respect of overseas markets in which it invests.
More detailed explanations of these risks Investment of Assets and the way in which they are managed are At each Board meeting, the Board considers contained in note 18 to the accounts.
compliance with the Companys investment policy Other risks faced by the Company include the and other investment restrictions during the following: reporting period.
An analysis of the portfolio on 30 September 2011 is contained in note 9 to the External events such as terrorism, accounts and in the Managers Review on pages protectionism, inflation or deflation, economic 7 to 14.
The 50 largest investments are shown on shocks and recessions, regulatory changes and pages 15 and 16.
The Companys borrowings are movements in interest rates and exchange rates described in notes 11 and 12 to the accounts.
could affect share prices in particular markets.
Investment and strategic incorrect strategy, Strategy asset allocation, stock selection and the use of As part of its strategy, the Board has contractually gearing could all lead to poor returns for delegated the management of the investment shareholders.
portfolio, and other services, to the Managers.
Regulatory breach of regulatory rules could lead to suspension of the Companys Stock Exchange The investment strategy employed by the Managers listing, financial penalties, or a qualified audit in meeting the investment objective focuses on report.
Loss of investment trust status could lead asset allocation, in particular between UK and to the Company being subject to tax on capital overseas equities, corporate bonds, cash and gains.
gearing, coupled with active stock selection.
The selection of investments is based on analysis of, Operational failure of the Managers accounting amongst other things, market positioning and systems or disruption to the Managers business, competitive advantage, financial strength and or that of third party service providers, could lead cashflow characteristics.
As part of this process the to an inability to provide accurate reporting and Managers are cognisant of the Companys monitoring, leading to a loss of shareholders requirement for an above average level of investment confidence.
Financial inadequate controls by the Managers The Companys performance in meeting its or third party service providers could lead objectives is measured against key performance to misappropriation of assets.
Inappropriate indicators as set out on the following page.
Reviews accounting policies or failure to comply with of the Companys returns during the financial year, accounting standards could lead to misreporting the position of the Company at the year end, and or breaches of regulations.
Breaching bond and the outlook for the coming year are contained in the loan covenants or being unable to replace Chairmans Statement on pages 3 to 5 and the maturing borrowing facilities could lead to a loss Managers Review on pages 7 to 14, both of which of shareholders confidence and financial loss for form part of this Business Review.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 21 Report of the Directors continued The Board seeks to mitigate and manage these Revenue earnings and dividends per share.
risks through continual review, policy setting and Total expenses as a ratio of shareholders funds.
It also regularly monitors the investment environment and A historical record of these indicators is contained in the management of the Companys investment the Ten Year Record on page 18. portfolio.
Investment risk is spread through holding a wide range of securities in different countries and Charitable Donations industrial sectors.
On 30 September 2011, the During the year the Company made donations to portfolio was made up of 511 investments in four charities totalling 10,000 2010 10,000.
The Managers make use of third party risk systems to monitor investment risk Directors and the Board receives quarterly risk reports.
The The Directors who held office during the year and Board applies the principles detailed in the internal their interests in the shares of the Company at the control guidance issued by the Financial Reporting year end were: Council.
Details of the Companys internal controls 2011 2010 are described in more detail on pages 26 and 27.
Ordinary Ordinary Shares Shares Lynn Ruddick Beneficial 34,788 34,487 Shareholder Value Non-Beneficial 3,719 3,123 The Board and Managers recognise the importance of both marketing and share buy-backs in James Long Beneficial 14,227 13,665 enhancing shareholder value.
In terms of marketing, James MacLeod Beneficial 35,000 35,000 the Managers offer a range of private investor Non-Beneficial 9,500 9,500 savings schemes, details of which can be found on Ian Russell Beneficial 20,000 20,000 page 53.
In addition, meetings are held regularly with current and prospective shareholders and Jimmy West Beneficial 12,000 12,000 stockbroking analysts covering the investment trust sector.
Share buy-backs, which will only be carried out at a discount to the net asset value per share, Since 30 September 2011, Lynn Ruddick and can help reduce the volatility of the discount, James Long have acquired beneficial interests in a enhance the net asset value per share for continuing further 84 shares and 103 shares respectively.
shareholders and provide an enhancement to the Lynn Ruddick has acquired a non-beneficial interest revenue return per share.
Communication of up-toin a further 129 shares.
There have been no other date portfolio information is made through the changes in the interests of the Directors in the Companys website.
Ordinary Shares of the Company between 30 September 2011 and 14 November 2011.
Key Performance Indicators No Director had an interest in the Companys The Board uses a number of performance measures 6.25 per cent Bonds 2031 during the year ended to assess the Companys success in meeting its 30 September 2011 or has acquired an interest objectives.
The key performance indicators are as since the year end.
follows: Net asset value per share total return against the As explained in more detail under Corporate benchmark index.
Governance on pages 24 to 26, the Board has agreed that all Directors will retire annually.
Discount of share price to net asset value per Accordingly, all five Directors will retire at the Annual share.
22 British Assets Trust plc General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves least annually.
No conflicts or potential conflicts for re-election.
were identified during the year.
The Board confirms that, following the evaluation Substantial Interests in Share Capital process set out in Corporate Governance below, At the year end, the Company had received the performance of each of the Directors seeking notification of the following holdings of voting rights: re-election continues to be effective and Number of demonstrates commitment to the role.
The Board Ordinary Shares Percentage therefore believes that it is in the interests of Held Held shareholders that these Directors are re-elected.
48,137,805 16.5 No Director has a contract of service with the F&C Asset Management 18,945,342 6.5 Company or any material interest in any contract to Legal & General Group 11,694,807 4.0 which the Company is a party.
In addition to any power of removal conferred by the Companies Acts, There have been no changes notified in respect of the Company may by special resolution remove any the above holdings, and no new holdings notified, Director without notice.
Management Directors Deeds of Indemnity FCIB provides management and secretarial services The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity to the Company.
in favour of each of the Directors.
The deeds give each Director the benefit of an indemnity to the During the year, the Board reviewed the extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006 appropriateness of the Managers appointment.
In against liabilities incurred by any of them in the carrying out its review the Board considered the execution of their duties and the exercise of their past investment performance of the Company and powers.
A copy of each deed of indemnity is the capability and resources of the Managers to available for inspection at the Companys registered deliver satisfactory income growth and investment office during normal business hours and will be performance.
It also considered the standard of available for inspection at the Annual General other services provided which include company Meeting.
As part of its annual review, the Board also Conflicts of Interest considered the length of the notice period of the Each Director has a statutory duty to avoid a investment management agreement and the fees situation where he or she has, or could have, a payable to the Managers, and agreed with the direct or indirect interest which conflicts, or may Managers to revise the management fee with effect conflict, with the interests of the Company.
A Director will not be in breach of that duty if the Following this review, the Directors are satisfied with relevant matter has been authorised by the Board the Managers ability to deliver satisfactory income in accordance with the Companys Articles of growth and long term investment performance, and Association.
the quality of other services provided.
It is the The Board has approved a protocol for identifying Directors opinion that the continuing appointment of and dealing with conflicts and has resolved to the Managers on the terms agreed is in the interests conduct a review of actual or possible conflicts at of shareholders.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 23 Report of the Directors continued A summary of the terms of the management remuneration are not relevant to the Company and agreement is contained in note 3 to the accounts.
are not reported on further.
The Board consists of independent non-executive Corporate Governance Statement Directors.
Lynn Ruddick is the Chairman and Jimmy Shareholders hold the directors of a company West is the Senior Independent Director.
All the responsible for the stewardship of that companys Directors have been issued with letters of affairs.
Corporate governance is the process by appointment, which are available upon request.
The which a board of directors discharges this Board has agreed that all Directors will retire responsibility.
The Companys arrangements in annually and, if appropriate, seek re-election.
The respect of corporate governance are explained in biographies of all the Directors are contained on this section of the Report of the Directors.
During the year the performance of the Board, committees and individual Directors was The Company is required to comply with, or to evaluated through an assessment process led by explain its non-compliance with, the relevant the Chairman.
This process involved the completion provisions of The UK Corporate Governance Code of questionnaires tailored to suit the nature of the issued by the Financial Reporting Council the Company, discussions with individual Directors and FRC in June 2010 which can be found at individual feedback from the Chairman to each of www.
The Association of Investment the Directors.
The performance of the Chairman was Companies the AIC issued its own Code of evaluated by the Senior Independent Director after Corporate Governance in October 2010 the AIC consultation with the other Directors.
The Board Code, which can be found at www.
co. uk, believes that each Director is independent in which has been approved by the FRC as it character and that there are no relationships or addresses all the principles of The UK Corporate circumstances which are likely to affect his or her Governance Code as well as setting out additional judgement.
principles and recommendations on issues which are of specific relevance to investment trusts.
The The Board subscribes to the view expressed in the Board considers that reporting against the principles AIC Code that long-serving Directors should not be and recommendations of the AIC Code provides prevented from forming part of an independent better information to shareholders than The UK majority.
It does not consider that the length of a Corporate Governance Code on its own.
Directors tenure reduces his or her ability to act independently.
The Boards policy on tenure is that Throughout the year, the Company complied with continuity and experience are considered to add the recommendations of the AIC Code and the significantly to the strength of the Board and, as relevant provisions of The UK Corporate Governance such, no limit on the overall length of services of any Code.
In common with most investment trusts, of the Companys Directors, including the Chairman, British Assets Trust plc differs from commercial has been imposed, although the Board believes in companies in one important respect: it does not the merits of periodic and progressive refreshment employ its own staff to manage the Company.
Instead, management is delegated to an external fund management company, FCIB.
Consequently, The basis on which the Company aims to generate since all Directors are non-executive, and in value over the longer term is set out in its objective, accordance with the AIC Code, the provisions of investment policy and strategy as contained within The UK Corporate Governance Code on the role of the Business Review on pages 20 and 21.
As the chief executive and, except in so far as they already mentioned, the Company has no executive apply to non-executive Directors, on Directors Directors or employees as the day to day 24 British Assets Trust plc management of the Company is delegated to controls, and the terms of appointment of the external managers.
A management agreement auditor together with its remuneration.
It is also between the Company and the Managers sets out the forum through which the auditor reports to the the matters over which the Managers have authority Board of Directors.
It meets at least twice yearly.
and the limits beyond which Board approval must The objectivity of the auditor is reviewed by the be sought.
All other matters, including corporate Audit Committee which also reviews the terms under strategy, investment and dividend policies, gearing, which it is appointed to perform non-audit services, corporate governance procedures, and risk which amounted to 5,000 for the year ended management are reserved for the approval of the 30 September 2011 2010: 11,000 and were for Board of Directors.
The Board receives full the provision of taxation services and a bond information on the Companys investment compliance certificate.
Notwithstanding such performance, assets, liabilities and other relevant services the Audit Committee considers Ernst & information in advance of Board meetings.
Young LLP to be independent of the Company and that the provision of such non audit services is not The Managers, in the absence of explicit instructions a threat to its objectivity and independence.
from the Board, are empowered to exercise A description of the main features of the Companys discretion in the use of the Companys voting rights.
internal control and risk management systems is All shareholdings are voted at all meetings contained on pages 26 and 27. worldwide where practicable in accordance with the The Management Engagement and Remuneration Managers own corporate governance policy, which Committee, chaired by Lynn Ruddick, comprises the is to seek to maximise shareholder value by full Board and reviews the appropriateness of the constructive use of votes at company meetings and Managers continuing appointment, together with by endeavouring to use their influence as investors the terms and conditions thereof, on a regular with a principled approach to corporate governance.
In addition to total return performance, the Environmental factors are, where appropriate, taken Managers are also judged in relation to management into consideration with regard to investment of the revenue account, quality of the fund decisions on behalf of the Company.
The Board management and administration teams, commitment notes the Managers statement of compliance with to their investment trust business, strength of The UK Stewardship Code issued by the Financial relationships with shareholders and the Reporting Council in July 2010, which can be appropriateness of the management contract, found on its website at www.
The Nomination Committee, chaired by Lynn Much of the Boards corporate governance Ruddick, comprises the full Board and is convened responsibilities are discharged through the Audit for the purpose of considering the appointment of Committee, the Management Engagement and additional Directors as and when appropriate.
In Remuneration Committee, and the Nomination considering appointments to the Board, the Committee.
These Committees all operate within Nomination Committee takes into account the clearly defined written terms of reference, which are ongoing requirements of the Company and the available upon request.
need to have a balance of skills, experience, The Audit Committee is chaired by James MacLeod, independence and knowledge of the Company and comprises all of the Directors except Lynn within the Board.
No new Directors were appointed Ruddick.
The duties of the Audit Committee in during the year, but whenever there are new discharging its responsibilities include reviewing the appointments these Directors receive an induction Annual and Interim Accounts, the system of internal from the Managers on joining the Board.
All Annual Report and Accounts 2011 25 Report of the Directors continued Directors receive other relevant training, collectively future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going or individually, as necessary.
The Nomination concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Committee did not meet during the year.
Internal Control During the year ended 30 September 2011 there The Board is responsible for the Companys system were eight Board meetings, two Audit Committee of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
meetings and one Management Engagement and The Board has therefore established an ongoing Remuneration Committee meeting.
Mr Long and process designed to meet the particular needs of Mr Russell did not attend one Board meeting and the Company in managing the risks to which it is Mr Russell did not attend one of the Audit exposed, consistent with the internal control Committee meetings.
Otherwise all meetings were guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
The process relies principally on the Managers Individual Directors may, at the expense of the existing risk-based approach to internal control Company, seek independent professional advice on whereby a test matrix is created which identifies the any matter that concerns them in the furtherance of key functions carried out by the Managers and other their duties.
The Company maintains appropriate service providers, the individual activities undertaken Directors and Officers liability insurance.
within those functions, the risks associated with each activity and the controls employed to minimise Going Concern those risks.
A residual risk rating is then applied.
The In assessing the going concern basis of accounting, test matrix is regularly updated and the Board is the Directors have had regard to the guidance provided with regular reports highlighting all material issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
They changes to the risk ratings and confirming the action have considered the current cash position of the which has been, or is being, taken.
A formal annual Company, the availability of the revolving advance review of these procedures is carried out by the facility, compliance with the bond and loan Audit Committee and includes consideration of covenants, and forecast revenues for the current internal control reports issued by the Managers and financial year.
The Directors have also taken into other service providers.
account the Companys investment policy, which is Such review procedures have been in place described on pages 20 and 21 and which is subject throughout the financial year and up to the date of to regular Board monitoring processes, which is designed to ensure that the Company is invested in approval of the Annual Report, and the Board is satisfied with their effectiveness.
These procedures mainly liquid, listed securities.
The Company retains title to all assets held by its custodian, and has are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and, by their nature, can only provide reasonable, agreements relating to its borrowing facilities.
but not absolute, assurance against material Note 18 to the accounts sets out the financial risk misstatement or loss.
At each Board meeting the profile of the Company and indicates the effect on Board monitors the investment performance of the its assets and liabilities of falls and rises in the value Company in comparison to its stated objective, the of securities, market rates of interest and changes in benchmark index, and against comparable exchange rates.
The Board also reviews the The Directors believe, in the light of the controls and Companys activities since the last Board meeting to review processes noted above and bearing in mind ensure that the Managers adhere to the agreed the nature of the Companys business and assets, investment policy and approved investment that the Company has adequate resources to guidelines and, if necessary, approves changes to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable the guidelines.
26 British Assets Trust plc The Board has reviewed the need for an internal amount of 7,277,807, being 10 per cent of the audit function.
The Board has decided that the total issued shares on 14 November 2011. systems and procedures employed by the Resolution 12 will, if passed, authorise the Directors Managers, including their internal audit function, to allot new shares up to an aggregate nominal which are reported on by a firm of external reporting amount of 3,638,903, being 5 per cent of the total accountants, provide sufficient assurance that a issued shares on 14 November 2011, for cash sound system of internal control, to safeguard the without first offering such shares to existing Companys assets, is maintained.
An internal audit shareholders pro rata to their existing holdings.
function specific to the Company is therefore These authorities will continue until the later of the considered unnecessary.
expiry of 15 months from the passing of the resolutions and the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting.
The Directors will only allot new Relations with Shareholders shares pursuant to these authorities if they believe it The Company places great importance on communication with shareholders and welcomes is advantageous to the Companys shareholders to do so and will not result in a dilution of net asset their views.
The Managers hold meetings with the Companys largest shareholders and report back to value per share.
The Directors consider that the authorisations proposed in resolutions 11 and 12 are the Board on these meetings.
The Chairman and other Directors are available to, and do, meet necessary to retain flexibility, although they do not intend to exercise the powers conferred by these shareholders.
The Annual General Meeting of the Company provides a forum, both formal and authorisations at the present time.
informal, for shareholders to meet and discuss issues with the Directors and Managers of the Directors Authority to Buy Back Shares Company.
The notice for the forthcoming Annual The Company did not purchase any Ordinary Shares General Meeting, to be held on 14 December 2011, for cancellation during the year ended 30 September is set out on pages 54 to 56.
The Annual Report 2011. and Notice of Annual General Meeting are, where practicable, sent to shareholders at least 20 working Resolution 13, as set out in the notice of the Annual days before the Meeting.
General Meeting, seeks renewal of the Companys share buy-back authority.
The renewed authority to Financial Instruments make market purchases will be in respect of a The Companys financial instruments comprise its maximum of 14.99 per cent of the issued Ordinary investment portfolio, bonds, bank loan, foreign Shares of the Company on the date of the passing exchange currency contracts, cash balances and of the resolution approximately 44 million Ordinary debtors and creditors that arise directly from its Shares.
The price paid for shares will not be less operations such as sales and purchases awaiting than the nominal value of 25p per share nor more settlement and accrued income.
The financial risk than the higher of i 5 per cent above the average management objectives and policies arising from its closing price on the London Stock Exchange of an financial instruments and the exposure of the Ordinary Share over the five business days before Company to risk are disclosed in note 18 to the the shares are purchased and ii the higher of the accounts.
last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange.
Directors Authority to Allot Shares This power will only be exercised if, in the opinion of The Directors are seeking authority to allot shares.
the Directors, a purchase will result in an increase in Resolution 11 will, if passed, authorise the Directors net asset value per share of the remaining shares to allot new shares up to an aggregate nominal and is in the interests of the shareholders.
Any Annual Report and Accounts 2011 27 Report of the Directors continued shares purchased under this authority will be Individual Savings Accounts The Companys shares are qualifying investments for cancelled or held in treasury for future re-issue at a premium to the prevailing net asset value per share.
It is the intention of the This authority will expire on the later of 14 June Directors that the Company will continue to conduct 2013 and the conclusion of the next Annual General its affairs to satisfy this requirement.
Creditor Payment Policy Disclosure of Information to Auditors The Companys payment policy is to settle The Directors confirm that, so far as each of them is investment transactions in accordance with market aware, there is no relevant audit information of practice and to ensure settlement of supplier invoices in accordance with stated terms.
The which the Companys auditor is unaware and the Directors have taken all the steps that they ought to Company did not have any trade creditors at the have taken as Directors in order to make themselves year end.
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of By order of the Board that information.
G R Hay Smith Auditors Secretary Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness 80 George Street to continue in office as auditors and a resolution Edinburgh EH2 3BU proposing their re-appointment will be submitted at the Annual General Meeting.
14 November 2011 28 British Assets Trust plc
