Managers Review Introduction growth, reversed the prevailing sentiment and stock With effect from 1 October 2011, I took over as the markets fell sharply, ending down for the year as a Companys lead fund manager on Julie Dents whole.
The recent sell off in equities more generally retirement from F&C.
In that role I manage the core reflects both a fear of a double dip recession and UK equity portfolio, allocate assets to the other subthe possible onset of a banking crisis, largely, but portfolios and manage gearing within guidelines set not exclusively, within the Eurozone.
I will continue the focus on achieving There is a perception that banks have been a total return in excess of the benchmark index chastened by the 2008 credit crisis and the whilst managing the revenue account to enable an excessive leverage and risk taking of the preceding above average level of dividend to be maintained.
years is a thing of the past.
It is true that banks are better capitalised than a few years ago and new Performance for the year regulations have been passed that should ensure In the year to 30 September 2011, the Companys that the excesses of the risky lending of those years net asset value total return was 5.1 per cent, are never repeated.
However, despite the capital which compares to a return of 4.3 per cent for its raising exercises in the intervening years, markets composite benchmark index 75 per cent FTSE have remained concerned about the financial All-Share Index and 25 per cent FTSE World ex UK strength of the banking sector.
The Companys share price total return was out by the European banking authorities did little to 4.8 per cent.
reassure the markets, as they did not consider the For the three years to 30 September 2011 the possibility of sovereign debt defaults.
The Companys net asset value total return was 21.4 per subsequent failure of Dexia, the first major casualty cent, which compares to a return of 18.9 per cent of this most recent period of stress, which had very for its composite benchmark index.
The share price comfortably passed the stress test only a few total return over this period was 33.5 per cent.
This months before, provided strong evidence that the period is significant because it represents the period market was correct in this view.
at the beginning of which the Companys overseas portfolios were consolidated into two portfolios: a Markets sensed that the authorities had lost control, Global Developed ex UK portfolio and an Emerging with possible dire consequences for the banking Markets portfolio.
This change was designed to sector if defaults followed because of the substantial provide greater focus on the best individual holdings of peripheral sovereign debt on their investment opportunities overseas.
The capacity of the European Financial Stability Fund remains under scrutiny with At 30 September 2011 the Company had gearing, particular regards to its ability to support Italy and net of cash, of 20.5 per cent including 15.6 per cent Spain.
The weakness of the emerging markets so far this Markets overall delivered positive returns during the year reflects a combination of the continuing geofirst ten months of the year, buoyed by improving political risks, high inflation and somewhat less economic news and positive corporate profit statements.
However, in late July an escalation in positive economic growth expectations.
These the sovereign debt crisis in Europe, coupled with markets tend to be highly sensitive to the prevailing renewed fears over the outlook for global economic economic sentiment.
Local Stockmarket Total Returns Year to 30 September 2011 Currency FTSEAll-ShareIndex 4.4% 4.4% FTSEWorld exUK Index 4.0% 5.2%  exUK Index 3.1% 5.0%  14.9% 11.7% Source:Datastream Annual Report and Accounts 2011 7 Managers Review continued Fears of a global recession sent commodity prices concerted efforts to boost near term liquidity, should sharply lower and the dollar strengthened, given its also be supportive.
Industrial commodities remain a Companies have continued to produce solid barometer for growth and will only see a meaningful earnings growth showing that the quoted corporate recovery when confidence returns to financial sector is managing the current environment well.
Precious metals have done well in this They are certainly in a better position than in 2007 8 environment but the sharp sell off in gold and silver with far lower levels of indebtedness, limited capital during September illustrates that they are not spending commitments and managements ready necessarily the safe haven that many believed.
to act decisively and to cut costs again.
With disappointingly high levels of unemployment in many In the developed markets investors continue to western economies there is little upward pressure on question the sustainability of the global economic wages that would traditionally erode profits at this recovery.
Growth remains sub-trend because of the point in an economic recovery.
long lasting effects of the repayment of the debts accumulated in preceding years.
However, as the With corporates in a far better shape, UK dividend effect of the adverse weather in the early part of the growth is expected to be double digit for 2011 with year, the Japanese earthquake and, most high single digit growth overseas.
As a result we significantly, the political unrest in the Middle East have seen an improvement in the Companys and North Africa that led to a sharp spike in the oil revenue position from last year.
The revenue price, fade, the economic data should improve account was also boosted by selective option writing somewhat.
The longer term commitments made in when the opportunity arose.
The Companys the US and elsewhere to continue their highly dividend remains uncovered by current year net accommodative monetary policies, coupled with income however a matter to which I will return.
Asset Allocation Asset Allocation The asset allocation of the Company is shown in the table below: 30 September 2011 30 September 2010 ShareShareBenchmark holders Total holders Total 30.09.11 Funds Assets Funds Assets Asset Class %%%%% UK Equities 75.0 79.3 63.9 76.2 62.0 Overseas Equities Global Developed ex UK 22.5 17.8 14.4 17.3 14.0 Emerging Markets 2.5 7.8 6.3 12.7 10.3 Total Overseas Equities 25.0 25.6 20.7 30.0 24.3 Total Equities 100.0 104.9 84.6 106.2 86.3 Corporate Bonds 15.6 12.6 14.8 12.1 Net Current Assets 2.8 1.6 Actual Gearing 20.5 21.0 Total 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Potential Gearing 24.1 23.0 comprising equity gearing of 4.9 per cent 2010: 6.2 per cent and 15.6 per cent in corporate bonds 2010: 14.8 per cent During the financial year we reduced the exposure and the failure to address the escalating debt to emerging markets in favour of UK income crisis in Europe.
As a result the equity gearing stocks and reduced the Companys gearing to remains at a level somewhat below that in recent equities given the uncertain economic backdrop years.
8 British Assets Trust plc Sub-Portfolio Reports UK Major Holdings Market %Total Company Sector Valuem Investments Vodafone Telecommunications 21.3 5.2 GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals& Biotech 19.7 4.7 BP Oil&Gas 14.8 3.6 RoyalDutchShell Oil&Gas 12.3 3.0 RioTinto Mining 11.4 2.8  Tobacco 11.4 2.7 HSBC Banking 10.5 2.5 Tesco Retailing 10.3 2.5 Scottish&SouthernEnergy Electricity 9.0 2.2 StandardChartered Banking 7.5 1.8 The UK portfolio returned 1.8 per cent compared insurance rates are likely to harden.
Lancashire with a total return of 4.4 per cent for the FTSE Holdings was a prime beneficiary of this expectation All-Share Index.
and was an excellent performer for the portfolio.
Holdings in the oil sector had mixed fortunes The UK markets decline in total return terms over whilst one of the smaller holdings, Bowleven, had the period was in line with other major developed spectacular success in late 2010, the benefits were markets outside the Eurozone.
The combined somewhat eroded later in the period by concerns impacts of the Independent Commission on Banking over its future financing.
Cairn Energy was also a review, global regulatory pressures, low interest poor performer with disappointing drilling results in spreads, subdued lending as banks fide-lever their Greenland.
balance sheets and provisioning for, amongst other areas, payment protection insurance and the markAt the corporate level, businesses have generally to-market re-pricing of Eurozone government bonds, reported earnings growth and a solid recovery in all contributed to make the banking sector, once dividend payments.
Dividend growth in the calendar again, the worst performing major sector in the year 2011 is now forecast by many to be above 10 FTSE All-Share Index.
After several years of strong per cent.
That said, the market remains cautious performance mining stocks delivered poor returns, about the sustainability of earnings for next year.
as profit taking early in 2011 was exacerbated by According to Citigroup, the expectations in the UK fears of a Chinese economic slowdown.
Traditional are for mid to high single digit earnings growth in defensive sectors such as tobacco, utilities, mobile 2012.
However from a macro-economic perspective telecommunications and pharmaceuticals were Citigroup expects earnings to fall by around 10 per strong and all delivered positive returns.
We do not believe this less optimistic view would necessarily detrimentally impact the dividend At the stock level the Companys defensive positions prospects for 2012 however, as explained in the in Scottish & Southern Energy, British American outlook section on page 14.
Tobacco, Vodafone, Shire and GlaxoSmithKline all performed well.
The Company also benefitted from The UK economy continues to experience low bids by Cheung Kong for Northumbrian Water growth.
Inflationary expectations have fallen with the Group and Hewlett Packards acquisition of Bank of England keeping interest rates at just Autonomy.
In the wake of the Japanese tsunami 0.5 per cent throughout the year.
The events in the and the devastating earthquake in New Zealand, Eurozone are, as the Prime Minister recently pointed Annual Report and Accounts 2011 9 Managers Review continued out, the greatest risk to the UK economy in the Our preference remains for stocks which are short term.
The crisis is adversely affecting the financially robust and where the supply demand banking sector and, in consequence, the European characteristics remain favourable.
With only around economies which are the UKs main trading partners a third of the earnings of the FTSE All-Share Index and, unless resolved, will lead to slow economic being generated in the UK, however, it is important growth throughout 2012 and beyond.
In the US, to have a global perspective on the outlook.
We quantitative easing QE has stabilised the remain positive towards companies with emerging economy but has not generated much economic markets exposure, although we are being selective, growth.
The impact of the latest round of QE in the and in developed markets we prefer US derived UK remains to be seen.
earnings to those from Europe.
Global Developed ex UK Major Holdings Market %Total Company Country Sector Valuem Investments ExxonMobil USA Oil&Gas 2.3 0.6 NipponT&T Japan  1.8 0.4 KiaMotors SouthKorea Automobiles&Parts 1.8 0.4 Intel USA TechnologyHardware&Equipment 1.6 0.4 GeneralElectric USA GeneralIndustrial 1.6 0.4 Walgreen USA Food&DrugRetailer 1.5 0.4 BankofMontreal Canada Banking 1.5 0.4 ZurichFinancial Switzerland Non-LifeInsurance 1.5 0.4 Dell USA TechnologyHardware&Equipment 1.4 0.3 Citigroup USA Banking 1.4 0.3 The Global Developed ex UK portfolio returned back of a string of successful new model launches 0.4 per cent compared with a total return of 3.1 with consequent market share gains, and per cent for the FTSE All-World Developed ex UK International Paper, which rallied after taking over competitor Temple-Inland.
was done at a hefty 37 per cent premium to its The portfolio once again outperformed the share price, the market viewed the reduction in benchmark for the year.
This sub-portfolio is competition as highly positive for the business managed using our systematic, or quantitative, prospects of the sector.
eBay also delivered strong investment process.
This centres on three key performance as a recovery story as did Dell and variables when looking at the fundamental properties Williams Company a US utility group which rallied of companies in order to predict future returns: strongly after announcing the spin-off of their pipeValue, Growth and Quality.
The Value component line network.
made the largest positive contribution: Growth had a small positive contribution whereas Quality made a Returns in developed markets collapsed in the last small negative contribution.
two months of the financial year as the European There was a significant contribution in the past year sovereign debt crisis escalated and the authorities from stock specific events, offsetting the negative failed to adequately address the problem.
With impact in the previous 12 months.
The main money being transferred to the weaker, insolvent contributors were overweight positions in Kia periphery countries from the stronger nations and Motors, which showed strong performance on the the recipients expected to implement strict austerity 10 British Assets Trust plc packages, the political and social unrest has recent market weakness.
This culminated in August intensified.
The ultimate solution may lie in full fiscal with the rating agency, S&P downgrading the US and political union within the European Union but credit rating from AAA to AA with a negative markets have concluded that the hurdles to achieve outlook over fears that the deficit reduction plans this are significant.
passed by Congress were insufficient.
Despite the downgrade, the performance of US treasury bonds Such discord will make it very difficult to reach an has been remarkable since, with yields on 10 year agreement between the governments of the bonds dipping below 2 per cent.
This reflects the respective members who ultimately remain significant flight to safety and from risk assets seen answerable to their electorates which, in many across the globe as global risk aversion has cases, are strongly opposed to closer fiscal cogrown.
The fallout from the debt crisis continued to accelerate during the summer as reflected in the Japan was severely affected by the earthquake and poor performance of all global financial markets.
The tsunami in March this year but is now recovering.
response to the Greek default is likely to be the This recovery means it is one of the few markets in defining moment of this crisis and will shape the the world with strong earnings prospects which is destiny of economies not only in Europe but aiding short term equity market performance.
Yen has also benefitted from its perceived safe In the US, signs that the economy was running out haven status, despite Japans high levels of of steam, coupled with political wrangling over the government debt, and it is likely that the government raising of the US government debt ceiling, severely will continue to intervene to devalue the currency as damaged political credibility and contributed to has recently happened to the Swiss Franc.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 11 Managers Review continued Emerging Markets Major Holdings Market %Total Company Country Sector Valuem Investments SamsungElectronics SouthKorea TechnologyHardware&Equipment 1.1 0.3 BancoBradesco Brazil Banking 1.1 0.3 TaiwanSemiconductor Taiwan TechnologyHardware&Equipment 1.0 0.2 Petrobas Brazil Oil&Gas 1.0 0.2 Vale Brazil Mining 0.9 0.2 Industrial&Commercial BankofChina HongKong Banking 0.7 0.2 GrupoFinancieroBanco Mexico Banking 0.7 0.2 MTNGroup SouthAfrica  0.7 0.2 AngloAmerican SouthAfrica Mining 0.7 0.2 Kasikornbank Thailand Banking 0.6 0.2 The Emerging Markets portfolio returned 16.0 per to investors perception of the health of the global cent compared with a total return of 14.9 per cent economy.
for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.
If the US lapsed into a significant recession which Emerging markets endured a tough year as is not our current view the impact on emerging investors reduced risk due to concerns about a markets would probably be a hard landing in possible global recession.
Generally perceived as most of the economies.
It is not yet true to say being higher risk, they underperformed their that emerging markets have totally decoupled from developed counterparts, particularly in the turbulent developed markets, mainly because the growth of two months at the end of the year.
European these economies remains export dependent, and emerging markets underperformed as the European they would suffer from a fall in demand.
With the debt crisis escalated.
The smaller markets of the recent fall in commodity prices and following Middle East region also suffered in the middle of the several months of policy tightening measures in year on the back of the widening unrest in the emerging markets, it appears as if inflation is near Arabian peninsular.
Weakness in commodity prices coupled with a Emerging markets continue to face the challenges of reversal of the strength in the Brazilian Real against domestic inflation together with stuttering growth in the US Dollar contributed to sending the Brazilian the West and severe stresses in the Eurozone market sharply lower.
Fears about domestic financial system.
The situation in Europe remains the monetary policy, which has been repeatedly key risk, with the timing of any agreed debt tightened through rate rises and increasing reserve restructuring plan unclear.
Across the emerging requirements in the banking system, coupled with a regions, both growth and inflation are moderating.
dip in growth, prompted a sharp sell-off in the This has led to the first interest rate cuts in Turkey, Chinese equity market.
In India, rising interest rates Brazil and Russia.
Our focus is currently on the soto combat inflationary pressures also impacted called BRIC countries, Brazil, Russia, India and negatively on the market.
In the Pacific region equity China, where we see an attractive blend of lower markets generally outperformed but remain sensitive inflation, steady growth and cheap valuations.
12 British Assets Trust plc Corporate Bonds The corporate bond portfolio returned 0.8 per cent that changing soon, short term interest rates have over the year.
This compares with a positive total remained low.
Longer term yields also fell return of 2.1 per cent for investment grade bonds as significantly during the year as UK government measured by the Merrill Lynch All Sterling Non-Gilts bonds benefitted from their safe-haven status and Index and a negative total return of 7.1 per cent for in anticipation of more quantitative easing to combat high yield bonds as measured by the Merrill Lynch moribund economic growth.
European Currency High Yield Index.
The medium term prospect for corporate bonds remains favourable with the yield premium to The primary objective for the bond portfolio is, government bonds attractive.
Volatility, though, is however, to supplement the Companys income.
likely to persist and returns in the short term are This is achieved by investing in a diversified portfolio likely to depend on the nature of any solution found of bonds drawn from both investment grade and for the Eurozone sovereign debt crisis.
We aim to deliver a total return over time note, balance sheets of companies are much better which is comparable with the return we can expect positioned to withstand economic malaise than in from equities and above the cost of borrowing.
Three years on from the collapse of Lehman Corporate bond markets had a difficult year due to Brothers, financial companies have made much the ongoing problems in peripheral Eurozone progress in reshaping their balance sheets but this is countries.
Indeed, returns may have been much overshadowed by the extent of the crisis in worse were it not for a further fall in the interest peripheral countries.
The deleveraging and capital rates available on government bonds.
The UK rebuilding is likely to continue for many years as Monetary Policy Committee has not moved base fiscal austerity will hamper growth and prolong the rates since March 2009 and, with little prospect of process.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 13 Managers Review continued Outlook and, as a result of the broader slowdown, input As will have been gauged from reading the regional costs are subdued.
In addition, larger companies are reports, the direction of markets globally in the near successfully accessing the corporate bond market to term will be dictated by how politicians respond to refinance at lower costs than banking or equity the Eurozone sovereign credit and banking sector capital markets are currently charging.
issues rather than broader economic newsflow.
The question is how will companies utilise this Eurozone politicians have outlined a series of position?
They could embark on major programmes measures they intend to undertake, including a of capital investment to meet future demand, but recapitalisation of weaker banks, a significant this seems unlikely given the muted economic increase in the effective capacity of the European growth outlook described above and typically longFinancial Stability Facility and a proposed voluntary term payback periods.
An alternative route to market reduction of 50 per cent in the value of Greek share growth is through acquisitions and certainly we would expect to see ongoing M&A activity, bonds.
The challenge for them is now to enact all of although this is more likely to be of an incremental these measures in a timely and effective fashion.
nature rather than transformational or that dreaded The pressure for this to be achieved will be exerted word strategic nature.
by both the capital markets and the wider international financial community.
Importantly, we do expect increasing shareholder Whatever the outcome of the current debt crisis it returns through both buybacks and dividend growth.
would appear inevitable that European including the Dividend cover ratios are generally high and the UK economies are destined to experience well availability of cash in quality companies makes this below historic trend growth as the process of an obvious way for shareholders to be rewarded at governmental and personal deleveraging continues.
times of slower top line growth.
This is particularly The risks in the UK of a renewed recession have also important for our management of the Company.
increased as export growth, particularly to Europe, Since the year end we have made two changes of our key trading partner, has slowed.
The US is still asset allocation in order to pull forward the date at growing at a moderate pace, aided by ongoing which the Company should be able to earn more governmental and monetary policy stimulus the income, whilst maintaining the exposure to the real challenge of reducing federal deficits is still to be growth we expect in equity dividends.
The primary really addressed and will likely stay on hold until after change has been to move the Global ex UK the presidential elections in late 2012.
Our current exposure to a higher yielding portfolio.
We have also view is that the US will avoid recession but will somewhat reduced the direct exposure to emerging continue to grow at a slow pace with unemployment markets and increased the allocation to the higher well above the average.
Overall, emerging markets yielding UK market.
The international nature of the still exhibit better, if more volatile, economic growth UK market with around 70 per cent of revenues prospects in the medium to longer term.
generated outside of the UK enables us to access significant exposure to the somewhat better With this backdrop and whilst headline market earnings based valuations look very modest in a economic growth prospects of the US and emerging historic context, the risk is that these earnings economies to which we refer above.
In addition to expectations are too optimistic.
From our the impact on the Companys revenue account we perspective the market is therefore discounting the believe that, at a time when the near term outlook is likelihood of substantial reductions in these somewhat uncertain, this will also enhance near estimates of future profitability.
Despite this subdued economic outlook, companies are generally in good health and do have the Phil Doel financial capacity to invest in their businesses.
Investment Manager Margins are as high as they have been in recent F&C Investment Business Limited times, cashflows are strong, balance sheets robust 14 November 2011 14 British Assets Trust plc
