Board of Directors Lynn Ruddick ` Ian Russell ` Chairman was appointed in 2008.
He was appointed as a Director was formerly Chief Executive in 2004 and Chairman in of Scottish Power plc.
She is is currently non-executive Chairman of Fidelity Special Chairman of Johnston Press Values plc, a non-executive plc, Remploy Ltd, the Director of Blackrock Frontiers Investment Trust plc Advanced Power AG advisory board, and the and Standard Life UK Smaller Companies Trust plc, University of Edinburgh campaign board, a nona member of the Investment Committees of The executive director of British Polythene Industries plc, Pearson Group Pension Plan and Western Provident The Mercantile Investment Trust plc, and an adviser Association, Chairman of the WPA Pension Scheme to the Clyde Bergemann Power Group.
Board and a trustee of the Scottish & Newcastle Pension Scheme.
She was previously a Managing Jimmy West ` Director of Merrill Lynch Investment Managers where Senior Independent Director she headed the companys investment trust was appointed in 1995 and business unit.
was formerly a Managing Director of Lazard Brothers James Long ` and Co Ltd and Chief was appointed in 2006.
Executive of Lazard Asset He was formerly Director Management Ltd.
He is Chairman of New City High of Risk and Compliance Yield Fund Ltd and Canaccord Genuity Ltd, and a for AstraZeneca Europe, non-executive director of JPMorgan Income & Corporate Finance Director Capital Trust plc, Aberdeen Smaller Companies High of Inchcape plc and Income Trust plc and UK Select Trust plc.
He is Managing Director, Asia and Emerging Markets, for Chairman of Associated British Foods Pension Fund the ESAB Group.
He is Chairman of JPMorgan Ltd. Asian Investment Trust plc.
Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Management Engagement and James MacLeod ` Remuneration Committee Chairman of the Audit ` Member of the Nomination Committee Committee was appointed in 1998 and was a partner of Ernst & Young and its predecessor firms for 25 years until his retirement in 1998.
He is a non-executive director of Scottish Investment Trust plc and is a Chartered Accountant.
