06 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Investment Portfolio The top ten equity investments make up 46% of the portfolio with investments across a diverse range of sectors and regions.
Ten largest equity investments Company Vivendi A French telecommunications and media conglomerate that trades on a discount of over 25% Nature of business Media Company to the sum-of-its-parts.
Vivendi owns stakes in Cost 94.8m companies operating in the music, games, television, films and telecommunications industries.
Valuation 75.1m Valuation basis Market price % of total assets 9.86% Company Orkla A Norwegian conglomerate operating in the branded consumer goods, aluminium and energy sectors.
Nature of business Investment Holding Company A streamlining of the business may narrow the discount to estimated NAV which currently stands Cost 57.1m at 27%.
Valuation 51.2m Valuation basis Market price % of total assets 6.72% Company Jardine Strategic Holdings Jardine Strategic, controlled by Jardine Matheson, an investment vehicle for the Keswick family, trades Nature of business Investment Holding Company on a 34% discount to an attractive collection of Cost 6.5m Asian listed companies, including Hong Kong Land, Dairy Farm and Mandarin Oriental.
Valuation 40.3m Valuation basis Market price % of total assets 5.28% Company Investor AB A A Swedish industrial holding company that owns significant shareholdings in major public Nature of business Investment Holding Company multinational companies as well as private Cost 31.1m companies mostly in the healthcare sector.
Investor takes an active ownership role in many Valuation 34.6m of the companies and currently trades on a 31% Valuation basis Market price discount to estimated NAV.
% of total assets 4.54% Company Sofina A Belgian holding company that invests predominately in listed assets across a diverse range Nature of business Investment Holding Company of sectors.
The company currently trades on a 35% Cost 31.0m discount to estimated NAV.
Valuation 32.1m Valuation basis Market price % of total assets 4.21% 07 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Company Groupe Bruxelles Lambert The listed Belgian holding company of Albert Frre trades on a 24% discount to its NAV.
Its holdings Nature of business Investment Holding Company include French blue chip listed companies.
Cost 38.7m Valuation 31.2m Valuation basis Market price % of total assets 4.10% Company Jardine Matheson Holdings The other Singapore listed company in the Jardine control chain.
Jardine Matheson trades on a Nature of business Investment Holding Company discount of 20% and owns 81% of Jardine Strategic which, in turn, owns 53% of Jardine Matheson.
Cost 9.5m Jardine Strategic has the higher discount but Valuation 26.2m Jardine Matheson is more liquid with a higher Valuation basis Market price dividend yield.
% of total assets 3.44% Company Aker ASA A A Norwegian conglomerate whose interests range from oil and gas exploration to seafood processing.
Nature of business Investment Holding Company The company currently trades on a 32% discount Cost 27.6m to estimated NAV.
Valuation 22.6m Valuation basis Market price % of total assets 2.96% Company Yamana Gold A gold producer which has operating mines in Brazil, Chile and Argentina.
The company currently trades Nature of business Mining Company at a 31% discount to its global peers.
Cost 14.4m Valuation 19.0m Valuation basis Market price % of total assets 2.49% Company Deutsche Wohnen A German property company which develops, rents and sells properties.
It is Germanys second largest Nature of business Real Estate Company listed residential property company and trades on a Cost 16.4m 16% discount to estimated NAV.
Valuation 17.6m Valuation basis Market price % of total assets 2.31%
