08 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Investment Managers Review During the year, the Companys NAV decreased by 10.3%, compared with a decrease of 4.6% in the benchmark Morningstar Global Growth Index both on a total return basis.
While the results are disappointing, value investing as a strategy has produced outperformance of equity markets over the long term and there is significant value in the underlying value of our investments at present.
British Empire is managed by Asset Value Investors Limited aims to deliver superior returns while minimising risks and specialises in securities that for a number of reasons may be selling on anomalous valuations.
AVIs investment philosophy is to: Invest in companies trading on discounts to their Net Asset Value NAV Identify good quality underlying assets with appreciation potential at compelling valuations Focus on balance sheet strength Look for catalysts to narrow discounts Focus on bottom up stock picking: Be willing to hold cash if investments do not meet our criteria.
Over the long-term, each of AVIs funds has significantly outperformed its respective benchmark index.
Throughout a period of economic uncertainty and very volatile markets, your Board has continued to focus with the Manager on the Companys core investment approach in seeking to acquire investments at a discount to underlying value and where there is a realistic prospect of such value being realised over time.
There is a substantial store of value in the Companys underlying investments and, notwithstanding market volatility, we remain confident that this approach will continue to produce, over the long term, John Pennink good returns for shareholders.
Chief Executive Officer of Asset Value Investors Limited, is a Chartered Financial Analyst CFA and the Fund Manager responsible for the British Empire Securities and General Trust portfolio.
Atlas Copco, held by Investor AB, is a global leader in manufacturing compressors, air treatment systems, construction and mining equipment.
The company has benefitted from the continued Chinese appetite for raw materials as they manufacture equipment for both surface and underground mining.
09 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Overview The near-term outlook for financial markets is impossible to predict as politicians, central bankers and financial players will all have an influence on the outcome.
Despite this lack of visibility in the short-run, the long-term prognosis is getting better as valuations are declining.
Eventually, stability will return to markets and, when it does, the quality of the investments which we have made should stand us in good stead.
10 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Investment Managers Review Portfolio review One of the investments Groupe Bruxelles Lambert GBL holds is Pernod Ricard, the drinks manufacturer.
Pernod Ricards brands include Jacobs Creek wine, Beefeater gin and Chivas Regal whisky.
11 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 The financial crisis is very much still with us three years after the failure of Lehman Brothers.
The crisis is a moveable feast that has encompassed banks, the consumer, money market funds and now sovereign borrowers.
The fundamental problem is the build-up of unsustainable levels of debt in much of the developed world and the concomitant realisation that a significant portion of these debts will not be paid back in full.
Thus, there is interminable political wrangling over just where the inevitable losses will be felt.
There are no painless Yamana Gold Inc. is an intermediate gold producer with production, solutions and, in our view, a period of slower growth and lower development stage, and exploration standards of living in many developed countries is the likely result.
Like many gold miners, the companys share The uncertain economic and political environment has naturally had price has so far failed to keep up with a negative effect on the equity markets.
There has been a lack of the rising bullion price.
confidence amongst investors which accelerated into the year-end, resulting in a very significant widening of the discounts on our underlying equity investments.
The weighted average discount one year ago was 23% and it is now 39%.
This widening of discounts meant that we could not avoid underperformance against our benchmark even though we estimate that there was a healthy increase in the underlying value of our portfolio during the year.
Value investing as a strategy has produced outperformance of equity indices over time by focusing attention on valuations and buying assets cheaply.
Now would appear to be one of those times when extreme uncertainty and risk aversion allow us to buy certain equities at a very good price.
This should set us up well for the long run.
The difficulty is that no-one can accurately predict the pattern of returns and cheap assets can get even cheaper in the short-term.
That is what has occurred in the latter part of this past year.
We invested half of our net liquidity during the year in companies with attractive valuations but this worked to our disadvantage in the short term, as markets fell and discounts widened.
The near-term outlook for financial markets is impossible to predict as politicians, central bankers and financial players will all have an influence on the outcome.
The discounts on our underlying investments are as wide as they have ever been and this should help to drive future returns when confidence returns.
We cannot control the timing of the returns which we expect but an encouraging factor in a difficult year has been the growth in our income received from our portfolio companies.
In an era of low yields on cash and government bonds, our income increased by over 30% over the past year.
A portion of the cash invested last year has gone to higher yielding equities.
Liquidity is 12.1%, compared with 20.2% as at the previous year end, including cash and government bonds.
The Companys shares were trading on a discount of 8.6% as at the end of the financial year.
12 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Investment Managers Review Portfolio review Portfolio Review The estimated weighted average discount on the portfolio is now 39% versus 23% one year ago.
European Investment Holding Companies 35.9% Weighted average discounts on the European holding companies we own have widened to 38% from 33% one year ago.
In general share prices fell by more than the fall in NAVs and thus discounts have widened.
Notable exceptions include Pargesa and Exor SpA Preference shares, both of which were sold during the year on narrowing discounts.
In other cases, we have used share price declines to add to positions.
One example of a company we have been adding to is Orkla 6.7% in Norway.
This is a conglomerate whose main business is branded consumer goods in the Nordic region.
Its other assets include an aluminium profile business, an interest in a listed solar energy company, a chemical business and a portfolio of financial investments.
Over the past 12 months the share price has been trading at a wider than average discount to our estimate of the sum of the parts value of the various businesses, which has frustrated investors and management alike.
We were able to accumulate our shareholding at low multiples to earnings and a relatively high dividend yield of circa 5%.
In an attempt to narrow the discount at which the stock trades, management announced in September 2011 that it would seek to divest all non-core assets.
This will see the company transform itself into a pure-play branded consumer goods company, and thereby eliminate the conglomerate discount which exists today.
The process While Orkla has an eclectic portfolio of streamlining the business has already begun and in November the of assets that includes REC, company will pay out a special dividend to shareholders with the a Norwegian company involved in intention of making the capital structure more efficient.
As further asset the solar power industry, its strategy sales are made over the next couple of years it is likely that further of selling non-core assets to focus capital will be returned to shareholders.
on its core branded goods business should see its conglomerate The core branded consumer goods business is a market leader in the discount disappear over time.
geographic areas in which it operates.
It has proven to be a stable and cash generative business.
As a focused company, we would expect the business to be more highly valued by the market.
Management Deutsche Wohnen is one of Germanys leading listed have demonstrated a proactive approach to unlocking the value in the residential property companies.
conglomerate structure and we are confident that over the next few The fundamentals of the Berlin years, as non-core assets are disposed, shareholders will be well residential housing market, where rewarded.
much of Deutsche Wohnens portfolio is located, remain Asian Investment Holding Companies 14.1% very strong.
The weighted average discount on the Asian holding companies which we own is 44%, compared to 32% a year ago.
Share price moves within this segment of the portfolio were far more sedate than they have been in the past couple of years.
However, strong performance during the first nine months of the year allowed us to take substantial profits on part of our holdings in the two Jardine companies at a time when discounts had begun to narrow and the valuations of the underlying business were less compelling than they had been.
13 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Since the opening of the first Mandarin Oriental hotel in Hong Kong in 1963, the company has grown its franchise and now consists of 27 operational hotels spanning the globe from Jakarta pictured to Munich.
Jardine Strategic Holdings owns 74% of Mandarin Oriental.
14 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Investment Managers Review Portfolio review Swire Pacific 1.9% is one of the oldest and largest Asian listed Portfolio value by geography conglomerates which is currently trading on a 42% discount to its net 2011 2010 asset value.
%% The companys largest division, by assets, is property where it owns Continental Europe 48.12 41.01 high quality office, retail and residential properties in central Hong Asia Pacific 17.35 18.87 Kong.
The group also has three significant investment properties in Canada US 10.50 6.13 China.
In May, Taikoo Hui, a 3.8 million square foot mixed-use United Kingdom 5.71 5.73 development in Guangzhou, began trading.
Swire Pacific recently Japan 3.60 4.40 monetised part of its property portfolio by agreeing to sell Festival EMEA 2.60 3.63 Walk in July for HK$18.8bn which resulted in a HK$8.6bn profit for Liquidity 12.12 20.23 the group.
Excluding the Festival Walk sale, the property division is performing strongly as a result of high occupancy rates currently 100% for Hong Kong malls and continued office rental growth.
Swire Pacific has significant exposure to aviation with its long term holding in Cathay Pacific, which it recently increased to 44%, Portfolio value by market capitalisation along with its holding in HAECO, the Hong Kong based aviation 2011 2010 maintenance company.
Despite the macro headwinds, the core %% business remains robust as demand for premium class travel to Asia 1 billion 32.88 25.65 remains high.
1 billion & 5 billion 11.41 21.68 5 billion & 10 billion 23.00 11.22 The Marine services division of Swire Pacific has a fleet of 75 vessels 10 billion 20.59 21.22 with the intention to grow this division to 102 vessels by 2015 with an emphasis on vessels that are designed to operate in deep water where future demand is expected.
The group also has a trading and industrial division whose diverse activities include paints, motors, clothing and sugar.
Portfolio value by sector 2011 2010 The company is conservatively managed and after the recent sale of %% Festival Walk, total borrowings will be reduced to approximately 10% of the groups assets.
The company has recently announced its Investment Holding Companies 50.01 49.48 intention to create a new listed vehicle for the groups property assets.
Mining & Resources 12.82 8.52 Investment Trusts and Funds 5.6% Other 12.10 9.62 We have continued to reduce our weighting in investment trusts as Real Estate Companies 7.41 6.93 value, in terms of wide discounts combined with high quality assets, Investment Companies 5.54 5.22 has been harder to find.
We have had success however, in finding Liquidity 12.12 20.23 value within the listed private equity sector and currently hold two investments, Electra Private Equity 0.8% and Pantheon 1.5%.
Pantheon is a London-listed investment trust, investing in a diversified portfolio of private equity funds.
The company has Ordinary and Redeemable share classes, both of which are owned by your portfolio, and trade on discounts of 45% and 43% respectively.
15 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 The portfolio has conservative levels of gearing by private equity SOCO International, though, had a disappointment earlier in the year standards.
Approximately 40% of investments are in venture and when they struggled to find significant oil in the Te Giac Den TGD growth funds that typically carry little or no leverage.
The remaining field, contrary to seismic data.
Despite this setback the company is 60% is allocated to buyout fund and direct investments: while these keen to explore this field further and the management has recently often carry leverage, the weighted average debt EBITDA multiple announced a new drilling program for this area.
of 3.7x of the top 50 buyout funds direct investments is low both compared to peers and by historical levels.
At the company level, SOCO International has also begun a series of exploration wells in Pantheon recently undertook a non-dilutive equity-for-debt swap to the coastal basin off Congo.
Initial seismic data estimate a potential fide-gear its balance sheet and simplify its capital structure.
The Company also has drilling concessions in The Democratic Republic of Congo and Uganda Like many of its private equity peers, the slow-down in both which will be explored in due course.
realisations and new investments during the financial downturn has left Pantheon with a significantly more mature portfolio than has been the Other 12.1% case historically, with 70% of its portfolio being of a vintage 5 years or Vivendi 9.9% is our largest single investment and one to which we greater.
This presents increasing opportunities for realisations, which have added substantially during the year.
Its discount to our estimate customarily are made at prices which add to NAV.
While market of the sum of the parts value of its various businesses has risen from volatility may stymie realisations through IPOs, cash-rich corporate 25% last year to over 40% currently.
At the same time the company balance sheets make trade sales a good exit opportunity and provide remains committed to increasing its dividend which could see the validation of both the reported NAV and the conservative valuation yield on the stock increase from its present level of just under 9%.
policy used to mark investment holdings.
In a further reflection of the In addition to trading at this exceedingly attractive dividend yield level, maturity of the portfolio, earnings growth has been strong at the other valuation measures are equally compelling: for example, Vivendi underlying company level.
trades at approximately 7 times its 2011 earnings.
The collection of businesses in the telecoms, media and computer games sectors Alongside many other listed private equity funds of funds, Pantheon combine to create a company with defensive and stable earnings that suffered during the financial crisis due to concerns over its ability to appear to be undervalued by the market.
By June 2011, however, cash balances and funds available from its undrawn credit facility covered Management have been active in attempting to create a structure that its undrawn commitments by 3.9x.
does not warrant such a large conglomerate discount.
A 12.3% stake in NBC Universal was sold and the proceeds were used to fund part Pantheon's discount to NAV is very wide by historical standards and of the acquisition of Vodafones minority interest in SFR, leaving recent share buybacks indicate management's recognition of the value Vivendi with an ownership of 100%.
Further share buybacks in inherent in the portfolio.
Once sentiment turns back in favour of the Activision Blizzard boosted ownership to 63% and the company listed private equity sector and the market accepts that concerns remains in discussion with Lagardere over the 20% of Canal Plus not regarding over-commitments are no longer as valid, we expect the owned by Vivendi.
We would have expected these measures to have company to be re-rated and trade at a narrower discount than most boosted sentiment towards the stock but instead it has continued to peers given its impressive performance track record.
We see tremendous value in this company and whilst we wait for the market to recognise it, we are being paid a substantial Resources 12.8% dividend.
SOCO International 2.0% has developed over the year to become both an exploration company and significant oil producer.
Net Liquidity 12.1% Our liquidity position is held mainly in government bonds in the UK and After two years of planning, the company commenced production the US and was reduced from 20.2% a year ago.
in August and on time, on the Te Giac Trang TGT field which is based off Vietnam.
The aim is to increase production over the next Geographic Profile few months with the intention of targeting 70,000 barrels per day.
Gross Assets of 762m were distributed on a look-through basis Seismic data suggests that this field contains approximately as follows: Continental Europe 50.6%, UK 5.7%, Asia Pacific 17.4%, 87 million barrels of oil.
Outlook There is a paradox at the moment between the extremely As and when opportunities present themselves at compelling challenging and difficult political and economic environment and valuations, we will continue to invest our cash.
At some point, the attractiveness of the valuations on many individual listed these valuations should be recognised by the market and stocks equities.
We believe the lack of confidence has led to a market in should be re-rated.
Further, wide discounts should eventually which there are bargains to be found.
Mindful of the risks, we are attract corporate activity as confidence returns.
Annual capital trying to find equities that feature a defensive earnings profile, returns on British Empire have been uneven in the past and now strong balance sheets and a high dividend yield.
As described when discounts are at their widest is not, in our view, the time above, this has already produced a higher income return to the to abandon our approach.
We feel confident that todays low Company.
In addition, as forecasting short term movements valuations will translate into good returns for our shareholders against such a volatile background seems unwise, we believe in the future.
that it makes sense to buy equities when they are good value in spite of the difficult macro-economic environment.
