26 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2011 Governance Directors report continued Statement of directors responsibilities Going concern The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and The companys and groups business activities, together with the the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and factors likely to affect its future development, performance and regulations.
position are set out in the Chief Executives report on pages 4 to 6 and the investment review on pages 8 to 16.
The financial Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements position of the company and group, its cash flows, liquidity position for each financial year.
Under that law, the directors are required and borrowing facilities are described in the financial review on pages to prepare the group financial statements in accordance with 17 to 18.
In addition, note 21 to the financial statements includes the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by companys and groups objectives, policies and processes for managing the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also capital, financial risk management objectives, details of financial chosen to prepare the parent company financial statements under instruments and hedging activities, and exposures to currency risk, IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
Under company law, the directors must interest rate risk, price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the The company and group have cash resources and committed profit or loss of the company for that period.
In preparing these bank facilities available to meet existing and new investment financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 commitments.
As a consequence, the directors believe that requires that directors: the company and group are well placed to manage business risks successfully.
properly select and apply accounting policies The directors have a reasonable expectation that the company present information, including accounting policies, in a manner and group have adequate resources to continue in operational that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue information to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific and accounts.
requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to Auditors understand the impact of particular transactions, other events Resolutions will be proposed at the annual general meeting to and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors of the company and to authorise performance the directors to agree their remuneration.
A description of how make an assessment of the companys ability to continue as the Audit Committee ensures the objectivity and independence a going concern.
of the auditors is set out on page 28 within the corporate governance report.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions The directors who held office at the date of approval of this directors report confirm that, so far as each is aware, there is no relevant and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that the financial audit information of which the companys auditors are unaware and statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the By order of the board companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing Graeme Denison the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may Secretary differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
25 May 2011 Directors statement of responsibility We confirm that, to the best of our knowledge: the management report, which is incorporated into the directors report, includes a fair review of the development and performance the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs of the business and the position of the company and the underas adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of takings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole Signed on behalf of the board by: Will Wyatt Stephen King Chief Executive Finance Director 25 May 2011 25 May 2011
