22 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2011 Governance Board of directors 1 James Loudon 3 Stephen King Chairman Finance Director Having served as a non-executive director of After qualifying as a chartered accountant, Caledonia since 1995 and Non-Executive Deputy he held senior financial positions with Lonhro, Chairman since 2001, he was appointed Chairman Lucas Industries, Seeboard and was Group in December 2008.
He is also Chairman of the Finance Director of Midlands Electricity before Nomination Committee.
He was Group Finance his appointment as Group Finance Director of Director of Blue Circle Industries from 1987 to 2001, fide La Rue from 2003 to March 2009.
He joined a non-executive director of Lafarge Malayan Cement Caledonia as Finance Director in December 2009. from 1989 to 2004 and a non-executive director of He is a non-executive director of Bristow Group James Hardie Industries NV from 2002 to 2008. and also of Weir Group, where he is Chairman He is Vice Chairman and Treasurer of Canterbury of the Audit Committee.
Cathedral Trust and Chairman of Finance of Kent, 4 The Hon Charles Cayzer Surrey and Sussex Air Ambulance.
Executive Director 2 Will Wyatt Having gained experience of merchant banking, Chief Executive commercial banking and corporate and project He joined the Caledonia group in 1997 from Close finance with Baring Brothers, Cayzer Irvine and Brothers Corporate Finance, working at Sterling Cayzer Ltd, he was appointed a director of Caledonia Industries before transferring to Caledonias head in 1985.
He is Chairman of Easybox, Edinmore and office in 1999 as an investment executive.
He was The Sloane Club and a non-executive director of appointed an associate director in 2002, a director Eredene Capital, London & Stamford Property and in 2005 and Chief Executive in July 2010.
He is a Quintain Estates & Development.
Age 54. non-executive director of Avanti Communications 5 Jamie Cayzer-Colvin Group, Cobepa, Melrose Resources, Real Estate Executive Director Investors, Terrace Hill, TGE Marine and Chairman He joined the Caledonia group in 1995, initially of Sterling Industries.
Age 43. working at its Amber specialty chemicals subsidiary before becoming an investment executive at Caledonia in 1999.
He was appointed an associate director in 2002 and a director in 2005.
He is a non-executive director of Celerant Consulting, Close Brothers Group, The Henderson Smaller Companies Investment Trust, India Capital Growth Fund and Polar Capital Holdings.
1 2 3 4 5 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Governance Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2011 23 6 John May 9 Richard Goblet dAlviella Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed an executive director of Caledonia in A Belgian national, he was appointed a non- 2003, he worked for the Hambros Group for over executive director of Caledonia in 2005 and is a 20 years until 1999, where he was an executive member of the Audit Committee.
He is Executive director of Hambros Bank and Joint Managing Chairman of Sofina, a quoted Belgian financial Director of Hambro Countrywide.
He then ran his holding company, where he has been a board own private equity investment and consultancy member since 1982, prior to which he was a business.
He is Chairman of Amber Chemicals and a managing director of the Paine Webber Group with non-executive director of Begbies Traynor, Bristow a background in international investment banking Group, British Empire Securities, Oval and Satellite in London and New York.
He is a non-executive Information Services.
Age 56. director of Group Danone, Delhaize and Eurazeo, in which Sofina has interests.
7 Charles Allen-Jones Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 10 Charles Gregson Appointed a non-executive director of Caledonia Non-Executive Director in 2001, he is Chairman of the Audit and Governance Appointed a non-executive director of Caledonia Committees and a member of the Nomination and in September 2009, he is a member of the Audit, Remuneration Committees.
He was a partner of Governance, Nomination and Remuneration the international law firm, Linklaters, for 33 years, Committees.
He has spent his career at United including five years as Senior Partner until his Business Media and its predecessor companies retirement in 2001.
He is also a non-executive in a number of divisional and head office roles, director of Hongkong Land Holdings and Jardine most recently as Chief Executive Officer of US Strategic Holdings, a member of the Financial headquartered, PR Newswire.
He is also Chairman Reporting Review Panel and Vice-Chairman of the of ICAP and a non-executive director of CPPGroup, Council of the Royal College of Art.
Age 71. International Personal Finance and St Jamess Place.
8 Mark Davies Non-Executive Director 11 David Thompson Appointed a non-executive director of Caledonia Non-Executive Director in 2002, he is Chairman of the Remuneration Appointed a non-executive director of Caledonia Committee and a member of the Governance in 2003, he is a member of the Audit, Governance, and Nomination Committees.
He founded Inter Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Commodities in 1972, became Chief Executive He is Chairman of Marstons, having served as its of Gerrard Group in 1995 and was an executive Managing Director from 1986 to 2001, and is also director of Old Mutual Financial Services UK a non-executive director of Persimmon.
He is currently Chief Executive of Fleming Family & Partners.
