Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Business review Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2011 15 Funds investments pool The Funds pool contains investments in collective We invested $13.0m 8.5m of a $20.0m investment vehicles, other than in Asia, including commitment in Perlus Microcap, a fund managed listed and unlisted investment companies, private by Perlus Investment Management and investing equity and hedge funds.
Our objective in using fund in global principally US publicly-traded structures is to access exceptional managers and to micro-cap companies.
seek exposure to geographies where we may have During 2010, Greenhill Capital Partners raised their limited experience, such as North America.
third fund and we committed $20m at its first close.
During the year, we realised 32.5m from the sale Since 2000, we have invested $27m in their first two of part of our holding in British Empire Securities, funds, which so far have provided a net IRR of 35% the UK listed investment trust, taking advantage and a net return on investment of some 2.0x.
of the opportunity to reduce our holding in a strong The Funds pool performance of 10.2% derived market and at an attractively narrow discount to mainly from a 13.8m increase in the value of net asset value.
This company has been a strong British Empire Securities.
long term performer in our portfolio and remains a core investment.
We realised 29.2m on the redemption of most of our investment in the Eddington Capital fund of hedge funds, which was closed due to the lack of critical mass in assets under management.
We realised 13.6m on the redemption of two Polar Capital funds, as they came out of their seed periods.
2 % Pool performance over the year to 31 March 2011 16% of NAV at 31 March 2011 2010 21% Top investments Income recognised in the year Equity Residual First held Revenue Capital cost Value Pool Name Business Geography invested % m m m m % British Empire 1,2 Securities Investment trust UK 1991 13.0 2.0 13.8 11.7 103.3 52.0 3 Nova Springboard Private equity fund UK 2005 1.5 13.6 24.2 12.2 Pragma Investment funds France 2006 0.5 11.8 13.4 6.7 1.
Also a management company shareholding and board representation.
16 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2011 Business review Investment review continued Income and Growth investments pool The Income and Growth pool contains investments The overall target gross yield of the pool is 4.5%, focussing on yield and capital appreciation from which is at the upper end of most global income worldwide markets.
These investments are typically and growth funds achieved results.
large cap listed equities, represent smaller stakes Stock selection will be firmly value orientated than our significant minority investments and are and in line with Caledonias disciplined investment therefore more liquid.
Such investments are process, looking for entry at a fair or better typically multinational in nature and will therefore price and selecting names with very prudent also provide us with an increased look-through balance sheet leverage and strong free cash flow exposure to world markets.
The Income and Growth characteristics.
In terms of geography, the UK, pool will expect to comprise 35 to 45 investments.
US, Canada, Australia, northern Europe and The Income and Growth pool has been created with Scandinavia are all natural areas for a conservative three purposes in mind.
First, to create a globally global income and growth fund to be investing.
diversified, but focussed, portfolio of dividend Some diversification into Asia, Brazil and China paying companies.
Second, to achieve an income is also achievable, but India lacks good higher from the portfolio that is significant enough to make yielding companies.
a positive contribution to the overall dividend In terms of the timing of establishment of the pool, income that Caledonia receives and to contribute the opportunity to move out of cash into stock towards its own distributions.
The third aim is to markets, which are trading at valuations around achieve growth, both in the operating businesses their long term averages, looks a sensible invested in, and also the stream of dividends proposition and the desired yields are obtainable.
received, the latter of which correlates very highly The investment process will be a gradual one, with good investment returns.
Companies with high with thorough stock selection and company visits returns on equity, that grow book value per share, covering the geography of the investments as are those that are likely to pass the screening a key part of the process.
Selecting stocks for process and be eligible for more fundamental income inevitably means that, to realise that assessment of the business prospects and the income, holding periods need to be reasonably management team.
Good corporate governance long and the margin of safety to do that is is very important to Caledonia particularly for embedded within the process.
A gradual start investments outside the UK.
has been made, first in the UK and European markets since late March 2011, and we look forward to reporting in more detail at the half-year the progress on constructing a globally diversified portfolio of above average and growing dividend yielding companies.
