Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Business review Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2011 7 Investment model Our investment model has been successfully It is based on maintaining and developing developed and deployed over many years to our extensive network, carefully filtering the demonstrate both a growing long term store investment opportunities that arise from our of wealth and income.
contacts and an active monitoring of investment performance and value.
Attract preferential deal flow Develop Identify business best network opportunities The Caledonia team Manage Invest in and support significant investees stakes Attract preferential deal flow Manage and support investees Our reputation, network of deal originators and We manage our investments as pools of capital, family tradition enables us to access premium focussing ownership and responsibility to our investment opportunities not always available executive team.
Through a board seat, we can both to others.
This derives from both tracking quality actively monitor the development of our investment management teams in proven businesses and and provide long term support and governance.
through the contacts we make through our Develop business network extensive board representation network.
Maintaining our reputation as a supportive and Identify best opportunities constructively involved long term investor enables We seek businesses with established business us to develop our network of contacts who will give models, strong cash flows and proven management us priority consideration when new deal teams.
Such opportunities are not reliant on opportunities arise.
leverage for returns and offer long term The Caledonia team growth potential.
At its heart, our investment process is focussed on Invest in significant stakes recruiting and retaining high quality investment We invest directly in both quoted and unquoted executives to maintain deal flow and investment opportunities across the world where the continuity, who understand and are able to execute opportunity exists to invest a meaningful Caledonias investment philosophy.
proportion of the equity base for an investment size of between 20m and 50m.
We expect to take stakes of 10% or more.
