30 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2011 Governance Corporate governance report continued Each board meeting includes a standing agenda item on conflicts Specific control procedures are in place to ensure that the company of interest to ensure that directors disclose any new potential continually monitors and complies with the requirements for conflict situations.
These are then reviewed, if necessary also investment trust status.
The board receives monthly compliance by the Governance Committee, and authorised by the board as reports evidencing that the company is meeting the various tests appropriate.
A register of directors conflicts of interest is for investment trust status and also confirming that the investment maintained by the Company Secretary and reviewed annually activities undertaken by executive management are within the policy by the Governance Committee.
A Compliance Committee, comprising the Company Secretary Chairman, the Finance Director, the three Internal control associate directors with responsibility for tax, treasury and finance The board has overall responsibility for the groups systems of risk and the Group Financial Controller Risk Manager, meets weekly management and internal control, although the detailed review of to review the companys ongoing compliance with its investment risk management procedures and internal controls is delegated to trust status and to review and approve all investment activity the Audit Committee.
The groups system of internal control is from an investment trust compliance perspective.
The Compliance designed to manage, rather than eliminate, risk of failure to achieve Committee also monitors the potential impact of legal and business objectives.
It is recognised that such a system can only regulatory reforms.
provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The board confirms that the system of internal Financial performance is continuously measured by comparing total control operated by the group accords with the Turnbull Guidance shareholder returns and net asset value movements against the FTSE 2005 and has been in place throughout the year and up to the date All-Share index.
Performance statistics are reported monthly to the of approval of these financial statements.
Income and expenses are monitored by the board against an approved annual budget and regularly updated forecasts.
Valuations The board monitors the key risks facing the company through a of unlisted investments are subject to a rigorous six monthly review risk dashboard maintained by the Finance Director, which identifies process undertaken by a Challenge Committee independent of the the significant business risks to which the company is exposed at relevant investment executives, whose meetings are also attended any particular time broadly categorised under company strategy, by the Chairman of the Audit Committee and auditors, and a selection market risk, operational risk, financial risk and subsidiary company of valuations are then reviewed by the Audit Committee.
Where risk and the controls and monitoring procedures in place to appropriate, adjustments are made to the valuations of unlisted mitigate these, together with any outstanding actions and progress investments on a monthly basis.
All new investment activity and undertaken in relation thereto.
Each risk is scored according to disposals are subject to formal approval by an Approvals Committee potential impact and likelihood, from which an overall risk factor comprising the Chairman, the executive directors and the is derived and compared against a target score, with changes in the Company Secretary.
risk assessment continuously updated by way of an agenda item at the weekly meetings of the Investment Management Committee.
Since the year end, the directors have concluded their annual review The risk dashboard is formally reviewed in detail by the Audit of the operation and effectiveness of the groups system of internal Committee and then by the board on a six monthly basis.
No material control failings or weaknesses were identified.
Major business risks facing group and key investee companies Relations with shareholders are identified and assessed by local management and procedures The company welcomes dialogue with institutional shareholders are agreed to address these as appropriate.
The boards of these in order to achieve a mutual understanding of objectives.
The Chief companies review business risk and controls regularly to ensure Executive and the Finance Director seek meetings with larger the system of risk management operates effectively.
Caledonias institutional shareholders and private client stockbrokers after investment executives then confirm, through Caledonias Risk the announcement of year end and half-year results.
The Senior Manager, to the Audit Committee that the system of risk Independent Non-Executive Director attends some of these meetings.
management is operating effectively for these group companies The annual general meeting also provides a forum for shareholders and key investments.
to meet the directors, both formally and informally.
Key investment and market risks identified are regularly monitored The Chairmen of all of the boards committees will be available to at company level by members of the Investment Management answer questions at the annual general meeting of the company.
Committee, who have clear mandates to assess and report on risk in their particular areas of responsibility.
All of the companys significant investments are reviewed at least annually by the board and the smaller portfolio holdings reviewed at least annually by the Investment Management Committee.
The Risk Manager produces reports for the Audit Committee on specific risk areas as and when requested.
