Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Business review Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2011 21 Valuation methodology Investments are measured at the directors estimate appropriate, including the ability of Caledonia to of fair value at the reporting date, in accordance effect change in the company and risks associated with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and with holding an unlisted share.
Fair value is the amount for which an Maintainable earnings balance reliability asset could be exchanged between knowledgeable, and relevance.
Generally, the latest historical willing parties in an arms length transaction.
accounts are used unless reliable forecast results for the current year are available.
Earnings are Publicly traded securities adjusted where appropriate for exceptional or Investments listed in an active market are valued non-recurring items and an average of more at their bid price on the reporting date.
When a bid than one years earnings may be used to better price is unavailable, the price of the most recent estimate maintainable earnings for cyclical or transaction will normally be used.
Unlisted companies Net assets Unlisted company investments are valued by The net assets methodology is likely to be appropriate applying an appropriate valuation technique, which for a business whose value derives mainly from the makes maximum use of market-based information, underlying value of its assets rather than its earnings, is consistent with models generally used by market such as a property holding company and an participants and is applied consistently from period investment business.
It may also be appropriate for to period, except where a change would result in a a business that is not making an adequate return on better estimation of fair value.
assets and for which a greater value can be realised The value of an unlisted company investment is by liquidating the business and selling its assets.
generally crystallised through the sale or flotation A third party valuation may be used to give the of the entire business, rather than the sale of an fair value of a certain asset or group of assets.
Therefore, the estimation of Fund interests fair value is based on the assumed realisation of the Fund interests refer to participations in underlying business at the reporting date, based on arrangements to create a designated pool of the International Private Equity and Venture Capital capital to invest in a wider range of assets than Valuation Guidelines September 2009.
Recognition is feasible for an individual investor and to share is given to the uncertainties inherent in estimating the costs and benefits.
the fair value of unlisted companies and appropriate caution is applied in exercising judgments and Open-ended funds, including investment companies making the necessary estimates.
with variable capital, typically report regular net asset values, which usually provide a reliable Enterprise value is normally determined using one basis to estimate fair value.
If the price reported of the following valuation methodologies: by the fund is not available at the reporting date, Price of recent investment the latest available price is used and may be Where the investment being valued was recently adjusted to take account of changes or events acquired or a recent transaction has taken place, to the reporting date.
its cost or transaction price will generally provide Closed-ended funds include unlisted investment a good indication of fair value.
This methodology companies and limited partnerships.
For these is likely to be appropriate only for a limited period investments, the fair value estimate is based on after the date of the relevant transaction.
a summation of the estimated fair value of the Multiples underlying investments.
Fund manager valuation This methodology involves the application of an reports may be used where there is evidence that earnings multiple to the maintainable earnings of the valuation is derived using fair value principles the business and is likely to be appropriate for an and may be adjusted to take account of changes or investment in an established business with an events to the reporting date.
Adjustment may also identifiable stream of continuing earnings.
be necessary for features of the fund agreement not captured in the valuation report, such as The earnings multiple used is determined by performance fees or carried interest.
reference to market-based multiples appropriate for the business and correlating to the period and Other investments calculation of earnings of the company being valued.
Other investments include preference shares, loan The aim is to identify comparator companies that notes or facilities, options, warrants and treasury are similar in terms of risk and growth prospects instruments that are not publicly traded and do not to the company being valued.
Earnings multiples form part of an investment in an unlisted company.
are adjusted for points of difference between the For such investments, appropriate valuation comparator and the company being valued where techniques are adopted and used consistently.
