6 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Portfolio Managers Report FTSE All-Share Index 4% Capped from 30 June 2010 to Job Curtis 30 June 2011 rebased to 100 Investment Background 130 During the 12 month period under review, the UK equity 120 market, as measured by the FTSE All-Share 4% Capped Index, produced a total return of 25.9%.
These gains were skewed 110 towards the second half of 2010 where the return was 22.1% as equities responded well to strong global economic growth 100 led by emerging markets, such as China.
Growth in developed economies, including the UK, was relatively pedestrian.
90 Commodities reacted to the overall strength of demand with, 80 for example, the Brent Crude oil price rising by 24% over the J J A S O N D J F M A M J FTSE All Share Capped 4% Price Index six months.
Source: Datastream In the first half of 2011, the UK equity market produced a US Dollar rate against Sterling Price Index from more modest return of 3.0%.
The rise in petrol, food and 30 June 2010 to 30 June 2011 utility prices and the increase in VAT from 17.5% to 20.0%, 1.70 led to a rise in inflation as well as a further squeeze on the 1.65 spending power of heavily indebted UK consumers.
Given a slowdown in growth for the economy and low level of wage 1.60 increases, the Bank of Englands Monetary Policy Committee 1.55 decided to ignore the rise in inflation and kept the base rate at the historic low of 0.5%.
Overseas, worries about the 1.50 solvency of some of the countries in the Eurozone grew.
1.45 During the 12 months, sterling rose against the US dollar from 1.40 1.50 to 1.61.
Some 33% of the Companys dividend income J J A S O N D J F M A M J Source: Datastream from Royal Dutch Shell, HSBC and BHP Billiton, which all declare dividends in US dollars, had been hedged in the Base Rates, 10 year UK Government & FTSE All-Share Index previous year at 1.44.
4% Capped Yields from 30 June 2010 to 30 June 2011 4.5 A welcome feature of the year has been the return to 4.0 dividend growth from companies as profits have recovered.
3.5 The average increase in the dividend rate of companies in 3.0 which City of London has shares was 5.0% compared with 2.5 last year.
If BP and special dividends are excluded, the increase 2.0 would have been 8.4%.
1.5 Given the dividend growth being delivered from companies in 1.0 the portfolio, equities appeared to offer good value relative to 0.5 the yields available in fixed interest during the 12 month 0.0 J J A S O N D J F M A M J period.
As a result, gearing was maintained in a range of Source: Datastream FTSE All-Share Index 4% Capped Price Index UK Clearing Banks Base Rate UK Government Bond Series 10 Year between 8% and 12%.
The facility with HSBC was drawn Middle Rate Red.
Yield The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 7 Portfolio Managers Report continued down to take advantage of opportunities to a maximum of natural beneficiary of the rise in the oil price although they 27.2m in February and then reduced to 9.0m by the end of face a constant battle to replace and grow their oil reserves.
Gearing contributed positively by 2.72 percentage The largest holding in the portfolio, Royal Dutch Shell points to performance relative to the FTSE All-Share 4% RDS, had a very good year, producing a share price total return of 44%.
RDSs technical expertise was demonstrated by Capped Index.
In addition, stock selection also contributed the start of production in the first half of 2011 of a large oil positively by 0.83 percentage points.
sands project in Canada and two complex gas projects in Qatar.
These and other major oil and gas projects under Estimated Performance Attribution Analysis development should underpin RDSs long-term growth in for the year to 30 June 2011 total returns relative to the profits and cash flow.
Elsewhere in the oil sector, a new FTSE All-Share 4% Capped Index holding was purchased in Statoil, which is the dominant 2011 2010 player in the Norwegian oil and gas fields.
The holding in Stock selection 0.83% 1.26% Diamond Offshore Drilling was sold with the companys profits Gearing 2.72% 2.42% being adversely affected by reduced drilling activity in the Gulf Expenses -0.44% -0.48% of Mexico.
Share issues 0.28% For the second year running, industrial companies performed Total 3.39% 3.20% strongly.
Spectacular returns were achieved from the Source: Henderson Global Investors portfolios holdings in Weir 108%, Croda 91%, IMI 58% and Renishaw 147%.
These companies mainly operate in Performance of higher yielding shares compared with niche areas with strong barriers to entry and relatively strong lower yielding shares pricing power.
They are international leaders and have The chart below compares the return of the FTSE 350 Higher benefited from strong growth in global demand for their Yielding Index the higher dividend yielding half of the largest products.
To the extent to which they export from the UK, the 350 shares of the UK with the FTSE 350 Lower Yield Index sterling exchange rate has been competitive for them.
In the the lower dividend yielding half of the largest 350 shares in general industrials sector, Tomkins was sold after a bid the UK from 30 June 2010 to 30 June 2011 rebased to 100. approach from a Canadian private equity firm.
130 125 London Brent Crude Oil Index US$ BBL Price Index 120 from 30 June 2010 to 30 June 2011 115 130 110 120 105 110 100 100 95 90 J J A S O N D J F M A M J FTSE 350 Higher Yield FTSE 350 Lower Yield 80 Source: Datastream 70 Over the 12 month period, the FTSE 350 Lower Yield Index 60 J J A S O N D J F M A M J returned 26.1% which was a slight outperformance of the Source: Datastream London Brent Crude Oil Index US$ BBL Price Index FTSE 350 Higher Yield Index which returned 25.4%.
Although A significantly below average exposure to the banking sector the low yielding mining sector outperformed, this was offset was maintained throughout the year.
Banks underperformed by the underperformance of the banking sector.
against a background of regulatory uncertainty and a need to Portfolio Review rebuild their capital bases.
The holding in Lloyds Banking The overall supply demand balance for oil remained tight and Group, which had higher than expected losses in Ireland, was the oil price strengthened over the year.
Some additions were made to HSBC which is 8 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Portfolio Managers Report continued conservatively managed with deposits in excess of loans and Although smartphones tablets are eroding some PC sales, has significant exposure to the Pacific and emerging markets.
there is significant scope for companies to upgrade their software and this is the most important part of Microsofts In the insurance sector, two new holdings were purchased.
The purchase of Microsoft was financed by the sale Prudential appeared undervalued given the combination of its of Playtech, the betting software company.
UK, US and Pacific life assurance businesses and its UK fund management operations.
Zurich Financial Services was bought Other new purchases included: Compass, the leading on a very attractive dividend yield of 6.8% and appeared to international caterer with good growth prospects given the be good value relative to comparable large European and US continuing trend for the contracting-out of catering: Paypoint, insurance companies.
the national network for collecting payments over the counter, which was bought on a very attractive valuation: In property, Land Securities had a good year, benefiting from a and John Laing Infrastructure Fund, an investment company strong rise in value of its London office and retail portfolio.
which owns private finance initiative PFI assets, which This reflected both overseas and UK investors favouring offered a secure and growing income stream.
London property as an asset class.
Distribution of the Portfolio at 30 June 2011 An above average exposure to the utility sector was maintained given attractive dividend yields and for some Large companies constituents of the FTSE 100 Index companies a degree of inflation protection in their regulatory Medium-sized companies Overseas listed companies controlled pricing.
A new holding was purchased in International Power which merged with GDF Suez of France 6% to form the worlds largest independent power producer.
The company has a strong balance sheet and is expected to 16% produce double-digit percentage profits growth between 2011 and 2014 from new power stations being built.
In contrast, RWE, which has a high level of indebtedness and lacklustre outlook for profits growth from its coal and nuclear 78% power plants, was sold.
The portfolios biggest holding in the telecommunications sector, Vodafone, produced a total return of 25% over the 12 months.
Vodafone owns 45% of Verizon Wireless, the leading mobile operator in the USA, which is performing well and is The distribution at the previous year end was: large companies to start paying dividends, which will give a significant boost to 76%, medium-sized companies 20%, and overseas listed its cash flow.
Elsewhere, new holdings were purchased on companies 4%.
During the year under review there has been attractive dividend yields in SK Telecom of South Korea and a reduction in the proportion of the portfolio invested in the French media telecoms conglomerate Vivendi.
medium-sized companies and increases in the proportions invested in both FTSE 100 and overseas listed companies.
Certain stocks that were considered to be vulnerable to the weak UK domestic economy were sold.
These included: pub There is scope to have 20% of the portfolio in overseas listed group Marstons, transportation company Stobart and leisure stocks, but we will only invest overseas when there is, in our group Holidaybreak which subsequently received a takeover view, a significant advantage over UK listed companies.
On the other hand, a new holding was purchased in Sainsbury, in view of the relatively defensive nature of its food Outlook retailing business and the value of the stores that it owns.
A continuation of existing trends seems likely in the year In technology, a new holding was purchased in Microsoft, ahead.
Most developed economies, including the UK, are which has a dominating market position in providing struggling with too much debt both among consumers and operating systems for personal computers PCs and net governments.
As a result, economic growth in these cash equivalent to around 20% of its market capitalisation.
economies will be slow and interest rates are likely to remain The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 9 Portfolio Managers Report continued at low levels.
In contrast, emerging economies should enjoy seventh.
These companies are trading at historically low relatively rapid growth with portions of the vast population of levels of valuation.
They also offer strong cash flows and countries, such as China and India, in the process of moving research and development pipelines of new medicines that out of poverty and into a modest degree of affluence.
are, in our view, now underappreciated.
The largest nine holdings in the portfolio are all multinationals.
Turning to UK domestic stocks, the biggest exposure is to British American Tobacco second largest holding, Diageo utilities which make up 9.5% of the portfolio.
Their revenues fourth and Unilever eighth are consumer products and profits are relatively secure but can be affected by companies with strong brands and substantial operations in regulatory decisions.
Some domestic cyclicals with strong fast growing emerging markets.
Vodafone fifth and HSBC balance sheets and good market positions are held but overall sixth also have global footprints for their operations.
the portfolio has below average exposure to this area.
The process of deleveraging in the UK is likely to be a long one Although 9.8% of the portfolio is invested in the oil sector given the high level of consumer debt.
and 4.7% in mining, this is significantly less than the average exposure for the UK equity market.
Many companies in these Corporate indebtedness is at a relatively low level and the sectors have low dividend yields and valuations built on the recent trend in dividend payouts is encouraging.
Shares that current high level of commodity prices which are volatile.
produce a decent dividend yield and growth are particularly However, Royal Dutch Shell largest holding and BHP Billiton attractive in the current investment climate with very low ninth have excellent prospects and good dividend records.
yields available in bank deposits and fixed interest.
8.5% of the portfolio is invested in the pharmaceutical sector with GlaxoSmithKline third largest and AstraZeneca Job Curtis
