14 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Report of the Directors The directors present the audited financial statements of the value will be invested in companies in the FTSE 100 Index.
Company and their report for the year from 1 July 2010 to The remainder of the portfolio will be invested in a 30 June 2011. combination of UK listed medium-sized and small companies and up to 20% in overseas listed companies.
Business Review There are no set limits on sector exposures, although the The following business review is designed to provide Board regularly monitors the Companys investments and information primarily about the Companys business and results the Managers investment activity.
The Manager primarily for the year ended 30 June 2011.
The Business Review should employs a bottom-up value-based investment process to be read in conjunction with the Portfolio Managers Report on identify suitable opportunities and pays particular regard to pages 6 to 9, which gives a detailed review of the investment cash generation and dividends.
activities for the year and an outlook for the future.
The portfolio yield will usually be between 10% and 30% a Status above the average dividend yield for the UK equity market.
The City of London Investment Trust plc registered in England & There may be some holdings, selected for their above Wales, number 34871 the Company traded throughout the average growth potential, which have a dividend yield year under review and was not dormant.
The Company is an lower than the market.
investment company as defined in Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and operates as an investment trust in accordance with Gearing Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
It is required to The Company will at times utilise limited gearing, both seek approval from HM Revenue & Customs HMRC of its short and long term, in order to enhance performance.
status as an investment trust under the above-mentioned Section Other than in exceptional market conditions, gearing will every year, and this approval will continue to be sought.
HMRC not exceed 20% of net asset value at the time of draw approval of the Companys status as an investment trust has been down of the relevant borrowings.
Up to 10% of the net received in respect of the year ended 30 June 2010, although this assets can be held in cash.
approval is subject to there being no subsequent enquiries under Selling traded options where the underlying share is held in Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
The directors are of the the portfolio can be used for the purposes of efficient opinion that the Company has continued to conduct its affairs in portfolio management.
Buying and selling FTSE 100 Index a manner that will enable it to continue to gain such approval.
Futures can be used to increase or reduce gearing.
The Company intends to continue to manage its affairs so Diversification that its investments fully qualify for a stocks and shares The Company achieves an appropriate spread of component of an ISA.
investment risk principally through a broadly diversified b Investment objective and policy portfolio, which at 30 June 2011 contained 93 individual Objective investments.
At 30 June 2011, the largest single The Companys objective is to provide long-term growth in investment was Royal Dutch Shell, which accounted for income and capital, principally by investment in equities listed 6.4% of total investments, while the top 20 holdings on the London Stock Exchange.
The Board continues to totalled 60.6%.
recognise the importance of dividend income to shareholders.
The Company will not invest more than 15% of its Policy portfolio in any single investment on acquisition, nor will it Asset allocation invest more than 15% of the portfolio in any other UK While the Company will mainly invest in equities, there is listed investment trusts or investment companies.
the flexibility to invest in debt securities, such as c Financial review convertibles, corporate bonds or government debt, if it is Assets deemed that these will, at a particular time or for a Total net assets at 30 June 2011 amounted to 674,477,000 particular period, enhance the performance of the compared with 511,026,000 at 30 June 2010, and the net Company in the pursuit of its objective.
asset value per ordinary share increased from 244.96p to The Company has a portfolio invested predominantly in 299.95p.
This figure is calculated by valuing the Companys larger companies.
Typically at least 60% of the portfolio by long-term debt at its nominal value.
With long-term debt The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 15 Report of the Directors continued calculated at its fair, or market, value year-on-year the net international financial markets, which, in turn, are subject asset value increased from 238.71p to 294.06p.
to many external factors, the Boards intention is that the Company will continue to pursue its stated investment At 30 June 2011 there were 93 2010: 90 separate objective in accordance with the policy outlined above.
investments, as detailed on pages 10 and 11.
Further comments on the outlook for the Company for the next 12 months are set out in both the Chairmans 2011 2010 % Change Statement on page 3 and the Portfolio Managers Report Net assets as at 30 June 674.5m 511.0m 32.0 on pages 6 to 9.
Revenue return for the year 28.6m 24.9m 14.9 Going concern Dividends payable per share The directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to for the year 13.20p 12.66p 4.3 adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial Revenue statements as the assets of the Company consist mainly of The Companys gross revenue totalled 31,562,000 2010: securities which are readily realisable and, accordingly, the 27,642,000.
After deducting expenses and tax, the Company has adequate financial resources to continue in revenue return for the year was 28,588,000 2010: operational existence for the foreseeable future.
In reviewing 24,881,000. the position as at the date of this report, the Board has considered the Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance Costs for Directors of UK Companies 2009, published by the In the year under review borrowing costs totalled Financial Reporting Council in October 2009.
4,702,000, the management fee totalled 2,195,000 and other expenses totalled 591,000.
These figures include VAT d Performance measurement and key performance where applicable.
Transaction costs, which include stamp indicators duty and totalled 512,000, are included within the purchase In order to measure the success of the Company in meeting costs or netted against the sales proceeds of investments.
its objectives the directors take into account the following key performance indicators: Dividends Performance against the Companys peer group The Board aims to make progressive increases in annual dividend payments.
In respect of the financial year under The Company is included in the AIC UK Growth & review, two quarterly interim dividends of 3.25p and two Income sector.
The Board considers the size weighted quarterly interim dividends of 3.35p have been declared, average net asset value total return of its AIC peer group at providing a total dividend of 13.20p per ordinary share, an each Board meeting.
The Board has determined that this increase of 4.3% over the previous year.
key performance indicator should be used for calculating whether a performance fee is payable to the Investment Payment of suppliers Manager.
Further details are set out in section f on page It is the payment policy of the Company to obtain the best 16.
During the year under review the Company possible terms for all business and, therefore, there is no underperformed the peer group by 0.5%.
single policy as to the terms used.
In general the Company Performance against market indices agrees with its suppliers the terms on which business will The Board reviews and compares, at each meeting, the take place and it is the Companys policy to abide by such performance of the portfolio as well as the net asset value terms.
There were no trade creditors at 30 June 2011. and share price for the Company, the FTSE All-Share Index Bank facility and gearing and the FTSE All-Share 4% Capped Index, which was the At 30 June 2011 the Company had a borrowing facility of benchmark used by the Company from 1 July 2005 to 50m, of which 9.0m was drawn at year end.
Both indices are calculated and maintained Company also has three debentures totalling 46m.
by FTSE further details and up-to-date index values for Gearing at 30 June 2011 was 7.9% of net asset value.
both indices are available at www.
During the Future developments year under review the Company outperformed the indices While the future performance of the Company is by 3.6% and 3.3% respectively.
dependent, to a large degree, on the performance of 16 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Report of the Directors continued Premium discount to net asset value NAV Custody services are provided by HSBC Bank plc.
At each Board meeting, the Board monitors the level of the f Management arrangements Companys premium discount to NAV per share and The investment management agreement with Henderson to reviews the average premium discount for the Companys provide the services referred to in the previous paragraph is AIC sector.
reviewed by the Board annually and has a six months notice At 30 June 2011 the Companys shares were trading at a period.
Base management fee The base management fee is calculated at the annual rate The Company publishes NAV per share figures on a daily of 0.35% of net assets.
Such fees are payable quarterly in basis, through the official newswire of the London Stock arrears based on the level of assets at the relevant quarter Exchange.
Total expense ratio TER Performance fee The TER is a measure of the total expenses incurred by the In addition, a performance fee is payable annually for Company, including those charged to capital, expressed as a outperformance against the Companys benchmark over a percentage of the average shareholders funds over the year three year rolling period on the following basis.
Before 2010 it was calculated using only the years opening and closing Performance fees are subject to a hurdle rate of 15% so shareholders funds.
Where applicable, a TER is shown the Manager is not rewarded for average performance.
including and excluding performance fees.
The Board This means that a performance fee will only be paid if City regularly reviews the TER and monitors all Company of Londons net asset value total return is at least 15% expenses.
For the year ended 30 June 2011 the TER better than the sector.
The performance fee payable will be excluding performance fee was 0.44% 2010: 0.46%.
15% of the cash value of the outperformance above the hurdle rate subject to a cap on total fees paid in any one The following table sets out, with comparatives, the results of year of 0.55% of average net assets.
the key performance indicators for the year: At 30 June At 30 June In the event of a significant movement in the share price, the 2011 2010 performance fee is reduced or increased in line with a sliding NAV total return 29.2% 26.5% scale.
If the Companys share price decreases over the year in AIC Sector NAV total return 29.7% 25.8% question by between 10.00% and 14.99%, the FTSE All-Share 4% Capped performance fee element will be reduced by 20%: a fall of Index total return 25.9% 23.3% between 15.00% and 19.99% in the share price will result FTSE All-Share Index total return 25.6% 21.1% in a reduction of 30% of the performance fee: and a decline Share price total return 31.1% 27.6% of 20.00% or more in the share price will create a reduction AIC Sector share price total return 30.9% 26.4% of 40% in the performance fee.
This arrangement is Premium discount 0.5% 1.7% symmetrical and, if the share price increases over the period, Total expense ratio, excluding the same thresholds and increases to the performance fee performance fee 0.44% 0.46% will apply.
This means that the total fee paid may exceed the Total expense ratio, including 0.55% cap by up to 40% of the performance fee.
performance fee 0.44% 0.48% The absolute cap of total fees payable in any one year is e Related party transactions therefore 0.63% of average net assets.
The provision of investment management, accounting, These fee arrangements maintain the Companys position of company secretarial and administration services has been having one of the lowest base management fees and one of outsourced to Henderson Global Investors Limited Henderson.
the lowest total expense ratios in the AIC UK Growth & This is the only related party arrangement currently in place.
Other than fees payable by the Company in the ordinary course of business, there have been no material transactions The Companys net asset value total return for the three years with the related party affecting the financial position or from 1 July 2008 to 30 June 2011 was 27.9% compared to performance of the Company during the year under review.
the net asset value total return of the benchmark over the The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 17 Report of the Directors continued same period of 27.1%.
Although the Company outperformed dealing or payment systems or custody records could its benchmark over the period it did not outperform in excess prevent the accurate reporting and monitoring of the of the 15% hurdle rate.
Therefore no performance fee has Companys financial position.
The Company is also exposed been earned during the year 2010: 75,000. to the operational risk that one or more of its suppliers may not provide the required level of service.
g Principal risks and uncertainties The Board has drawn up a matrix of risks facing the Company Details of how the Board monitors the services provided by and has put in place a schedule of investment limits and the Manager and its other suppliers, and the key elements restrictions, appropriate to the Companys investment designed to provide effective internal control, are explained objective and policy, in order to mitigate these risks as far as further in the internal controls section on page 21. practicable.
The principal risks which have been identified and Further details of the Companys exposure to market risk the steps taken by the Board to mitigate these are as follows: including market price risk, currency risk and interest rate risk, liquidity risk, and credit and counterparty risk Portfolio and market price Although the Company invests almost entirely in securities and how they are managed are contained in Note 16 that are quoted on recognised markets, share prices may on pages 41 to 45. move rapidly.
The companies in which investments are made may operate unsuccessfully, or fail entirely.
A fall in Corporate Governance Statement the market value of the Companys portfolio would have a Applicable corporate governance codes an adverse effect on shareholders funds.
The Board The Board is accountable to shareholders for the governance reviews the portfolio each month and mitigates this risk of the Companys affairs.
Paragraph 7.2 of the Disclosure and through diversification of investments in the portfolio.
Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Authority requires all listed companies to publish a corporate governance Investment activity, gearing and performance statement, while paragraph 9.8.
6 of the Listing Rules requires An inappropriate investment strategy for example, in terms all listed companies to disclose how they have applied the of asset allocation or the level of gearing may result in principles and complied with the provisions of the UK underperformance against the Companys benchmark.
Corporate Governance Code the Code.
As an investment The Board monitors investment performance at each Board trust, most of the Companys day-to-day responsibilities are meeting and regularly reviews the level of its gearing.
delegated to third parties, the Company has no employees Tax and regulatory and the directors are all non-executive.
Thus, not all the A breach of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 provisions of the Code are directly applicable to the Company.
could lead to a loss of investment trust status, resulting in The Financial Reporting Council the FRC confirmed on capital gains realised within the portfolio being subject to 30 September 2010 that it remained the view of the FRC that corporation tax.
A breach of the UKLA Listing Rules could by following the Corporate Governance Guide for Investment result in suspension of the Companys shares, while a Companies produced by the Association of Investment breach of the Companies Act 2006 could lead to criminal Companies the AIC Guide, published in October 2010, proceedings, or financial or reputational damage.
The boards of investment companies should fully meet their Company must also ensure compliance with the listing obligations in relation to the Code and paragraph 9.8.
6 of the rules of the New Zealand Stock Exchange.
The AIC Code of Corporate Governance The Manager has contracted to provide investment, published in October 2010 the AIC Code, as explained by company secretarial, administration and accounting services the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in Section 1 through qualified professionals.
The Board receives internal of the Code, as well as setting out additional principles and control reports produced by the Manager on a quarterly recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to basis, which confirm regulatory compliance.
Operational The Board of The City of London Investment Trust plc believes Disruption to, or failure of, the Managers accounting, that reporting against the AIC Code by reference to the AIC 18 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Report of the Directors continued Guide will provide the most appropriate information to have all stated that they will offer themselves for reshareholders and has therefore followed the principles and election, with the exception of Simon fide Zoete, who will recommendations set out in the AIC Code.
Copies of the AIC retire from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM in Code and the AIC Guide can be found at www.
co. uk October 2011 and will not seek re-election.
b Statement of compliance Under the Articles of Association, shareholders may remove The AIC Code comprises 21 principles.
The directors believe a director before the end of his term by passing an that during the year under review they have complied with ordinary resolution at a meeting.
the provisions of the AIC Code, insofar as they apply to the Board independence Companys business, and with the provisions of the Code All directors have a wide range of other interests and are except as noted below.
not dependent on the Company itself.
At the Nominations The Code includes provisions relating to: Committee meeting in July 2011, the directors reviewed their independence and confirmed that all directors, with The role of chief executive the exception of David Brief, remain wholly independent of Executive directors remuneration Henderson.
David Brief is a director of another investment The need for an internal audit function trust managed by the Investment Manager and is not As the Company delegates to an external investment manager considered to be independent under the Listing Rules.
its day-to-day operations and has no employees, the Board Simon fide Zoete has served on the Board for more than does not consider these provisions to be relevant to the nine years.
The Board believes that length of service does Company and has not reported further in respect of these not diminish the contribution from a director: conversely a provisions.
directors experience and knowledge of the Company can c Directors be a positive benefit to the Board and retaining directors Board composition with sufficient experience of both the Company and the The Articles of Association provide that the total number markets is of great benefit to shareholders.
Moreover, longof directors shall not be less than three nor more than serving directors are less likely to take a short-term view.
seven: the Board consists of five non-executive directors.
The directors have reviewed the balance of ages and The biographies of the directors holding office at the experience of all of the Board members and confirm that date of this report, which are set out on page 13, Simon fide Zoete has continued to provide a valuable and demonstrate the breadth of investment, commercial and beneficial contribution to the Company and that his professional experience relevant to their positions as experience complements the abilities of the other directors.
Simon fide Zoete, Richard Hexall and David Brief The Board has therefore concluded that the Chairman has served on the Board throughout the year: Simon Barratt remained independent throughout the year.
The majority of joined the Board on 1 October 2010 and Philip Remnant the Board is therefore independent.
Sir Keith Stuart retired from the Board on 31 March 2011.
There were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of Directors appointment, retirement and rotation the year in which a director of the Company is or was The Board may appoint directors to the Board and any materially interested and which is or was significant in director so appointed must stand for election by the relation to the Companys business.
shareholders at the AGM following appointment, in Directors remuneration accordance with the Articles of Association.
A report on directors remuneration is on page 26.
All directors are appointed for an initial term of three years.
Directors interests in shares The Articles of Association require one-third or the number The interests of the current directors in the ordinary shares nearest to one-third of the directors to retire by rotation at of the Company at the beginning or date of appointment, each AGM.
However, the Code and the AIC Code require all directors of FTSE 350 companies to retire annually.
All if later and end of the financial year are shown in the the current directors will therefore retire and, being eligible, table below.
The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 19 Report of the Directors continued Ordinary shares of 25p 30 June 2011 1 July 2010 a conflict of interest, directors will also act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Beneficial: Companys success in taking such a decision.
The Board can Simon fide Zoete 191,281 191,190 1 Simon Barratt 3,450 impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if the 2 Philip Remnant 58,720 58,720 directors consider this to be appropriate.
David Brief 9,985 9,985 The Board confirms that its powers of authorisation of Richard Hextall 4,000 4,000 conflicts have operated effectively since they were or date of appointment, if later introduced on 1 October 2008.
The Board also confirms 1 Joined the Board on 1 October 2010 2 Joined the Board on 1 January 2011 that its procedures for the approval of conflicts of interest have been followed by all the directors.
There have been no further changes since the year end.
Directors professional development Directors conflicts of interest When a new director is appointed he or she is offered a Directors have a duty to avoid situations where they have, training seminar which is held by the Investment Manager.
or could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or Directors are also provided on a regular basis with key possibly could conflict, with the Companys interests.
Since information on the Companys policies, regulatory and 1 October 2008, the Companies Act 2006 the Act has statutory requirements and internal controls.
Changes allowed directors of public companies to authorise such affecting directors responsibilities are advised to the Board conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, but as they arise.
Directors also regularly participate in relevant only if the articles of association contain a provision to this training and industry seminars.
The Act also allows the articles of association to contain other provisions for dealing with directors conflicts Directors indemnity of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
There are two safe Directors and officers liability insurance cover is in place in harbours either the situation cannot reasonably be respect of the directors.
Under the Companys Articles of regarded as likely to give rise to a conflict of interest or the Association and, subject to the provisions of UK legislation, matter has been authorised in advance by the directors.
a qualifying third party provision indemnity may be The Companys Articles of Association give the directors provided to directors in respect of costs which they may the relevant authority required to deal with conflicts of incur relating to the defence of any proceedings brought interest.
against them arising out of their positions as directors, in which they are acquitted or judgment is given in their Each of the directors has provided a statement of all favour by the Court.
No indemnity was given during the conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of interest, if year or up to the date of this report.
any, applicable to the Company.
A register of conflicts of interest has been compiled and approved by the Board.
d The Board The directors have also all undertaken to notify the Responsibilities of the Board and its Committees Chairman as soon as they become aware of any new During the year eight Board meetings were held to deal potential conflicts of interest that would need to be with the important aspects of the Companys affairs.
The approved by the Board and added to the Register, which is Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved reviewed annually by the Board.
for its decision, which are categorised under various headings including strategy, management, structure, It has also been agreed that directors will advise the capital, financial reporting, internal controls, gearing, asset Chairman and the Company Secretary in advance of any allocation, share price premium discount, contracts, proposed external appointment and new directors will be investment policy, finance, risk, investment restrictions, asked to submit a list of potential situations falling within the performance, corporate governance and Board conflicts of interest provisions of the Act in advance of membership and appointments.
The Chairman will then determine whether the relevant appointment causes a conflict or At each meeting the Board reviews the Companys potential conflict of interest and should therefore be investment performance and considers financial analyses considered by the Board.
Only directors who have no interest and other reports of an operational nature.
The Board in the matter being considered will be able to participate in monitors compliance with the Companys objective and is the Board approval process.
In deciding whether to approve responsible for setting asset allocation, investment and 20 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Report of the Directors continued gearing limits within which the Manager has discretion to statements, internal audit, custody, tax advice to directors act.
The Board has responsibility for the approval of any and tax calculations to support the financial statements.
investments in in-house funds managed or advised by the The auditors may, if required, provide non-audit services Manager.
It also has adopted a procedure for directors, in relating to a review of the Companys half year report and the furtherance of their duties, to take independent a review of the calculation of a performance fee provision professional advice at the expense of the Company.
All other non-audit services will be judged on a to enable them to discharge their responsibilities, all case-by-case basis and will be approved by a member of the Audit Committee.
directors have full and timely access to relevant information.
During the year under review,  LLP The Board has two Committees: the Audit Committee and have not provided any non-audit services for the Company.
The terms of reference for these Committees are available on the Companys website.
The As disclosed in last years annual report, Board has not formed a Management Engagement  LLP have been engaged to Committee as it remains the role of the Board as a whole provide services in respect of a case for the restitution of with the exception of David Brief who is not independent to VAT paid to the Manager between 1996 and 2000.
The keep under review the terms of the management agreement case is still ongoing.
between the Company and the Investment Manager.
The Audit Committee remains satisfied with the effectiveness Audit Committee of the audit provided by  LLP.
During the year under review, the Audit Committee The appointment of the auditors was put to tender in members were Sir Keith Stuart to 31 March 2011, December 2008.
The auditors are required to rotate the Richard Hextall, David Brief and Simon Barratt since audit partner every five years and this is the third year that 1 October 2010.
The Audit Committee comprises two the current partner has been in place.
independent members and at least one member who has  LLP have indicated their willingness competence in accounting.
The Chairman is Richard Hextall to continue in office.
Accordingly, resolutions to confirm the who is a Chartered Accountant.
appointment of  LLP as auditors to The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year and is the Company, and to authorise the directors to determine responsible for the review of the annual accounts, the nature their remuneration, will be proposed at the AGM.
and scope of the external audit and the findings therefrom, Nominations Committee the terms of appointment of the auditors together with their All directors are members of the Nominations Committee.
remuneration, performance, independence and objectivity, as The Chairman of the Board acts as Chairman of the well as any non-audit services provided by the auditors, and Committee but would not chair the Committee when the the half year report.
It meets with representatives of the Chairmans successor was being considered.
As David Brief is Investment Manager and receives reports on the quality and not independent under the Code he is not permitted to vote effectiveness of the accounting records and management on the appointment of a new independent director.
The information maintained on behalf of the Company.
Committee is responsible for reviewing Board succession With effect from 30 April 2011, in accordance with planning, the performance of the Board as a whole and the changes made by the Auditing Practices Board and the Board Committees, and the appointment of new directors.
Financial Reporting Council to the APBs Ethical Standards When considering succession planning, the Committee for Auditors and the FRCs Guidance on Audit Committees, bears in mind the balance of skills, knowledge, experience audit committees are required to formulate a written policy and diversity existing on the Board and will recommend on the provision of non-audit services by the Companys when the recruitment of additional non-executive directors statutory independent auditors.
Once a decision is made to recruit additional The Audit Committee has reviewed the guidance and has directors to the Board, a formal job description is drawn up formulated a policy on the provision of non-audit services and each director is invited to submit nominations and by the Companys auditors.
The Audit Committee has these are considered in accordance with the Boards agreed determined that the Companys appointed auditors will procedures.
The Committee may also use external agencies never be considered for the provision of non-audit services, as and when the requirement to recruit an additional Board member becomes necessary.
The Committee recommended such as accounting and preparation of the financial The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 21 Report of the Directors continued to the Board the appointment of Simon Barratt, who joined to review the performance of the Chairman.
the Board on 1 October 2010 and Philip Remnant, who At the 2011 meeting the Nominations Committee agreed joined the Board on 1 January 2011. that the Chairman continues to promote effective Philip Remnant will be the new Chairman of the Board leadership and each of the directors contributes valuable following Simon fide Zoetes retirement at the conclusion of the experience and skills to the Board.
The Company is AGM in October 2011.
Simon fide Zoete did not participate in required to engage an external facilitator for the Board the decision of the Nominations Committee and of the Board evaluation every three years.
The evaluation in 2011 was to select Philip Remnant as the new Chairman.
The Committee also reviews and recommends to the Board f Internal controls the directors seeking re-election.
Recommendation is not The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, automatic and will follow a process of evaluation of each evaluating and managing any major risks faced by the directors performance and consideration of the directors Company.
The process has been in place since 2000 and is independence.
The Committee also takes into account the subject to regular review by the Board.
Up to the date of this mix of skills and experience of the current Board members.
report the process accords with the Revised Guidance for In accordance with the Code any director serving for longer Directors on the Combined Code published in October 2005 than six years would be subject to particularly rigorous by the Financial Reporting Council.
assessment of his her contribution.
The Committee met in July 2011 to carry out its annual The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system review of the Board, its composition and size and its of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The results of the performance evaluation are However, such a system is designed to manage rather than contained in e below.
eliminate risks of failure to achieve the Companys business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute Board attendance assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board Attendance at Board and Committee meetings held during has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys system of the financial year are shown below.
All directors usually attend the Annual General Meeting.
internal controls for the year ended 30 June 2011.
During the course of its review of internal controls, the Board has not Audit Nominations Board Committee Committee identified or been advised of any failings or weaknesses that No of meetings 8 3 2 have been determined as significant.
Simon fide Zoete 8 2 1 Simon Barratt 622 The Board, assisted by the Investment Manager, undertook a David Brief 7 3 2 full review of the Companys business risks and these have been 2 Philip Remnant 4 2 analysed and recorded in a risk map which is reviewed regularly.
Richard Hextall 7 3 2 3 The Investment Manager has established an internal control Sir Keith Stuart 62 1 framework to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance on Appointed to the Board on 1 October 2010, attended all meetings 2 Appointed to the Board on 1 January 2011, attended all meetings 3 the effectiveness of the internal controls operated on behalf of Retired from the Board on 31 March 2011, attended all meetings its clients.
The effectiveness of the internal controls is assessed e Performance evaluation by the Investment Managers compliance and risk department The Company on a continuing basis.
The Board receives each quarter from the The performance of the Company is considered in detail at Investment Manager a formal report which details the steps each Board meeting.
taken to monitor the areas of risk, including those that are not The Board directly the responsibility of the Investment Manager, and which The work of the Board as a whole and of the Board reports the details of any known internal control failures.
The Committees was reviewed by the Nominations Committee Board receives each year from the Investment Manager a report in July 2011 and no areas of concern were identified.
on its internal controls which includes a report from the Investment Managers auditors on the control policies and Individual directors procedures in operation.
Steps will continue to be taken to The Chairman reviews each individual directors embed the system of internal control and risk management into contribution on an annual basis.
The Nominations Committee meets without the Chairman present in order the operation and culture of the Company and its key suppliers.
22 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Report of the Directors continued g Accountability and relationship with the Investment investment management and other services to the Company on Manager an ongoing basis.
The principal contents of the agreement with The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the the Investment Manager are contained on pages 16 and 17.
Financial Statements is set out on page 25, the Independent The Board reviews investment performance at each Board Auditors Report on page 49 and the Statement of Going meeting and a formal review of the Investment Manager is Concern on page 15. conducted annually.
As part of the annual review in July 2011 The Board has delegated contractually to external third parties, the directors discussed the quality and continuity of the including the Investment Manager, the management of the personnel assigned to handle the Companys affairs, with investment portfolio, the custodial services which include the particular reference to performance and results achieved to safeguarding of the assets, the day to day accounting, date.
In addition, they reviewed other services provided by the company secretarial and administration requirements and Investment Manager to the Company, such as accounting, registration services.
Each of these contracts was entered into company secretarial and administration services, and the after full and proper consideration by the Board of the quality Investment Managers promotion of investment and savings and cost of the services offered, including the control systems in products linked to the Companys shares.
The Board noted the operation in so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
Investment Managers resources and experience in managing The Board receives and considers regular reports from the and administering investment trust companies.
Investment Manager and ad hoc reports and information are As a result of their annual review, it is the opinion of the supplied to the Board as required.
In addition, the Chairman directors that the continued appointment of the current attends meetings of all the chairmen of the investment trust Investment Manager on the terms agreed is in the interests of companies managed by the Investment Manager: these the Companys shareholders as a whole.
meetings provide a forum to discuss industry matters and the Chairman reports on them to the Board.
i Share capital and shareholders Share capital The Investment Manager takes decisions as to the purchase and sale of individual investments.
The Investment Manager The Companys equity and non-equity share capital comprises: also ensures that all directors receive, in a timely manner, all i ordinary shares of 25p nominal value each.
The voting relevant management, regulatory and financial information.
rights of the ordinary shares on a poll are one vote for Representatives of the Investment Manager attend each Board every 15 shares held.
At the beginning of the year, there meeting enabling the directors to probe further on matters of were 208,619,868 ordinary shares in issue.
A formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for 16,240,000 shares representing 7.78% of the number of decision by the full Board has been defined and a procedure shares in issue at the beginning of the year were issued for adopted for directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to total proceeds net of commissions of 45,571,000.
At 30 take independent professional advice at the expense of the June 2011 the number of ordinary shares in issue with Company within certain parameters.
The directors have access voting rights was 224,859,868. to the advice and services of the corporate Company Secretary through its appointed representative who is responsible to the Since 30 June 2011 and up to the date of this report a Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and further 2,950,000 ordinary shares have been issued for a that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The number of shares in Board and Investment Manager operate in a supportive, coissue at the date of this report is 227,809,868. operative and open environment.
ii cumulative first preference stock.
The voting rights of the The Board has reviewed the implications of the Bribery Act first preference stock on a poll are one vote per 10 of 2011, which came into force on 1 July 2011 and confirmed its stock held.
At 1 July 2010 and at 30 June 2011 there was zero tolerance to bribery and corruption in its business 301,982 of first preference stock in issue.
It has sought assurances from its main contractors and suppliers that they will maintain adequate safeguards to iii non-cumulative second preference stock.
Second preference protect against any potentially illegal behaviour by their stockholders have no rights to attend and vote at general employees and agents.
meetings except on the winding-up of the Company or if dividends are in arrears.
At 1 July 2010 and at 30 June 2011 h Continued appointment of the Investment Manager The Board considers the arrangements for the provision of there was 507,202 of second preference stock in issue.
The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 23 Report of the Directors continued iv non-cumulative preferred ordinary stock.
The voting rights directors normally attend.
Shareholders have the opportunity of the preferred ordinary stock on a poll are one vote per to address questions to the Chairman of the Board, the Chairman of the Audit Committee and all other directors at 20 of stock held.
At 1 July 2010 and at 30 June 2011 the meeting.
The Portfolio Manager, as the representative of there was 589,672 of preferred ordinary stock in issue.
the Investment Manager, makes a presentation to Further details on the first and second preference stock and shareholders.
A summary of the proxy votes received on the the preferred ordinary stock together the Preferred resolutions proposed is displayed at the meeting.
It is the Stock are contained in note 15 on page 40. intention of the Board that the Annual Report and Financial Statements and Notice of Annual General Meeting be issued There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Companys to shareholders so as to provide at least twenty working share capital and there are no shares or stock which carry days notice of the meeting.
Shareholders wishing to lodge specific rights with regards to control of the Company.
questions in advance of the meeting are invited to do so by Substantial share interests writing to the Company Secretary at the Registered Office Declarations of interests in the voting rights of the address given on the inside back cover.
Company, at 30 June 2011, are set out below.
General presentations to both shareholders and analysts Shareholder % of voting rights follow the publication of the annual results.
All meetings Legal & General Investment Management 3.4% between the Investment Manager and shareholders are reported to the Board.
Since year end the Company has not been notified of any declarations of interests in the voting rights of the Company.
New Zealand listing It should be noted that the UK codes of Corporate The Board is aware that, as at 30 June 2011, 15.90% of the Governance may materially differ from the New Zealand issued ordinary shares were held on behalf of participants in the Stock Exchanges corporate governance rules and principles Halifax Share Dealing products and 3.42% were held on behalf of the Corporate Best Practice Code.
of participants in Henderson products.
The participants in these schemes are given the opportunity to instruct the relevant j Corporate Responsibility SEE statement nominee company to exercise the voting rights appertaining to Responsible investment their shares in respect of all general meetings of the Company.
Responsible Investment is the term Henderson uses to cover The nominee companies have stated that they will exercise the its work on corporate governance and corporate voting rights of any shares held through these schemes that responsibility or social, environmental and ethical SEE issues have not been exercised by the individual participants in them.
in the companies in which it invests on its clients' behalf, They will do so by voting for or against all resolutions to be put across all funds.
In May 2005 Henderson became a founding at all general meetings of the Company or by withholding signatory to the United Nations Principles for Responsible votes on such resolutions pro rata to the aggregate voting Investment.
The Principles, developed under the auspices of instructions for each resolution received from those participants the UN Secretary-General, are a voluntary and aspirational who have chosen to exercise their voting rights.
framework for incorporating environmental, social and corporate governance ESG issues into mainstream Relations with shareholders investment decision-making and ownership practices.
Shareholder relations are given high priority by the Board.
The prime medium by which the Company communicates with its The way companies respond to sustainability and corporate shareholders is through the Half Year Report and Annual responsibility can affect their business performance, both directly and indirectly.
An investee companys policy on Report and Financial Statements which aim to provide social responsibility and the environment is therefore shareholders with a clear understanding of the Companys activities and their results.
This information is supplemented considered as part of the investment risk decision.
by the daily calculation and publication at the London and Voting policy and the UK Stewardship Code New Zealand Stock Exchanges of the net asset value of the Henderson's Responsible Investment Policy sets out the Companys ordinary shares and a monthly fact sheet.
Managers approach to corporate governance and corporate The Board considers that shareholders should be encouraged responsibility for all the companies in which it invests on behalf of its clients, and its policy on proxy voting.
The Policy to attend and participate in the Annual General Meeting, which is chaired by the Chairman of the Board and which all also sets out how Henderson implements the Stewardship 24 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Report of the Directors continued Code.
The Company has reviewed Hendersons policy and debt at fair value.
At the date of this report the directors have has delegated responsibility for voting to the Manager.
The remaining authority to issue a further 7,569,240 shares.
The Board receives a report, at least annually, on the voting authorities to issue shares and to disapply pre-emption rights undertaken by the Manager on behalf of the Company.
will expire at the conclusion of the AGM in October 2011, when new authorities will be sought.
The Board and Henderson believe that voting at general meetings is an important aspect of corporate stewardship On 21 October 2010 the directors were granted authority to and a means of signalling shareholder views on Board repurchase 31,766,788 ordinary shares with a nominal value policy, practices and performance.
Voting recommendations of 7,941,697 for cancellation or to be held in treasury.
The are guided by the best interests of the investee companies directors have not bought back any shares and therefore at shareholders.
Depending on the nature of the resolution the date of this report the directors have remaining authority the Portfolio Manager and or members of the Board will to repurchase 31,766,788 shares.
This authority will expire at give specific instructions on voting non-routine and unusual the conclusion of the AGM in October 2011, when a new or controversial resolutions.
Decisions not to support authority will be sought.
resolutions and the rationale therefor are fed back to the The directors believe that, from time to time and subject to investee company prior to voting.
market conditions, it will continue to be in the shareholders The Henderson Responsible Investment Policy and further interests to buy back the Companys shares when they are details of Hendersons responsible investment activities can trading at a discount to the underlying net asset value per be found on the Henderson website, www.
The Company may utilise the authority to purchase shares by either a single purchase or a series of purchases Environmental matters The Companys core activities are undertaken by Henderson, when market conditions allow, with the aim of maximising the which has implemented environmental management benefit to shareholders.
practices, including systems to limit the use of non-renewable At the AGM in 2010 directors were also granted authority to resources and to minimise the impact of operations on the repurchase the first and second preference stock and the environment, and is focused on reducing greenhouse gas preferred ordinary stock.
The directors have not bought back emissions and minimising waste, where possible.
any of the preference or preferred stock.
Annual General Meeting AGM There are no Company rules regarding amendment of the The AGM will be held on Monday 24 October 2011 at Articles of Association.
3.00pm at the Companys registered office.
Separate resolutions will be proposed for each substantive issue.
Directors Statement as to Disclosure of Information The notice and details of the resolutions to be put at the to Auditors AGM are contained in the separate circular being sent to The directors who were members of the Board at the time of shareholders with this annual report.
approving this Report are listed on page 13.
Each of those directors confirms that: The directors seek annual authority from the shareholders to allot new ordinary shares, to disapply the pre-emption rights to the best of their knowledge and belief, there is no of existing shareholders, and to buy back for cancellation or information relevant to the preparation of their report of to be held in treasury the Companys ordinary shares.
In which the Companys auditors are unaware: and addition, the directors seek annual authority to buy back and they have taken all the steps a director might reasonably be cancel the Companys preferred and preference stocks.
expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit At the AGM in October 2010 the directors were granted information and to establish that the Companys auditors authority to issue up to 10,595,992 ordinary shares.
The are aware of that information.
shareholder authorities to allot shares and to disapply preemption rights were renewed at a General Meeting of the By order of the Board Company held on 23 June 2011, at which meeting the directors were granted new authorities to issue 11,119,240 D J Trickett ACIS For and on behalf of Henderson Secretarial Services Limited shares.
Since the AGM in October 2010, 13,215,000 shares Secretary have been issued.
All the shares were issued at a premium to the net asset value, the net asset value being calculated with 14 September 2011
