Close Brothers Group plc 29 Annual Report 2011 Governance Report of the Directors The directors present their report and the audited financial of section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 were accordingly statements for the year ended 31 July 2011. in force during the course of the financial year ended 31 July 2011, and remain in force at the date of this report.
Business Review and Principal Activities Close Brothers Group plc the Company is the parent Share Capital company of a specialist financial services group which At 31 July 2011 the Company had 150.5 million ordinary makes loans, trades securities and provides advice and shares in issue with a nominal value of 25.0p each.
Details of investment management solutions to a wide range of clients.
changes in the Companys ordinary share capital during the year are given in note 24 on page 91 of the Financial The principal subsidiary undertakings at 31 July 2011 and Statements.
On a show of hands, each member has the their principal activities are listed in note 27 on page 94 of the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
poll, each member is entitled to one vote for every share held.
The shares carry no rights to fixed income.
No person The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business has any special rights of control over the Companys share Review can be found in the following sections of the Annual capital and all shares are fully paid.
Report, each of which are incorporated by reference into, and form part of, this Report of the Directors: During the year the Company issued 7,050 ordinary shares of 25.0p each in satisfaction of option exercises and issued Pages 836,898 ordinary shares of 25.0p as part of the consideration Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement 2 to 5 for the acquisition of Cavanagh Group plc.
Full details of the Board of Directors 8 and 9 options exercised, the weighted average option exercise Business Review 11 to 23 price and the weighted average market price at the date of exercise can be found in note 32 on pages 99 and 100 of the Principal Risks and Uncertainties 24 to 28 Financial Statements.
Corporate Governance 31 to 41 Corporate Responsibility 42 and 43 Restrictions on the transfer of shares Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration 44 to 55 There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of the Financial Statements 56 to 112 Companys shares which are governed by the general provisions of the articles of association and prevailing legislation.
Results and Dividends The consolidated results for the year are shown on page 57.
The Company is unaware of any arrangements between its The directors recommend a final dividend for the 2011 shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of financial year of 26.5p 2010: 25.5p on each ordinary share shares and or voting rights.
which, together with the interim dividend of 13.5p 2010: 13.5p, makes an ordinary distribution for the year of 40.0p New issues of share capital 2010: 39.0p per share.
The final dividend, if approved by Under the Companies Acts, the directors of a company are, shareholders at the 2011 Annual General Meeting AGM, with certain exceptions, unable to allot any equity securities will be paid on 22 November 2011 to shareholders on the without express authorisation, which may be contained in a register as at 14 October 2011. companys articles of association or given by its shareholders in general meeting, but which in either event cannot last Directors more than five years.
Under the Companies Acts, the board The current directors of the Company at the date of this may also not allot shares for cash otherwise than pursuant report appear on pages 8 and 9.
All the directors held office to an employee share scheme without first making an offer throughout the year ended 31 July 2011 except Geoffrey to existing shareholders to allot such shares to them on the Howe who was appointed on 4 January 2011. same or more favourable terms in proportion to their respective shareholdings, unless this requirement is waived Directors interests by a special resolution of the shareholders.
The directors interests in the share capital of the Company at 31 July 2011 are set out on page 51.
Purchase of Own Shares The existing authority given to the Company at the last AGM Appointment and powers of directors to make market purchases of up to 10% of its issued share Details on the appointment and powers of directors are set capital will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM.
The board considers it would be appropriate to renew this Directors indemnity authority and intends to seek shareholder approval to make The Company has granted indemnities to all of its directors market purchases of up to 10% of its issued share capital at on terms consistent with the applicable statutory provisions.
the forthcoming AGM in line with current investor sentiment.
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the purposes Close Brothers Group plc 30 Annual Report 2011 Governance Report of the Directors continued Details of the resolution renewing the authority are included Supplier Payment Policy in the Notice of AGM.
All banking, securities and investment transactions are settled in accordance with applicable terms and conditions During the year ended 31 July 2011, the Company made no of business agreed with the counterparty.
Average creditor market purchases of its own shares Treasury Shares.
days for all other approved expenses was 19 2010: 22.
The Company holds Treasury Shares for the purpose of Charitable and Political Donations satisfying option grants and share awards under the The group made charitable donations in the year amounting Companys employee share plans.
Further details are set out in 31 July 2011, 335,899 Treasury Shares were transferred out the Corporate Responsibility report on pages 42 and 43.
No to satisfy share option awards, for a total consideration of political donations were made during the year 2010: nil.
The maximum number of Treasury Shares held at any time during the year was 4.8 million with a nominal Resolutions at the AGM value of 1.2 million.
The Companys AGM will be held on 17 November 2011.
Resolutions to be proposed at the AGM include the renewal Employee Share Trust of the directors authority to allot shares, the disapplication of Bedell Trustees Limited is the trustee of the Close Brothers pre-emption rights, authority for the Company to purchase Group Employee Share Trust, an independent trust, which its own shares, approval of a new Save As You Earn SAYE holds shares for the benefit of employees and former scheme and the re-election of all the directors.
The trustee has agreed to satisfy a number of awards under the employee share plans.
As part The full text of the resolutions is set out in the Notice of AGM of these arrangements the Company funds the trust, from sent to the Companys shareholders.
A letter from the time to time, to enable the trustee to acquire shares to satisfy chairman which explains the purpose of the resolutions will these awards, details of which are set out in note 32 on accompany the Notice of AGM.
pages 99 and 100 of the Financial Statements.
Auditor Substantial Shareholdings Resolutions to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys Details on substantial shareholdings in the Company are set auditor and to give the directors the authority to determine out on page 40. the auditors remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Significant Contracts A change of control of the Company following a takeover bid Disclosure of Information to Auditor may cause a number of agreements to which the Company Each of the persons who are directors at the date of is party to take effect, alter or terminate.
These include the approval of this Annual Report confirms that: Company bonds due 2017, certain insurance policies, bank So far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit facility agreements and employee share plans.
information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and The group had committed facilities totalling 1.3 billion at He has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as 31 July 2011 which contain clauses which require lender a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant consent for any change of control.
Should consent not be audit information and to establish that the Companys given, a change of control would trigger mandatory auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in All of the Companys employee share plans contain accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding Companies Act 2006. awards and options may vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject where appropriate to the By order of the board satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time and pro-rating of awards.
In the context of the Company as a Elizabeth Lee whole, these agreements are not considered to be Company Secretary significant.
27 September 2011 Risk Management The group has procedures in place to identify, monitor and evaluate the significant risks it faces.
The groups risk management objectives and policies are set out on pages 35 to 37 and in note 34 on pages 102 to 111 to the Financial Statements.
