Close Brothers Group plc 8 Annual Report 2011 Corporate Overview Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 9 8 Close Brothers Group plc 9 Annual Report 2011 1.
Ray Greenshields Chairman Non-executive Director Appointed a director in March 2003, senior independent Appointed a director in November 2008 and chairman of the director in September 2004, deputy chairman in November groups Risk Committee in December 2010.
He is senior 2006 and chairman in June 2008.
He is chairman of the adviser to Standard Life Assurance, a member of Standard Nomination and Governance Committee.
He is chairman Life Assurance With Profits Committee and chairman of of British Empire Securities and General Trust plc and Octopus VCT 3 plc.
Previously he was chairman of JP Morgan Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc.
Bestinvest Group, director of Standard Life Assurance Formerly he was a director of Flemings, chairman of Tribal Limited, managing director of Barclays Wealth Management, Group plc, executive deputy chairman of Misys plc and CEO of Zurich Financial Services UK and International Life, non-executive director of AXA UK plc and Kleinwort Benson and managing director of AMP Financial Services.
Preben Prebensen Non-executive Director Chief Executive Appointed a director in July 2004 and is chairman of the Joined Close Brothers as chief executive in April 2009 Audit Committee.
Within the Goldman Sachs Group he having spent his career in a number of senior positions at is a director of Goldman Sachs International Bank, JP Morgan over 23 years, as well as being chief executive Montague Place Custody Services and of Rothesay Life of Wellington Underwriting plc from 2004 to 2006, and then Limited and is a non-executive officer of Generation chief investment officer and a member of the group Investment Management LLP.
Formerly he was a senior executive committee at Catlin Group Limited.
partner in the banking and capital markets division of .
Jamie Cayzer-Colvin Joined Close Brothers as finance director in February 2008 Non-executive Director having previously held the same role at the London Stock Appointed a director in January 2008.
He is a director of Exchange Group plc since 1999.
Prior to that he was at Caledonia Investments plc and a non-executive director of Price Waterhouse.
Polar Capital Holdings plc and India Capital Growth Fund.
Previously he was with Whitbread and GEC and a former 4.
Stephen Hodges director of Rathbone Brothers Plc.
Managing Director and Banking Chief Executive Joined the Banking division of Close Brothers in 1985, 9.
Geoffrey Howe following eight years at Hambros.
He was appointed a Non-executive Director director in August 1995 with responsibility for the Banking Appointed a director in January 2011.
He is chairman of division.
He was appointed managing director in November Nationwide Building Society and of Jardine Lloyd Thompson 2002.
Formerly he was chairman of Railtrack plc, a non-executive director of Investec plc and JP Morgan 5.
Bruce Carnegie-Brown Overseas Investment Trust plc, a director of Robert Fleming Senior Independent Director Holdings Limited and managing partner of Clifford Chance.
Appointed a director in June 2006 and senior independent director in June 2008.
He is chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
He is senior independent director of Catlin Group Limited and a non-executive director of Moneysupermarket.
Formerly he was with 3i Group, Marsh & McLennan and JP Morgan.
