06 Bodycote plc Annual Report 2011 Global network Bodycote is experienced in all major market sectors and is able to combine the capability and expertise of a network of over 170 worldwide locations to deliver global, or local, services for customers.
Overview North America As the only truly global provider of subcontract thermal processing services, Bodycote is able to offer significant advantages to its customers.
Through an international network of plants, Bodycote can effectively utilise a wealth of knowledge, experience and specialist expertise to deliver quality service when and where it isneeded.
The network operates from over 170 worldwide locations, with customers able to benefit from Bodycotes comprehensive range of services from multiple locations.
Customers know that if their business expands, Bodycote will have the capability to meet their needs.
They know that if they were to broaden their manufacturing footprint, Bodycote would be able to assist them.
They know that they can obtain the same process to the same quality standards from multiple locations.
Bodycote is the largest provider of thermal processing services Such a large network brings economies of scale, with in North America by a significant margin, with a comprehensive technology developed at one location being available globally if network coverage.
This network offers convenient locations to the market requires it.
customers in all areas where manufacturing and technical industries are concentrated.
The Bodycote network has a wealth of technical accreditations, some industry or customer specific, others more general.
Our facilities offer the widest and deepest range of processes Individual operations concentrate on the accreditations suited to foraerospace and energy applications and all the leading their market.
Although Bodycote is headquartered in the UK, 89% of the Groups revenue is derived outside the UK.
With facilities in 27 countries, Bodycote is truly global.
Group revenue by market sector Revenue by market sector North America 43.7 General industrial 237.6 General industrial Automotive 23.9 Automotive 147.4 Aerospace and Defence Aerospace and Defence 65.3 113.6 Energy 72.0 Energy 30.5 Bodycote plc 07 Annual Report 2011 Although Bodycote is headquartered in the UK, 89% of the Groups revenue is derived outside the UK.
Western Europe Emerging markets Bodycote is the number one provider of thermal processing Bodycote has 29 facilities in emerging geographies covering services in Western Europe with the largest network by far Eastern Europe, China, Brazil, India, Singapore and Dubai.
Bodycote is the number one thermal processing provider in both The depth of process offerings vary somewhat by country Brazil and Eastern Europe and is the leading western provider in andregion, reflecting which types of industry are prominent China.
These markets have a special emphasis in the Groups growth strategy for the future.
inthoselocations, thus enabling the Group to best meet the needsof customers.
Revenue by market sector Western Europe Revenue by market sector Emerging markets General industrial 169.2 General industrial 24.8 Automotive 96.3 Automotive 27.2 Aerospace and Defence 46.8 Aerospace and Defence 1.5 Energy 39.3 Energy 2.2 Additional information Financial statements Governance Business review
