34 Bodycote plc Annual Report 2011 Directors report The Directors are pleased to submit their report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011.
The Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review, the Finance Directors report, and all the information contained on pages 4 to 48 together comprise the Directors report for the year ended 31 December 2011.
Principal activities The Company is a holding company with subsidiaries carrying on business in the provision of thermal processing services.
Theactivities and locations of the principal subsidiary undertakings are set out on pages 97 and 98.
Group review The Group review, which encompasses: Strategy and objectives: Measuring our progress: Chairmans statement: Chief Executives review: Business performance: Markets: Business overview: Business review: Finance Directors report: and Corporate responsibility and sustainability is provided on pages 4 to 32 of this Annual Report.
This is a review of the development of the businesses of the Group, the financial performance during the year ended 31 December 2011, key performance indicators, a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group and information about the use of financial instruments.
The Group review has been prepared solely to assist the shareholders in assessing the Groups strategies and the potential of those strategies.
Itshould not be relied on by any other party for any other purpose.
Forward-looking statements have been made by the Directors in good faith using information available up to the date of this report and such statements should be regarded with caution because of the inherent uncertainties in economic trends and business risks.
Since the end of the financial year no important events affecting the business of the Group have occurred.
Dividends The Board is recommending a final dividend of 7.3p per ordinary share making a total for the year of 10.9p per share 2010: 8.7p.
The final dividend, if approved, will be paid on 4 May 2012 toshareholders on the register at the close of business on 10April2012.
Share capital The Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 31 December 2011 was 33.0m and during the year was increased by the issue of 1,381,750 ordinary shares between 7 February and 21 December 2011 for a total consideration of 238,666, in connection with the Companys executive share incentive schemes.
At the Annual General Meeting on 27 April 2011 the shareholders authorised the Company to purchase upto 18,988,191 of its own shares.
This authority expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to be held on 25 April 2012, at which time a further authority will besought from shareholders.
Capital structure Details of the issued share capital are shown in note 25.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares, which carry no right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, both of which are governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 28 and shares held by the Bodycote Employee Benefit Trust abstain from voting and waive dividend rights.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
The appointment and replacement of Directors is governed by the Companys Articles of Association, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Act and related legislation.
The Articles of Association may be amended by a special resolution of shareholders.
The powers of the Directors are described in the Corporate governance statement on page 37.
Under the Articles of Association the Company has authority to issue ordinary shares with a nominal value of 11,011,049.
There are also a number of other agreements that take effect, alter, crystallise or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid such as commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, property lease agreements, employment contracts and employee share plans.
None of these are considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on the business of the Group as a whole, and the Directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company and themselves or employees that provide for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid except where specifically mentioned in this report.
Bodycote plc 35 Annual Report 2011 Directors The current Directors and their biographical details are listed on page 33 and all served throughout the year.
Under the Articles of Association of the Company each Director must retire from office and stand for re-election by shareholders as a minimum at every third annual general meeting in order to continue to serve as a Director.
However in view of the UK Corporate Governance Code and to further increase accountability, all Directors retired at the Annual General Meeting in 2011 and stood for re-election by the shareholders.
Going forward all Directors will retire at the Annual General Meeting and will stand for re-election by the shareholder, if they wish to continue to serve as Directors of the Company.
Accordingly, those Directors retiring and offering themselves for re-election at the 2012 Annual General Meeting are Messrs A. M. Thomson, S. C. Harris, D. F. Landless, J. Vogelsang, J.
A. Biles and Dr K. Rajagopal.
The service agreements for Messrs Harris and Landless are terminable by12months notice.
Theremaining Directors do not have a service agreement with the Company and their appointments are terminable by six months notice.
Directors interests in contracts and shares Details of the Executive Directors service contracts and details of the Directors interests in the Companys shares and share incentive plans are shown in the Board report on remuneration on pages 43 to 48.
No Director has had any dealings in any shares or options in the Company since 31 December 2011.
Qualifying third party indemnity provision as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 has remained in force for the Directors for the year ended 31 December 2011 and, as at the date of this report, remains in force for the benefit of the current Directors in relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may incur orhave incurred to third parties in the course of their duties.
Apart from these exceptions, none of the Directors had a material interest in any contract of significance in relation to the Company and its subsidiaries at any time during the financial year.
Potential conflicts of interest During 2008 the duties owed by directors to a Company were codified and extended by the Companies Act 2006 so that directors not only had to declare actual conflicts of interests in transactions as they arose but also had a duty to avoid such conflicts whether real or potential.
Potential conflicts of interest could arise where a single director owes a fiduciary duty to more than one organisation a Situational Conflict which typically will be the case where a director holds directorships inmore than one Company.
In order to ensure that each Director was complying with the new duties, each Director provided the Company with a formal declaration to disclose what Situational Conflicts affected him.
The Board reviewed the declarations and approved the existence of each declared Situational Conflict until September 2012 and permitted each affected Director to attend and vote at Bodycote Directors meetings, on the basis that each such Director continued to keep Bodycotes information confidential, and provided overall that such authorisation remained appropriate and in the interests of shareholders.
Where such authorisation becomes inappropriate or not in the interests of Bodycote shareholders, the Chairman or the Nomination Committee can revoke an authorisation.
No such revocations have been made.
Employment The Group recognises the value that can be added to its future profitability and strength by the efforts of employees.
Thecommitment of employees to excel is key to the Groups continued success.
Through their attendance at, or participation instrategy, production, safety and health meetings at site level, employees are kept up to date with the performance and progress of the Group, the contribution to the Group made by their site and are advised of safety and health issues.
The Group publishes in 11 languages, via the Group intranet, an electronic magazine for all staff detailing theGroups activities, performance and some of its personalities.
The Groups Open Door Policy has been relaunched as the Groups Open Door Line under which employee concerns can be voiced over the phone on an anonymous basis in the local language.
Approximately 1,600 Bodycote employees are connected to the Bodycote intranet, which improves knowledge of Group activities, and assists greatly with technology exchange and co-ordination.
It is the Groups policy to give full and fair consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities, and to encourage the training and career development of all personnel employed by the Group, including disabled persons.
Should an employee become disabled the Group, where practicable, will seek to continue the employment and arrange appropriate training.
Anequal opportunities policy is in operation in the Group.
Research and development Product development and quality improvement at all Group companies is a continuous process.
The Group has a policy ofdeploying the best technology available and actively seeking improvements.
It also conducts research programmes with itscustomers.
Donations Charitable donations during the year net of income tax amounted to 9,000 2010: 6,000.
There were no political contributions in 2010 or 2011.
Creditors policy Group operating companies are responsible for agreeing the terms and conditions under which business transactions are conducted.
It is Group policy that payments to suppliers aremade in accordance with the terms agreed, provided that these suppliers have also complied with applicable terms and conditions.
Creditor days at the year end for the Group were 46 days 2010: 46 days.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Business review 36 Bodycote plc Annual Report 2011 Directors report continued Shareholders An analysis of the Companys shareholders and the shares in issue at 16 February 2012 and details of the interests of major shareholders in voting shares notified to the Company pursuant to chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules are given on page 99.
Auditor In accordance with the provisions of section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution for the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as Auditor is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Each person who is a Director at the date of approval of this Annual Report confirms that: so far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
This statement is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Annual General Meeting The 2012 Annual General Meeting will be held on 25 April 2012 in accordance with the notice being sent to shareholders with thisreport.
By order of the Board: U. S. Ball Secretary 23 February 2012 Springwood Court Springwood Close Tytherington Business Park Macclesfield Cheshire SK10 2XF
