16 Bodycote plc Annual Report 2011 Safety critical service a component journey AIrCrAFT enGIne SHAFT The main drive shaft in a civil aircraft engine is a safety critical component.
In service part failure could mean disaster.
Thermal processing is essential to ensure this part has the necessary material properties to operate effectively, keeping the aircraft in the air.
The forged shaft is hardened and tempered to give the correct tensile strength.
The component begins life as steel bar from which a forging is made.
The part undergoes final Rough machining is machining and grinding.
carried out, usually to within 1 16th inch of the final part size.
The shaft is stabilised at approximately 50C below the final tempering temperature to remove any machining stresses Areas that do not require surface hardening are masked using bronze, tin or copper plating and the shaft is then gas nitrided at a temperature not exceeding the stabilising temperature.
This diffuses nitrogen into the surface to provide high hardness and excellent wear resistance.
Post nitriding, the plating and the white layer nitrogen-rich layer which does not diffuse into the surface are removed.
BODyCOTe COMPOnenT jOurneyS This is just one example of how Bodycote brings together the huge wealth of knowledge and expertise from across the Group to provide the vital engineering services our customers need... For more component journeys visit www.
com end application aircraft, or land-based gas turbine, engine Denotes the parts of the component journey undertaken by Bodycote Bodycote plc 17 Annual Report 2011 Markets Aerospace, Defence & energy markets Automotive & General Industrial markets Aerospace and defence revenues improved in 2011 by 12.1% In automotive, the Group built on the gains achieved in 2010 by dueto a combination of new contract gains and market demand.
offering the broad range of new and traditional processes the New build sales improved as both Boeing and Airbus increased sector requires, along with the reliability of service and supply production rates and a recovery in passenger numbers thatthe extensive network of facilities allows.
Sales to the car and resultedinan increase in aircraft flying hours which led to an light truck sector grew by 5.2% and to heavy truck by 30.9%.
increase in salesto the maintenance segment.
General industrial revenues enjoyed a broad based continued Power generation sales were flat for the Group as a whole in 2011 recovery throughout 2011 and sales increased in the year comparedto 2010.
This sector was the last to see the impact by17.6%.
ofthe 2008 9 recession and is proving the last to recover.
In North America, automotive revenues improved throughout 2011 However, revenues improved during the year in North America and for the year as a whole were ahead of 2010 by 9.0%.
Car and butwere offset by the continuing softness in the requirements light truck sales increased by 4.0% and heavy truck increased by forEuropean OEMs and their supply chains.
General industrial sales grew steadily throughout the Sales from oil & gas customers increased by 27.3%.
yearand revenues were ahead 8.8% compared to 2010.
NorthAmerican oil & gas production and exploration has been In Western Europe sales growth in the automotive sector was good and shale gas fracking activity has been strong.
Oil & gas strong in the first half but the rate of improvement slowed in the revenues have continued to be robust although there was second half against more difficult comparables.
Nevertheless evidence of some inventory correction in the final quarter of 2011. revenue growth for the whole year was 15.0%, with 8.0% to the car and light truck sector and 42.4% to the heavy truck sector.
Revenues in Germany and its key trading partners Netherlands and Czech Republic remained robust through year end although there was some softening in the final quarter in France and Sweden.
General industrial sales were robust in all territories in Western Europe with revenues up by 21.4% year on year.
The Groups business in emerging markets fared very well again in 2011 in all territories except Brazil.
Excluding Brazil, revenues grew by 23.3%.
The Brazilian business has been the subject of major restructuring, which has included reducing the workforce by a further 31% in 2011.
The closure of the largest facility was completed and a new greenfield location started trading, benefiting from the Groups European know-how, and expanded capacity.
The dislocation caused by these changes, along with the exit from low value added work, resulted in revenues falling by 27.5%.
Thebusiness has a much reduced cost base and improved process capability and now has the right platform to benefit from the growth that we expect in Latin America.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Business review
