Bodycote plc 03 Annual Report 2011 Core technologies Thermal processing The partner of choice Bodycote provides thermal processing services which Bodycote has become the partner of choice for the worlds improve material properties such as strength, durability and most respected and innovative engineering companies by corrosion resistance, enabling manufacturers components providing highly efficient, cost-effective services to the to work more efficiently with significantly extended highest quality standards through strategic investment operational lifetimes.
Bodycotes services consist of a inpeople and the latest technology, equipment and number of core technologies: heat treatment and metal qualitysystems.
joining, hot isostatic pressing HIP and surface technology.
By outsourcing non-core but vitally important thermal processing Heat treatment and metal joining requirements to Bodycote, customers are able to concentrate their Heat treatments are controlled processes used to alter the business resources where they are needed most.
Bodycotes microstructure of materials, such as metals and alloys, to impart services offer tangible benefits to customers such as reduced properties which benefit the working life of a component, for equipment maintenance, capital expenditure, energy costs, example: increased surface hardness, temperature resistance, peoplecosts and a major reduction in CO2 emissions.
Metal joining includes specialised processes Bodycote has a long history of successful outsourcing such as electron beam welding, vacuum and honeycomb brazing partnerships, from global to local manufacturers.
In many cases, complex operations requiring a fusion of expertise and subcontracting relationships lead to component and servicetechnology.
specific long-term agreements, or strategic partnering Bodycote offers an extensive range of heat treatment services and arrangements, which embody protection and freedom from risk specialist metal joining techniques from facilities around the world.
for the customer and Bodycote.
These are normally exclusive in With unmatched capacity and computerised systems, Bodycote character and provide the basis for mutual business development, facilities can process a wide range of component sizes to exacting with both companies freed to concentrate capital and other standards with reliable, repeatable results.
Hot isostatic pressing HIP Making innovations possible HIP combines very high temperature up to 2,000C with inert Bodycotes extensive facilities and expertise mean development gas under very high pressure up to 30,000 psi equivalent to that projects can expand far beyond customers in-house capabilities, found at an ocean depth of 11,000m such as at the bottom of the helping to realise goals more quickly andmore cost-effectively.
Mariana Trench in the Pacific Ocean.
HIP can be used to eliminate Around the globe, Bodycote has dedicated teams working on a porosity in castings and consolidate encapsulated powders to variety of projects.
When required, this may include the dense materials.
Dissimilar materials can be bonded together to development of specific processes and equipment for a customer manufacture unique cost-effective components.
Every week a w or verification of materials or designs, prior to their application.
typical Bodycote HIP plant will process many tons of titanium, aluminium, steel and super-alloy castings, removing porosity and improving the performance of parts such as turbine blades andoilfield components.
With the largest operational capacity in the world and a wide variety of sizes of equipment, Bodycote HIP is able to accommodate large volumes of small product as economically aslarge individual components.
Surface technology Surface technologies are used extensively to prolong the working life of components and protect them from environmental factors such as corrosion and abrasion.
The range of surface treatments available from Bodycote covers a wide variety of applications, providing manufacturers with solutions to meet requirements suchas durability, wear resistance, improved hardness and electrical conductivity.
Bodycote is a provider of specialised plasma spray, high velocity oxy fuel HVOF and thermally formed ceramic treatments and isable to surface engineer components including complex geometric shapes and internal bores that are designed to operatein the most demanding of industrial applications.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Business review
