02 Bodycote plc Annual Report 2011 Business model Provider of essential services to engineering manufacturers Heat Treatment and Metal Joining Hot Isostatic Pressing HIP Surface Technology Heat treatments are controlled processes used HIP combines very high temperature with inert Surface technologies are used extensively to to alter the microstructure of materials such as gas under very high pressure.
HIP can be used to prolong the working life of components and metals and alloys to impart properties which eliminate porosity in castings and manufacture protect them from environmental factors such benefit the working life of a component.
specialist components with unique properties.
Metal joining includes specialised processes used to join and assemble parts, sometimes dissimilar in material.
The global leader Value of the network Transferable know-how Long-term agreements Bodycotes global network of over 170 facilities The global Bodycote network provides unique In many cases customer relationships lead to in 27 countries brings economies of scale opportunities for the transfer of knowledge component and service-specific agreements particularly for energy consumption and andskills, and the transfer of technology.
which embody protection and freedom from equipment utilisation.
This makes Bodycotes riskfor the customer and Bodycote.
These are With some of the best metallurgists, engineers processing inherently more efficient than often exclusive in character and provide the and technicians in the industry, Bodycote is customers in-house operations and limits basisfor mutual business development, with ideally placed to provide solutions for customers, theability of smaller thermal processing both companies freed to concentrate capital whatever their market or wherever in the world companies to compete.
The capital intensive andother resources on core competencies.
nature of Bodycotes business also provides Strategic partnerships significant barriers to entry.
Strategic partnering is Bodycotes win-win The scope of Bodycotes network enables approach to improving the traditional subcontract Bodycote to specialise more effectively processing method, achieved by ensuring thancompetitors at individual locations and processing is close to the customer, including provides comprehensive service back-up where appropriate at greenfield facilities adjacent forourcustomers.
The partner of choice Service Quality Expertise Bodycote has become the partner of choice Bodycotes quality management systems, Bodycotes extensive facilities and expertise forthe worlds most respected and innovative validated by major engineering OEMs, have mean that projects can extend beyond engineering companies by providing highly beendeveloped to meet the requirements customers in-house capabilities, developing efficient, cost-effective services to the highest ofinternational and national accrediting bodies.
specific processes and equipment for a quality standards through strategic investment AllBodycote facilities hold industry and customer customer, where required, and finding solutions inpeople and the latest technology, equipment approvals appropriate to the services they offer to meet needs.
and the markets they serve.
Our own development and improvement of standard processes has led to Bodycote offering a range of proprietary processes which far outperform their standard counterparts.
Tangible benefits To customers To Bodycote To investors Value-adding services Mutually beneficial customer partnerships Financially stable and sustainable business Global supplier which can meet multiple Wide customer base means Bodycote is not Good growth drivers processing needs reliant on key customers Superior return on investment Access to entire Bodycote knowledge base, Ideally positioned to promote growth in Strong margins and cash flow andexpertise emerging markets and proprietary technologies Cost and environmental benefits versus Clearly focused strategy in-houseoperations
