DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2011 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS MANAGERS REPORT Long Short Credit From 1 January 2011 to The long short credit managers posted a loss of 7.97% in 31 December 2011, the 2011.
Despite relatively defensive positioning throughout Companys Shares NAV fell by much of the year, the managers incurred losses in their portfolios due to credit spreads widening and an increase in 5.94%, net of fees and expenses.
Long corporate debt Set out below is the Investment positions and post-reorganisation equities were the primary sources of negative returns.
Detractors included automotive Advisers strategy overview for the parts suppliers, airlines, chemical companies, and global Continuing Portfolio for the period.
One media company, in particular, experienced substantial selling pressure after the company Long Short Equities announced worse-than-expected earnings results and an The largest strategy allocation in the Portfolio, the long short emergency financing arrangement.
Holdings of European equities strategy generated a loss of 8.24% in 2011.
Global bank hybrid securities also lagged as the European debt equity market investors endured a bumpy road as the crisis triggered a sell-off.
Meanwhile, economic growth fears markets persistent focus on macro concerns in Europe and led to deteriorating prices in US commercial and residential weak global growth created a difficult stock picking mortgage-backed securities and US bank positions.
The global equity markets also witnessed a positions and macro hedges helped to offset a portion of the considerable divergence of performance with the US markets loss.
Positive contributors included short sovereign debt in holding on resiliently in the face of stiff macro headwinds, Europe, short equity baskets in Chinese reverse mergers and while Europe, Asia and the emerging markets succumbed to global alternative energy companies, and credit index the challenging environment.
conservative positioning, the long short equities managers captured a meaningful portion of the global markets Event-Driven downside in 2011.
The geographic and sector specialists Against a challenging backdrop of deteriorating global produced similarly disappointing results, while the generalist growth and weakening deal volumes, the event-driven managers posted moderately negative returns.
The sector strategy did well to end 2011 with flat performance, down specialist sub-strategys poor performance was driven 0.01%.
The US activist delivered impressive gains that offset entirely by the financials manager.
Although this manager sizeable losses from the European activist in the Portfolio, runs a hedged book, its favourable view of the relative while the other event-driven managers ended the year with opportunities in US and emerging market banks led to steep moderately negative performance in aggregate.
The energy and healthcare-focused managers could performing manager extracted substantial profits from a not offset the financials managers losses as they ended core holding in a specialty pharmaceutical company, which 2011 with flat performance in aggregate.
Meanwhile, the appreciated on robust earnings, completion of a strategic geographic specialists exposure to developed Europe and, to acquisition, and considerable cost savings in 2011.
This a lesser extent, Asia and the emerging markets, was the position also surged when the company announced it would primary source of that sub-strategys poor results.
A Danish renew the current CEOs employment contract and made a brewer was a significant laggard for a European manager bid for a competitor.
Adding to its successful year, the activist after increased local taxes on alcoholic beverages in Russia also profited from a stake in a car auction company that put pressure on consumption.
The Asia and emerging market benefited from earnings upgrades by several Wall Street specialist entered the year constructively positioned, resulting analysts.
Elsewhere, one managers holding in a Canadian in its participation in regional losses.
Finally, the generalists copper mining company spiked after the firm agreed to a outperformed the other sub-strategies due primarily to buyout at a substantial premium during December.
The dynamic exposure management and contributions from short manager, who specialises in unlocking Shareholder value in positions, especially during the third quarter of 2011, which European corporations, was most impacted by the difficult was the weakest period for the equity markets since the macro environment in the region.
Their positions in a fourth quarter of 2008.
5 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2011 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS Swedish truck manufacturer, a global capital equipment spreads wider.
Exposure to the consumer, media, and maker, and an international freight forwarding company financial sectors yielded the largest profits for the credit experienced heavy selling despite healthy fundamentals.
In the tail-risk portion of the portfolio hedge strategy, most of the managers extracted profits from credit, Macro equity, and commodity exposure.
Positions in European The macro strategy delivered a return of 3.50% in 2011.
The sovereign credit default swaps, equity volatility trading in the managers in this strategy contributed positive results during US, and long gold exposure were among the largest a period of severe market decline, heightened volatility, and contributors to performance.
One manager suffered negative strong correlations across the asset classes.
performance amid moderate strengthening in US, UK and Japanese interest rates, especially during the latter part of Fixed income trading yielded the strongest gains, with long 2011.
Finally, the strategys index overlay incurred a loss as exposure to US Treasuries benefiting from the flight to quality this portion of the Portfolio was exposed to various short and the Federal Reserves stated commitment to a low future positions and put option contracts in the S&P 500 interest-rate environment.
Long interest rate positions in Index, which ended the year in positive territory.
Europe added further profits, as did short exposure to sovereign debt in the region.
In equities, the managers Multi-Strategy Opportunistic effectively navigated the market volatility and profited from The multi-strategy opportunistic strategy delivered a both thematic and tactical short positions.
One managers negative 7.21% return in 2011 as the ongoing European longstanding short bias towards small-capitalisation sovereign debt crisis cast its shadow over the strategy.
One companies in the US generated strong returns as the Russell manager with long positions in European bank hybrid 2000 substantially underperformed the S&P 500 during securities and equities suffered losses as market 2011.
Another manager profited from a trade that involved participants, fearing systemic risk, sought to limit exposure shorting solar stocks and going long technology stocks.
to the European financial sector.
As the year progressed, Elsewhere, commodities markets experienced a substantial investors sought to limit their exposure to financial equities sell-off in the third quarter, which produced an especially globally, which contributed to the poor performance of challenging environment for managers investing in this another manager who had meaningful equity positions in US space.
Long exposure to oil and precious metals detracted banks and online brokerages.
Signs of deteriorating growth from returns, while gold stood out as an outperformer and consumer sentiment in the US added further downward despite its decline towards the end of the year.
pressure on markets, and managers with construction and basic materials themes experienced losses.
Event-driven Portfolio Hedge positions had mixed results during 2011.
One managers Amid the mixed performance in global equity markets, the active involvement in a distressed media company resulted portfolio hedge strategy ended 2011 with a 0.23% return.
in a sizeable loss after the company reported disappointing The short sellers and tail-risk managers posted positive earnings and a need for financing.
Meanwhile, mergerreturns that were mostly offset by losses from the strategys related positions also proved difficult to navigate, as one futures and options overlay.
The equity short sellers achieved manager suffered losses from positions in US rental car broad-based profits from shorting securities most vulnerable companies in the midst of a bidding war.
Despite in an economic downturn.
For example, one manager deteriorating market conditions, some opportunities were profited from exposure to the materials and industrials still present.
For instance, one manager profited from a sectors, including short positions in a steel producer and a convertible bond position in a UK software company that was railway transport company.
Another manager captured acquired by a large-capitalisation US technology company.
profits from consumer discretionary stocks, most notably in Additional support came from several managers portfolioan operator of a restaurant reservation website, as well as level hedges in a variety of asset classes, which offset a from short positions in producers of rare earth materials.
portion of the strategys loss during the year.
Short credit exposure also contributed positively in 2011, as increasing fears of an economic slowdown pushed credit 6 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2011 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED The flood of liquidity by central banks, increased use of Investment Outlook passive investment strategies index-tracking funds and Heading into 2012, the pursuit of positive performance faces exchange traded funds, and the prevalence of algorithmic headwinds from sovereign debt issues in the developed trading strategies are often cited as possible drivers behind world, Europes vulnerable financial system, and a slowing these equity market phenomena.
While the Investment Adviser global economy.
These challenges are compounded by expects correlations to dissipate and dispersion to increase political instability and the inability of governmental bodies to over time, it is difficult to see near-term catalysts to drive this bring about necessary change.
To ameliorate these issues, change.
While Aurora remains confident that Dexion Absolute central banks across the globe have pumped massive Limiteds capital is allocated to the best managers in the amounts of liquidity into markets by dramatically reducing long short equities strategy, other strategies are likely to offer interest rates and through large scale purchases of relatively more compelling opportunities over the near term.
This Therefore, the allocation to the long short equities strategy is intervention has contributed to the distortion of historical being reduced from approximately one-third to 25%.
market relationships, caused technical factors to overwhelm fundamentals, and led to a meaningful pick-up in correlation To achieve the new allocation targets, the Investment Adviser is and volatility across most asset classes.
reducing allocations across the current lineup of long short equities managers, rather than through wholesale manager In the annual review process, intended to create portfolio changes.
The new allocation targets will emphasise managers allocation targets for the coming year, bottom-up manager utilising macro insights and other top-down elements for analysis has historically dominated the allocation decisions.
portfolio construction and security selection.
Additionally, Episodically, though, top-down strategy allocation decisions Aurora anticipates adding a handful of new managers to the will play a more prominent role in determining the target Portfolio to further diversify and balance the long short equities portfolio.
For example, the significant market dislocation of strategy exposure across a number of different market factors, 2008 led to an increase in the allocation to long short credit, including style, geography, sector and market capitalisation.
given the more favourable environment created by such events.
The portfolios managed by Aurora LLC Aurora Long Short Credit subsequently realised the benefits of this increase as the 1 The markets traded by the long short credit managers are strategy returned over 60% in 2009.
Due to the inherent often the most inefficient in the investment business.
The complexity and uncertainty of todays market environment, a inefficiency of these markets provides opportunities and the considerable amount of time has been spent assessing the strategy has been the best performer since the Companys factors that may influence hedge funds returns and how to inception, returning over 14% on an annualised basis, net of best construct a portfolio that can prosper in such a 1 fees.
Distressed corporate situations are often complex, challenging environment.
The analysis has led the time-consuming and require unique skills, creating high Investment Adviser to make a number of significant portfolio barriers to entry for new market participants.
Going into 2012, it has decided to reduce the investments in this area are concentrated with a smaller allocation to long short equities while increasing the number of managers relative to other strategies in Auroras exposure to long short credit and macro.
The allocation to this strategy has generally ranged wholesale changes are being made at the individual from 10-25% and has been the most dynamic of the strategy manager level, the allocations to many managers will see allocations.
In the Investment Advisers annual review process meaningful changes, particularly in the long short equities this year, it focused on the long-term return potential of the strategy.
strategy balanced against the volatility potential.
It has held a favourable view of the long short credit strategy for a few Long Short Equities years and feel recent market events have laid the groundwork In recent years, the correlation among stocks has increased for a robust future opportunity set.
Anaemic growth across above its historical average and remained persistently high.
developed markets will continue to put pressure on At the same time, dispersion among stock returns has vulnerable businesses and cause many to fail, while diminished, leading to an environment in which there is opportunities to purchase assets directly from banks in the reduced differentiation between good and bad companies.
7 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2011 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS US and Europe may become more plentiful.
Historically, the source of diversification for the Portfolio.
CTAs have not been best returns from long short credit managers follow periods an area of emphasis for Aurora in the past, but they believe of significant market dislocation, and Aurora believes that the that the benefits of such a strategy warrant further attention.
recent market events warrant a higher allocation to this The research over the next six to nine months will focus on strategy.
As such, the allocation to long short credit is being the appropriateness of the strategies employed by CTAs, the increased from approximately 20% to 25%.
risks associated with such strategies, and which managers best fit the preferences and portfolios.
Auroras strong Risk The Investment Adviser believes that the managers it invests Management and Quantitative Research team greatly with in the long short credit strategy are the best in the enhances their ability to evaluate successfully the CTA hedge fund industry.
They intend to make slight changes to space.
Depending on the analysis and the opportunity set the current long short credit manager allocations, while that is identified, up to 5% of the Portfolio could be allocated adding a few new managers to this part of the Portfolio.
These new managers possess many of the same characteristics of the current long short credit managers, but Event-Driven and Multi-Strategy have differentiating elements.
Most notably, the new Opportunistic additions are expected to have slightly higher allocations to The Investment Adviser made marginal reductions in the distressed situations in Europe as well as more exposure to allocations to event-driven and multi-strategy opportunistic non-corporate distressed credit situations residential managers.
For the event-driven managers, optimism has been mortgage-backed securities and other real estate-related.
tempered as the anticipated wave of M&A activity has fallen short of expectations.
The pace of activity was encouraging Macro earlier in 2011, but has fallen off recently as macro concerns Unprecedented intervention by central banks since the financial have dominated the investing landscape.
Companies continue crisis of 2008 has had a distortive effect on asset markets to hold significant cash on their balance sheets and interest globally.
To stem the issues emanating from the financial crisis rates are at historical lows, but it is difficult to see a near-term and to stimulate growth, governments in developed markets increase in the level of M&A, given the macro issues facing have taken measures to stabilise their financial systems, while companies and markets.
The Investment Adviser has begun to also flooding markets with liquidity in order to push up asset see companies using their cash hoards for stock buybacks prices and bring down interest rates.
While the effectiveness of and dividends, events that are marginally less interesting for these policies is debatable, they have led to historic moves in the managers.
Even with fewer M&A deals, the event-driven certain asset classes as well as higher correlation and volatility.
managers are well positioned to generate returns by creating The Investment Adviser expects these factors to contribute to a their own events through pro-active involvement with more fertile opportunity set for macro managers seeking to management designed to enhance Shareholder value.
The capitalise on current or developing trends across major asset small reduction in the allocation to the event-driven strategy classes.
As a result, the allocation to macro managers is has resulted in slightly lower allocations for a few managers in increasing from 13% to 20%.
this part of the Portfolio.
With securities market correlations increasing globally, the In the multi-strategy opportunistic area, manager portfolios desire to identify new ways to diversify the Portfolio has continue to be dominated by equity and event-oriented never been higher.
The macro strategy has historically exposure.
With dislocations emerging in the credit markets, served this purpose well, having delivered attractive absolute a shift in exposure is anticipated over the coming year.
The returns with little to no dependency on broad market factors.
Investment Adviser continues to see value in the Discretionary, top-down-oriented traders have dominated opportunistic nature of these managers and the flexibility the macro strategy for the vast majority of the Investment afforded to them to invest across the entire capital structure.
Advisers history, but they feel it is important to constantly challenge themselves to find other managers and strategies Portfolio Hedge that could complement the current allocations.
Following The allocation changes resulting from this years annual some preliminary research, they have concluded that review have not altered the aggregate risk exposures of the commodity trading advisers CTAs are one potential 8 Premium Discount % DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2011 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED Portfolio in a material way.
As such, Aurora is retaining the Share Net Asset Value Performance current target allocation to the portfolio hedge strategy at 250 approximately 12%.
Currently, the exposure is roughly split 230 210 in thirds to the three underlying sub-categories short 190 sellers, tail-risk managers, and equity index overlays.
170 150 130 Conclusion 110 The investment objective of the Company remains the same 90 to generate long-term capital appreciation with low 70 Dec 02 Dec 03 Dec 04 Dec 05 Dec 06 Dec 07 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Inception volatility and little correlation with the equity and bond Dexion Absolute Limited NAV MSCI World Index Gross TR US$ markets.
The Investment Adviser feels that the adjustments HFRI Fund of Funds Index US$ JPM Global Government Bond Index TR US$ resulting from this years annual review will put the Portfolio Note: Based on monthly data.
Dexion Absolute Limiteds Share NAV is expressed in in a good position to meet these objectives.
While it is whilst the comparative indices are expressed in US$.
Except for a short period between November 2008 and January 2009, Dexion Absolute Limiteds Share NAV has been difficult to predict how things will play out in the global hedged from US$ to using currency forwards: these hedging arrangements have had a positive effect on the NAV performance when interest rates were higher than US$ markets, the Investment Adviser is confident that the interest rates, and vice versa.
Dexion Absolute Limiteds Share NAV was not hedged in managers with whom it entrusts the Companys capital are this way between 13 November 2008 and 27 January 2009, and in that period, the currency exposure had an overall impact of approximately 3.7% on the Share NAV.
The well suited to exploit the opportunities offered by the market.
approximate impact of the reverse auction, which took place in January 2009, on Dexion 1 The returns of the long short credit strategy reflects the extracted performance of the Absolute Limiteds Share NAV, on the basis of the Redemption Prices as announced on long short credit strategy of Dexion Absolute Limited, a multi-strategy, multi-manager fund 30 January 2009, was 1.7%.
The approximate impact of the reverse auction, which took of hedge funds that commenced operations on 1 January, 2003 DAL.
Aurora Investment place in January 2010, on Dexion Absolute Limiteds Share NAV, on the basis of the Management L. L. C. Aurora does not manage any dedicated long short credit accounts.
Redemption Prices as announced on 1 February 2010, was 0.3%.
The long short credit strategy returns presented above are net of underlying hedge fund Source: Bloomberg data fees and expenses and gross of DALs fee and expenses.
The long short credit strategy returns are presented solely to illustrate the historic return characteristics of the strategy class in the context of DALs management of multi-manager, multi-strategy funds.
The Share Premium Discount to Net Asset Value returns of the long short credit strategy are unaudited.
The objectives of a single-strategy fund differ from those of a multi-strategy fund like DAL.
Past performance particularly 100% extracted performance is not necessarily indicative of future results.
180 170 80% 160 Strategy Allocation as at 1 January 2012 150 60% 140 Macro Multi-Strategy 40% 130 15% Opportunistic 120 20% 10% 110 0% 100 90 -20% Portfolio 80 Hedge -40% 70 Long Short Dec 02 Dec 03 Dec 04 Dec 05 Dec 06 Dec 07 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 13% Inception Equities Premium Discount NAV Share Price 27% Note: Calculated using weekly published estimated NAVs and closing mid-weekly Share Event Long Short prices to December 2011.
Except for a short period between November 2008 and January Driven Credit 2009, Dexion Absolute Limiteds Share NAV has been hedged from US$ to using 13% 22% currency forwards: these hedging arrangements have had a positive effect on the NAV performance when interest rates were higher than US$ interest rates, and vice versa.
Note: Allocations are based on 31 December 2011 results and 1 January 2012 capital Dexion Absolute Limiteds Share NAV was not hedged in this way between 13 November allocations, net of cash effect and including, for Portfolio Hedge only, the delta-adjusted 2008 and 27 January 2009, and in that period, the currency exposure had an overall exposure derived from option hedges, the notional value of futures hedges, and the notional impact of approximately 3.7% on the Share NAV.
The approximate impact of the reverse gold exposure of an investment with a Long Short Equities manager that intends to provide auction, which took place in January 2009, on Dexion Absolute Limiteds Share NAV, on approximately 100% gold exposure to its portfolio.
Effective 31 May 2011, Dexion Absolute the basis of the Redemption Prices as announced on 30 January 2009, was 1.7%.
The Limited created a redemption portfolio for Shareholders that elected to redeem from the approximate impact of the reverse auction, which took place in January 2010, on Dexion Euro class.
All information presented herein is for the Continuing Portfolio only.
Manager Absolute Limiteds Share NAV, on the basis of the Redemption Prices as announced on counts exclude any manager for which Dexion Absolute Limited has submitted a full 1 February 2010, was 0.3%.
Note that the current premium discount may be higher or withdrawal request and has at any point thereafter represented less than 0.5% of Dexion lower.
Absolute Limiteds net asset value.
Dexion Absolute Limited treats investments in different Source: Bloomberg data funds of the same manager which are managed in the same strategy as a composite for the purpose of determining manager count and computing percentage allocations.
Effective 1 January 2011, the Activist strategy was re-categorised as the Event-Driven strategy.
As part of this change, three Multi-Strategy Opportunistic managers that employ a primarily event-driven trading strategy were combined with the current Activist managers in the new Event-Driven strategy.
As a result of these changes, a significant portion of the current and historical Multi-Strategy Opportunistic allocation was re-categorised as an Event-Driven allocation.
These changes do not reflect any changes in our underlying investment philosophy or manager selection process.
Source: Aurora Investment Management LLC 9 NAV or Share price p Total Return Base 100 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2011 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS Strategy Performance and Attribution for 2011 US$ -5% -4% -3% -2% -1% 0% 1% 2% 3% Attribution -1.40% Long Short Credit -7.97% -0.04% Event-Driven -0.01% -2.83% 2.15% Long Short Equities -8.24% -0.94% 1.89% Multi-Strategy Opportunistic -7.21% 0.43% Macro 3.50% 0.09% Portfolio Hedge 0.23% -10% -8% -6% -4% -2% 0% 2% 4% 6% Performance YTD Performance Dec 2011 YTD Attribution Dec 2011 Note: Strategy returns for the Continuing Portfolio are in US$, net of underlying manager fees only and not inclusive of Dexion Absolute Limiteds fees and expenses.
Strategy attributions and returns have been calculated using start of month weighting and performance during the month, are in US$, net of underlying manager fees only, and not inclusive of Dexion Absolute Limiteds fees and expenses.
Foreign Exchange: The approximate impacts of foreign exchange on the net asset values of the Companys ordinary Shares during the period between the Company suspending and reinstating its currency hedging arrangements were 3.7% for the Shares, and -4.9% for the EUR Shares.
The approximate impacts of foreign exchange on the net asset values of the Companys ordinary Shares during the period between 1 January 2009 and the reinstatement of its currency hedging arrangements were 2.0% for the Shares and 5.5% for the EUR Shares.
Currency hedging was suspended on 13 November 2008 and reinstated on 27 and 28 January 2009 see RNS announcements dated 29 January 2009, No.
Reverse Auction January 2009 : The approximate impacts of the reverse auction, held in January 2009, on the net asset values of the Companys ordinary Shares on the basis of the Redemption Prices as announced on 30 January 2009 were 1.7% for the Shares, 2.5% for the EUR Shares and 2.9% for the US$ Shares.
Reverse Auction January 2010 : The approximate impacts of the reverse auction, held in January 2010, on the net asset values of the Companys ordinary Shares on the basis of the Redemption Prices as announced on 1 February 2010 were 0.3% for the Shares, 0.2% for the EUR Shares and 0.2% for the US$ Shares.
Source: Bloomberg data 11 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2011 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS Historical Strategy Allocation 100% 90% 80% 70% 60% 50% 40% 30% 20% 10% 0% Dec 02 Jun 03 Dec 03 Jun 04 Dec 04 Jun 05 Dec 05 Jun 06 Dec 06 Jun 07 Dec 07 Jun 08 Dec 89 Jun 09 Dec 09 Jun 10 Dec 10 Jun 11 Dec 11 Inception Long Short Credit Event Driven Long Short Equities Multi Strategy Opportunisitc Macro Portfolio Hedge Note: Strategy or manager allocations are net of cash effect and are calculated on a look-through basis.
Dexion Absolute Limited has re-categorised the strategies by which it classifies managers over time.
The Historical Strategy Allocation chart retroactively classifies managers since inception using Dexion Absolute Limiteds current core trading strategies.
Effective 1 January 2007, Aurora Investment Management LLC combined the Fundamental Opportunistic, Relative Value Opportunistic, and Event-Driven strategies into Multi-Strategy Opportunistic.
These changes do not reflect any changes in the Investment Advisers underlying investment philosophy or manager selection process.
Source: Dexion Capital plc Historical Look-through Portfolio Leverage Portfolio Liquidity as at 1 January 2012 300 250 3m - 12m 200 34% 0m - 3m 150 51% 100 50 12m 0 15% Jan 04 Jan 05 Jan 06 Jan 07 Jan 09 Jan 10 Dec 10 Dec11 Jan 03 Jan 08 Note: Dexion Absolute Limiteds look-through portfolio leverage is the aggregate gross Note: As at 1 January 2012, Dexion Absolute Limiteds liquidity represents the estimated net exposures i. e. longs and shorts plus other exposure of the underlying hedge fund asset value of the Continuing Portfolio that could be redeemed from underlying hedge funds managers divided by Dexion Absolute Limiteds net asset value at the beginning of each within the time periods specified.
This analysis includes notice periods, but excludes calendar month.
Effective 31 May, 2011, Dexion Absolute Limited created a redemption settlement periods.
Typically, a hedge fund will distribute 90% of a full redemption amount portfolio for Shareholders that elected to redeem from the EUR class.
Effective 1 June 2011, within 90 days of the redemption date, with the remainder of the redemption amount Dexion Absolute Limiteds portfolio gross exposure is reported for the continuing portfolio distributed up to 60 days after the completion of the hedge funds audit, which can be several only.
Look-through portfolio leverage is derived from information provided by the underlying months or more after the redemption date, typically without the payment of any interest.
Audit hedge fund managers and is presented for the continuing portfolio.
Certain Macro holdbacks also may be applied to partial redemptions.
There may be other matters or factors managers provide Value at Risk VaR instead of long, short, or gross exposure.
For these that affect the availability, amount, or timing of receipt of the proceeds of realisation of some Macro managers, an estimated VaR derived gross exposure is determined by calculating or all of Dexion Absolute Limiteds investments.
An underlying hedge fund is deemed to be the VaR equivalent portfolio by the managers net asset value.
The resulting VaR derived liquid during the time period specified if Dexion Absolute Limited can pay a redemption fee of gross exposure is then aggregated with the other Macro managers gross exposure to 5% or less to redeem during that time period.
A hedge fund that imposes a redemption fee arrive at an estimated aggregate gross exposure.
When VaR reporting or gross exposure is of more than 5% to redeem during the time period speficied is not considered liquid during not available for a Macro manager, portfolio information may be analysed to derive an that time period.
Cash, short-term receivables and other non-investment activity, calculated estimated VaR and an estimated VaR derived gross exposure may then be determined as at 24 January 2012, are included in the zero to three-month liquidity category.
using the process described above.
For reports prepared after 1 January 2011, the Dexion Absolute Limiteds liquidity is subject to frequent change and the information set methodology used to calculate certain underlying hedge fund managers gross exposure forth in the chart above is not an indication of Dexion Absolute Limiteds future liquidity.
for periods prior to 1 December 2008 has changed.
Dexion Absolute Limiteds liquidity will change as it allocates and reallocates capital among Source: Aurora Investment Management LLC the underlying hedge funds.
In addition, underlying hedge funds often have the ability to suspend redemptions, restrict redemptions to a specified percentage of the underlying funds net assets e. g. a gate, and or restrict investors from redeeming their interest in certain investments e. g. side pockets, all of which would reduce the liquidity of Dexion Absolute Limited.
In particular, the likelihood that a manager may suspend redemptions, invoke a gate or side pocket certain investments is likely to increase during times of market stress that cause investors to redeem from hedge funds.
Certain investments in underlying hedge funds may not be liquid for several years or longer.
12 Level of leverage DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2011 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED Analysis of significant investments The ten largest holdings of the Continuing Portfolio as at 31 December 2011 are set out below: Continuing Portfolio % of % of Market Continuing investee Book cost value Portfolios share 1 Name of Investment Strategy net assets capital Redwood Offshore Fund, Ltd Long Short Credit 21,536,190 36,638,777 5.23% 2.37% 2 & 3 Pennant Composite Long Short Equities 29,311,696 32,122,067 4.59% 1.72% WCG Offshore Fund, Ltd Macro 24,109,065 30,629,835 4.37% 1.80% AKO Fund Limited Long Short Equities 26,618,193 28,089,322 4.01% 1.32% Brevan Howard Fund Limited Macro 23,980,836 27,756,762 3.96% 0.21% West Face Long Term Opportunities Fund Ltd. Event-Driven 20,433,463 27,664,892 3.95% 3.87% 2 & 3 Alden Composite Long Short Credit 26,494,521 26,286,046 3.75% 2.79% Discovery Global Opportunity Fund, Ltd Macro 20,902,179 24,520,153 3.50% 1.06% Lansdowne UK Equity Fund Limited Long Short Equities 24,614,840 24,082,803 3.44% 0.61% Thoroughbred Offshore Fund Ltd. Long Short Credit 19,344,951 22,696,473 3.24% 1.41% 4 237,345,934 280,487,130 40.04% The ten largest holdings of the Redemption Portfolio as at 31 December 2011 are set out below: Redemption Portfolio % of Market Redemption Book cost value Portfolios 5 Name of Investment Strategy investments Cevian Capital II Ltd. Event-Driven 1,694,808 1,607,555 20.87% WCG Offshore Fund, Ltd. Macro 1,018,624 1,001,440 13.00% TPG-Axon Partners Offshore Ltd. Multi-Strategy Opportunistic 599,255 915,421 11.88% Eton Park Overseas Fund, Ltd. Multi-Strategy Opportunistic 701,327 772,413 10.03% Value Act Composite Event-Driven 770,408 622,517 8.08% Touradji Global Resources Offshore Fund, Ltd. Macro 162,887 533,065 6.92% Alden Global Value Recovery Fund Cayman Ltd. Long Short Credit 571,653 458,442 5.95% SRM Global Fund Limited Multi-Strategy Opportunistic 241,195 237,615 3.08% West Face Long Term Opportunities Fund Ltd. Event-Driven 290,401 229,479 2.98% Passport Offshore Limited Long Short Equities 229,828 199,288 2.59% 6,280,386 6,577,235 85.38% 1 Underlying AUM used to calculate percentages of issued Share capital are based on estimates of fund capital provided by the underlying manager as of 31 December 2011.
2 Pennant Composite is composed of Pennant Windward Fund, Ltd. and Broadway Gate Offshore Fund, Ltd. Alden Composite is composed of Alden Global Distressed Opportunities Fund Cayman, L. P. and Alden Global Value Recovery Fund Cayman, Ltd. 3 Underlying AUM used to calculate the percentage of issued Share capital includes only the AUM of the offshore fund in which Dexion Absolute Limited is invested.
Pennant Composite is the sum of the four offshore fund AUM in which Dexion is invested.
Alden Composite AUM is the sum of the two offshore fund AUM in which Dexion is invested.
4 The equivalent exposure in respect of December 2010 totalled 40.49% of the Company's net assets.
5 As the Redemption Portfolio does not have any net assets at the Statement of Financial Position date, the percentage of the Portfolio's investments have been shown.
6 This table includes redemptions made on 31 December 2011.
Dexion Capital Guernsey Limited 20 April 2012 13
