DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2011 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report and audited financial managed by experienced portfolio managers employing, as a statements for the year to 31 December 2011. group, a variety of investment techniques and strategies.
Principal Activity There are a number of portfolio managers implementing Dexion Absolute Limited the Company is a Guernsey alternative investment strategies whose services are not authorised closed-ended investment company listed on the generally available to the investing public.
Such portfolio London Stock Exchange.
The Companys Shares are managers often impose high minimum investment classified as a premium listing.
Trading in the Companys requirements and place stringent restrictions on the number ordinary Shares since reclassified as Shares commenced of investors whose money they will manage.
By investing on 19 December 2002. with these and other portfolio managers, the Company seeks to provide investors with access to the varied skills and Company Law expertise of such portfolio managers which may not These financial statements have been prepared under the otherwise be available to such investors, while at the same Companies Guernsey Law, 2008. time attempting to lessen the risks and volatility associated with investing through any single hedge fund or portfolio Investment Objective manager.
The Company also enables investors to avoid, to a The Continuing Portfolios investment objective is to significant extent, the high minimum investment generate consistent long-term capital appreciation with low requirements typically imposed on individual investors volatility and little correlation with the general equity and investing in hedge funds directly.
bond markets through a portfolio having a diversified risk profile.
The Companys investment objective is consistent Although the Investment Adviser allocates the Companys with that of Aurora LP Aurora, which is the Investment assets among underlying portfolio managers employing one Advisers flagship fund.
or more of the strategies described on page 64, the Investment Adviser does not follow a rigid policy and, subject Although not forming part of the Companys investment to maintaining an appropriate spread of funds and investment objective, the Companys investment rationale, methodology strategies, the Companys assets may be deployed in and portfolio management is consistent with that of Aurora.
whatever funds and investment strategies the Investment Adviser deems appropriate.
The Company is not restricted However, it has not been, and may continue not to be possible from participating in any market, strategy or investment, and for the Company always to invest in the same underlying the Investment Adviser may alter or modify some or all of the funds that Aurora is invested in to the same extent or at all Companys underlying investment strategies in light of and the fees and expenses payable by Aurora may differ available investment opportunities and prevailing economic materially from those payable by the Company.
Accordingly, and market conditions if the Investment Adviser determines the Companys performance will not mirror that of Aurora.
that such alterations or modifications are consistent with the Companys investment objective, subject to what the The 2011 Redemption Portfolios investment objective is to Investment Adviser considers an acceptable level of risk.
The realise its assets in an orderly and timely manner to pay Company will invest and manage its assets in a way which is redeeming Shareholders.
consistent with its objective of spreading investment risk.
Investment Policy The initial allocation of assets to a fund managed by a The investment policy of the Companys Continuing Portfolio is particular portfolio manager may be based, in part, on the to invest in an actively managed portfolio of hedge funds Investment Advisers contact and experience with the which is diversified by investment strategy, style and manager, portfolio manager.
Allocations are also a function of the to achieve attractive risk-adjusted returns with low correlation degree of risk that the Investment Adviser seeks i to include to equity and fixed interest benchmarks.
The Investment funds managed by at least two portfolio managers utilising a Adviser seeks to achieve this by allocating the Companys particular investment strategy, ii not to invest more than assets among professionally selected hedge funds that are 10% of the Companys total assets in any one fund, and iii 15 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2011 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS not to invest more than 40% of the Companys total assets assuming no settlement obstructions rather than the amount in any single strategy, although it may deviate from any such which those investments might realise were they to be guidelines from time to time and or for sustained periods, redeemed.
Such redemptions may be subject to 3, 6 or 12 subject always to the investment restrictions set out below.
months or even longer notice periods and some investments may be incapable of redemption at the present time or in the The portfolio managers selected by the Investment Adviser future, by which time the value of such investments may have have complete discretion to purchase and sell securities for changed up or down.
Accordingly, the realisation value of their respective hedge funds consistent with the relevant those investments will only be known once they are redeemed.
investment advisory agreements, partnership agreements or Certain irredeemable or side-pocket investments or other governing documents.
Such agreements and investments that have suspended realisations may have a governing documents generally allow the portfolio managers value ascribed to them which is difficult to verify.
Accordingly, to change the kinds of investments they make and their the realisation value will only be known once they are realised.
techniques for making investments if they believe that such changes are appropriate in view of the then current or The Company started 2011 with a secured variable funding expected, market, business or economic conditions.
note from Credit Suisse which provides for a maximum of 200 million or 25% of net assets whichever is the lower.
Although it does not currently do so, the Investment Adviser This secured variable funding note matured on 30 August may allocate part of the Companys assets to portfolio 2011.
In March 2011 the Board performed a review of managers affiliated with the Investment Adviser provided potential credit providers that resulted in a further request to that such allocations are permitted by applicable law.
Such Credit Suisse to roll the facility for another 12 months with allocations, if any, will generally not, in the aggregate, exceed effect from 30 August 2011.
On 28 September 2011 the 10% of the Companys total net assets as of the date any Company increased the contractual borrowing ratio to 200 such allocation is made although the Investment Adviser million or 30% of net assets, whichever is the lower.
may deviate from the foregoing policy under unusual circumstances.
The Company would pay such affiliated The variable funding note is used for short-term or portfolio managers management and performance fees on temporary liquidity purposes as may be necessary to terms no more favourable than the terms generally offered facilitate investment and withdrawals from underlying funds to unaffiliated investors.
or to meet ongoing expenses, and to implement the Companys currency hedging strategy.
The hedge funds in which the Company invests are or may be permitted to borrow and invest in long and short positions The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to in equities, fixed income securities, options, warrants, borrow money and to give guarantees, mortgage, futures, commodities, currency forwards, over-the-counter hypothecate, pledge or charge all or part of its undertaking, derivative instruments such as swaps, securities that lack property or assets and uncalled capital and to issue active public markets, repurchase and reverse repurchase debentures and other securities whether outright or as agreements, preferred stocks, convertible bonds and other collateral security for any liability or obligation of the financial instruments as well as cash and cash equivalents.
Company or of any third party.
The Companys Articles do not specify a borrowing limit.
It is the intention of the Company to be substantially fully invested at all times, although the Investment Adviser may The Company does not have any long-term or fixed use its discretion to hold cash or equivalent investments structural gearing and, whilst it is not intended that it should from time to time.
have, the introduction of any such gearing would be subject to the prior approval of Shareholders.
The Company may be The valuations of the Companys investments as set out in its indirectly exposed to gearing to the extent that investee weekly and monthly NAV releases assume a present value of funds or portfolio managers are themselves geared.
The those investments based on estimates received from Investment Adviser expects such underlying gearing to be in underlying funds or their managers or administrators and the range 1.5:1 to 2.5:1.
16 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2011 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Investment Restrictions Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Company is subject to the following investment restrictions which include certain restrictions set out in the Economic risk Listing Rules of the London Stock Exchange: Within the Chairmans Statement and the Managers Report, Not more than 20% of the total assets of the Company each refer to the difficult economic and political climate in will be invested in any one fund at the time the being since 2008. investment is made.
The Company will not make further investment s in any To assist in the management of these issues and following single investment strategy where, immediately following discussion with the Board, the Investment Adviser has such further investment s, that investment strategy adjusted the annual review process.
Bottom-up analysis has represents 60% or more of the total assets of the historically dominated the allocation process.
and where necessary top-down strategy allocation decisions The Company will not borrow more than 40% of its net will play a more prominent role in determining the target assets for short term or temporary liquidity purposes, portfolio to enhance performance.
including as may be necessary to facilitate investment and withdrawals from underlying funds or to meet Performance risk ongoing expenses and to implement the Companys The past year proved to be extremely challenging in terms of currency hedging strategy.
For 2011 there was a negative return for each The Company will avoid cross-financing between Share class.
As noted within Economic Risk the Board is businesses forming part of its investment portfolio.
The providing for some flexibility in strategy allocation that is Company will avoid the operation of common treasury anticipated to assist in providing a return to a positive return functions as between the Company and investee for each Share class.
Any material change in the investment policies of the The Companys Shares have continued to trade at a discount Company will only be made with the approval of to Net Asset Value.
The Companys Articles of Association Shareholders by ordinary resolution.
incorporate discount management provisions requiring a Not more than 10% of the total assets of the Company Continuation Vote for each Share class to be proposed by way in aggregate will be invested in other closed-ended of ordinary resolution if, in any rolling 12 month period, the investment funds except for those which themselves Shares of a particular class have traded, on average, at a have stated investment policies to invest no more than discount equal to or in excess of 5% of the average Net Asset 15% of their gross assets in other closed-ended Value NAV per Share, of a class by reference to the weekly investment funds.
NAV estimates released in that period and the closing midDividends will not normally be paid and in any event will market Share prices 5 business days after such estimate is only be paid if they are covered by income received from released.
The distribution as dividend of surpluses arising from During 2012 the discount floor provision was triggered and the realisation of investments is prohibited.
accordingly the Board proposed a Continuation Vote for each Share class in issue.
Following the failure of the and US$ In the event of any breach of these investment restrictions, Share Classes a redemption offer has been proposed.
The the Board will make an announcement on a regulatory issued share capital of the Company will be reduced as a information service provider as soon as practicable and result of Redemption Shares being cancelled.
Consequently, subsequently write to Shareholders if appropriate.
where significant numbers of Shareholders elect to redeem the Shares pursuant to redemption proposals the continuing The above investment restrictions have not applied to the value of the portfolio may be below a size which the Board 2011 Redemption Portfolio as the investments in that believes is the minimum necessary in order to pursue the portfolio are being realised on an orderly basis.
The Directors will continue 17 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2011 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS to utilise the Shareholder authority to buy-back up to 14.99% As a result of the failure of the Continuation Resolution for the of the Shares in issue at the time of the 2011 Annual General Share class, in April 2011 the Board put forward a Meeting to assist in the control of the discount mechanism.
Redemption Offer to the Shareholders to redeem up to all the Shares with the creation of a 2011 Redemption Financial risks Portfolio for the purpose of realising the investments Capital risk management is about ensuring that the Company contained within it in an orderly and timely manner, and is able to continue as a going concern.
Note 4 of these distributing the cash amounts received to redeeming financial statements describes the risks within this category Shareholders in full satisfaction of redemption monies.
together with an indication of how each is managed and Acceptances of that offer were received for 55.8 million monitored.
Shares, representing 84% of the issued Shares, and on 31 May 2011 the Redemption Portfolio was created.
These Shareholder Information annual accounts have been prepared disclosing the results of The Company announces its NAV on a monthly basis together the Continuing and Redemption Portfolios separately, both in with a commentary on its investment performance.
Estimated the primary statements and in the notes to the accounts.
NAVs are normally provided weekly.
Share price, NAV and performance information can also be found by eligible At the beginning of 2012, the Companys rolling 12 month Shareholders on the Companys website page which can be discount floor was again triggered, resulting in class accessed via www.
However, information meetings of all Share classes being convened to consider the on that website does not form part of, nor is it incorporated 2012 Continuation Resolutions, as set out in a Circular issued by reference into this document and that information is not to Shareholders on 28 February 2012.
On 22 March 2012, available to certain overseas Shareholders.
Shareholder web the Board announced that the resolution in respect of the conferences also take place and are announced via RNS.
The and US$ Share classes did not pass their respective continuation votes.
On 5 April 2012 the Results Directors issued a Redemption Offer to Shareholders of the The results for the year are set out in the Statement of and US$ Share classes, each to redeem up to all of their Comprehensive Income on page 29.
The Directors do not holdings as at the record date of 22 March 2012.
The propose a dividend for the year nor was one declared for 2010.
Redemption Offers close on 27 April 2012.
Significant Events 2011 saw the continued implementation of Share buybacks The Companys rolling 12 month discount floor was triggered by the Company designed both to reduce the Share price in the beginning of 2011 requiring continuation votes to be discount and also to address the liquidity of the Shares.
proposed for each class of Shares by way of ordinary class During the year the Company repurchased 33,239,659 resolution.
33,239,659 Shares were held in treasury as at 31 December 2011.
Pursuant to the Companys articles on 2 March 2011 a Circular containing notices of each of the class meetings was The Directors still have a Treasury Share Policy whereby any sent to Shareholders.
On 28 March 2011, following the Shares held in treasury after a period of 12 months are separate class meetings the Board announced that the cancelled.
Under the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, the Continuation Resolutions for the and US$ Share classes number of Shares of any class held as treasury Shares must were passed with a total of 44% of the issued Share capital not at any time exceed 10% of the total number of issued in the Share class voting, and 90% of the votes cast in Shares of that class at that time.
28,893,771 treasury Shares favour, and 30% of the issued Share capital in the US$ Share were cancelled in 2011. class voting, and 64% of the votes cast in favour.
The Continuation Resolution for the Share class was not Management Arrangements passed, with 70% of the issued Share capital in the Share The Company has an agreement with Dexion Capital class voting, and 82% of votes being cast against.
Guernsey Limited for the provision of investment management services.
The Manager attends every quarterly 18 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2011 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Board meeting and maintains open dialogue with the Corporate Governance Directors on an ongoing basis.
Management fees as Introduction disclosed in note 10 are based on an annual amount of The Board recognises the importance of a strong corporate 1.5% of the total assets of the Company plus a performance governance culture that meets the listing requirements.
All fee as outlined in note 10.
On 22 March 2012, the Board Directors contribute to Board discussions and debates.
The announced that following the passing of the 2012 Board believes in providing as much transparency for Continuation Resolution of the Share class the annual investors as is reasonably possible and the monthly portfolio management fee charged by the Investment Manager in report continues to be well received by investors.
respect of all Continuing Shares should be reduced from AIC 1.5% to 1% per annum with effect from 1 April 2012.
The The Company is a member of the Association of Investment Management Engagement Committee has reviewed the Companies the AIC and has carefully considered the performance of the Manager in managing the portfolio.
That principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Committee has also reviewed the appropriateness of the Corporate Governance the AIC Code and has decided to terms of the investment management agreement, in follow the AICs Corporate Governance Guide for Investment particular, the length of the notice period and the fees Companies the AIC Guide.
The AIC code is publicly available on the AIC website.
Following their review, it is in the opinion of the Directors that the continuing appointment of the Manager on the terms On 30 September 2010, the Financial Reporting Council agreed is in the interest of Shareholders as a whole.
provided the AIC with an updated endorsement letter to cover the fifth edition of the AIC Code.
The endorsement During 2011 the Management Engagement Committee confirms that by following the AIC Code investment company reviewed all key service provider performance and requested boards should fully meet their obligations in relation to the a self-certification from each such provider demonstrating UK Corporate Governance Code and paragraph LR 9.8.
6 of how key performance indicators had been achieved.
Directors Interests The Company Secretary has undertaken a review of the The Directors, as stated on page 14, all served during the corporate governance principles of the Board and year under review.
The Directors had no beneficial interest in Committees of the Board of the Company.
The Directors the Company other than as shown below: confirm compliance to the AIC Code without exception.
31 December 2011 Shares Guernsey Regulatory Environment T C Ash Nil On 30 September 2011 the Guernsey Financial Services R M J Bowie 102,626 Commission the Commission issued the Finance Sector Robin Bowie Childrens Trust 14,700 Code of Corporate Governance the Code.
The Code W N Collins 20,000 comprises Principles and Guidance, and provides a formal S A Farnon 15,000 expression of good corporate practice against which J E Hallam 22,906 Shareholders, boards and the Commission can better assess P Sharman 62,280 the governance exercised over companies in Guernseys finance sector.
Substantial Interests Disclosure and Transparency Rules are now comprised in the The Commission recognises that the different nature, scale Financial Services Authority handbook.
Such rules require and complexity of business will lead to differing approaches substantial Shareholders to make relevant holding to meeting the Code.
notifications to the Company and the UK Financial Services Authority.
The Company must then disseminate this Companies which report against the UK Corporate Governance information to the wider market.
Code or the Association of Investment Companies Code of Corporate Governance are also deemed to meet this Code.
19 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2011 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS Directors are to retire and offer themselves for re-election.
The Board Disclosure under Principle 5 of the AIC Code In the absence of each retiring Director, the remaining The Board currently consists of six non-executive Directors.
Directors discussed and appraised each other.
The Board In accordance with Principle 2 of the AIC Code four of the believes that the balance of skills, experience, and knowledge non-executives the majority are independent of the of the Company and mixed length of service on the Board Investment Adviser and Manager.
Mr Bowie and Mr Sharman provides for a solid base in which the interest of investors will are not independent of the Manager or the Investment be served to a high standard.
The Board recommends the Consultant.
The Chairman, Mr Hallam, met the re-election of each Director and supporting biographies, independence criteria of the AIC Code Principle 1 upon including length of service, are disclosed on page 14 of this appointment and has continued to meet this condition annual report.
A full list of other public company directorships throughout his term of service.
Although not a requirement for each Director is disclosed on page 63. of the AIC Code, in accordance with guidance in Principle 1, the Board has a Senior Independent Director.
Mr Ash was The Board meets at least four times a year and between appointed as Senior Independent Director on 30 November these formal meetings there is regular contact with the 2010, this role having previously been occupied by Companys key service providers.
The Directors are kept fully Mr Hallam.
Being non-executive Directors, no Director has a informed of investment and financial controls, and other service contract with the Company.
matters that are relevant to the business of the Company that should be brought to the attention of the Directors.
The The Articles of Association provide that one third of the Directors also have access, where necessary in the Directors retire by rotation at each annual general meeting.
If furtherance of their duties, to independent professional their number is not three or a multiple of three, the number advice at the expense of the Company.
nearest to but not exceeding one third, shall retire from office.
However, the Board has now adopted a policy whereby each Director will retire and offer themselves for re-election at each Annual General Meeting.
By adopting this policy the Directors recognise that more than one third of their number retire each year.
The Board believes that long serving Directors should not be prevented from forming part of an independent majority of the Board.
The Board is satisfied as to the continued independence of Messrs. Ash and Hallam, all of whom have achieved nine years service.
The Board undertakes a formal annual evaluation of its Directors and is satisfied that all directors continue to discharge their obligations as Directors and contribute very effectively to the work of the Board and its committees.
The overall composition and balance of the Board is kept under review as described below in the programme of work undertaken by the Nomination Committee.
The Board will continue to manage the orderly succession of non-executive Directors without compromising the effectiveness and continuity of the Board and its committees.
A Director who retires at an annual general meeting may, if willing to act, be reappointed.
The Directors are not subject to automatic re-appointment.
Other than arising from the initial re-election of the first directors of the Company, this is the second year that all of the 20 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2011 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The attendance record of Directors is set out below: Quarterly Management board Audit Engagement Remuneration Nomination meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 4 3 1 2 1 Meetings attended: T C Ash 4 3 1 2 1 R M J Bowie 4 N A N A N A N A J E Hallam 4 N A 1 1 1 P Sharman 4 N A N A N A N A S A Farnon 4 3 1 2 1 W N Collins 4 3 0 1 0 Mr Hallam was appointed to the Remuneration Committee in February 2011 Mr Collins was appointed to the Management Engagement Committee on 22 November 2011 During the year a further 7 ad-hoc Committee meetings were management, gearing, general administration and held to deal with matters substantially of an administrative compliance, peer group information and industry issues.
nature and these were attended by those directors available The Board evaluates its performance and considers the at the time.
tenure and independence of each Director on an annual As previously mentioned, the Board has a breadth of basis, and believes that the mix of skills, experience and experience relevant to the Company, and the Directors believe length of service are appropriate to the requirements of the that any changes to the Boards composition can be Company.
With any new Director To enable this evaluation to take place the Company appointment to the Board an induction process is tailored to Secretary circulates a detailed questionnaire plus a separate ensure that it would be appropriate for the appointee.
Upon questionnaire for the evaluation of the Chairman.
The any such appointment the new Director would be available to questionnaires once completed are returned to the Company meet Shareholders upon request.
Secretary who collates responses, prepares a summary and The Board considers agenda items laid out in the notice and discusses the Board evaluation with the Chairman prior to agenda of meeting which are formally circulated to the Board circulation to the remaining Board members.
For the in advance of the meeting as part of the Board papers.
evaluation of the Chairman, the results are discussed with the Directors may request any agenda items to be added that Senior Independent Director who then discusses them with they consider appropriate for Board discussion.
Additionally, the Chairman prior to further distribution to the remaining each Director is required to inform the Board of any potential Directors.
or actual conflicts of interest prior to Board discussion.
In accordance with Principle 7 of the AIC Code arrangements The Board constantly considers strategy to address have been made for an independent specialist consultant to continuing market conditions and feedback from undertake an evaluation of the Board during 2012.
Shareholders wishing to achieve certain liquidity.
The Directors Duties and Responsibilities investment strategy, which is set out in the Companys latest The Directors have adopted a set of Reserved Powers, which prospectus, is reviewed regularly and the Investment Adviser establish the key purpose of the Board and detail its major advises on the adoption of appropriate strategies to employ duties.
These duties cover the following areas of under prevailing market conditions at any particular time responsibility: within the overall investment restrictions of the Company.
Statutory obligations and public disclosure: The primary focus at Board meetings is a review of Strategic matters and financial reporting: investment performance and associated matters such as Oversight of management and personnel matters: asset allocation, marketing investor relations, risk 21 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2011 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS The establishment, terms of reference, and reporting The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Mr Ash and the arrangements for all subcommittees acting on behalf of other members are Mr Hallam, Mrs Farnon and Mr Collins.
the authority of the Board: The key duty of the Remuneration Committee is to determine, Risk assessment and management, including reporting, agree and propose Board policy for the remuneration of the monitoring, governance and control: and Directors of the Company.
The Remuneration Committee Other matters having a material effect on the Company.
meets at least once in every financial calendar year to review the remuneration policy, although such review may not result These Reserved Powers of the Board have been adopted by in changes.
The Remuneration Committee may seek the Directors to demonstrate clearly the seriousness with independent professional services as required.
The which the Board takes its fiduciary responsibilities and as an Remuneration Committee has no executive powers with ongoing means of measuring and monitoring the regard to its findings and recommendations.
The chairman of effectiveness of its actions.
It also addresses Principle 16 of the Remuneration Committee or a member thereof will the AIC Code.
always be available to answer questions about the work of Committees of the Board the Remuneration Committee at the annual general meeting Nomination Committee of the Company.
The Nomination Committee was constituted by resolution of Remuneration Policy the Board on 24 August 2010.
The Committee is chaired by After careful consideration the Committee determined that: Mr Hallam and the other members are Mr Ash, Mrs Farnon and Mr Collins.
All Directors of the Company are non-executive and as such there are: The key duties of the Nomination Committee are to regularly no service contracts with the Company: review the structure, size and composition including skills, no long-term incentive schemes: knowledge and experience in accordance with Principle 6 of no options or similar performance incentives.
the AIC Code required of the Board and to make recommendations with regard to changes and to give full The Directors Remuneration: consideration to succession planning for Directors that would shall reflect the responsibility, experience, time include identifying and nomination of suitable board commitment and position on the Board: candidates.
the Chairman and Chairman of the Audit Committee shall be remunerated in excess of the remaining Board Gender diversity and Lord Daviess review into members to reflect their increased roles of responsibility Women on Boards and accountability: The Davies Review into Women on Boards recommended that fees shall be paid quarterly in arrears: companies make available a formal statement over their remuneration for additional work shall be carefully intentions concerning gender diversity.
The Board welcomes considered and become due and payable on an ad-hoc the proposals set out by Lord Davies in his review into Women basis: and on Boards.
It is encouraging and welcome that many practical independent professional consultancy shall be steps are now being taken to increase the pool of suitably undertaken at least every three years.
qualified candidates to fill non-executive director roles.
That said, ensuring that the Company has the strongest possible Remuneration 2011 leadership at Board level remains a key priority and In February 2011 the Remuneration Committee appropriate candidates will always be appointed on merit.
We recommended and the Board approved the following annual currently have one female member out of six on the Board.
fees with effect from 1 July 2010: Remuneration Committee Mr J Hallam, Chairman, 45,000: The Remuneration Committee was constituted by resolution Mr T Ash, Senior Independent Director 30,000: of the Board on 21 August 2007.
Mrs S Farnon, Chair of the Audit Committee, 35,000: 22 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2011 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Dr P Sharman and Mr W Collins, 30,000: and information from the Company Secretary and the compliance Mr R Bowie has waived his right to his annual fee of 30,000. department of the Administrator and the external auditors.
The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year to review the During 2011 there were no increases to the Directors audit timetable, annual and interim accounts and other risk remuneration.
The chairman of the Audit Committee or a member thereof will always be available Any additional remuneration where Directors are involved in to answer questions about the work of the Audit Committee at duties beyond those normally expected as part of a Directors the annual general meeting of the Company.
appointment will be disclosed in the Directors Report of the financial statements in respect of that financial year.
The Audit Committee also considers whether the appointment of an internal audit function is required.
Management Engagement Committee A Management Engagement Committee, with defined terms The Terms of Reference for the Audit Committee provide that of reference and duties, has been established to review the external auditors should not audit their own firms annually the terms of the management agreement between consultancy work nor make management decisions on behalf the Company and the Manager, the investment advisory of the Company.
The Terms of Reference also disclose the type agreement between the Company, the Manager and the of non audit services work the current appointed external Investment Adviser, and the Investment Consultant auditor may not undertake without the prior consent of the agreement between the Company, the Manager and the Audit Committee and or the Board of Directors.
Investment Consultant and the Company Secretarial agreement with the Company Secretary.
The Management Legal and other professional fees disclosed in the Statement of Engagement Committee also reviews the performance of all Comprehensive Income on page 29 contains fees for audit other key service providers including the Custodian, related services of 16,974 for the interim review and Designated Manager and Corporate Broker.
This approach 20,338 for the monthly conversions between classes of addresses AIC Code Principles 15 and 18 as the Committee Shares.
refers to the Board all discussions and findings.
Terms of Reference As previously mentioned, all key service providers submitted All Terms of Reference for Committees are available from the a performance self-certification to the Management Company Secretary upon request.
Engagement Committee as part of the 2011 review.
Internal Controls The Management Engagement Committee is also charged The Board is ultimately responsible for the Companys system with ensuring that service providers do not have conflicts of of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The interest in accordance with the Authorised Closed Ended Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for Investment Schemes Rules 2008 as issued by the Guernsey identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks Financial Services Commission.
The Directors conduct at least annually a review of the Companys system of internal control, covering The Management Engagement Committee consists of Mr all controls, including financial, operational, compliance and Collins Chairman, Mr Ash, Mrs Farnon and Mr Hallam.
Audit Committee The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of An Audit Committee has been established consisting of Mrs internal control.
In particular, it has reviewed and updated the Farnon Chairman, Mr Ash and Mr Collins.
The Audit process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks Committee examines the effectiveness of the Companys affecting the Company and the policies by which these risks internal control systems, the annual report and accounts and are managed.
interim report, the auditors remuneration and engagement, as well as the auditors independence, audit related and any nonAs there is a delegation of daily operational activity as audit services provided by them.
The Audit Committee receives described below, the Audit Committee and Board have 23 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2011 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS determined that there is no requirement for a direct internal Going Concern audit function.
The internal control systems are designed to The Companys 12 month discount floor provision was meet the Companys particular needs and the risks to which it triggered again at the beginning of 2012, requiring, in is exposed.
accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, separate continuation votes to be proposed for each class of Accordingly, the internal control systems are designed to Shares by way of ordinary class resolution.
On 22 March manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve 2012, following the separate class meetings of the business objectives and by their nature can only provide Shareholders, the Board announced that the resolution in reasonable and not absolute assurance against misstatement respect of the Share class had passed.
Details of the results and loss.
are contained on page 18 in the Directors Report.
On 5 April 2012 the Board published redemption proposals to and The Board has delegated the management of the Companys US$ Shareholders.
Following the passing of the Share class investment portfolio, the provision of custody services and the continuation resolution and after making enquiries and given administration, registrar and corporate secretarial functions the nature of the Company and its investments, the Directors including the independent calculation of the Companys NAV are satisfied that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the and the production of the Annual Report and Financial going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements, Statements which are independently audited.
Whilst the Board and, after due consideration, the Directors consider that the delegates responsibility, it retains accountability for the Company is able to continue for the foreseeable future.
functions it delegates and is responsible for the systems of internal control.
Formal contractual agreements have been put Relations with Shareholders AIC Code Principle 19 in place between the Company and providers of these The Manager, the Investment Consultant and the Companys services.
Broker maintain a regular dialogue with institutional Shareholders, the feedback from which is reported to the On an ongoing basis compliance reports are provided at each Board.
In addition, Board members will be available to quarterly board meeting from the Administrator, Custodian, respond to Shareholders questions at the Annual General Manager, Investment Adviser, Investment Consultant and Meeting.
The Company continues to offer Investor web Company Secretary.
conferences with the Investment Adviser.
Two such conferences took place during 2011.
To provide further As part of the overall risk management process, at each transparency, the Directors agreed portfolio and liquidity quarterly meeting the Directors receive, consider and assess a enhancements to the published monthly newsletter that may risk matrix detailing all key risks that are graded by probability be found by eligible Shareholders on the Companys website and impact.
page which can be accessed via www.
Corporate Responsibility The Board monitors the trading activity and Shareholder profile The Company is not an operating company.
It considers the on a regular basis.
Shareholder sentiment is also ascertained ongoing concerns of investors not only by open and regular by the careful monitoring of the discount premium at which dialogue with and through the Manager, the Investment each class of Shares is traded in the market against the NAV Consultant and the Companys Broker but also by direct per Share when compared to the discounts premiums discussions with shareholders.
experienced by the Companys peer group.
The Company makes reference to the Corporate The Company reports formally to Shareholders twice a year Responsibility Statement of Aurora Investment Management and a proxy voting card for the AGM is sent to Shareholders LLC as Investment Adviser.
with the Annual Report and Accounts.
Results of Extraordinary The Company keeps abreast of regulatory and statutory and Annual General Meetings are announced by the Company changes and takes appropriate action.
As previously referred, on the day of the relevant meeting.
Additionally, the Interim all daily operations are delegated.
The Company itself does Management Statements and the current information not maintain premises, or have any employees.
provided to eligible Shareholders on an ongoing basis through 24 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2011 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED the Companys website page and newsletter assist in keeping Shareholders informed.
The Company Secretary and Registrar monitor the voting of the Shareholders and proxy voting is taken into consideration when votes are cast at the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders may contact the Directors via the Company Secretary, whose contact details are found on page 62 of this Report and Accounts.
Directors are available for meetings with Shareholders upon request via the Company Secretary or the Investment Consultant.
Disclosure of information to auditors So far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware, and each Director has taken all the steps he she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Auditors A resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Channel Islands Limited will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board Trevor Ash Susie Farnon Director Director 20 April 2012 25
