Booker Group plc annual report & accounts 2011 Directors anD officers Richard Rose Age: 55 Mark Alywin Age: 47 Andrew Cripps Age: 53 non-Executive Chairman Managing Director - non-Executive Director and Chairman of Booker Direct and Chairman of audit nomination Committee Mark is Managing Director Committee richard was an executive of Booker Direct.
prior to andrew read economics at the Director and chairman of that, he was chief executive university of cambridge prior Blueheath Holdings plc officer of Blueheath.
to qualifying as a chartered Blueheath immediately prior to the reverse Mark was previously supply chain and it accountant with KpMG.
following twenty years acquisition of Blueheath by the Booker Group director at Musgrave Budgens londis.
with rothmans international and British american in 2007 and became non-executive chairman He has over twenty years trading, supply tobacco plc, he has held a number of nonof the company upon completion of the merger.
chain and logistics experience in the food executive Directorships in the uK and europe.
richard was formerly chief executive of Whittard industry, principally at safeway where he andrew is currently non-executive Deputy of chelsea plc, a multi site retailer of tea and was commercial director for non-foods and chairman of swedish Match aB and a noncoffee which was sold in 2006. previously he was the supply chain director.
executive Director of Helphire Group plc.
a Director of Hagemeyer uK ltd, a distributor Guy Farrant Age: 49 Stewart Gilliland of professional products and services, with a Managing Director - Age: 54 uK turnover approaching 1 billion through 360 Uk Cash and Carry non-Executive Director outlets.
prior to that he had been chief executive Guy joined the company stewart joined the Board on of Wf electrical plc, a fully listed electrical on 14 october 2010 as 8 December 2010. stewart distributor, where he created a substantial Managing Director of the recently retired as chief improvement in shareholder value.
Hagemeyer Groups uK cash and carry executive of Muller Dairies uK purchased Wf electrical plc in 2000.
Guy has a wealth of food experience and ireland after a long career spent in senior also non-executive chairman of ac electrical having worked in the food industry for 25 years roles with leading consumer facing companies, Wholesale ltd where he led a successful growth rising to be Director of food and, latterly, including Whitbread and interbrew.
His current strategy resulting in a substantial increase in operations and retail Director at Marks and roles include non-executive Directorships of shareholder value.
the business was sold to spencer plc.
sutton and east surrey Water plc and Brulines Wolseley in 2006.
He is also executive chairman Group plc, which provides volume and revenue of Helphire Group plc, non-executive chairman Bryn Satherley Age: 50 protection systems for the licensed on-trade.
of Kiotech international plc and crawshaw operations Director Group plc and a non-executive Director of Bryn is operations Director Karen Jones CBE, Drl Group ltd. responsible for property, it, Age: 54 logistics and supply chain of non-Executive Director Charles Wilson Age: 45 the Booker Group.
Bryn was and Chairman of Chief Executive at Booker plc between 1999 remuneration Committee charles started his career and 2001 and rejoined Booker in 2005. prior Karen was chief executive in 1986 with procter and to 1999 he was at exel plc and was on the of spirit Group ltd, a private Gamble following which he board of alldays ltd. equity backed pub & restaurant group, which was was a consultant with oc&c built up by acquisition and sold to punch taverns strategy consultants and a Lord Bilimoria CBE, DL in 2006. prior to spirit, Karen founded, grew and Director of abberton associates.
in 1998 he Age: 49 floated the pelican Group plc, owner of a number became an executive Director of Booker plc non-Executive Director of restaurant chains including caf rouge, which which merged with iceland plc in 2000. in and Senior Independent was acquired by Whitbread in 1996.
Karen has a 2001 he became an executive Director of Director first class honours degree from university of east arcadia Group plc and in 2004 he became an Karan Bilimoria is the anglia, and also attended Wellesley college, usa.
executive Director of Marks and spencer plc.
founder of cobra Beer and Karen is a founder and chairman of food and in 2005 he was appointed as chief executive the chairman of the cobra Beer partnership fuel ltd, a hospitality company, which currently of Booker.
ltd, a Joint venture with Molson coors.
Karan consists of ten gastropubs in london.
Karen is is an independent crossbench peer in the Jonathan Prentis Age: 49 a non-executive Director of virgin active Group House of lords.
Karan graduated in law from Group finance Director ltd, asos plc, cofra aG and of royal national the university of cambridge and is a qualified Jonathan qualified as a theatre enterprises ltd. she is a Governor of chartered accountant.
Karan is an honorary chartered accountant in 1987 ashridge Business school.
fellow of sidney sussex college, university with Deloitte & touche.
He was of cambridge and a former chancellor Mark Chilton Age: 48 appointed as Group finance of thames valley university.
Karan is a Company Secretary Director of Booker in 2005. former non-executive Director of Brake Mark acts as company prior to this appointment, Jonathan was finance Brothers and is the president of the uK india secretary to the Group and Director of Woodward foodservice ltd and then Business council.
was appointed to his present finance Director of Group logistics within the role in June 2007.
prior to 2003, he was with qualified as a solicitor in 1987. tDG plc.
Mark was appointed as company secretary of the Booker Group in 2006. previously, he was head of legal at the Big food Group plc.
prior to that, he was at the Greenalls Group plc.
