Information about the Manager Aberdeen Asset Management Asia Limited AAM Asia is The Aberdeen Group has its headquarters in Aberdeen responsible for the Asian portfolios of all clients managed with over 40 offices in 25 countries including Bangkok, within the Aberdeen Group.
AAM Asia is based in Edinburgh, Hong Kong, Kuala Lumpur, London, Singapore and is a wholly-owned subsidiary and the Asia Philadelphia, Singapore and Sydney.
Pacific headquarters of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC the Aberdeen Group, a publicly-quoted company on Worldwide, the Aberdeen Group manages a combined the London Exchange.
176.9 billion in assets as at 31 August 2011 for a range of clients, including individuals and institutions, through AAM Asia have been the Aberdeen Group's principal mutual and segregated funds.
The Aberdeen Group managers of Asia-Pacific assets since 1992, and had over manages over 38 investment companies and other closed- 367 staff across the region at 31 August 2011.
Total funds ended funds representing 8.1 billion under management.
in the region, which are also managed from Bangkok, Hong Kong, Kuala Lumpur and Sydney are over 56.7 billion as at 31 August 2011.
The Investment Team Senior Managers Hugh Young Andrew Gillan Adrian Lim Managing Director Senior Investment Manager Senior Investment Manager BA in Politics from Exeter University.
MA Joint Honours in French and Chartered Financial Analyst, B. Acc Started investment career in 1980.
European History from University of from Nanyang Technological In charge of AAM Asias Far East Edinburgh.
Joined Aberdeen in University Singapore.
September 2000 and transferred to Aberdeen in 2000.
Previously he was AAM Asia in November 2001. an associate director at Arthur Andersen advising clients on mergers and acquisitions in South East Asia.
Flavia Cheong Chou Chong Christopher Wong Investment Director Investment Director Senior Investment Manager Masters in Economics from Chartered Financial Analyst and BA in Accounting and Finance from University of Auckland.
Previously Double Masters in Accounting & Heriot-Watt University, and a with Investment Company of the Finance and Information Systems Fellow of the Chartered Certified Peoples Republic of China and from the London School of Accountants FCCA and a CFA Development Bank of Singapore.
Joined AAM Asia in Charterholder.
Previously, he was an Started investment career in 1987.
1994. associate director at Andersen Joined AAM Asia in 1996.
Corporate Finance advising clients on mergers and acquisitions in South East Asia.
