Directors Report The Directors present their report and the audited financial under review, as well as the investment outlook, is provided statements for the year ended 31 August 2011. in the Chairmans Statement and Managers Review.
Future Trends Business Review The regions economies have high rates of growth, strong This Business Review, in conjunction with the rest of the trade and fiscal surpluses and rapidly developing capital Report and Accounts, is intended to provide shareholders markets.
Nevertheless the past has demonstrated regional with the information and measures that the Directors use to risks and the outlook for the region is provided in the assess, direct and oversee the Manager in the management Chairmans Statement and Managers Review.
The Business Review is prepared in accordance with the requirements of Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006.
Risk Management The major risks associated with the Company are detailed Principal Activity below: The Company is registered as a public limited company in Resource risk: The Company is an investment trust and has Scotland and is an investment company as defined by no employees.
The responsibility for the management of Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Companys the Company has been delegated to Aberdeen Asset registration number is SC106049.
Managers Limited the Manager under the management agreement.
The terms of the management agreement cover The Company carries on business as an investment trust and the necessary duties and conditions expected of the the Directors do not envisage any change in this activity in Manager.
The Board reviews the performance of the the foreseeable future.
The Company has received requisite Manager on a regular basis and their compliance with the approval of investment trust status from HM Revenue and management contract formally on an annual basis.
Customs for accounting periods up to and including 31 August 2010.
Investment and market risk: The Company is exposed to the effect of variations in share prices due to the nature of its The Directors are of the opinion, under advice, that the business.
Investment in Asian equities involves a greater Company has conducted its affairs for the year ended 31 degree of risk than that usually associated with investment August 2011 so as to be able to obtain approval as an in the major securities markets.
These include a greater risk investment trust under Sections 1158-1159 of the of social, political and economic instability including Corporation Tax Act 2010 for that year, although approval changes in government which may restrict investment for the period would be subject to review were there to be opportunities and have an adverse effect on economic any enquiry under the Corporation Tax Self Assessment reform.
Changes in legal, regulatory and accounting policies regime.
can also affect the value of the Companys investments.
The lower volumes of trading in certain securities of The Company has conducted its affairs so as to satisfy the emerging markets may result in lack of liquidity and price requirements as a qualifying security for Individual Savings volatility.
In addition, currency fluctuations and high Accounts.
The Directors intend that the Company will interest rates may affect the value of the Companys continue to conduct its affairs in this manner.
investments and the income derived therefrom.
Investment Objective and Policy The Board continually monitors the investment policy of The Companys objective is to achieve long term capital the Company, taking account of stockmarket factors, and growth through investment in the Far East.
The Companys reviews the Companys performance compared to its benchmark is the MSCI All Country Asia ex Japan Index.
benchmark index and peer group.
Further details on other Investments are made in stock markets in the region with the risks relating to the Companys investment activities, exception of Japan and Australasia, principally in large including market price, liquidity and foreign currency risks, companies.
are provided in note 19 to the financial statements.
Details of the Company's investment policy and strategy are Gearing risk: During the year to 31 August 2011 the provided in the Investment Objective and Policy section on Company issued 60 million nominal of 3.5% Convertible page 3.
Gearing has the effect of exacerbating market falls and gains.
In order to manage the level of gearing, the Board has set a maximum gearing Review of Performance ratio of 20%.
An outline of the performance, market background, investment activity and portfolio strategy during the year 20 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc Regulatory risk: The Company operates in a complex The Ordinary shares carry a right to receive dividends which regulatory environment and faces a number of regulatory are declared from time to time by an ordinary resolution of risks.
Serious breaches of regulations, such as Sections the Company up to the amount recommended by the 1158-1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010, the UKLA Board and to receive any interim dividends which the Listing Rules and the Companies Act, could lead to a Directors may resolve the Company should pay.
On a number of detrimental outcomes and reputational damage.
winding-up, after meeting the liabilities of the Company, the The Audit Committee monitors compliance with surplus assets will be paid to Ordinary shareholders in regulations by reviewing internal control reports from the proportion to their shareholdings.
On a show of hands, every Manager.
Ordinary shareholder present in person, or by proxy, has one vote and, on a poll, every Ordinary shareholder present in person has one vote for each share held and a proxy has one Discount volatility: The Companys share price can trade at vote for every share represented.
a discount to its underlying net asset value.
The Board monitors the discount level of the Companys shares and There are no restrictions concerning the holding or transfer has in place a buyback mechanism whereby the Manager is of the Company's Ordinary shares and there are no special authorised to buy back shares within certain limits.
rights attached to any of the shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders which may Monitoring Performance Key Performance Indicators result in restriction on the transfer of shares or the voting At each Board meeting, the Directors consider a number of rights.
performance measures to assess the Companys success in achieving its objectives.
The key performance indicators The interest rate on the CULS is 3.5% per annum, payable KPIs are established industry measures, and are as follows: semi-annually in arrears on 31 January and 31 July in each year.
CULS holders are entitled to convert their CULS into Net asset value total return Ordinary shares every six months from 31 July 2011 until 31 Share price total return January 2018.
In accordance with the terms of the CULS Performance attribution Issue, the conversion price of the CULS was determined at Discount to net asset value 310.1528 pence nominal of CULS for one Ordinary share, which represented a 10% premium to the published An analysis of these measures is disclosed on pages 4 to 9. unaudited NAV per Ordinary share including income of Performance is measured against the Companys benchmark, 281.9571 pence at close of business on 5 January 2011.
Any the MSCI All Country Asia ex Japan Index and the Board CULS not previously redeemed, purchased or converted will also considers peer group comparative performance.
be repaid by the Company on 31 January 2018 at its nominal amount.
CULS holders have the power by Extraordinary Social, Community, Employee Responsibilities and Resolution to sanction any modification, abrogation or Environmental Policy compromise of or arrangement in respect of their rights As an investment trust, the Company has no employees and against the Company and to assent to any modification of has no direct social, community, employee or environmental the provisions of the Trust Deed.
Details of the Companys Socially Responsible Investment policy are set out in the Corporate In the event of a winding-up of the Company, the Ordinary Governance Report.
shares will rank behind any creditors or prior ranking capital of the Company, including the CULS.
Capital Structure and Borrowings The Company issued 60 million of CULS in January 2011.
Other Information The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of In August 2011, the Company issued 35,131 Ordinary shares Directors, amendments of the Articles of Association and following elections by CULS holders to convert 108,987 powers to issue or buy back Company's shares are contained nominal of CULS.
There were no buybacks of Ordinary in the Articles of Association of the Company and the shares during the year.
There are no agreements which the Company is party to that might affect its control following a At 31 August 2011, the Company had 196,346,350 fully paid takeover bid: and there are no agreements between the Ordinary shares of 20p each 2010 196,311,219 Ordinary Company and its Directors concerning compensation for loss shares in issue and 59,891,013 nominal of CULS.
Other than the Management Agreement with the have been no changes in the Companys issued share capital Manager, further details of which are set out on page 22, the and borrowings subsequent to the year end and up to the Company is not aware of any contractual or other date of this report.
Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 21 Directors Report continued agreements which are essential to its business which ought No contract or arrangement subsisted during the period in to be disclosed in the Directors Report.
which any of the Directors was materially interested.
No Director had a service contract with the Company.
Dividends The Directors interests in the shares of the Company as at The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 3.2p per 31 August 2011 are shown in Table 1.
The Company has not Ordinary share 2010 1.90p be paid on 9 December 2011 been notified of any subsequent changes in Directors to shareholders on the register on 11 November 2011.
Directors Liability Insurance Directors The Directors have the benefit of the indemnity provisions Details of the current Directors of the Company are shown contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
Company maintains insurance in respect of Directors and officers liabilities in relation to their acts on behalf of the Peter Tyrie retired from the Board on 8 December 2010.
Frank Frame will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 7 December 2011 Management Agreement and David Gairns will assume the role of the Senior Independent Director from that date.
The Manager to the Company is Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited.
Under the Management Agreement, the Manager is Peter Maynard was appointed as a non-executive Director on required to give a notice period of six months if it wishes to 12 October 2011. terminate the agreement.
The notice period for the Company is three months or on shorter notice in certain The Articles of Association provide that Directors retire and circumstances.
Compensation is payable in lieu of the are subject to election at the first Annual General Meeting unexpired notice period if actual notice is less than the following their appointment and thereafter must offer notice period.
The management fee is 0.25% per quarter of themselves for re-appointment at least once every three the net assets of the Company less i the value of any years.
In a change to this practice and in order to meet the investment funds managed by the Manager and ii 50% of requirements of Section B.
7.1 of the new UK Corporate the value of any investment funds managed or advised by Governance Code published in June 2010, all of the Directors investment managers other than the Manager.
of the Company will stand for re-election.
Resolutions 4 to 9 inclusive, which relate the reelection of each of the Auditor Directors, will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The Companys auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, is willing to continue in office, and resolutions will be proposed at the 31 August 31 August 1 September forthcoming Annual General Meeting to re-appoint them, 2011 2011 2010 and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
Ordinary Ordinary During the year ended 31 August 2011, 4,000 2010 - CULS shares shares 4,000 was paid to the auditor for non audit services.
This Allan 28,820 15,000 5,000 related to further assurance work regarding the interim and McKenzie regulatory reporting.
In addition, an audit related amount of David Gairns 5,000 was paid to KPMG for their review of the accounting treatment of the CULS.
Frank Frame 2,164 8,500 8,500 Tony Lowrie The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Iain McLaren 20,379 10,000 n a Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, appointed 6 there is no relevant audit information of which the September Companys auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken 2010 all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to Peter Tyrie n a n a 11,000 make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to retired 8 establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that December information.
2010 Iain Watt 29,844 17,164 17,164 Table 1 Directors and their interests in the Company 22 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of Corporate Governance the Company unless previously revoked, varied or The Statement of Corporate Governance, which forms part extended by the Company in general meeting.
of the Directors Report, is contained on pages 25 to 28. iii Limited dis-application of Pre-emption Provisions Payments Policy As noted above, resolution 13 will, if approved, give the It is the Companys policy to settle all investment Directors a general authority to allot securities up to an transactions in accordance with the terms and conditions of aggregate nominal amount of 13,089,757.
Resolution the relevant markets in which it operates.
All other expenses 14, which is a special resolution, will, if approved, give are paid on a timely basis in the ordinary course of business.
the Directors power to allot unissued Ordinary shares up In certain circumstances, settlement terms are agreed prior to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of to business taking place.
1,963,464, being 5% of the current issued share capital of the Company, for cash other than to existing shareholders pro rata to their holdings.
A maximum of Substantial Share Interests 13,089,757 of unissued Ordinary share capital may also At 13 October 2011, the substantial interests in the Ordinary be allotted for cash, pursuant to a rights issue made pro share capital which had been notified to the Company during rata to shareholders in the future.
Ordinary shares would the period are shown in Table 2. only be issued for cash pursuant to a rights issue at a price not less than the net asset value per share.
of authority will expire on 28 February 2013 or, if earlier, at Ordinary the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of Holder shares % the Company unless previously revoked, varied or Lazard Freres Asset 20,170,421 10.3 extended by the Company in general meeting.
Management City of London Investment 19,621,411 10.0 The Directors consider that the powers proposed to be Management granted by the above resolutions are necessary to Derbyshire County Council 12,000,000 6.1 provide flexibility to issue shares should they deem it to Investec Wealth & 9,832,717 5.0 be in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
The Investment Directors do not have any intention of exercising such Legal & General Assurance 7,461,676 3.8 powers at present.
Table 2: Substantial share interests iv Purchase of the Companys own Ordinary shares Resolution 15, which will be proposed as a special Annual General Meeting resolution, will authorise the Company to make market Among the resolutions being put at the Annual General purchases of its own shares.
The maximum number of Meeting of the Company to be held on 7 December 2011, Ordinary shares which may be purchased pursuant to the following resolutions will be proposed: the authority shall be 14.99% of the issued share capital of the Company as at the date of the passing of the i Increase the limit on Directors Fees within the resolution approximately 29.4 million Ordinary shares.
Companys Articles of Association The minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Resolution 12, which is an ordinary resolution, proposes share exclusive of expenses shall be 20p.
The to increase the limit on Directors fees contained within maximum price for an Ordinary share again exclusive of the Companys Articles of Association.
In order to expenses shall be an amount being not more than the provide the Company with future flexibility, the higher of i 105% of the average of the middle market maximum aggregate limit for Directors fees will, if quotations for the Companys Ordinary shares for the approved, be increased from 200,000 to 250,000. five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase and ii the higher of the price of the last ii Section 551 Authority to Allot Shares independent trade and the highest current independent Resolution 13, which is an ordinary resolution, will, if bid relating to an Ordinary share on the trading venue approved, give the Directors a general authority to allot where the purchase is carried out.
new securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 13,089,757 representing approximately 33.33 per cent.
This authority, if conferred, will only be exercised if to do of the total Ordinary share capital of the Company in so would enhance the net asset value per share and is in issue as at the date of this Directors Report, such the best interests of shareholders generally.
Shares so authority to expire on 28 February 2013 or, if earlier, at repurchased will be cancelled.
This authority will expire Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 23 Directors Report continued on 28 February 2013 or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company unless previously revoked, varied or extended by the Company in general meeting.
v Notice period for general meetings The Companys Articles of Association enable the Company to call general meetings other than an Annual General Meeting on 14 clear days' notice.
In order for this to be effective, the shareholders must also approve the calling of meetings on 14 days' notice by separate resolution.
Resolution 16, which will be proposed as a special resolution, seeks such approval.
The approval will be effective until the Company's next Annual General Meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The Company will also need to meet the requirements for electronic voting under the Companies Act 2006 as amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations before it can call a general meeting on 14 days' notice.
Recommendation The Directors believe that the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole, and recommend that shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions, as the Directors intend to do in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings totalling, in aggregate, 50,664 Ordinary shares, and representing 0.02% of the existing issued Ordinary share capital of the Company.
By order of the Board, Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited Secretary Edinburgh, 13 October 2011 24 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc
