Your Board of Directors The Directors, all of whom are non-executive and independent of the Manager, supervise the management of Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc and represent the interests of shareholders.
Allan McKenzie Frank Frame David Gairns Status: Independent Non-Executive Status: Senior Independent NonStatus: Independent Non-Executive Chairman Executive Director Director Length of service: 5 years, appointed a Length of service: 17 years, appointed Length of service: 8 years, appointed a Director on 1 September 2006 a Director on 22 February 1994 Director on 1 July 2003 Experience: former chief operating Experience: formerly deputy chairman Experience: is a chartered accountant officer and a managing director of of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking and has spent his professional career BlackRock International Limited prior to Corporation: adviser to the board of with KPMG, retiring in 1991 as senior his retirement in 2006.
He is the HSBC Holdings: chairman of South partner of the Hong Kong firm.
He is a chairman of Impax Asian Environmental China Morning Post, Far Eastern former non-executive director of The Markets plc.
He is also a former Economic Review and The Wallem Hongkong and Shanghai Banking director of BlackRock Global Series plc Group: and a director of Swire Pacific, Corporation and Mass Transit Railway and a former chairman and director of The Hongkong Securities and Futures Corporation.
the Thailand International Fund Commission, The British Bank of the Committee membership: Audit Limited.
Between 1972 and 1991 he Middle East, The Weir Group, Committee Chairman and was actively involved in fund Consolidated Press International and Remuneration Committee Chairman management, specialising in Asian Baxter International Inc.
He is currently Remuneration: 26,000 per annum equity markets.
Since 1991 his role a director of Northern Gas Networks.
with effect from 1 September 2011 was in marketing and client relationship Committee membership: None All other public company management at both Scottish Widows Remuneration: 22,000 per annum directorships: None Investment Management and with effect from 1 September 2011 Employment by the Manager: None BlackRock International Limited.
All other public company Other connections with Trust or Committee membership: Audit directorships: None Manager: None Committee and Remuneration Employment by the Manager: None Shared Directorships with any other Committee Other connections with Trust or Trust Directors: None Remuneration: 33,000 per annum Manager: None Shareholding in Company: None with effect from 1 September 2011 Shared Directorships with any other All other public company Trust Directors: None directorships: Impax Asian Shareholding in Company: 8,500 Environmental Markets plc Ordinary shares and 2,164 CULS Employment by the Manager: None Other connections with Trust or Manager: None Shared Directorships with any other Trust Directors: None Shareholding in Company: 15,000 Ordinary shares and 28,820 CULS Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 17 Your Board of Directors continued Tony Lowrie Iain McLaren Status: Independent Non-Executive Status: Independent Non-Executive Director Director Length of service: 7 years, appointed a Length of service: 1 year, appointed a Director on 4 October 2004 Director on 6 September 2010 Experience: has been involved in Asian Experience: is a chartered accountant investment for over 30 years, originally and was a partner at KPMG for 27 with Hoare Govett and HG Asia and years, including Senior Partner in ABN Amro where he was a managing Scotland from 1999 to 2004, retiring director prior to his retirement in 2007. from the firm in 2008.
He is the Senior He is a director of Kenmare Resources Independent Director and Audit plc and Allied Gold Limited and a Committee Chairman of Cairn Energy former non-executive director of JD Plc.
He is also chairman of Investors Wetherspoon.
Capital Trust Plc and a non-executive Committee membership: director of Baillie Gifford Shin Nippon Remuneration Committee Plc, Ecofin Water & Power Remuneration: 22,000 per annum Opportunities plc and a director of a with effect from 1 September 2011 number of other companies.
He is All other public company President of the Institute of Chartered directorships: Kenmare Resources plc Accountants of Scotland.
Employment by the Manager: None Committee membership: Audit Other connections with Trust or Committee Manager: None Remuneration: 24,000 per annum Shared Directorships with any other with effect from 1 September 2011 Trust Directors: None All other public company Shareholding in Company: None directorships: Cairn Energy Plc, Baillie Gifford Shin Nippon Plc, Ecofin Water & Power Opportunities plc and Investors Capital Trust Plc Employment by the Manager: None Other connections with Trust or Manager: None Shared Directorships with any other Trust Directors: None Shareholding in Company: 10,000 Ordinary shares and 20,379 CULS 18 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc Peter Maynard Iain Watt Status: Independent Non-Executive Status: Independent Non-Executive Director Director Length of service: Appointed a Length of service: 24 years, appointed Director on 12 October 2011 a Director on 12 August 1987 Experience: is a solicitor and was Experience: has over 40 years Group Legal Director at Prudential plc experience of the investment from 1998 to 2009 and Company management industry and was former Secretary from July 1999.
Prior to that chief executive of Edinburgh Fund he was with HSBC for 14 years during Managers plc.
which time he was variously a Director Committee membership: None of HSBC Investment Bank, President Remuneration: 22,000 per annum and Chief Executive Officer of James with effect from 1 September 2011 Capel Inc in New York and finally All other public company Deputy Group Legal Adviser.
Recently directorships: None he has been the Head of Group Employment by the Manager: None Governance and Regulatory Other connections with Trust or Compliance at Old Mutual plc.
He is a Manager: None former chairman of the GC100 and was Shared Directorships with any other a supervisory board member of the Trust Directors: None London Business School Centre for Shareholding in Company: 17,164 Corporate Governance.
He is a nonOrdinary shares and 29,844 CULS executive director of Brunner Investment Trust plc.
Committee membership: None Remuneration: 22,000 per annum with effect from 12 October 2011 All other public company directorships: Brunner Investment Trust plc Employment by the Manager: None Other connections with Trust or Manager: None Shared Directorships with any other Trust Directors: None Shareholding in Company: None Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 19
