The Manager, on behalf of the Board, continues to Background Portfolio Review pursue all avenues, including potential legal action, to The year under review saw mixed performances from recover the losses which were incurred from the Asian equity markets.
Thailand and Indonesia were the investment in Satyam, following admission of fraudulent front-runners, rising by approximately 20% each in sterling accounting there in 2009. terms.
Most other stock markets showed at least singledigit gains, save for China and India, which ended lower.
Particular mention must be made of conglomerate Jardine Strategic.
Continued economic growth in Indonesia Against this market backdrop, the Company outbolstered its Indonesian unit Astra International, while performed its benchmark for the 12 months to 31 August, retail arm Dairy Farm enjoyed good results in its principal with the portfolios net asset value rising by 5.4% on a markets across Asia.
The performance of Swire Pacific, total return basis, compared to the benchmark MSCI All which reported solid revenue growth, was equally pleasing.
Country Asia ex Japan Index, which returned 3.7% in The conglomerate declared a special dividend to return sterling terms.
By and large, corporate earnings were excess cash to shareholders following the sale of the healthy and our holdings delivered good results through Festival Walk mall.
In addition, recent introduction AIA the year.
Group contributed positively by posting higher profits and announcing its first dividend since its listing in Hong Kong.
Being underweight in China, which bucked the regions uptrend, was notably beneficial.
Investors reacted The portfolio benefited, too, from the overweight position negatively as uncomfortably high inflation and in Thailand, where political uncertainty prevailed for much overheating concerns saw the central bank raise interest of the year.
Yet the stock market held up remarkably well, rates five times, in addition to nine hikes in bank reserve partly on resilient economic data.
As tightening policies took effect, economic relieved to see a peaceful transition of power after activity moderated, raising fears of a sharp downturn.
elections in July, which the opposition Puea Thai party led Worries over the hidden liabilities of local governments, by Yingluck Shinawatra, sister of ousted Prime Minister reportedly as high as 27% of GDP, further blunted risk Thaksin, won decisively.
In the same vein, our two Thai holdings, PTT Exploration We remain generally wary of the quality of many of and Production PTTEP and Siam Cement, recorded Chinas companies but, despite the challenging healthy performances.
Both turned in solid results, while environment, our three Chinese holdings made good continuing their expansion plans.
The high oil price supported CNOOC and interest in Statoils Canadian oil sands project.
Siam PetroChina, with both reporting robust production and Cement bought stakes in two Indonesian companies, earnings growth.
China Mobile, meanwhile, expanded its broadening its presence in Southeast Asia.
customer base, particularly in 3G, as it continued to improve its network coverage and services.
Alongside Thailand, our holdings in Taiwan also staged strong advances.
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing India, where the portfolio is heavily invested, suffered the expects to double its annual output over the next five steepest market decline over the review period.
The broad years as it boosts capacity.
Taiwan Mobile also had a Indian benchmark fell 12% in sterling terms on the back of positive run, lifted by firm results.
poor domestic news, ranging from corruption scandals to stubborn inflation and interest rate increases.
Economic The main detractor over the year was the underweight growth stuttered as a result and foreign inflows to the position to Korea as the market outperformed the broader market dropped.
Our holdings in Korea which include Samsung Electronics, E-mart and regional banks, DGB Financial and Our individual companies fared well compared to the BS Financial formerly Daegu and Busan broadly kept pace overall market.
Hero MotoCorp, previously known as Hero with the market's gain.
The Korean auto sector to which Honda, had underperformed following the termination of we have no exposure benefited both from the short-term its partnership with Japans Honda Motor.
However, the impact of production cuts in Japan following the motorcycle maker reversed prior losses after Heros Munjal earthquake and tsunami there whilst there has also been a family bought Hondas 26% stake, which opened up the structural benefit from the continued relative strength of possibility of new business opportunities.
Hindustan the Japanese yen which makes the Korean companies Unilever also saw sales grow steadily.
The major exception more competitive abroad.
Non-holdings, Hyundai Motor, was Infosys Technologies, given its exposure to fiscally Kia Motors and Hyundai Mobis all performed relatively troubled Europe and wage pressures at home.
Structurally, we remain underweight to Korea on however, Infosys continued to grow net profits by some 8 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc corporate governance concerns and whilst a relatively Outlook cheap market, shareholder returns and dividend yields Since the year end, stock markets worldwide have faced remain less attractive than we can find elsewhere in the increasing volatility.
While the backdrop for Asia remains region.
The market also remains more cyclical and export relatively benign, global factors have become more driven in nature.
Europes sovereign debt stress, for instance, remains a major issue and developed economies could see In addition, our holding in the UK-listed lender Standard a more severe downturn ahead.
It would, therefore, be Chartered, which fared poorly despite posting record prudent to view the future with caution.
We, however, remain upbeat on its outlook.
The emerging market-focused lender Within a troubled world, Asia offers huge attractions.
The complements our other bank holdings given the strong regions economies, increasingly driven by intra-regional performance of its wholesale division.
Asia represents over trade and domestic demand, still show considerable 70% of group profits and the lender has seen sound momentum.
Government and household balance sheets underlying growth in both its loan book and deposit base.
True, earnings growth is Its genuinely pan-Asian footprint fits nicely with the expected to be lower compared to last year.
Already, there largely single country exposure of many of our other bank are signs of margin compression as cost pressures rise.
valuations are still reasonable and companies continue to be fundamentally sound.
In terms of strategy, we will stay Also hindering performance was our underweight exposure focused on well-run companies with sustainable business to large, domestically driven Indonesia.
Our sole holding models and strong finances, in what appears likely to be a there, Unilever Indonesia, lagged the domestic market but challenging period ahead.
the companys operating margins remain relatively stable and its balance sheet robust.
Here, it should be noted that apart from Unilever Indonesia, the portfolio has substantial Aberdeen Asset Management Asia Limited indirect exposure to Indonesia via Jardine Strategic, which 13 October 2011 owns Astra International.
Our other Singapore holdings such as Singapore Telecommunications, Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp and United Overseas Bank, along with Malaysias CIMB Group, also have operations in Indonesia.
on behalf of Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited Both companies are subsidiaries of Aberdeen Asset Portfolio Activity Management PLC.
Three new purchases were made over the year: leading trading company Li & Fung based in Hong Kong: life insurer AIA Group, American International Groups Asian arm: and Hong Kong-listed lender HSBC Holdings.
Li & Fung, which boasts a top-tier client base, has a proven track record of growing both organically and via acquisitions.
AIAs addition provides a broad exposure to the under-developed life insurance industry in Asia.
The company has dominant positions in most of its markets and offers good long-term prospects.
HSBC has a strong Asian franchise, a robust capital position and is now refocusing on its traditional strengths in Asia having withstood the financial crisis in the West.
As was noted in the interim report, your Manager invested the proceeds from the Convertible Unsecured Loan Stock across several existing positions.
Against this, we divested power plant equipment provider ABB India after its parent made an attractive tender offer.
