Corporate Summary The Company Share Dealing ISA Status The Company is an investment trust and its Ordinary shares Shares in Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc can be bought in the and CULS are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The open market through a stockbroker.
They can also be Company is a member of the Association of Investment purchased through the Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited Companies.
savings scheme and are fully qualifying for inclusion within tax efficient ISA wrappers see page 49.
Investment Manager Management Agreement Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited AAM Limited or the Manager, a subsidiary of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC The Company has an agreement with AAM Limited for the AAM.
provision of management and secretarial services the Management Agreement, details of which are provided in the Directors Report.
Capital Structure and Borrowings The Companys issued share capital as at 31 August 2011 The Directors review the terms of the Management was 196,346,350 fully paid Ordinary shares of 20p.
The Agreement on a regular basis and have confirmed that, due Company had 59,891,013 nominal of 3.5% Convertible to the investment skills, experience of the Manager and its Unsecured Loan Stock 2018 CULS outstanding at 31 long-term relative performance, in their opinion the August 2011. continuing appointment of Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited, on the terms agreed, is in the interests of Total Net Assets and Net Asset Value shareholders as a whole.
The Company had total net assets of 493.6 million and a net asset value of 251.4 pence per Ordinary share at 31 August 2011.
com Company Secretary Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited 40 Princes Street, Edinburgh EH2 2BY Email: company.
co. uk Customer Services Freephone: 0500 00 00 40 open Monday Friday, 9am 5pm Email: inv.
com Principal Risk Factors Investment in Far East securities or those of companies that derive significant revenue or profit from the Far East involves a greater degree of risk than that usually associated with investment in the securities in major securities markets.
Further details of the risks are disclosed in the Business Review contained within the Directors Report on pages 20 and 21.
Duration Shareholders are given the opportunity to vote on the continuation of the Company at every third Annual General Meeting.
The next continuation vote will be held at the Annual General Meeting in December 2012.
