Marketing Strategy Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc contributes to the marketing Internet programme run by the Aberdeen Group AAM on behalf of The AAM Investment Trust website contains details of closed a number of investment trusts under its management.
Under funds and investment companies managed or advised by the this agreement the Companys contribution is matched by Aberdeen Group.
This contribution is reviewed annually.
Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc has its own dedicated website at: The purpose of the programme is to communicate effectively www.
This allows web users to access with existing shareholders and gain more new shareholders, information on the Companys share price performance, thus improving liquidity and thereby enhancing the value and capital structure, stock exchange announcements and rating of the Companys shares.
The site is continuously being evaluated for improvement.
These aims can be met in several ways: It is intended that ongoing programme activities in these Investor Relations Programme various fields, both proactive and supportive, will assist the Company to increase and maintain its shareholder base, AAM runs an investor relations programme to existing and improve liquidity and sustain ratings.
prospective institutional investors in investment trusts.
Each month institutional investors and prospects receive a The Company is committed to the close monitoring of the Managers report on your Company that includes detailed Programme.
The Group Head of Marketing reports to the performance analysis.
Board and provides a written summary quarterly.
Group Schemes If you have any questions about your Company, the Manager AAM runs a group Share Plan and ISA.
These schemes allow or performance, please telephone AAM Customer Services investment free of dealing costs and, with only nominal exit Department direct private investors on 0500 00 00 40. charges, have proved popular with private investors.
Alternatively, internet users may e-mail AAM at inv.
com or write to AAM at Aberdeen Newsletter Investment Trusts, PO Box 11020, Chelmsford, Essex CM99 The Bulletin newsletter, an informed commentary on 2DB.
markets and investment trusts managed by AAM, is distributed free of charge.
Public Relations AAM undertakes to brief journalists, write regularly through placed articles and ensure Company results and any corporate activity are brought to public attention.
Shareholder Services AAM runs an investment help desk for retail enquirers and investors.
Enquirers or investors will be sent any relevant literature on request and have queries answered immediately.
The Marketing Programme is under the direction of AAMs Group Head of Marketing who has considerable experience in the marketing and communications of investment products.
He is supported by a team of marketing professionals.
48 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc How to Invest in Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc current legislation, investments in ISAs can grow free of How to Invest capital gains tax.
Investors can buy and sell shares directly through a stockbroker or indirectly through a lawyer, accountant or ISA Transfer other professional adviser.
Alternatively shares can be bought You can choose to transfer previous tax year investments to directly through Aberdeens Investment Plan for Children and us which can be invested in Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc while Aberdeens Investment Trust Share Plan, Investment Trust retaining your ISA wrapper.
The minimum lump sum for an ISA or ISA Transfer.
ISA transfer is 1,000 and is subject to a minimum per trust of 250.
Aberdeens Investment Plan for Children Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited AAM runs an Note Investment Plan for Children the Childrens Plan which Please remember that past performance is not a guide to the covers a number of investment companies under its future.
Stock market and currency movements may cause management including Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc.
Anyone the value of shares and the income from them to fall as well can invest in the Childrens Plan, including parents, as rise and investors may not get back the amount they grandparents and family friends.
All investments are free of originally invested.
dealing charges on the initial purchase of shares, although investors will suffer the bid-offer spread, which can, on some As with all equity investments, the value of investment trusts occasions, be a significant amount.
Lump sum investments purchased will immediately be reduced by the difference start at 150 per trust, while regular savers may invest from between the buying and selling prices of the shares, the 30 per month.
Investors simply pay Government Stamp market makers spread.
There is no restriction on how long an investor need invest in Investors should further bear in mind that the value of any the Childrens Plan, and regular savers can stop or suspend tax relief will depend on the individual circumstances of the participation by instructing AAM in writing at any time.
In investor and that tax rates and reliefs, as well as the tax common with other schemes of this type, all investments are treatment of ISAs, may be changed by future legislation.
Trust Information Aberdeens Investment Trust Share Plan If investors would like details of Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc AAM runs a Share Plan the Plan through which shares in or information on the Childrens Plan, Share Plan, ISA or ISA Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc can be purchased.
There are no Transfers please telephone 0500 00 00 40 or write to dealing charges on the initial purchase of shares, although Aberdeen Investment Trusts, PO Box 11020, Chelmsford, investors will suffer the bid-offer spread, which can, on some Essex CM99 2DB or e-mail inv.
Lump sum investments Details are also available on www.
co. uk start at 250, while regular savers may invest from 100 per month.
Investors simply pay Government Stamp Duty currently 0.5% on entry.
There Literature Request Service is no restriction on how long an investor need invest in a For literature and application forms for the Managers Plan, and regular savers can stop or suspend participation by investment trust products, please contact: instructing AAM in writing at any time.
In common with Telephone: 0500 00 40 00 other schemes of this type, all investments are held in Email: aam@lit-request.
Investors have full voting and other rights of share ownership.
Keeping You Informed The Companys share price appears daily in the Financial Stocks and Shares ISA Times and the Daily Telegraph.
An investment of up to 10,680 in Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc can be made in the tax year 2011 12.
For internet users, detailed data on the Company, including price, performance information and a monthly fact sheet is There are no brokerage or initial charges for the ISA, although available on the Companys website investors will suffer the bid-offer spread, which can be a www.
co. uk and the TrustNet website significant amount.
Investors only pay Government Stamp www.
Alternatively you can call 0500 00 00 Duty currently 0.5% on purchases.
Selling costs are 15 40 for trust information.
The annual ISA management charge is 24 VAT, calculated six monthly and deducted from income.
Under Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 49 How to Invest in Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc continued Contact Us For information on Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc and for any administrative queries relating to the Investment Plan for Children, Share Plan, ISA or ISA Transfer please contact: Aberdeen Investment Trusts PO Box 11020 Chelmsford Essex CM99 2DB Telephone: 0500 00 00 40 Alternatively, if you have an administrative query which relates to a certificated holding, please contact the Registrar, as follows: Equiniti Limited Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA Telephone: 0871 384 2499 Fax: 0871 384 2100 Shareview Enquiry Line: 0871 384 2020 Textel hard of hearing: 0871 384 2255 Lines are open 8.30 am to 5.30 pm Monday to Friday.
Calls to the above numbers will be charged at 8p per minute from a BT Landline.
Other telephony providers costs may vary.
The above information has been approved for the purposes of Section 21 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 by Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
