221274 Invesco Edin pp01-pp13 13 06 2011 11:21 Page 08 08 MANAGERS REPORT Market Review After the very strong rise seen in the previous 12 months, the UK stock market marked time for much of the year to 31 March 2011.
The first half of the period saw the positive impact of mostly upbeat corporate earnings largely ignored by investors, who focused instead on signs of slowing economic growth domestically and fretted over sovereign debt worries in the peripheral eurozone.
This was further compounded as the full implications of the BP oil spillage in the Gulf of Mexico began to unfold.
However, as 2010 drew to a close the market made straight forward progress, spurred on by improving economic data and further monetary and fiscal stimulus in the US.
2011 then started more quietly for UK equities, with occasional bouts of optimism negated by events on the international stage, including concerns over political unrest in the Middle East, a spiralling oil price and the impact of the earthquake in Japan.
Inflation remained high over the period and well above the 2% target the Bank of England has been set by the government.
This raised concerns that interest rates might be increased sooner rather than later: these were assuaged by the minutes from the Bank of Englands March meeting which showed no new support for an increase despite the Bank warning that inflation was likely to remain above its target for the remainder of the year.
Portfolio Strategy and Review The Companys net asset value, including reinvested dividends, rose by 12.3% during the period, compared to a rise of 8.7% total return for the FTSE All-Share index.
The portfolio has significant exposure to the pharmaceuticals and telecommunications sectors: two sectors which are both perceived as defensive, but which provided a very different impact on the Companys performance over the year.
The most significant positive contribution over the year came from the holding in BT Group, with the company confirming both its ability to produce double digit growth in earnings and an improving free cash flow outlook.
Another telecoms holding, Vodafone, also provided a positive impact: the price agreed by AT&T for T Mobile, which it purchased from Deutsche Telekom, highlighted the undervaluation of the mobile telecoms sector.
Investments in the pharmaceuticals sector, on the other hand, impacted negatively on performance, despite some improving news on patent disputes, drug disputes and litigation in the USA.
The Manager believes the market to be focusing only on the challenges facing the sector, which are well known and well rehearsed, and not on the opportunities the sector offers.
These come in both the emerging world, where there is major under provision of drugs, and in the developed world, where ageing demographics are driving increased demand for drugs.
The Manager also regards the sector as outstanding value based solely on the patent lives of the drugs the companies already have on the market, with current share prices discounting no expectation of further innovation or new drugs being approved.
The Manager further increased the portfolios exposure to the pharmaceutical sector, adding to holdings in GlaxoSmithKline and AstraZeneca.
This reflects the degree of conviction that he has about the undervaluation of this sector.
The Companys portfolio benefited from a strong performance from oil and gas business, BG Group: good full year results were accompanied by news of further oil field discoveries while the company is a likely beneficiary of an increasingly positive outlook for gas demand.
The tobacco sector also continued to generate positive returns for the Company, with the holdings in both Reynolds American and British American Tobacco particularly benefiting performance.
The Manager continued to build the portfolios position in supermarket group Wm.
Morrison, believing that the company can generate strong and stable earnings growth even against a tough economic backdrop.
This was confirmed during the final quarter of the period, when the company beat stock market expectations with its full year results and further pleased the market with the announcement of a 1bn share buy back and a commitment to double digit growth in its dividend over the next three years.
A new investment was made in business services company Rentokil Initial, where the Manager sees a significant restructuring opportunity.
221274 Invesco Edin pp01-pp13 13 06 2011 11:21 Page 09 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 09 MANAGERS REPORT continued The Company reduced its exposure to the utilities sector over the 12 months, disposing of holdings in National Grid, Severn Trent, United Utilities and Northumbrian Water.
The Manager is concerned that a more onerous UK regulatory outlook will hamper these companies ability to generate adequate returns on equity, while also seeing more attractive investment opportunities elsewhere.
Outlook The Manager expects recent concerns about the underlying strength of the UK economy to remain a feature throughout 2011, and continues to expect anaemic growth through late 2011 and beyond.
The full extent of public spending cuts have yet to be felt: the squeeze on household incomes will continue: and although many companies are taking advantage of the strength of overseas markets, it is doubtful this can fully compensate for weaknesses in other areas of the economy.
But while these economic headwinds have been increasing in strength, those companies which the Manager believes are best placed to handle such turbulence are the very ones whose share prices have been left behind in the stock market rally of the past two years.
The market has been geared into expecting an economic recovery and has been bidding up the share prices of companies that are focused on such an economic recovery, and to a large extent has been ignoring companies that fall outside of that sphere.
There are always valuation anomalies in the stock market and the Managers job is to try and exploit those, by exposing portfolios to undervalued stocks.
The extent to which fundamental value diverges from the stock price flexes over time: he does not always see the same scale of valuation opportunity in the stock market.
During the technology bubble the disparity between price and fundamental value was stretched astronomically in both directions, and the Manager sees an opportunity of that scale again now in the stock market a once in a decade opportunity.
This has presented the Manager an opportunity to invest in high quality businesses at what he believes are very attractive levels, leaving the Company well positioned to achieve its investment goals over the medium to long-term.
Neil Woodford Investment Manager 31 May 2011
