221274 Invesco Edin pp14-pp35 13 06 2011 11:26 Page 14 14 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2011 Introduction The Directors present their report together with the audited financial statements of The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc the Company for the year ended 31 March 2011.
The Report of the Directors incorporates the Business Review and the Corporate Governance Statement.
It expands on the following main areas: page 14 Nature of the Company page 14 Objective and Investment Policy page 15 Company Business, Results and Share Capital page 16 Share Valuations page 16 Key Performance Indicators page 17 Invesco Perpetuals Investment Process and Performance page 17 Principal Risks and Uncertainties page 20 Resources, Relationships and Advisers page 20 Financial Position page 21 Social and Environmental Policies page 21 Substantial Holdings in the Company page 21 Special Business at the Annual General Meeting page 22 The Manager page 23 Directors page 26 Corporate Governance Statement Nature of the Company The Company was incorporated and registered in Scotland as a public limited company on 1 March 1889, registered number SC1836.
The Company is an investment company as defined by section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and operates as an investment trust in accordance with s1158-1165 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 CTA previously section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
HM Revenue & Customs have approved the Companys status as an investment trust, subject to there being no subsequent enquiry under Corporation Tax Self Assessment, in respect of the year ended 31 March 2010.
In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has subsequently conducted its affairs so as to enable it to maintain such approval.
Objective and Investment Policy The Company invests primarily in UK securities with the long term objective of achieving: 1. an increase of the Net Asset Value per share by more than the growth in the FTSE All-Share Index: and 2. growth in dividends per share by more than the rate of UK inflation.
The Company will generally invest only in companies quoted on a recognised stock exchange in the UK or in those which are about to enter the FTSE All-Share Index.
The Company may invest up to 15% of the market value of the Companys investment portfolio, measured at the time of any acquisition, in securities listed on stock exchanges outside the UK.
At the Annual General Meeting the Company is seeking permission from shareholders to increase this limit to 20%.
The portfolio is selected by the Manager on the basis of its assessment of the fundamental value available in individual securities.
Whilst the Companys overall exposure to individual securities is monitored carefully by the Board, the portfolio is not primarily structured on the basis of industry weightings.
The securities of no one company may, as determined at the time of acquisition, represent more than 10% of the market value of the Companys equity portfolio.
Similarly, the Company will not hold more than 5% of the issued share capital or voting shares in any one company.
Investment in convertibles is subject to normal security limits.
Should these or any other limit be exceeded by subsequent market movement, each resulting position is specifically reviewed by the Board.
The Company borrows money to provide gearing to the equity portfolio up to a maximum of 200 million.
Use of derivative instruments is permitted within the following constraints and is monitored carefully by the Board.
The writing of covered calls, to a maximum of 10% of the value of the portfolio, is permitted and a maximum of 15% may be invested in FTSE 100 futures.
Other derivative contracts may be employed subject to an aggregate of the above limits and to the prior approval of the Board.
221274 Invesco Edin pp14-pp35 13 06 2011 11:26 Page 15 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 15 Company Business A review of the Companys business is provided in the Chairmans Statement and the Managers Report.
The Board does not at present envisage any significant change in the business of the Company.
No important events affecting the Company have occurred since the end of its financial year.
Issued Share Capital and Rights Attaching to the Companys shares At the year end, the Companys issued share capital consisted of 195,116,734 ordinary shares of 25p each.
During the year, no shares were repurchased.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, any share in the Company may be issued with such rights or restrictions, whether in regard to dividend, voting, return of capital or otherwise as the Company may from time to time by ordinary resolution determine or, in the absence of any such determination, as the Directors may determine.
At a general meeting of the Company every shareholder has one vote on a show of hands and on a poll one vote for each share held.
The notice of general meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights either by proxy or present in person in relation to resolutions to be passed at a general meeting.
If any shareholder has been duly served with a notice pursuant to section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 which confers the power to require information with respect to interests in voting rights and has failed in relation to any ordinary shares default shares to give the Company the information thereby required within 14 days from the service of the notice, then unless the Board otherwise determine, the member shall not, for so long as the default continues, be entitled in respect of the default shares to attend or vote at any general meeting or on any poll.
Where the default shares represent 0.25% or more in nominal value of the issued ordinary shares excluding any treasury shares, the Board may in their absolute discretion by notice to such member direct any dividend or part thereof or other money which would otherwise be payable in respect of the default shares to be retained by the Company.
When such money is finally paid to the shareholder, he shall not be entitled to receive interest or elect to receive shares in lieu of dividend.
The Board may also decide that no transfer in respect of any default shares shall be registered unless certain conditions are met.
These restrictions cease to have effect seven days after the receipt by the Company that the default shares have been transferred or all the information required by the section 793 notice has been notified to the Company, whichever is earlier.
The Directors may refuse to register any transfer of any share which is not a fully-paid share, although such discretion may not be exercised in a way which the Financial Services Authority regards as preventing dealings in the shares of the relevant class or classes from taking place on an open or proper basis.
As at 31 March 2011, the Companys issued share capital did not include any ordinary shares that were not fully paid.
The Directors may likewise refuse to register any transfer of a share in favour of more than four persons jointly.
The Company is not aware of any other restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company other than certain restrictions that may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
The Company is seeking to renew the existing authority for the Directors to allot new shares and to buy back shares at the forthcoming AGM.
Additional details are given in the section on Special Business at the AGM further on in this Report.
Revenue and Dividends The results for the year are shown in the income statement.
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final proposed dividend for the year ended 31 March 2011 of 6.55p 2010: 6.35p per ordinary share will be payable on 29 July 2011 to shareholders on the register on 17 June 2011.
This will give total dividends for the year of 22.99p per share.
Excluding special dividends of 2.19p, that arose from VAT recovered on management fees together with interest, dividends of 20.8p will be payable for the year, a small increase of 1% on the previous years dividend of 20.60p.
The revenue return per share for the year was 23p: excluding 2.19p arising from VAT recovered and related interest receipts, the return on a like-for-like basis with 2010 was 20.81p, an increase of 5% from 19.82p.
221274 Invesco Edin pp14-pp35 13 06 2011 11:26 Page 16 16 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Share Valuations On 31 March 2011 the mid-market price was 444p per ordinary share 2010: 396.3p.
The net asset value debt at par and net asset value debt at market value per ordinary share were 456.66p and 434.02p respectively.
The comparative figures on 31 March 2010 were 422.41p and 398.92p.
Key Performance Indicators The key performance indicators KPIs used to determine the progress and performance of the Company over time and which are comparable to those reported by other investment trusts are set out below.
YEAR TO 31 MARCH 2011 2010 1 Net asset value per share debt at par 12.3% 38.0% 1 Net asset value per share debt at market 13.3% 46.0% 2 FTSE All-Share Index 8.7% 52.3% 2 Share price 16.5% 45.7% 1 Discount to NAV debt at par 2.8% 6.2% 1 Premium discount to NAV debt at market 2.3% 0.7% Revenue return per share 23.0p 19.8p Actual gearing ratio 22.4% 24.1% Potential gearing ratio 22.4% 24.2% Total expense ratio 0.7% 0.7% 1 Calculated in accordance with AIC guidelines 2 Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream All performance figures are calculated on a total return basis.
Past performance is not a guide to future returns.
Notwithstanding that some KPIs are beyond its control, they are measures of the Companys absolute and relative performance.
The KPIs assist in managing performance and compliance and are regularly reviewed by the Board at each meeting.
The Board also regularly reviews the performance of the Company in relation to 22 investment trusts in the UK Growth and Income sector.
As at 31 March 2011, the Company was ranked 14th by NAV performance in this sector over one year, 11th over three years and 12th five years source: JPMorgan Cazenove.
Expenses are reviewed at each Board meeting enabling the Board, amongst other things, to review costs and consider any expenditure outside that of its normal operations.
The principal risks and uncertainties section includes descriptions of performance indicators and their monitoring and management which are key to the business of the Company.
Portfolio performance 3.7 Debenture borrowings: Net gearing effect 2.4 Interest 2.3 Base management fees 0.6 Other expenses 0.1 Tax 0.2 Refund of VAT 0.7 Total 3.6 221274 Invesco Edin pp14-pp35 13 06 2011 11:26 Page 17 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 17 The capital net asset value used below is the capital net asset value at par, less dividends paid and proposed after the year end.
Relative performance 1.4 Performance attribution analyses the Companys performance relative to its benchmark.
Portfolio under outperformance measures the relative effect of the Companys investment portfolio against that of its benchmark.
Net gearing effect measures the impact of the debenture stocks and cash on the Companys relative performance.
Interest arising from the debenture stocks reduces the assets available to invest, resulting in a negative impact on performance.
Management fees including both the base fee and any performance fee, reduce the Company net assets and decrease performance.
Refund of VAT and interest on management fees will add to net assets and thus performance.
Other expenses and Tax reduce the level of assets and therefore result in a negative effect for relative performance.
Invesco Perpetuals Investment Process and Performance At the core of Invesco Perpetuals investment philosophy is a belief in active investment management.
Fundamental principles drive a genuinely unconstrained investment approach, which aims to deliver attractive total returns over the long term.
These fundamental principles place an emphasis on sound balance sheets, good cash flows, the ability to pay and sustain dividends, strong asset bases and market conditions.
The investment manager and the UK Equities team employ a pragmatic, valuation-orientated approach that allows investment freedom, such that the investment manager can select stocks free from the constraint of the weighting within the benchmark.
The investment managers focus is on absolute rather than relative returns, as he chooses to take a long term view in the companies he invests in and to invest where he sees value and opportunity.
The aim of the investment process is to identify companies whose outlook or growth prospects are not reflected in their valuations.
To identify these companies the investment manager combines bottom-up research with a top-down macro-economic view.
Stocks are then subjected to detailed fundamental analysis augmented by a qualitative assessment of the company.
The output from this analysis is then used to construct and review the portfolio with the aim of maximising exposure to the most attractive opportunities within its risk parameters.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Companys key long-term investment objectives are an increase in the capital net asset value per share by more than the growth in the FTSE All-Share Index the benchmark or index and growth in dividends by more than inflation, currently measured using the RPI.
The principal risks and uncertainties of the Company are an integral consideration when assessing the operations in place to monitor these objectives, including the performance of the portfolio, share price and dividends.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the risk control systems but the day to day operation and monitoring is delegated to the Manager.
Market Risk The uncertainty over future equity market price movements is an inherent part of the rationale for the Companys existence.
The Companys assets principally consist of quoted securities.
The prices of these securities and the income derived from them are influenced by many factors such as general economic conditions, interest rates, inflation, political events, and government policies as well as by supply and 221274 Invesco Edin pp14-pp35 13 06 2011 11:26 Page 18 18 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued demand reflecting investor sentiment.
Such factors are outside the control of the Board and Manager and may give rise to high levels of volatility in the prices of investments held by the Company.
The asset value and price of the Companys shares and its earnings and dividends may consequently also experience volatility and may decline.
Investment Performance Risk The Board sets performance objectives and it delegates the investment management process to the Manager.
The achievement of the Companys performance objectives relative to the market requires active management of the portfolio of assets and securities.
The Managers approach is to construct a portfolio which is compatible with the Managers view of future trends in the UK and global economies.
The Manager is a long term investor, prepared to take substantial positions in securities and sectors which may well be out of fashion, but which the Manager believes will have potential for material increases in earnings and, in due course, dividends and share prices.
Strategy, asset allocation and stock selection decisions by the Manager can lead to underperformance of the benchmark index and or income targets.
The Managers style may result in a concentrated portfolio with significant overweight or underweight positions in individual stocks or sectors compared to the index and consequently the Companys performance may deviate significantly, possibly for extended periods, from that of the benchmark index.
However the Board and Manager believe that the investment process and policy outlined above should, over the long term, meet the Companys objectives of capital growth in excess of the benchmark index and real dividend growth.
Investment selection is delegated to the Manager.
The Manager manages the portfolio and the Board does not specify asset allocations.
Information on the Companys performance against the benchmark and peer group is provided to the Board on a quarterly basis.
The Board uses this to review the performance of the Company, taking into account how performance relates to the Companys objectives.
The Manager is responsible for monitoring the portfolio selected and seeks to ensure that individual stocks meet an acceptable risk-reward profile.
Gearing Risk The Company has the ability to invest up to 200 million from its Debenture Stocks in the equity market.
The principal gearing risk is that the level of gearing may have an adverse impact on performance.
Secondary risks relate to whether the cost of gearing is too high and whether the length of gearing is appropriate.
The Manager has full discretion over the amount of cash from the Companys Debenture Stocks to be invested in the equity market whilst the issuance, repurchase or restructuring of debt are for the Board to decide.
Information related to gearing is provided to the Directors as part of the Board papers.
The Board regularly reviews the level of gearing.
Additionally, the Board keeps under review the cost of buying back debt.
Income Dividend Risk The Company is subject to the risk that income generation from its investments fails to reach the level of income required to meet its objectives.
The Board monitors this risk through the review of detailed income forecasts and comparison against budget.
These are contained within the Board papers.
The Board considers the level of income at each meeting.
Share Price Risk There is a risk that the Companys prospects and NAV may not be fully reflected in the share price from time to time.
The share price is monitored on a daily basis.
The Board is empowered to repurchase shares within agreed parameters.
The discount at which the shares trade to NAV can be influenced by share repurchases.
The Company has not repurchased shares in the last year.
Control Systems Risk The Board delegates a number of specific risk control activities to the Manager including: best practice standards in fund management operations: financial controls: 221274 Invesco Edin pp14-pp35 13 06 2011 11:26 Page 19 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 19 meeting regulatory requirements: the management of the relationship with the Custodian in respect of the custody and security of the Companys assets: and the management of the relationship with the Registrar.
Consequently in respect of these activities the Company is dependent on the Managers control systems and those of its Custodian and Registrars, both of which are monitored by the Manager in the context of safeguarding the Companys assets and interests.
There is a risk that the Manager fails to ensure that these controls are performed in a satisfactory manner.
A risk-based programme of internal audits is carried out by the Manager regularly to test the controls environment.
An internal controls report providing an assessment of these risks is prepared by the Manager and considered by the Audit Committee, and is formally reported to and considered by the Board.
Reliance on Third Party Providers The Companys most significant contract is with the Manager, to whom responsibility both for the management of the Company's portfolio and for the provision of company secretarial and administrative services are delegated.
The Company also has contractual arrangements with third parties to act as Custodian and Registrars.
Failure by any service provider to carry out its obligations in accordance with the terms of its appointment could have a materially detrimental impact on the effective operation of the Company and on the ability of the Company to pursue its investment policy successfully.
Such failure could also expose the Company to reputational risk.
In particular, the Manager may be exposed to the risk that litigation, misconduct, operational failures, negative publicity and press speculation, whether valid or not, will harm its reputation.
Any damage to the reputation of the Manager could result in potential counterparties and third parties being unwilling to deal with the Manager and by extension the Company.
That could also have an adverse impact on the ability of the Company to pursue its investment policy successfully.
The Board seeks to manage these risks in a number of ways.
In particular the Board reviews the performance of the Manager formally at every board meeting and otherwise as appropriate.
The day to-day management of the portfolio is the responsibility of the portfolio manager to whom the Board has given discretion to operate within set guidelines.
Any proposed variation outside those guidelines is referred to the Board and the guidelines themselves are reviewed at every board meeting.
The risk that the portfolio manager might be incapacitated or otherwise unavailable is mitigated by the fact that he works within and is supported by the wider Invesco Perpetual UK Equity team.
The Board has power to replace the Manager and reviews the management contracts formally once a year.
The Manager reviews the performance of all other third party providers regularly through formal and informal meetings, the results of which are reported to and reviewed by the Board.
The contractual arrangements which govern relationships with third party providers, including the Registrars and the Custodian, and with the Corporate Broker are also reviewed by the Board in relation to agreed service standards on a regular basis and, more formally, on an annual basis.
Other Risks The Company may be exposed to other business and strategic risks in the future, including fiscal, legal or regulatory changes, and the perceived impact of the designated Investment Manager ceasing to be involved with the Company.
The instruments in which the Companys cash positions are invested are reviewed by the Board to ensure liquidity and concentration risks are adequately managed.
Where an Invesco Group vehicle is utilised, it is assessed for suitability against other similar investment options.
The Company is subject to laws and regulations by virtue of its status as an investment trust and is required to comply with certain regulatory requirements that are applicable to listed closed-ended investment companies.
The Company is subject to the continuing obligations imposed by the UK Listing Authority on all companies whose shares are listed on the Official List.
A breach of s1158-1165 CTA could lead to the Company being subject to capital gains tax on the sale of the investments in the Companys portfolio.
A serious breach of other regulatory rules may lead to suspension from listing on the Stock Exchange or a qualified Audit Report.
The Manager reviews compliance with s1158-1165 CTA and other financial and regulatory requirements on a daily basis.
221274 Invesco Edin pp14-pp35 13 06 2011 11:26 Page 20 20 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INCORPORATING THE BUSINESS REVIEW continued There is an ongoing process for the Board to consider these other risks.
In addition, the composition of the Board is regularly reviewed to ensure the membership offers sufficient knowledge and experience to assess and anticipate these risks, as far as possible.
Main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, performance and position of the Companys business As the Company is an investment trust, details of the main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, performance and position of the Companys business can be found in the Investment Managers Report on pages 8 and 9.
Further details as to the risks affecting the Company are set out under Principal Risks and Uncertainties.
Resources The Company is an investment trust and has no employees.
All the Directors are non-executive.
However, through the contractual arrangements in place, a full range of services is available to the Company.
The most significant contract is the Investment Management Agreement IMA with the Manager, Invesco Asset Management Limited, to whom responsibility for the management of the portfolio is delegated.
The Board reviews the performance of the Manager at every Board meeting.
The day-to-day management of the portfolio is the responsibility of Neil Woodford, Head of Investment at Invesco Perpetual based in Henley-on-Thames.
Neil has worked in equity markets since 1981, joining Perpetual in 1988 and has been the Fund Manager of the Company since September 2008, when Invesco Asset Management Limited was appointed as Manager of the Company.
The Board has adopted guidelines within which the Manager is permitted wide discretion: any proposed variations outside these parameters are referred to the Board.
The Board has the power to replace the Manager and reviews the management contract formally once a year.
The outcome of this review is discussed on page 23.
Other contractual arrangements govern relationships with the Auditors, Registrar, Custodian and Broker.
The performance of the service providers is reviewed formally by the Board on an annual basis.
Relationships Through the annual and half-yearly financial reports, interim management statements and the publication of a daily net asset value, the Board endeavours to ensure that shareholders understand the Companys investment objectives and policies.
The Board monitors and reviews shareholder communications on a regular basis and, both independently and through the Manager, reviews the Companys objectives and policies in the light of feedback from shareholders.
The Companys main supplier of services is the Manager which provides both investment management services and company secretarial and administrative support.
Advisers and Principal Service Providers The Company has the following additional advisers and principal service providers: KPMG Audit Plc as Auditors: The Bank of New York Mellon as Custodian: Capita Registrars as Registrar: Collins Stewart Europe Limited as Broker: and Maclay Murray & Spens LLP as Lawyer.
Financial Position Assets and Liabilities At 31 March 2011, the Companys total assets less current liabilities were valued at 1.093 million 2010: 1.026 million.
These comprised a portfolio of mainly equity investments and net current assets.
1 2 The Company has 200 million of borrowings in the form of two 100 million debentures.
The 11 % 3 debenture matures in 2014 and the 7 4% debenture in 2022.
The weighted average interest rate is 9.625%.
The Company also has a bank overdraft facility of 10% of assets held by 221274 Invesco Edin pp14-pp35 13 06 2011 11:26 Page 21 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 21 the Custodian which was undrawn at 31 March 2011: this facility was largely unused during the year and is available to facilitate settlement of short-term cash timing differences.
Due to the readily realisable nature of the Companys assets, cash flow does not have the same significance as for an industrial or commercial company.
The Companys principal cash flows arise from the purchase and sales of investments and the income from investments against which must be set the costs of borrowing and management expenses.
Social and Environmental Policies As an investment trust with no employees, property or activities outside investment management, environmental policy has limited application.
The Manager considers various factors when evaluating potential investments.
Some are financial ratios and measures, such as free cash flow, earnings per share and price-to-book value.
Others are more subjective indicators which rely on first hand research: for example quality of management, innovation and product strength.
The Companys policy is that, subject to an overriding requirement to pursue the best financial interests of the Company, the Manager should take account of social, environmental and ethical factors in making and holding investments and in the use of voting powers conferred by such investments.
At the AGM in 2008, shareholders adopted revised Articles of Association which allow the Company to send or supply documents or information to shareholders in electronic forms e. g. by email or by means of a website.
This will deliver environmental benefits through reduced use of paper and the energy required for its production and distribution.
Substantial Holdings in the Company At 30 April 2011, the Company had been notified of the following holdings of 3% and over of the Companys share capital carrying unrestricted voting rights: HOLDING % Brewin Dolphin, stockbrokers 14,311,821 7.3 Charles Stanley, stockbrokers 9,727,580 5.0 AAM retail plans 9,610,348 4.9 Rathbones 9,466,520 4.9 AXA Investment Managers 7,589,860 3.9 Legal & General Investment Management 7,055,933 3.6 Rensburg Sheppards Investment Management 6,896,676 3.5 Alliance Trust Savings 6,552,744 3.4 Special Business at the Annual General Meeting The notice of the Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company to be held on 22 July 2011 at 11.00 am is on pages 52 to 55.
In addition to the ordinary business, five resolutions are proposed as special business, one as an ordinary resolution and four as special resolutions.
Ordinary Resolution 12 and Special Resolution 13: Authority to Allot Shares Resolution 12 is an Ordinary Resolution to seek authority for the Directors to allot up to 10% of the issued ordinary share capital, this being an aggregate nominal amount of 4,877,918 as at 31 May 2011.
Resolution 13 is a Special Resolution which seeks authority to issue up to 10% of the issued ordinary share capital pursuant to a rights issue or otherwise than in connection with a rights issue, dis-applying preemption rights.
This will allow shares to be issued to new shareholders, within the prescribed limits, without having to be offered to existing shareholders first, thus broadening the shareholder base of the Company.
The Directors will not use the authority to dilute the interests of existing shareholders by issuing shares at a price which is less than the Net Asset Value of the existing shares in issue at that time.
These authorities will expire at the next AGM of the Company or fifteen months after the passing of the resolutions, whichever is the earlier.
Special Resolution 14: Authority to Buy Back Shares Resolution 14 seeks to renew the Directors authority to purchase up to 14.99% of the Companys issued share capital, this being 29,247,998 ordinary shares as at 31 May 2011.
The authority will expire at the Companys next AGM or on 20 January 2013, if earlier.
The principal purpose of share buy backs is to 221274 Invesco Edin pp14-pp35 13 06 2011 11:26 Page 22 22 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued enhance the net asset value for remaining shareholders and purchases will only be made if they enhance the net asset value for the remaining shareholders.
In accordance with the Financial Services Authority UK Listing Rules, the maximum price which can be paid is 5% above the average of the middle market values of the ordinary shares for the five business days before the purchase is made.
The minimum price which may be paid will be 25p per share, this being the nominal value of a share.
In making purchases, the Company will deal only with member firms of the London Stock Exchange.
The Company will finance the purchase of ordinary shares by using its existing cash balance or by selling securities in the Companys portfolio.
The Directors might consider holding repurchased shares as treasury shares with a view to possible resale.
Special Resolution 15: Investment Policy Resolution 15 seeks permission from shareholders for an amendment to the Companys Investment Policy.
The Company may currently invest up to 15% of the market value of the Companys investment portfolio, measured at the time of any acquisition, in securities listed on stock exchanges outside the UK.
The Company is seeking permission from shareholders to increase this limit to 20%.
Special Resolution 16: Notice Period for General Meetings The EU Shareholder Rights Directive, which was implemented in 2009, increased the notice period for general meetings of companies to 21 days unless certain conditions are met in which case it may be 14 days notice.
A shareholders resolution is required to ensure that the Companys general meetings other than Annual General Meetings may be held on 14 days notice.
Accordingly, Special Resolution 16 will propose that the period of notice for general meetings of the Company other than AGMs shall be not less than 14 days notice.
The Directors recommend that shareholders vote in favour of all the resolutions.
Investment Management Agreement IMA Invesco Asset Management Limited IAML acts as Manager and Secretary to the Company under an investment management agreement dated 15 September 2008.
The agreement is terminable by either party by giving not less than 3 months notice.
The management fee is payable monthly in arrears and is equal to 0.05% of the market capitalisation of the Companys ordinary shares at each month end.
IAML is also entitled to a performance fee in respect of each rolling three year period in which the Company outperforms its benchmark, the FTSE All-Share Index, plus a hurdle rate, this being the equivalent of 1.25% per annum, as adjusted for shorter periods.
The IMA provides for transitional arrangements for the periods up to 31 March 2011, under which half of any performance fee for each period is paid at the end of the period and half deferred.
The deferred portion of 1,711,000 from the year ended 31 March 2009 became payable on 31 March 2011.
Any performance fee earned will be the lower of 15% of the out-performance based on the average quarterly net asset value with debt at par of the Company over the relevant performance period and 1% of net asset value, as adjusted for shorter periods where required.
No performance fee is due for the year ended 31 March 2011 2010: none.
VAT on Management fees As previously reported, management fees paid by the Company are no longer subject to VAT.
During the year the Company received a refund of VAT paid on management fees from Aberdeen Asset Management of 3,176,000 in respect of the period 1990-96, and a further amount in respect of the years 2001-02 which has been recognised in these accounts 2010: 963,000 was received in respect of the years 2001-02.
In addition the Company also received interest on the refund of VAT of 2,459,000.
The Managers Responsibilities The Directors have delegated to Invesco Asset Management Limited the Manager the responsibility for the day-to-day investment management activities of the Company.
The Manager has full discretion to manage the assets of the Company in accordance with the Companys stated objectives and policies.
The Manager has discretion to make purchases and sales, make and withdraw cash deposits, enter into underwriting commitments and exercise all rights over the investment portfolio.
The Manager also advises on borrowings.
221274 Invesco Edin pp14-pp35 13 06 2011 11:26 Page 23 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 23 The Manager provides full administration and company secretarial services to the Company, ensuring that the Company complies with all legal and regulatory requirements and officiating at Board meetings and shareholders meetings.
The Manager additionally maintains complete and accurate records of the Companys investment transactions and portfolio and all monetary transactions from which the Manager prepares half-yearly and annual financial statements on behalf of the Company as well as interim management statements.
Assessment of the Investment Manager The Management Engagement Committee meets annually to review the investment management and secretarial arrangements.
The Committee considers, among other matters investment performance, marketing activity, secretarial and administrative services, the finance and control environments, compliance, audit and terms of the Investment Management Agreement.
The Board, based on its recent review of activities, considers that the continuing appointment of Invesco Asset Management Limited is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
Directors Directors are appointed by ordinary resolution at a general meeting of ordinary shareholders.
The Directors have the power to appoint a Director during the year but any person so appointed must stand for election at the next Annual General Meeting.
Gordon McQueen was appointed a Director of the Company on 31 May 2011 and will stand for election at the AGM on 22 July 2011.
Subject to its Articles of Association and relevant statutory law and to such direction as may be given by the Company in general meeting by special resolution, the business of the Company shall be managed by the Directors, who may exercise all powers of the Company which are not required to be exercised by the Company in a general meeting.
The present members of the Board are listed on page 11 together with their biographies.
All served throughout the year with the exception of Gordon McQueen who was appointed on 31 May 2011.
In accordance with the UK Code of Corporate Governance, at every AGM, all Directors shall retire by rotation and offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
As already mentioned in the Chairmans Statement, Scott Dobbie will retire from the Board of the Company at the end of this years AGM.
The following table sets out the number of scheduled Directors meetings including committees held during the year and the number of meetings attended by each Director: MANAGEMENT AUDIT ENGAGEMENT NOMINATION BOARD COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE MEETINGS MEETINGS MEETINGS MEETINGS HELD ATTENDED HELD ATTENDED HELD ATTENDED HELD ATTENDED 1 Scott Dobbie 44 3 n a 1 1 3 3 Jim Pettigrew 4 4 3 3 1 1 3 3 Richard Barfield 4 4 3 3 1 1 3 3 Nicola Ralston 4 3 3 2 1 1 3 2 William Samuel 4 4 3 3 1 1 3 3 Sir Nigel Wicks 4 4 3 3 1 1 3 3 1 The Chairman is not a member of the Audit Committee but was in attendance at the meetings.
Board members attended a significant number of informal meetings to discuss other ad hoc matters.
As Gordon McQueen was appointed after the year end, he has not been included in the above table.
All Directors have letters of appointment which are available for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company.
All Directors are independent of the investment manager.
221274 Invesco Edin pp14-pp35 13 06 2011 11:26 Page 24 24 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Directors Interests The beneficial interests of the Directors in the ordinary share capital of the Company are set out below: 31 MARCH 1 APRIL 2011 2010 Scott Dobbie 216,245 214,937 Jim Pettigrew 20,000 20,000 Richard Barfield 13,984 13,984 Gordon McQueen appointed 31 May 2011 Nicola Ralston 15,000 15,000 William Samuel 23,170 23,170 Sir Nigel Wicks 3,500 3,500 Scott Dobbie also has a non-beneficial interest in 422,416 2010: 422,416 ordinary shares.
This largely arises as a result of Mr Dobbies membership of the Board of Trustees of the Cambridge Endowment for Research in Finance.
Save as aforesaid, no Director had any interests, beneficial or otherwise, in the shares of the Company during the year.
No Director held any of the Companys debenture stocks at either date.
No changes to these holdings had been notified up to the date of this report.
Disclosable Interests No Director was a party to, or had any interests in, any contract or arrangement with the Company at any time during the year or at the year end.
The Company has entered into a Deed of Indemnity with each Director under which the Directors are indemnified by the Company for, inter alia, costs incurred in defending claims made by third parties.
Conflicts of Interest A Director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or has the potential to conflict with the companys interests.
The Articles of Association of the Company give the Directors authority to authorise potential conflicts of interest and there are safeguards which apply when Directors decide whether to do so.
Firstly, only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered are able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The Directors can impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
The Directors have declared any potential conflicts of interest to the Company.
The Register of Potential Conflicts of Interests is kept at the Registered Office of the Company.
It is reviewed regularly by the Board and the Directors will advise the Company Secretary as soon as they become aware of any potential conflicts of interest.
Deeds of Indemnity A Deed of Indemnity was executed between the Company and each Director.
Under the terms of the indemnities, a Director may be indemnified out of the assets of the Company against all costs, charges, losses, expenses and liabilities which the Director may sustain or incur in the execution or purported execution or discharge of his or her duties or the exercise of his powers or discretions as a Director of the Company.
This includes any liability incurred by the Director in disputing, defending, investigating or providing evidence in connection with any actual or threatened or alleged claims, demands, investigations or proceedings whether civil or criminal, and any settlement in respect thereof.
Directors will continue to be indemnified under the terms of the indemnities notwithstanding that they may have ceased to be Directors of the Company.
However, Directors will not be entitled to be indemnified for any liability to the Company for fines payable to regulatory authorities, for defending any criminal proceedings in which they are convicted or in defending any civil proceedings brought by the Company in which judgment is given against a Director.
In these circumstances, the Director will repay to the Company any amount received from the Company under his indemnity.
The indemnity does not apply to the extent that a liability is recoverable from any insurers, if it is prohibited by the Companies Act 2006 previously section 309A of the Companies Act 1985 as 221274 Invesco Edin pp14-pp35 13 06 2011 11:26 Page 25 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 25 amended or otherwise prohibited by law or if a liability arises from an act or omission of the Director which is shown to have been in bad faith or arising from gross negligence.
Audit Information The Directors who held office at the date of the approval of the Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Auditors The Audit Committee has considered the independence of the auditors and the objectivity of the audit process and is satisfied that KPMG Audit Plc has fulfilled its obligations to shareholders as independent auditor to the Company.
Resolutions proposing the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as the Companys Auditors and authorising the Directors to determine their remuneration will be put to the forthcoming AGM.
Individual Savings Account ISA The ordinary shares of the Company are qualifying investments under applicable ISA regulations.
Supplier Payment Policy It is the Companys policy to obtain the best terms for all business, including purchases of investments, and to abide by those agreed terms.
The Company had no trade creditors at 31 March 2011 2010: nil.
Donations The Company made no political or charitable donations during the year 2010: nil.
Going Concern The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The Directors consider this is the appropriate basis as the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
In considering this, the Directors took into account the diversified portfolio of readily realisable securities which can be used to meet funding commitments, and the ability of the Company to meet all of its liabilities and ongoing expenses from its assets.
221274 Invesco Edin pp14-pp35 13 06 2011 11:26 Page 26 26 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT The Principles The Board is committed to maintaining the highest standards of Corporate Governance and is accountable to shareholders for the governance of the Companys affairs.
In February 2006, the Financial Reporting Council confirmed that AIC member companies which report against the AIC Code and which follow the AIC Guide meet their obligations in relation to the Combined Code on Corporate Governance and paragraph 9.8.
On 20 February 2009 the FRC provided the AIC with an updated endorsement to cover the 2009 edition of the AIC Code relating to additional items to be included in the annual financial report.
This statement describes how the principles of the AIC Code and Guide have been complied with in the affairs of the Company.
Any reference to the AIC Code in this statement includes references to the AIC Guide.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the Combined Code, will provide better information to shareholders.
Copies of the AIC Code and AIC Guide can be found on the AICs website at www.
The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code, except as set out below.
The Combined Code includes provisions relating to the role of the chief executive, executive directors remuneration and the need for an internal audit function.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and in the preamble to the Combined Code, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the Company, which is an externally managed investment company.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
The terms of reference for the Board and the Audit Committee are reviewed and updated periodically to bring them in line with latest best practice and to ensure compliance with the AIC Code.
The Companys Corporate Governance procedures are considered regularly by the Board and amended as necessary.
In October 2010, a new edition of the AIC Code was published, which addresses the governance issues relevant to investment companies and enables boards to satisfy any requirements they may have under the new UK Corporate Governance Code.
Both the new UK Corporate Governance Code and the new 2010 AIC Code apply to companies whose financial year starts on or after 29 June 2010.
The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc will report against these new Codes at the end of the next financial year.
Directors Independence The Board comprises seven non-executive Directors, each of whom the Board regards as wholly independent of the Companys Manager.
Some commentators have a view that length of service on a board can compromise independence from the manager.
The AIC does not believe that this is the case for investment companies and therefore does not recommend that long serving directors be prevented from forming part of the independent majority.
Chairman The Chairman of the Company is Scott Dobbie, a non-executive and independent Director who has no conflicting relationships.
As the Company is an investment trust and sub-contracts its day-to-day investment management and administration, its Board consists exclusively of non-executive Directors and it does not have a Chief Executive Officer.
Scott Dobbie has been a member of the Board since 1998 and Chairman since 2003.
He will retire as a Director at the conclusion of this years AGM.
As reported earlier, Jim Pettigrew will be appointed as Chairman.
The Chairman will be present at the AGM to answer questions.
Senior Non-Executive Director The Companys Senior Non-Executive Director is Richard Barfield.
221274 Invesco Edin pp14-pp35 13 06 2011 11:26 Page 27 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 27 Board Balance The Directors have a range of business, financial and asset management skills as well as experience relevant to the direction and control of the Company.
Brief biographical details of members of the Board are shown on page 11.
Supply of Information To enable the Directors of the Board to fulfil their roles, the Manager ensures that all Directors have timely access to all relevant management, financial and regulatory information.
On being appointed to the Board, Directors are fully briefed as to their responsibilities and are continually updated throughout their term in office on industry and regulatory matters.
The Manager and the Board have formulated a programme of induction training for newly appointed Directors.
They have also put arrangements in place to address ongoing training requirements of Directors which include briefings from key members of the Managers staff and which ensure that Directors can keep up to date with new legislation and changing risks.
The Board meets on a regular basis at least four times each year.
Additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Regular contact is maintained by the Manager with the Board between formal meetings.
Board meetings follow a formal agenda, which includes a review of the investment portfolio with a report from the Manager on the current investment position and outlook, strategic direction, performance against stock market indices and the Companys peer group, asset allocation, gearing policy, cash management, revenue forecasts for the financial year, marketing and shareholder relations, corporate governance, regulatory changes and industry and other issues.
Appointment, Re-election, Tenure and the Nomination Committee All Directors are members of the Nomination Committee which is chaired by Scott Dobbie.
The Nomination Committee has written terms of reference which clearly define its duties and responsibilities.
These include regularly evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and whether to recommend the re-election of those Directors seeking re-election at each AGM to shareholders.
The Committee is also responsible for identifying and nominating for approval of the Board, candidates to fill board vacancies as and when they arise.
As mentioned earlier in the document, Scott Dobbie will retire at the conclusion of this years AGM.
In order that the Board continue to have a balance of skills, experience and length of service and knowledge of the Company, it was decided that a new Director be appointed.
The Board instructed the Nomination Committee to carry out this process taking into consideration the above requirements as well as diversity of the Board and the ability of a new Director to devote sufficient time to the Company to carry out his or her duties effectively.
The Nomination Committee appointed an external search consultancy to identify potential candidates.
The Board was pleased that this process successfully identified a number of strong candidates and, after due consideration, the Board appointed Gordon McQueen a Director of the Company with effect from 31 May 2011.
As the Board appointed Gordon McQueen since the last AGM, in accordance with the Companys Articles, he will stand for election at this years AGM.
The Board considers that, with his considerable knowledge and experience, Gordon will make a valuable contribution to the Board and, therefore, recommends that shareholders support resolution 8.
No Director has a contract of employment with the Company.
Directors terms and conditions of appointment are set out in letters of appointment which are available for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company.
They will also be available at the AGM.
The Articles of Association require that a Director shall be subject to election at the first AGM after appointment and re-election at least every three years thereafter.
In line with the new UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors will stand for annual re-election.
At each AGM one-third of the Directors may, by notice in writing, remove any Director from the Board without notice or compensation.
Board, Committee and Directors Performance Appraisal The Directors recognise the importance of the AIC Codes recommendation in respect of evaluating the performance of the Board as a whole, the Committees and individual Directors.
During the year, the Directors undertook an extensive review of the Board structure, including an evaluation of the performance of the Board, the Committees and of individual Directors.
This evaluation included intensive discussions between the Chairman, Senior Independent Director SID and other Directors.
Further discussions were also undertaken between the SID and other Directors as a part of identifying a new Chairman.
221274 Invesco Edin pp14-pp35 13 06 2011 11:26 Page 28 28 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued The result of this continuous evaluation process was that the performance of the Board as a whole, the Committees of the Board, the Chairman and individual Directors was deemed fully satisfactory.
Directors Remuneration The Board as a whole reviews Directors remuneration periodically.
The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 32 and 33.
Accountability and Audit The Directors responsibilities with regard to the financial statements are set out on page 34 and the Independent Auditors Report is set out on page 35.
Internal Financial and Non-Financial Controls The Directors acknowledge that they are responsible for the Companys systems of internal financial and non-financial controls internal controls which have been in place throughout the year and up to the date of this report in order to safeguard shareholders investments and the Companys assets.
The Board reviews, at least annually, the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance and risk management systems.
The Companys system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve the Companys investment objective and or adhere to the Companys investment policy and or investment limits.
This system can therefore provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board confirms that the necessary actions are taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified from their review.
There are no significant failings or weaknesses that have occurred throughout the year ended 31 March 2011 and up to the date of this annual financial report.
As stated above, the Board meets regularly, at least four times a year, and reviews financial reports and performance against approved forecasts, relevant stock market criteria and the Companys peer group.
In addition, the Manager and Custodian maintain their own systems of internal controls and the Board and the Audit Committee receive regular reports from the Internal Audit and Compliance Departments of the Manager.
Formal reports are also produced annually on the internal controls and procedures in place for the operation of secretarial and administrative, custodial, investment management and accounting activities.
The programme of reviews is set up by the Manager and the reports are not necessarily directed to the affairs of any one client of the Manager.
Internal Audit Function The Audit Committee has reviewed the need for the Company to establish an internal audit function, but, in view of the extent of the Managers executive responsibilities and, given that the Manager has internal audit functions, consider that such a function is not necessary.
Matters Reserved for the Board The Directors are equally responsible under United Kingdom law for the proper conduct of the Companys affairs and for promoting the success of the Company by directing and supervising its affairs within a framework of effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
In addition, the Directors are responsible for ensuring that their policies and operations are in the interest of all of the Companys shareholders and that the interests of creditors and suppliers to the Company are properly considered.
The Board has a schedule of matters reserved for its consideration, which clearly define the Directors responsibilities.
The main responsibilities include: setting the Companys objectives, policies and standards: ensuring that the Companys obligations to shareholders and others are understood and complied with: approving accounting policies and dividend policy: managing the capital structure: setting long-term objectives and strategy: reviewing investment performance: assessing risk: approving loans and borrowing: and controlling risks.
Finally, the Board ensures that shareholders are provided with sufficient information in order to understand the risk:reward balance to which they are exposed by holding their shares, through the portfolio details given in the half-yearly and annual financial reports, interim management statements, factsheets and daily NAV disclosures.
The Board as a whole undertakes the responsibilities which would otherwise be assumed by a remuneration committee, determining the Companys remuneration policy.
The Board takes into account all factors which are deemed necessary in order to ensure that members of the Board are provided with appropriate compensation and are, in a fair and responsible manner, rewarded for their individual contributions to the success of the Company.
The remuneration of Directors is reviewed periodically and reported on in more detail in the Directors Remuneration Report.
221274 Invesco Edin pp14-pp35 13 06 2011 11:26 Page 29 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 29 The Managers Responsibilities The Manager is responsible for the day-to-day investment management decisions of the Company and for the provision of company secretarial and accounting services.
A statement of the Managers responsibilities is shown on page 22 in this Report of the Directors.
The Board has reviewed and accepted the Managers whistleblowing policy under which staff of Invesco Asset Management can, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties or irregularities in matters affecting the Company.
The Company Secretary The Board has direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, Invesco Asset Management Limited, which is responsible for ensuring that the Board and Committee procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Company Secretary is also responsible to the Board for ensuring timely delivery of information and reports and that the statutory obligations of the Company are met.
Finally, the Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board through the Chairman on all governance matters.
There is an agreed procedure for the Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take legal advice at the Companys expense up to an initial cost of 10,000 having first consulted with the Chairman.
The Audit Committee The Board is supported by an Audit Committee consisting of all non-executive Directors with the exception of Scott Dobbie.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee is Jim Pettigrew.
At the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 23 July 2011, Gordon McQueen will be appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Committee has written terms of reference which clearly define its responsibilities and duties.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, including its role and authority, were updated during the year to ensure best practice and compliance with the AIC Code.
They will be available for inspection at the AGM and can be inspected at the Registered Office of the Company or on the Managers website.
The Audit Committee is responsible to the Board for reviewing each aspect of the financial reporting process, systems of internal control and the management of financial risks, the audit process, relationships with external auditors, the Companys processes for monitoring compliance with laws and regulations, its code of business conduct and for making recommendations to the Board.
Duties of the Audit Committee include discussing with the external Auditors the nature and scope of the audit and reviewing the external Auditors quality control procedures: considering the scope of work undertaken by the Managers internal audit and compliance department: reviewing the Companys procedures for detecting fraud: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company: reviewing the half-yearly and annual financial statements of the Company prior to their submission to the Board: and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal control systems including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
They also include responsibility for reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the audit process and the external Auditors independence and objectivity with particular regard to the provision of non-audit services.
The provision of non-audit services is also subject to prior Board approval.
The Audit Committee of the Board meets the external Auditors in the absence of representatives from the Manager at least once a year to review these and other appropriate matters.
Shareholders have the opportunity at each Annual General Meeting to vote on the re-appointment of the external Auditors for the forthcoming year and to authorise the Directors to determine the level of Auditors remuneration.
The Committee also reviews corporate governance issues, the existence and performance of all controls operating in the Company including compliance with s1158-1165 CTA, the relationship with and the performance of third party service providers such as the Registrars and Custodians.
In the year to 31 March 2011 the Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities by, among other things: Reviewing the Companys draft annual and half-yearly financial reports prior to Board approval and reviewing the external Auditors reports thereon: Reviewing the appropriateness of the Companys accounting policies: Reviewing the potential impact of any new Financial Reporting Standards: Reviewing and approving the audit fee and reviewing any non-audit fees payable to the Companys external Auditors: Reviewing the external Auditors terms of engagement: 221274 Invesco Edin pp14-pp35 13 06 2011 11:26 Page 30 30 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Reviewing the external Auditors plan for the audit of the Companys financial statements: Reviewing the external Auditors quality control procedures: Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the external audit process and the external Auditors independence and objectivity: Recommending the re-appointment of the external Auditors to the Board: Review of the internal financial and non-financial controls and risk management systems with the Manager against risk parameters approved by the Board: and Considering the scope of work undertaken by the Managers internal audit and compliance departments.
The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year in the performance of their duties.
In addition, the Audit Committee Chairman meets with the Manager on a regular basis, and from time to time with the External Auditors.
The Audit Committee has received satisfactory reports on the Managers internal operations from the Managers Compliance and Internal Audit departments.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 with the Manager and the Auditors at the conclusion of the audit process.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be present at the AGM to deal with questions relating to the accounts.
Auditors Non-Audit Services The Companys policy is not to seek substantial non-audit services from its Auditors.
The Audit Committee considers whether the skills and experience of the Auditors make them a suitable supplier of the non-audit service and whether there are safeguards in place to ensure that there is no threat to objectivity and independence in the conduct of the audit resulting from the provision of such services.
Apart from the normal audit-related services, during the year the Companys Auditors also provided a review of the half-yearly financial report and a review of the Annual Certificate of Compliance to the Trustee of the debenture stock.
Details are set out in note 4 to the financial statements.
Relations with Shareholders Shareholder relations are given high priority by both the Board and the Manager.
The prime medium by which the Company communicates with shareholders is through the half-yearly and annual financial report, which aim to provide shareholders with a full understanding of the Companys activities and their results.
This information is supplemented by the daily calculation and publication at the Stock Exchange of the net asset value of the Companys ordinary shares and by a monthly fact sheet produced by the Manager.
At each AGM, a presentation is made by the investment manager following the business of the Meeting and shareholders have the opportunity to communicate directly with the whole Board.
There is a regular dialogue between the Manager and institutional shareholders to discuss aspects of investment performance, governance and strategy and to listen to shareholder views in order to help develop an understanding of their issues and concerns.
General presentations to both institutional shareholders and analysts follow the publication of the annual results.
All meetings between the Manager and institutional and other shareholders are reported to the Board.
During the year, the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and the other Directors also met representatives of those major shareholders who accepted an invitation from the Chairman to meet.
It is the intention of the Board that the annual financial report and Notice of the AGM be issued to shareholders so as to provide at least twenty working days notice of the AGM.
Shareholders wishing to lodge questions in advance of the AGM are invited to do so, either on the reverse of the proxy card or otherwise in writing to the Company Secretary at the address given on page 12.
At other times, the Company responds to letters from shareholders on a range of issues.
Shareholders can also visit the Managers investment trust website at www.
co. uk investmenttrusts in order to access copies of half-yearly and annual financial reports: interim management statements: shareholder circulars: Company factsheets and Stock Exchange announcements.
Shareholders can also access various Company reviews and information such as an overview of UK equities and the Companys share price.
Shareholders are also able to access copies of the schedule of matters reserved for 221274 Invesco Edin pp14-pp35 13 06 2011 11:26 Page 31 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 31 the Board and the terms of reference of the Audit, Management Engagement and Nomination Committees and following any shareholders general meetings, proxy voting results.
Stewardship The Manager, Invesco Asset Management Limited, has adopted a clear and considered policy towards its responsibility as a shareholder on behalf of the Company.
As part of this policy, the Manager takes steps to satisfy itself about the extent to which the companies in which it invests look after shareholders value and comply with local recommendations and practices, such as the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Manager has a responsibility to optimise returns to shareholders of the Company.
As a core part of the investment process, the Manager endeavours to establish a dialogue with management to promote company decision making that is in the best interests of shareholders, and is in accordance with good corporate governance principles.
The Manager believes that, being a major shareholder in a company is more than simply expecting to benefit in its future earnings streams, but is also about helping to provide the capital it needs to grow being actively involved in its strategy, and helping to ensure that shareholder interests are always at the forefront of managements thoughts.
The Manager considers that shareholder activism is fundamental to good corporate governance.
Although this does not entail intervening in daily management decisions, it does involve supporting general standards for corporate activity and, where necessary, taking the initiative to ensure those standards are met, with a view to protecting and enhancing value for the Companys shareholders.
Engagement is proportionate and reflects the size of holdings, length of holding period and liquidity of the underlying company shares.
One important means of putting shareholder responsibility into practice is via the exercising of voting rights.
In deciding whether to vote shares, the Manager will take into account such factors as the likely impact of voting on management activity, and where expressed, the preference of the Board of the Company.
As a result of these two factors, the Manager will tend to vote on all shares held within the Companys portfolio.
Voting rights will be exercised on an informed and independent basis, and will not simply be passed back to the company concerned for discretionary voting by the chairman.
A copy of the Managers Policy on Corporate Governance and Stewardship can be found at www.
Invesco Asset Management Limited Company Secretary 30 Finsbury Square London EC2A 1AG 31 May 2011
