Objective and Investment Policy Electra has been quoted on the London Stock Exchange since 1976.
Electra is managed as an HM Revenue and Customs approved investment trust, and invests primarily in the private equity mid-market.
The business and affairs of Electra are managed on an exclusive and fully discretionary basis by Electra Partners, an independent private equity fund manager with over 25 years experience in the mid-market.
Electras objective is to achieve a rate of return on equity of between 10-15% per year over the long-term by investing in a portfolio of private equity assets.
Electra Partners aims to achieve this target rate of return on behalf of Electra by utilising a flexible investment strategy and: In implementing Electras exploiting a track record of successful private equity investment: flexible investment utilising the proven skills of its management team with a strong record of deal flow strategy, Electra Partners generation and long-term presence in the private equity market: typically targets targeting private equity opportunities including direct investment, fund investments investments at a cost of and secondary buyouts of portfolios and funds so that the perceived risks associated 40 million to 100 million with such investments are justified by expected returns: in companies with an investing in a number of value creating transactions with a balanced risk profile across enterprise value of up a broad range of investment sectors through a variety of financial instruments: and to 300 million.
actively managing its capital position and levels of gearing in light of prevailing economic conditions.
The investment focus is principally on Western Europe, with the majority of investments made in the United Kingdom where Electra Partners has historically been most active.
There is an emphasis on areas where Electra Partners has specific knowledge and expertise.
In circumstances where Electra Partners feels that there is merit in gaining exposure to countries and sectors outside its network and expertise, consideration is given to investing in specific funds managed by third parties or co-investing with private equity managers with whom it has developed a relationship.
In implementing Electras flexible investment strategy, Electra Partners typically targets investments at a cost of 40 million to 100 million in companies with an enterprise value of up to 300 million.
Electra Partners attempts to mitigate risk through portfolio diversification.
Investments will therefore be made across a broad range of sectors and industries and not more than 15% of Electras net asset value, at the time of investment, will be invested in any single investment.
If Electra acquires a portfolio of companies in a single transaction, this limitation shall be applied individually to each of the underlying companies purchased and not to the portfolio as a whole.
Electra has a policy to maintain total gearing below 40% of its total assets.
Unless required to do so to maintain Electras investment trust status, it is the policy of the Directors not to pay dividends.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2011 1 Further information Governance Financial statements Business review Overview
