The directors have pleasure in submitting the annual report of In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all the Company and its subsidiaries to the shareholders, together the directors will retire at the Annual General Meeting, to be with the audited accounts for the year ended 31 December 2011. held on Wednesday 16 May 2012, and being eligible, offer themselves for re-appointment.
Principal activities and business review Powers of the directors The principal activity of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings has remained housebuilding in the UK.
Subject to the Companys Memorandum and Articles of The information that fulfils the requirements of the business Association, UK legislation and any directions given by special review commences on page 8 and provides a full review of the resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Groups performance and prospects.
Board, which may exercise all the powers of the Company.
The directors have been authorised to allot and issue ordinary Information on the risks to which the performance of the shares and to make market purchases of the Companys business is subject, including key social, environmental and ordinary shares and these powers may be exercised under ethical risks, is provided on page 22.
These risks are regularly authority of resolutions of the Company passed at its Annual reviewed by the Board and controls and mitigation processes General Meeting.
The rules in relation to the appointment and put in place as explained in the report on corporate governance.
replacement of directors are set out in the Companys Articles Key financial performance indicators include pre tax profit, of Association.
earnings per share, operating margin, return on capital Share capital employed, consented and strategic land bank, volume of legal completions and net assets.
Other key performance indicators At the date of this report the Companys issued share capital are also monitored including those relating to health and comprised a single class of share capital which is divided into safety, customer satisfaction and corporate social responsibility.
As at 24 February, 133,674,109 Key performance indicators are set out on pages 20 and 21. ordinary shares of 50 pence each have been issued, are fully paid up and are quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
Results and dividends The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary The Group made a profit after taxation of 23.3 million shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, 2010: 14.0 million.
An interim dividend of 1.5p 2010: nil copies of which can be obtained from Companies House net per share was paid on 25 November 2011.
The Board in the UK or by writing to the Group Company Secretary.
proposes to pay, subject to shareholder approval at the 2012 In particular, subject to applicable statutes, shares may be Annual General Meeting, a final dividend of 3.5p issued with such rights or restrictions as the Company may by 2010: final dividend of 3.0p net per share in respect of the ordinary resolution determine, or if there is no such resolution 2011 financial year on 25 May 2012 to shareholders on the or so far as it does not make specific provision as the Board register at the close of business on 30 March 2012.
Shareholders are entitled to attend, speak basis, the total dividend for 2011 will be 5.0p 2010: 3.0p.
It is and vote at general meetings of the Company, to appoint intended that a scrip dividend alternative will again be offered one or more proxies and, if they are corporations, to appoint to allow shareholders to elect to receive the whole or part of corporate representatives.
their dividend in new ordinary shares.
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company Directors every shareholder present in person or by proxy and entitled to Details of the directors are shown on page 30. vote has one vote and on a poll every shareholder present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote for every Details of directors emoluments, pension rights, service ordinary share held.
Further details regarding voting, including contracts and directors interests in the ordinary shares of the the deadlines for voting, at the Annual General Meeting can Company are included in the Directors Remuneration Report be found in the notes to the Notice of the Annual General on pages 39 to 52.
Meeting at the back of this annual report and accounts.
No shareholder is, unless the Board decides otherwise, entitled to attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting or to exercise any other shareholder rights if he or any person with an interest in shares has been sent a notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 and has failed to supply the Company with the requisite information within the prescribed period.
58 | Annual report and accounts | Governance Directors report Governance Shareholders may receive a dividend and on a liquidation may The Board may also refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share in the assets of the Company.
None of the ordinary shares share unless the instrument of transfer: i is lodged, duly stamped of the Company, including those held by the Companys share if stampable, at the registered office of the Company or any schemes, carry any special rights with regard to control of other place decided by the Board accompanied by the certificate the Company.
Employees participating in the Bovis Homes Group for the share to which it relates and such other evidence as the Share Incentive Plan may direct the trustee to exercise voting rights Board may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor on their behalf at any general meeting.
to make the transfer: ii is in respect of only one class of shares: and iii is in favour of not more than four transferees.
Transfers of The instrument of transfer of a certificated share may be in any uncertificated shares must be carried out using the relevant system usual form or in any other form which the Board may approve.
and the Board can refuse to register a transfer of an uncertificated The Board may refuse to register any instrument of transfer of a share in accordance with the regulations governing the operation certificated share which is not fully paid, provided that the refusal of the relevant system and with UK legislation.
There are no other does not prevent dealings in shares in the Company from taking limitations on the holding of ordinary shares in the Company and place on an open and proper basis.
the Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Substantial shareholdings As at 31 December 2011, the following interests of 3% or more in the Companys issued share capital had been notified to the Company: % of voting rights of % direct % indirect % financial Total number of the issued Ordinary shares of 50p each holding holding instruments shares held share capital Blackrock 14.23 2.79 22,753,599 17.02 Schroders 10.96 14,615,449 10.96 Sanderson Asset Management 9.03 12,039,346 9.03 Prudential 7.28 9,720,356 7.28 Norges Bank 5.03 6,719,218 5.03 Lloyds Banking Group 0.40 4.59 6,652,328 4.99 Standard Life Investments 3.47 1.34 6,405,231 4.81 Between 1 January and 24 February 2012, the following interests of 3% or more in the Companys issued share capital were notified to the Company: % of voting 24 February 2012 rights of % direct % indirect % financial Total number of the issued Ordinary shares of 50p each holding holding instruments shares held share capital Standard Life Investments 4.08 0.73 6,432,254 4.81 Prudential 3.03 4,054,444 3.03 Bovis Homes Group PLC | 59 Corporate governance Corporate social responsibility The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate The Group, in carrying out its business activities, is pursuing governance.
Details relating to the Companys compliance with its commitment to sustainable development and transparent the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code are given in the corporate conduct in social and ethical matters, corporate Corporate Governance report on pages 31 to 37. governance, health and safety and the environment.
The Groups corporate social responsibility policy commitments Directors indemnities focus on sustainable development, the environment, health As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under and safety, research and development, human resources, which the Company has agreed to indemnify the directors, an ethical code of conduct and stakeholder engagement.
to the extent permitted by law and the Companys Articles The Group Executive Committee co-ordinates developments of Association, in respect of all losses arising out of or in in this area and an established process of risk identification connection with, the execution of their powers, duties and management is embedded in all activities, regardless of and responsibilities, as directors of the Company or any of whether risk is classed as strategic, operational, financial, or its subsidiaries.
compliance-related, legal, environmental, social or connected to reputation.
The Health, Safety and Environmental Employees Consultative Committee monitors and maintains the high The Groups employment policies do not discriminate between health and safety and environmental standards expected from employees, or potential employees, on the grounds of sex, offices and sites.
sexual orientation, age, colour, creed, ethnic origin or religious The Board addresses risk in its own decision making and belief.
It is Group policy to give full and fair consideration takes regular account of the significance of sustainability, to the employment needs of disabled persons and persons environmental, social and ethical matters through consideration who become disabled whilst employed by the Group where of relevant information and data in Board reports and other requirements may be adequately covered by these persons documentation provided.
Ultimate responsibility rests with the and to comply with any current legislation with regard to Board and induction and training in this area is supported.
Further details of risks and policies and procedures for their The Group has a human capital strategy focused on the management are included in the Groups Corporate Social key areas of leadership and management development, Responsibility report dated 24 February 2012, which includes employee development, recruitment and retention, and key targets and performance data.
A copy of the report is employee engagement.
This strategy is aligned with the available on the Groups website www.
co. uk Groups business strategy and objectives, matching and on request to the Group Company Secretary resources to future requirements.
Donations It is the policy of the Group to train and develop employees to ensure they are equipped to undertake the tasks for The Group made charitable donations in the year amounting which they are employed, and to provide the opportunity to 4,950 2010: 7,830.
No political donations were made in for career development equally and without discrimination.
either year by the Group or Company.
Employees receive regular training in health, safety and Suppliers environmental matters.
The Groups payment policy in respect of all suppliers is to Information about the Groups performance and other matters settle agreed outstanding accounts in accordance with terms is provided regularly by a news magazine, electronic and notice and conditions agreed with suppliers when placing orders.
board bulletins, by consultations at staff meetings and through elected employee representatives.
The Groups creditor days relating to trade creditors at the year end in respect of goods and services supplied in the The Group operates both a defined benefit pension scheme normal course of trade amounted to 54 days 2010: 50 days.
and a defined contribution pension scheme.
The calculation excludes land purchase creditors.
The Company has a Share Incentive Plan, a Save As You Earn The aggregate amount owed to trade creditors by the Share Option Scheme, a Share Option Plan, an Executive Share Company was nil throughout 2010 and 2011.
Option Scheme expired, a 2009 Bonus Replacement Share Plan and a Long Term Incentive Plan to motivate employees and encourage strong involvement with the Group.
See note 21 to the accounts for details of the share schemes.
60 | Annual report and accounts | Governance Directors report Governance The directors believe that all the resolutions proposed to be Significant agreements considered at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests The Group is a party to a syndicated facility agreement with its of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and, accordingly, relationship banking group relating to the provision of a 150 unanimously recommend all shareholders to vote in favour of the million revolving loan facility.
In the event of a change of control, resolutions, as the directors intend to do in respect of their own provisions in the agreement would allow lenders to withdraw shares in the Company.
At 31 December 2011, the Group had no borrowing positions under this arrangement.
Auditors All of the Groups share schemes contain provisions relating to a Each person who is a director at the date of approval of this report change of control.
Under these provisions, a change of control confirms that: would be a vesting event, allowing exercise of outstanding options so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit and awards, subject to satisfaction of performance conditions information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and as required.
each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have There are a number of commercial contracts that could alter in the taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit event of a change of control.
None is considered to be material in information and to establish that the Companys auditors are terms of their potential impact on the Group in this event.
Annual General Meeting This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance Notice of the 2012 Annual General Meeting to be held on with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Wednesday 16 May 2012 is set out on pages 95 to 97.
The auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, have indicated their willingness to Members wishing to vote should return forms of proxy to the continue in office and, in accordance with the provisions of the Companys Registrar not less than 48 hours before the time Companies Act 2006, resolutions concerning their re-appointment for holding the meeting.
Shareholders with internet access may and remuneration will be placed before the Annual General Meeting.
register their voting instructions via the internet by going to www.
Directors responsibilities statement The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all the and the Group and Parent Company financial statements, in directors will stand for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
As in prior years, it is proposed that a general meeting that is Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and Parent not an Annual General Meeting can be called on not less than Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that 14 clear days notice.
This resolution is required as a result of law the directors are required to prepare the Group financial the implementation of the Shareholder Rights Directive, which statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and increased the notice period for general meetings of the Company applicable law and have elected to prepare the Parent Company to 21 days unless shareholders have approved the calling of financial statements on the same basis.
Ability to call a general meeting on 14 days notice would only be utilised in limited circumstances and Under company law, the directors must not approve the financial where it was to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and At a meeting on 24 February 2012, the Board resolved that a of their profit or loss for that period.
resolution be submitted to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting proposing the renewal of the authority to enable the Company to purchase up to 10% of its own shares.
At the present time, the directors have no wish to exercise the authority to purchase any of the shares of the Company, but consider that it is appropriate to have the flexibility to do so.
Any shares so purchased would be cancelled.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 61 In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity statements, the directors are required to: of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the select suitable accounting policies and then apply preparation and dissemination of financial statements may them consistently: differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
make judgments and estimates that are reasonable Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on and prudent: page 30 of this anual report confirm that, to the best of their for the Group and Parent Company financial statements, knowledge: state whether they have been prepared in accordance a the Group and Parent Company financial statements in this with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: report, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS prepare the financial statements on the going concern as adopted by the EU, IFRIC interpretation and those parts of basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting and the Parent Company will continue in business.
under IFRS, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting financial position and profit or loss of the Company and of records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent the Group taken as a whole: and Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy b the management report contained in this report includes at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and a fair review of the development and performance of the enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply business and the position of the Company and the Group with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility taken as a whole, together with a description of the for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to principal risks and uncertainties they face.
safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are By Order of the Board also responsible for preparing a directors report, report on M T D Palmer directors remuneration and report on corporate governance Company Secretary that comply with that law and those regulations.
24 February 2012 Bovis Homes Group PLC Registered number 306718 62 | Annual report and accounts | Governance Directors report Governance Bovis Homes Group PLC | 63
