Alastair Lyons CBE 58 Colin Holmes 46 M alcolm Harris 63 Non-executive Deputy Chairman Non-executive Director Non-executive Chairman Appointed non-executive Deputy Chairman and Appointed an independent non-executive director Appointed non-executive Chairman in 2008, in 2006 and Chairman of the Remuneration Senior Independent Director in 2008, Alastair is Malcolm was previously Chief Executive from 1996 Committee in 2008, Colin is a Chartered non-executive Chairman of Admiral, Serco and to 2008 and was first appointed to the Board Management Accountant with over 20 years of Towergate Insurance.
He is also Senior Independent of Bovis Homes in 1978.
He is a non-executive financial, commercial and operational experience.
Director of the Phoenix Group.
Previously, Alastair director of the Home Builders Federation HBF and Until July 2010 he was a member of the Tesco plc was Chief Executive of the National Provident was previously a director of the National House Group Executive Committee and held a variety of Institution and the National and Provincial Building Building Council NHBC.
Malcolm has in depth senior positions including CEO Tesco Express, Society, Managing Director of the Insurance Division sector and industry knowledge and is a regular UK Finance Director, Operations Director of Abbey National plc and Director of Corporate contributor to industry thinking.
Superstores and most recently Commercial Projects at National Westminster Bank plc.
He has a Director Fresh Foods.
Colin is the non-executive broad base of business experience with a particular Chairman of GoOutdoors Ltd, a fast growing focus on the insurance industry and working with retailer of outdoor equipment and clothing, and private equity.
a non-executive director of Admiral Group plc, where he is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
J ohn Warren 58 David Ritchie 42 Jonathan Hill 43 Non-executive Director BA Hons ACA, Chief Executive BSc Hons ACA, Group Finance Director Appointed an independent non-executive director Appointed Chief Executive in 2008, David was Joined Bovis Homes in August 2010 as Group in 2006 and Chairman of the Audit Committee in Group Managing Director from 2007 to 2008 Finance Director.
Previously, he was employed by 2007, John is a Chartered Accountant and and Group Finance Director from 2002 to 2006.
TUI Travel plc in both group finance and divisional a non-executive director of Rank Group plc He joined Bovis Homes in 1998 as Group roles and held positions with Centrica plc, BT and Spectris plc where he is the senior Financial Controller and was previously Group plc and Price Waterhouse.
He was previously group employed by KPMG.
David has significant finance director of WH Smith PLC and United experience and knowledge of the sector, Biscuits plc and a non-executive director of including land acquisition, planning, Arla Foods UK plc, BPP Holdings plc, RAC plc, construction, marketing and customer service.
John has detailed financial and accounting expertise and previous experience in chairing audit committees.
M artin Palmer 53 FCIS, Group Company Secretary Joined Bovis Homes in 2001 and was previously Group Company Secretary of London Forfaiting Company PLC from 1997 to 2001 and London & Edinburgh Trust PLC from 1994 to 1997.
30 | Annual report and accounts | Governance Directors and officers Governance
