16272 F&C Annual Report Part 1:Layout 1 28 03 2012 18:11 Page 16 16 | BUSINESS REVIEW | Our financial performance Under this plan some 21.7 million F&C shares were awarded, which Total return will be issued and vest to employees in September 2013.
At the We view share price total return including dividends as a key date of announcing the acquisition, these share awards had a value performance measure.
Our total shareholder return for the year of some 15.0m.
The value of the share awards at the date of grant ended 31 December 2011 was -18.6 per cent.
In the same period, is treated as an expense over the vesting period and a cost of the total shareholder return on the FTSE 250 Index was -10.1 per 4.7m under this plan has been recognised in the 2011 results.
and the FTSE 100 Index was -2.2 per cent.
Secondly, the Group also established a Management Incentive Plan Strategic background MIP, under which a maximum of some 29 million shares, with a 2011 comprised two very distinct periods for equity markets in the value of 20m at the date of announcing the acquisition, may be first half of the year markets were relatively benign, with the FTSE issued to certain key individuals within Thames River.
To date, 100 Index opening the year at 5,900 points and standing at 5,946 awards over 14.2 million shares have been issued.
The vesting of points at 30 June.
However, the second half of 2011 saw extreme these awards is dependent on the achievement of three levels of volatility as concerns regarding the stability and performance conditions: a profit target measured at 31 December continuation of the Eurozone, together with other macroeconomic 2011, a further profit target measured at 30 June 2012 and the and geopolitical factors, led to a deterioration in market sentiment.
cumulative profitability of Thames River over the 48 months ending As a consequence, the FTSE 100 fell some 20 per cent.
to 4,791 31 March 2014. points before recovering to close the year at 5,572 points.
One of The 31 December 2011 profit target was not met, and the Group the consequences of this volatility was a significant fide-risking by does not expect that the 30 June 2012 or 31 March 2014 profit wholesale asset allocators: a trend from which we were not immune.
As a consequence, we do not believe any Presentation of financial results shares will be issued under the MIP and previously recognised accounting charges of 0.1m in respect of the MIP have International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS require our reversed during 2011 and are recognised as a credit in the Financial Statements to consolidate the results of our Managed Income Statement.
Pension Funds MPF business on a line-by-line basis, impacting the presentation of both our Income Statement and Statement of Thirdly, the acquisition agreement provided that the Group would Financial Position.
Our MPF business provides certain clients with pay additional consideration to the vendors of Thames River based asset management services inside an insurance product wrapper.
on achievement of the same 31 December 2011 and 30 June 2012 The requirement to consolidate this business has a significant effect profits targets as for the MIP.
At 31 December 2010, the Group had on the financial investments and investment contract liabilities estimated that 7.5m may be payable and had provided for this captions included in our Statement of Financial Position, the risks amount in the year end Statement of Financial Position.
As the and rewards of which are substantially borne by the clients of this 31 December 2011 profit target has not been met and the Group business.
In addition, our Statement of Financial Position includes does not expect the 30 June 2012 profit target will be met, the some 28m of cash also attributable to policyholders of this Board does not expect that any shares will be issued to the business and which is not available for corporate purposes.
This liability has therefore been released, in accordance with IFRS, to the 2011 Income Statement.
Thames River acquisition At the time of the acquisition, the Group entered into agreements While the purchase of Thames River completed on 1 September the Commutation Arrangements with the Individual Members of the 2010, its acquisition had a significant impact on our reported Thames River Limited Partnerships.
Under the Commutation financial results for 2011.
Under the terms of the acquisition Arrangements, the Group agreed, under certain circumstances, to agreement, we paid an initial cash consideration of 33.6m for the purchase part of the Individual Members profit share in the business and, at 31 December 2010, had provided for a further partnerships by issuing F&C shares in consideration.
As the estimated amount of cash consideration payable of 7.5m as a Commutation Arrangements can only be exercised by members result of the net assets of the acquired entities exceeding specified who are still actively involved in the Thames River business and targets.
The majority of that additional consideration, some 7.4m, those members must continue in the business for a further two was paid in cash during 2011, with the remainder released to the years to receive the full amount of their consideration, IFRS requires Income Statement.
the estimated value of the shares which may be issued under the In addition to the consideration amounts set out above, the Group Commutation Arrangements to be treated as an expense, agreed further potential payments to the vendors, members and recognised between the date of award and the expiry of the period employees of Thames River.
These amounts are generally in which the member must remain in the business.
The dependent on the post-acquisition financial performance of Thames Commutation Arrangements can be split into two parts.
River and, given they are acquisition related, have been excluded Under the first commutation, an investment team which has positive from underlying earnings.
fund flows in the 12 months prior to the commutation date can Firstly, the Group established a Management Retention Plan MRP require the Group to purchase a proportion of their profit share.
This to retain and incentivise certain key individuals within Thames River.
16272 F&C Annual Report Part 1:Layout 1 28 03 2012 18:11 Page 17 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 17 commutation may be exercisable in 1H 2012.
At 31 December 2011, as a key performance indicator, our emphasis on this measure will the Group has assessed which investment teams would be able to decline, in light of the revised strategy for the Groups institutional exercise this right if it had crystallised at that date and a charge of business announced in October 2011.
The Group indicated that its 3.6m has been recognised in the 2011 Income Statement in institutional strategy will increasingly focus on highly scalable respect of these arrangements.
If the first commutation had occurred products, with relatively low revenue volatility and a high incremental at 31 December 2011, the Group would have issued approximately profit margin.
Accordingly, success in implementing this strategy 10.9 million new shares in satisfaction of its obligations.
could see the Group add large volumes of low fee margin business, but whose profitability would be reflected through an improving Under the second commutation, the Group can, if it wishes, acquire operating margin and operating profits.
profit share from each or any investment team.
The maximum amount of profit share which can be acquired through the first and Operating expenses second commutation is typically 20% of the profit share of each The Groups underlying operating expenses, excluding amortisation investment team.
An accounting cost of 2.5m has been of intangible assets and exceptional items, were 202.1m in 2011, recognised in the 2011 Financial Statements in respect of those compared to 177.0m in 2010.
During 2010, Thames River was teams where it appears economically attractive at December 2011 included in the Groups results for the four months from completion to exercise the commutations.
If the second commutation had of the acquisition and its costs for the period were some 12.6m, occurred at 31 December 2011, the Group would have issued comprising 6.6m of operating expenses and 6.0m of profit share approximately 12.6 million new shares in satisfaction of its payable to LLP members.
Thames Rivers results have been obligations.
No commitment to exercise those commutation rights included in the Group Income Statement for the full year in 2011 has been made.
and its costs for that period were some 21.1m of underlying The aggregate commutation expense of 5.7m therefore reflects the operating expenses and 18.3m of distributions to LLP members.
charge of 6.1m for the first and second commutation options, less This difference represents the majority of the year-on-year a 0.4m credit, which primarily relates to options which are no movement in our cost base.
longer assumed to be exercisable.
One of the key costs for an asset management business is remuneration costs, which are correlated to staffing levels.
At Net revenue 31 December 2011, our headcount, on a full-time equivalent basis, Net revenue for the year was 267.0m 2010: 243.2m.
This was 847 compared to 962 at 31 December 2010.
The majority of included 11.8m 2010: 12.9m of performance fee income.
the reduction in headcount arose from the transfer of back and Performance fee income was earned from a variety of fund and client middle office staff as a result of the outsourcing agreement signed types, with the most significant contributors being the Thames River with State Street during the year.
As we implement the headcount funds and F&C REIT, our property business.
Performance fees from reductions arising from the strategic review we announced in Thames River were biased towards 1H 2011.
Thames River October 2011 and the rightsizing initiatives associated with the contributed 40.5m of non-performance fee income to the Group outsourcing arrangements, we anticipate that this headcount during the year.
While our strategic partners remain an important part of our client During 2011, we incurred a number of exceptional operating costs, base, we believe our strongest growth opportunities are with thirdwhich are excluded from our underlying results.
These include party clients for institutional business and in the retail and employment expenses, outsourcing expenses and wholesale channels.
While 7.8 billion of gross new third-party litigation expenses.
business was funded during 2011, net new business was flat, reflecting the difficult market environment faced by retail and During 2011 we announced two cost reduction programmes.
first which we have termed rightsizing will allow us to recognise cost savings in a range of functions as a result of our back and Net funds flows and related annualised revenues represent a key middle office outsourcing.
These include our retained operations performance indicator and are indicative of the growth potential of support and IT functions.
The second cost reduction programme is the business.
In this regard, it is pleasing to report that despite an integral outcome of the strategy review, which targeted cost difficult market conditions in the second half of the year, which had a reductions in a number of our corporate functions and in business detrimental impact on flows in our mutual funds business, we overheads.
The majority of these cost savings will be realised remained in positive flows for our third-party business for the year as through headcount reductions and during 2011 exceptional a whole.
employment related costs of 8.7m have been recognised in respect of termination and benefits payments which represent the Revenue margin one-off cost to be incurred to generate the annualised savings.
Our revenue margin excluding performance fees, measured as our Whilst some of those amounts have been paid during 2011, part of net management fee income divided by average assets under this cost represents a liability for redundancies which will occur in management, increased from 22.6 basis points in 2010 to 24.4 basis points in 2011.
While we have historically used revenue margin 16272 F&C Annual Report Part 1:Layout 1 28 03 2012 18:11 Page 18 18 | BUSINESS REVIEW | Our ?financial performance 2012.
We anticipate that further costs will be incurred during 2012 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets as remaining actions are implemented.
Under IFRS, when an acquisition is made, there is a requirement to recognise separately the fair value attributed to intangible assets, in The outsourcing expense of 2.7m represents project management, our case, management contracts.
The excess of consideration over implementation and consultancy costs incurred in connection with the fair value of net assets acquired represents the business value outsourcing of our back and middle office to State Street.
Whilst this and infrastructure and is recognised as goodwill.
arrangement became effective part way through 2011, we continue to incur expenses associated with the transition to State Streets Management contracts are separated by client category and are long-term, strategic operating platform.
We anticipate this project amortised over their estimated useful lives.
Where an indicator of will complete during 2012. impairment occurs, such as greater than anticipated fund losses, we are required to review the carrying value of these contracts.
As disclosed in the 2010 Financial Statements, the Group had received put option notices under a Limited Liability Partnership No such indicators of impairment arose during 2011 and Agreement from the two Individual Members of F&C Partners LLP, accordingly no impairment charges were recognised.
the Groups former fund of hedge funds business.
The Group had We are also required to conduct an annual impairment review of the sought a Court declaration as to the validity of the exercise of these carrying value of goodwill.
This review demonstrated that there was notices.
During 2011, the High Court held that the put options were no impairment and hence no requirement to write-down goodwill.
validly exercised and required the Group to meet the option exercise price, of 7.8m plus costs and interest.
As a consequence, the Foreign exchange 2011 Income Statement includes a 1.9m net cost, representing the A large proportion of the Groups business is conducted outside the Groups professional fees and interest on the option proceeds.
The UK and, consequently, the Group has significant exposure to foreign put option payments, plus the estimate of the Individual Members exchange rate movements.
The main areas which are potentially costs to be borne by the Group, totalling some 10.7m, represent exposed to exchange rate fluctuations are our revenues and our a goodwill payment to acquire the remaining 40 per cent.
of the Groups Partners LLP.
However, as the group already controlled 60 per cent.
assets under management are denominated in Euros and, of this business, IFRS requires that these amounts are recognised accordingly, a significant proportion of the Groups revenues are directly in reserves as a transaction between shareholders of earned in Euros.
During 2011, negligible exchange differences were the Group.
recognised in the Income Statement and some 2.0m of losses were recognised in reserves in respect of revaluation of foreign Operating margin operations.
The Groups underlying operating margin for 2011 was 24.4 per cent.
Key reasons for the F&C REIT reduction in Group operating margin include the weaker performance Our minority interest partners in F&C REIT, the Groups property fee yield compared to prior years and the full year impact of the asset manager, currently own 30 per cent.
In certain acquisition of Thames River, which has a lower operating margin than circumstances, they can require F&C to purchase their interests at the rest of the Group.
Operating margin represents one of future dates and, under IFRS, a liability for this potential obligation is managements key performance indicators, and is measured as included in our financial statements.
As this option is required to be underlying operating profits as a percentage of net revenues.
carried at its fair value, representing 30 per cent.
of the value of F&C For this purpose, adjusted operating profits represent operating REIT, it is revalued each year, with any revaluation gain or loss profits before the impact of exceptional items but after deducting reflected in the Income Statement.
During 2011, a downward variable compensation payable to members of Thames River revaluation resulted in a gain of 8.7m being included in the 2011 partnerships.
As the results of the cost savings programmes are Income Statement.
This gain is excluded from underlying earnings.
delivered, operating margin should improve from its 2011 level.
In addition to the arrangements described above, the F&C REIT minority interest partners have the opportunity to increase their Financing revenue and expenses ownership interest from 30 per cent.
should F&C The Groups Finance Revenue increased to 17.2m 2010: 11.1m.
REIT achieve certain stretching financial targets over agreed periods.
The principal reasons for this increase were 3.7m of performanceFor accounting purposes, the valuation of the option provided by related income from carried interest investments, and an increase of the earn-out mechanism is treated as a share-based payment 2.0m in expected returns on pension plan assets.
expense and included in the Income Statement.
As a result of a Our finance costs rose by 1.8m to 35.4m, with the majority of this re-assessment of the likelihood of these financial targets being increase representing the full-year interest cost of the additional achieved, a credit of 4.8m was recognised in the Income senior loan notes issued part way through 2010 as part of the Statement during 2011 and, consistent with prior years, this amount financing for the Thames River acquistion.
has been excluded from underlying earnings.
16272 F&C Annual Report Part 1:Layout 1 28 03 2012 18:11 Page 19 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 19 Underlying earnings Cash resources The Board utilises underlying earnings per share as one of its key The Group has gross debt of some 275m 2010: 275m, metrics in assessing financial performance.
The reconciliation comprising 125m of subordinated loan notes and some 150m of between underlying earnings and statutory earnings is provided in senior loan notes.
Neither the subordinated loan notes nor the note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Underlying senior loan notes include any financial covenants.
earnings per share for the year ended 31 December 2011 were 5.5p At 31 December 2011, the Group held cash resources of 225m 2010: 5.7p.
2010: 202m, of which some 28m 2010: 23m relates to policyholders and is not available for corporate purposes.
A Dividends significant portion of cash is held in our regulated subsidiaries As set out above, our underlying earnings for the year were 5.5p per against their capital requirements.
As asset management is a cash share.
An interim dividend of 1.0 pence per share was paid during generative business, we should not require significant cash the year.
After a review of the results for the year, the market for working capital purposes beyond our regulatory conditions that prevailed during the year and the business outlook capital requirements.
for 2012, the Board has declared a final dividend of 2.0 pence per share.
If approved by Shareholders, this dividend, together with the Our borrowings carry fixed rates of interest.
The subordinated loan interim dividend, will result in a total dividend for the year of 3.0 notes currently bear interest at 6.75 per cent.
and the senior loan pence per share.
The Board is conscious of the need to balance notes carry a fixed 9 per cent.
Our cash resources earn returns to shareholders through dividends with the profit enhancing interest based on bank deposit rates.
We use multiple objective of repaying the Groups senior and subordinated loans counterparties for our cash deposits which are approved by the over the medium term.
The maximum amount that can be held with a single counterparty is 25 million.
