16272 F&C Annual Report Part 1:Layout 1 28 03 2012 18:11 Page 15 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 15 Our trading performance and outlook which will occur during 2012, from the BCP Pension Scheme and Institutional: Third-Party and Strategic Partner Friends Life.
business F&C is a leading provider of services to institutional investors, which Friends Life has set out its intention to establish an in-house asset we broadly categorise as either third-party institutional business or management function and, as previously disclosed, has served strategic partners for whom we principally manage insurance notice to withdraw 2.3 billion of assets at the end of this year.
We provide these clients with both portfolio management in expectation is that all or most of the assets that we manage for multi-asset and single asset class mandates and, increasingly, Friends Life may be withdrawn at the expiration of the contractual investment solutions such as liability hedging strategies and exclusivity periods, which occur at various times up to October shareholder engagement programmes.
Our strategy, as set out in October 2011, anticipated this potential withdrawal and we intend to offset it through reductions of Our largest markets for third-party institutional business are The related costs and a focus on generating new business.
Netherlands, the UK and Germany.
Institutional assets under management, excluding strategic partner assets, were 27.1 billion at 31 December 2011 2010: 24.7 billion representing 27 per cent.
Retail and Wholesale: Funds and Investment Trusts of our total assets under management and some 27 per cent.
of The F&C Group offers a wide range of investment vehicles which 2011 net revenues.
are distributed into the retail and wholesale markets, principally through Independent Financial Advisers, discretionary wealth Mandates in the institutional asset management industry are predominantly intermediated through firms of investment managers and other wholesale channels such as banks and consultants who advise pension schemes on manager selection and platforms.
These products comprise closed-end listed investment companies investment trusts and both UK and offshore domiciled asset allocation.
In recent years F&C has achieved a much improved open ended mutual funds.
Some of these vehicles are managed by position with investment consultants, with a total of 70 individual product buy ratings at the end of 2011, compared to 28 four years F&C staff and others by teams operating through the Thames River ago.
Consultant support and competitive performance resulted in a LLPs.
It is important to distinguish between these as the allocation of revenues and profits differ significantly.
Where a fund is managed 28 per cent.
increase in gross sales to 4.6 billion during 2011 by a Thames River team, the revenues earned from that fund, net of 2010: 3.6 billion.
After allowing for outflows, this resulted in net inflows of some 0.3 billion.
Additionally, at 31 December 2011 the the direct costs of managing the fund, and certain allocated costs, business had won a further 1.2 billion, pipeline of institutional new are shared between the senior investment professionals in the investment team and the Group under a predetermined profit share business that had yet to be funded.
In line with the strategy formula.
This typically results in the senior investment professionals announced in October 2011, we believe this business is well positioned for growth as we have strong track records, significant receiving around 50 per cent.
Where a fund is scale and consultant support in a number of core capabilities which managed by F&C staff, the relevant investment managers are generally remunerated by a combination of salary plus a are seeing strong demand from pension schemes and insurers.
These include fixed income and solutions to help immunise liabilities.
During 2011, the total assets managed in fund products F&C manages significant assets for a number of strategic partners: Achmea The Netherlands, Millennium BCP Portugal, Friends First and investment trusts declined by 1.3 billion to 12.8 billion at Ireland and Friends Life UK.
These assets principally comprise 31 December 2011.
1.0 billion of that reduction arose from market movements, exchange rates and investment performance.
insurance funds but also include sub-advised mutual funds and Whilst gross inflows for funds and investment trusts were some certain pensions scheme assets.
These are long standing relationships which have generally provided us with exclusivity to 3.2 billion, and demonstrate our ability to successfully raise new manage the assets of these partners for a minimum period of time.
assets, gross outflows were some 3.5 billion, resulting in a net outflow of 0.3 billion.
Within these flows, products managed by An exception to this is the Millennium BCP relationship in Portugal, Thames River saw 0.4 billion net outflows partially due to generally which is principally represented by a BCP-Ageas insurance joint venture, where that exclusivity period has already come to an end.
weaker performance in their funds during the second half of the year We are in discussions with BCP-Ageas regarding the longer-term and also due to asset allocation changes from their more wholesale focused client base.
nature of our business relationship.
At 31 December 2011 assets under management for strategic partners were 60.2 billion 2010: 67.0 billion representing 60 per cent.
of our total assets under management.
Due to the lower fees that we receive for managing these assets, our revenue from strategic partners is considerably less at some 30 per cent.
Partially due to the maturity profile of some of the underlying insurance products of our strategic partners, there has been a longstanding trend of annual net outflows.
In 2011 net outflows from strategic partners were 7.2 billion 2010 : 1.5 billion.
2011 strategic partner outflows were exacerbated by the partial nationalisation of the BCP Pension scheme by the Portuguese government and the sale of a French subsidiary by Achmea.
We have been notified of additional outflows totalling 3.3 billion
