16272 F&C Annual Report Part 1:Layout 1 28 03 2012 18:12 Page 22 22 | GOVERNANCE | Company Directors 12 3 4 5 67 9 10 8 Non-executive Directors Executive Directors 2 Keith Bedell-Pearce CBE 1 Edward Bramson in 2002 shortly after its merger with Achmea Senior Independent Director and Seguros e Pensoes as chief financial officer Executive Chairman until his retirement in 2004.
He is also a trustee Mr Bedell-Pearce, a solicitor, joined the Board in Mr Bramson joined the Board and was of the childrens charity Coram Life Education.
Until December 2001, appointed Chairman in February 2011 and Mr Bedell-Pearce was an executive director of O Executive Chairman in October 2011.
He is 6 Derham ONeill Prudential plc with over 30 years experience in currently a partner of Sherborne Investors and Independent Director the financial services industry.
He is currently was formerly chairman of Spirent Mr ONeill joined the Board in February 2011. chairman of 4D Data Centres Ltd and a member Communications plc, Elementis plc, 4imprint Prior to his appointment, Mr ONeill was a of the Council of the University of Warwick.
Group plc, Nautilus, Inc and Ampex Corporation.
senior partner of Clifford Chance LLP.
He is 3 Ian Brindle currently the chairman of Schroder Asian 9 Alain Grisay Property Managers Limited Bermuda and was Mr Brindle joined the Board in February 2011.
Chief Executive formerly the chairman of Scotty Group plc and Mr Brindle was UK chairman of Mr Grisay joined the Board in October 2004 a non-executive director of Cedar plc, Georgica  LLP and deputy having previously been Deputy Chief Executive plc, and Schroder Venture Managers Limited chairman of the Financial Reporting Review of F&CGH and head of the institutional business.
He is currently the chairman of Sherborne Prior to joining F&C in April 2001, Mr Grisay was Investors Guernsey A Limited and a nonO 7 Keith Percy at JP Morgan for 20 years, serving as managing executive director of Spirent Communications director responsible for the investment banks Independent Director plc, Elementis plc and 4imprint Group plc.
market client business in Europe.
Mr Percy joined the Board in November 2011.
O 4 Keith Jones Mr Percy was most recently executive chairman 10 David Logan Independent Director and chief executive officer of Socit Gnrale Chief Financial Officer Asset Management UK and was previously Mr Jones joined the Board in November 2011. chief executive of Morgan Grenfell Asset Mr Logan joined the Board on 31 July 2006.
Mr Jones is a former chief executive officer of Management.
He is a director of Brunner Prior to his appointment, Mr Logan spent Morley Fund Management and former CEO of Investment Trust plc, Standard Life Equity seventeen years in the accounting profession, NPI Investments and a past chairman of the Income Trust plc, Henderson Smaller including four years as a partner at Deloitte & Investment Committee of the Association of Companies Trust plc, JP Morgan Japanese Touche LLP and three years as a partner at British Insurers.
He currently holds nonInvestment Trust plc and The Childrens Mutual.
executive positions at Just Retirement Holdings Ltd, Espirito Santo Investment Bank and Aon O 8 Kieran Poynter Hewitt, and advisory positions at Lloyds Bank Independent Director and Permira LLP.
Mr Poynter joined the Board in June 2009.
Prior O 5 Jeff Medlock to his appointment, Mr Poynter was chairman Member of the Nomination Committee Independent Director and senior partner of  LLP having spent 37 years with the firm.
He is a Member of the Remuneration Committee Mr Medlock joined the Board in October 2004. director of Nomura International plc, Mr Medlock was chief executive officer of Member of the Audit & Compliance Committee International Consolidated Airlines Group SA Eureko from its formation in 1992 until 1999 O Member of the Risk Committee created in and British American Tobacco plc.
when he became chief financial officer at March 2012 Achmea.
He returned to the board of Eureko
