16272 F&C Annual Report Part 1:Layout 1 28 03 2012 18:11 Page 14 14 | BUSINESS REVIEW | Our view of the market The spectre of the ongoing European sovereign debt crisis continues growing, demand for both corporate credit and emerging market debt to cast a long shadow of uncertainty over the global economy.
fidefrom pension schemes and insurers, as logical steps along the leveraging remains the dominant global theme as governments persist risk return spectrum from developed market sovereign bonds and as with implementing austerity programmes against a backdrop of these governments seek to reduce their debts.
Within institutional anaemic economic growth.
With interest rates in the US, UK and equity allocations, mandates are increasingly global in nature, focused Eurozone already at historically low levels and debt reduction targets either on developed or emerging markets.
There is reduced curtailing the scope for tax cuts, the policy options for stimulating institutional demand for long-only actively managed regional equity growth are limited, so we expect any recovery to take place over a strategies although these do remain core products for retail investors protracted period.
This backdrop, combined with upheaval in the and discretionary wealth managers.
Middle East and mounting concern over Irans nuclear ambitions, As the needs of pension schemes have changed, new models have presents the asset management industry with near-term headwinds in emerged from both asset managers and investment consultants to the form of volatile markets and fragile investor sentiment.
support them in the form of fiduciary management an asset-manager However, despite these current challenges, in our view the long-term led proposition and implemented consulting a consultant-led prospects for the asset management industry remain attractive.
These services broadly seek to integrate advice on asset see considerable opportunities both from structural reform in allocation, risk budgeting and manager selection.
Unlike traditional developed market pension systems and from the growth of the balanced pension management, these new providers of multi-asset emerging economies where the rapid spread of wealth is creating new services are prepared to make greater use of both passive strategies pools of assets for the industry to manage.
We anticipate that these services, which are well established in the Netherlands and of growing importance in In the developed world, governments are under pressure to pull back the UK, will expand into further pension markets.
from increasingly unaffordable universal welfare provision as mortality rates have improved.
In the UK the number of retired people will rise by The retail and wholesale market is also undergoing significant change, more than a third by 2050, while the working population is expected to due to the growth of platforms and regulatory reform impacting the decline.
Governments are therefore encouraging individuals, and distribution landscape.
In the UK a key driver of change is the Retail companies on behalf of their employees, to take increased Distribution Review RDR which will be implemented by the end of responsibility for their long-term financial well-being.
These reforms seek to improve the advice received by commencing this year it has become a legal duty for UK employers to consumers in the UK Independent Financial Adviser IFA market provide workers with access to a qualifying pension scheme with through the replacement of commission-based business models with gradual phasing in of auto-enrolment which will extend to all employers the explicit pricing of advice through fees charged to the end-investor by September 2016.
Alongside this the UK government has and new professional qualification standards.
RDR is prompting many established the National Employment Savings Trust NEST.
NEST will IFA firms to fundamentally change how they do business, with one provide an occupational defined contribution pension scheme for outcome being an increased propensity to outsource the management those employees who do not currently have access to one, typically of client investment portfolios through either the use of multi-manager those working at smaller firms.
funds or by partnering with discretionary wealth managers.
The growth of these gate keepers is leading to a greater institutionalisation of fund The asset management industry is itself going through a period of buying processes and accelerating the blurring of institutional and retail structural upheaval driven by new regulation, changing client needs asset management referred to above.
For management groups and developments in the distribution landscape.
offering core multi-asset and multi-manager products to the In the institutional market, the long-standing trend of Defined Benefit intermediary market, the shift towards greater use of outsourced DB pension scheme closures has continued with Royal Dutch Shell, investment management solutions by IFAs should provide more stable believed to be one of the last companies in the FTSE 100 currently fund flows and longer term holding patterns.
However, in other single operating a final salary scheme open to new members, recently strategy product areas where the principal clients are increasingly announcing that it too will close its final salary scheme to new members multi-managers and discretionary wealth managers rather than IFAs, next year.
We therefore expect to see rapid growth in the Defined we expect to see a reduction in the average holding periods as these Contribution DC pensions market, as companies shift risk away from investors are more inclined to shift in and out of products depending their balance sheets and on to the shoulders of individual employees.
As on changing views on asset allocation or underlying managers.
Asset the DC pensions market grows, this will increasingly blur the boundaries managers are currently reviewing their fund pricing strategies and of institutional and retail asset management, as scheme members are product ranges in preparation for this new distribution landscape.
presented with pooled fund choices in much the same way as they Finally, the financial crisis that began in earnest in 2008 has raised would select from a range of mutual funds for an investment portfolio important questions about the extent to which institutional investors outside of a pension wrapper.
have adequately held companies, and banks in particular, to account Notwithstanding the closure of DB pension schemes to new in areas such as remuneration, risk management and effective Board members, these will remain very significant pools of capital for many oversight.
Across the asset management industry there is a much years to come.
Within these schemes, the emphasis has moved greater focus on corporate governance issues, as exemplified by the increasingly towards fide-risking and the immunisation of future Stewardship Code, a set of principles released in 2010 by the UKs liabilities.
Fixed income has become the core asset class for these Financial Reporting Council.
We see a similar trend towards higher schemes, with a steady decline over many years in their exposure to expectations of shareholder engagement and improved transparency equities.
In this respect we see a growing convergence between the over voting activities across a number of developed markets and needs of DB pension schemes and insurance companies where therefore we believe that the strength of expertise asset managers can changing solvency requirements are resulting in greater use of asset demonstrate in this field will become an increasingly important factor in and liability matching strategies.
We expect to see continued, and overall competitive positioning.
