16272 F&C Annual Report Part 1:Layout 1 28 03 2012 18:12 Page 23 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 23 Report of the Directors terminated at any time by the relevant contracting entity within the Results, business review and dividend FL Group either, in the case of the With Profits fund assets, upon The Groups results for the year ended 31 December 2011 are 6 months notice or, in the case of the other Demutualisation shown in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 42.
As previously notified in the business review of the year ended 31 December 2011 and future Companys Interim Management Statement in January of this year, developments are covered on pages 2 to 21.
This review, together F&C is on notice from the FL Group for the withdrawal of 2.3 with the Directors Report on Corporate Governance on pages 27 to billion of the Demutualisation Assets, such withdrawal to take effect 33, forms part of the Report of the Directors.
The Group profit for the year, after tax, amounted to 2.6 million.
Achmea Group The Directors recommend a final ordinary dividend of 2.0 pence per There are four material Investment Management Agreements the share, amounting to 10.4 million, resulting in a total of 3.0 pence Agreements that have been in place with companies within the and 15.6 million for the year.
These Agreements sit The final ordinary dividend, if approved, will be paid on 25 May 2012 alongside an overarching Umbrella Agreement which sets out the to ordinary shareholders whose names are on the register on high level terms governing the relationship between the F&C Group 30 March 2012.
No liability for the proposed dividends has been and the Achmea Group including the operation of F&Cs rights to recognised as at 31 December 2011, in accordance with IFRS.
exclusivity over the management of assets of the Achmea Group.
Management of the majority of these assets can only be terminated Principal activity and status by the relevant contracting party within the Achmea Group upon 12 The Groups business is asset management.
Details of the progress months notice expiring no earlier than 11th October 2013 subject of the business during the year and of future prospects are to certain exceptions listed within the Agreements.
These contained in the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Report exceptions include withdrawal of assets for reasonable business and the Business Review on pages 2 to 21. needs, including strategic acquisitions and assets withdrawn following termination for underperformance by a particular asset The Company is registered as a Public Limited Company in terms of class by a specified margin below the applicable investment the Companies Act 2006 and is currently a constituent of the FTSE benchmark and assets withdrawn pursuant to an allocation to an 250 Index.
The Company is registered in Scotland, registered asset class not covered by exclusivity rights for example venture number SC73508, and is domiciled in the United Kingdom.
Withdrawals of assets not permitted under the Details of the principal entities within the Group are contained in Agreements require the payment of compensation by the Achmea note 39 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
There are also Group to F&C.
Management of the remaining assets of the Achmea two branch offices in the Group outside the UK, in Germany Group by F&C can be terminated at any time upon provision of and Ireland.
Significant agreements Millennium BCP Group BCP F&C is party to the following significant contracts that take effect, The consequences of termination of the various agreements with alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company: BCP-related funds are regulated by an Umbrella Agreement with BCP the UA.
The UA provided that compensation would be Friends Life Group FL Group payable if any of these agreements are terminated before 29 June There are four material Investment Management Agreements the 2013.
If a person acquires an interest in the shares of F&C which is Agreements that have been in place with companies within the FL larger than the aggregate interest of Friends Life and Achmea, then Group since October 2004 and under which assets are managed the period by reference to which compensation is payable by BCP by F&C.
Management of the majority of these assets can only be to F&C on termination of such an agreement is reduced.
On terminated by the relevant contracting party within the FL Group 17 December 2010, Sherborne acquired an interest in the shares of upon 12 months notice expiring no earlier than 11th October 2014 F&C which is greater than the aggregate interest of Friends Life and subject to certain exceptions listed within the Agreements.
These Achmea thereby reducing the period by reference to which exceptions include withdrawals of assets as a result of compensation would have been payable had an agreement been underperformance thresholds being triggered, withdrawals for terminated at that time from 42 months to 12 months.
Further reasonable business and financial needs such as discharging communications from BCP have put F&C on notice that payments liabilities under insurance contracts and meeting internal financing by BCP in respect of F&Cs continued provision of services to BCP, requirements, and withdrawals of assets of up to 150 million per constitutes payment in lieu of compensation and that the annum in respect of the overall portfolio of assets covered by each agreements could be terminated by BCP at any time without of the Agreements.
Withdrawals of assets not permitted under the compensation or notice.
As at the latest practicable date prior to the Agreements require the payment of compensation by the FL Group publication of this Annual Report and Financial Statements, none of to F&C.
Management of the remainder of the assets of the FL the relevant agreements has been terminated and no notice Group by F&C known as the Demutualisation Assets can be terminating such agreements has been received.
16272 F&C Annual Report Part 1:Layout 1 28 03 2012 18:12 Page 24 24 | GOVERNANCE | Report of the Directors Ordinary Shares 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust Plc The Investment Management Agreement in place with Foreign & Edward Bramson Beneficial Nil Nil Colonial Investment Trust Plc can be terminated by the trust on a Non-Beneficial 106,397,130 96,329,200 minimum of six months notice expiring at the end of any calendar Keith Bedell-Pearce Beneficial 51,285 51,285 month.
In the event that there is a change of control in F&C as Ian Brindle Beneficial Nil Nil defined in Section 1124 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010, then the Alain Grisay Beneficial 562,657 2,062,657 investment trust is entitled to terminate the agreement on not less Non-Beneficial 64,176 64,176 than three months notice to expire at the end of any Keith Jones Beneficial Nil Nil calendar month.
David Logan Beneficial 344,627 198,428 Non-Beneficial 64,176 64,176 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited Jeff Medlock Beneficial 20,000 20,000 The Investment Management Agreement in place with F&C Derham ONeill Beneficial Nil Nil Commercial Property Trust Limited can be terminated by the Keith Percy Beneficial Nil Nil investment trust on not less than six months notice.
Early Kieran Poynter Beneficial 30,000 30,000 termination can be undertaken by the investment trust, but only Edward Bramson is an associate of SIGA, LP, a member of the Sherborne subject to the payment of compensation to F&C based on revenue Group.
Immediate termination is possible by the investment trust in These shares include Mr Grisays participation in the Purchased Equity Plan.
Further details of this plan are set out in the Directors Remuneration the event that there is a change of control in F&C as defined in Report on page 35.
Section 1124 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 which has not been Alain Grisay and David Logan are Directors of F&C Group ESOP Trustee consented to by its Board.
Limited, a company incorporated in 1995 as a discretionary employee benefit trust to encourage and facilitate the acquisition and holding of F&C REIT Asset Management LLP shares in the Company by employees.
The F&C REIT Asset Management LLP the LLP Limited Liability Or date of appointment if later.
Partnership Agreement, dated 21 July 2008, is between F&C, the Since the year end, the following Directors dealings and those of their connected persons in the Companys shares have taken place: two individual members and a separate company controlled by Mr Logan subscribes for 125 worth of shares each month under the discretionary trusts.
Companys Share Incentive Plan, details of which are set out on page 35: and Where there is a change of control of F&C, F&C can elect to change On 15th March 2012, Alain Grisay sold 65,000 shares at a price of 70.12 the arrangements for voting at LLP members meetings such that pence per share.
F&Cs interests are represented by one vote and the REIT Parties aggregate interests are represented by one vote.
If F&C does not so Directors and officers liability elect, then F&C may be required to offer to sell its interests in the The Group maintains insurance cover in respect of Directors and LLP to the other members of the LLP at a price determined by an independent valuer.
The Directors have the benefit of an indemnity in accordance with Property, plant and equipment the Companys Articles of Association at article 166 which is a Details of changes in property, plant and equipment are disclosed in qualifying third-party indemnity provision as defined in the note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
2011, there were no significant differences between the net book and market values of property, plant and equipment.
Charitable and political contributions During the year, the Group made contributions to charity of Financial instruments 274,000 2010: 211,000.
No political donations or contributions Details of financial instruments are disclosed in notes 14 and 18 to were made during the year 2010: nil.
Further details on the criteria the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The financial risk for charitable giving are contained on the Companys website.
management objectives and policies of the Group are contained in note 36.
Payment policy and practice It is the Groups policy to ensure settlement of suppliers accounts in Share capital and Directors interests accordance with the stated terms.
In certain circumstances, The Company did not issue any ordinary shares in respect of vested settlement terms are agreed prior to any business taking place.
It is awards or options under the Companys long term incentive our policy to abide by those terms.
At 31 December 2011, trade creditors represented the equivalent of Details of shares under option at 31 December 2011 are shown 3 days 2010: 9 days of the annual purchases invoiced by the on page 137.
The Directors who held office at the year end and their suppliers to the Group.
interests together with those of their connected persons in the share capital of the Company are shown below: 16272 F&C Annual Report Part 1:Layout 1 28 03 2012 18:12 Page 25 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 25 The Meeting will start at 10 a. m. UK time.
Details of all resolutions Substantial interests in share capital being put to shareholders are set out in the Notice of Annual The Company has been informed of the following substantial General Meeting commencing on page 141. interests, above 3 per cent.
as at 23 March 2012: Ordinary Board changes Shares Percentage On 3 February 2011, at a General Meeting of the Company, Sherborne 106,397,130 19.99 shareholders approved the appointment of Messrs Bramson, Fidelity Worldwide 53,158,667 9.99 Brindle and ONeill to the Board and resolved that Messrs Aviva 48,621,733 9.14 MacAndrew and Larcombe be removed from the Board.
Sarasin & Partners 25,381,134 4.77 M&G Investments 18,606,636 3.50 On 6 October 2011, Alain Grisay, the Companys Chief Executive, announced his intention to retire on conclusion of this years Annual Legal and General 16,365,403 3.07 General Meeting.
The Board are in the process of reviewing the Companys succession plans for the Chief Executive position and Employees will make an announcement in due course.
At 1 March 2012, there were 776 full-time employees and 84 part-time employees within the Group 1 March 2011: 898 full-time On 25 November 2011, Messrs Jones and Percy joined the Board employees and 84 part-time employees.
Information relating to the re-election of Directors at the Annual Disabled employees General Meeting is set out in the Directors Report on Corporate The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment Governance on page 31. from disabled persons where the requirements of the job can be adequately fulfilled by a handicapped or disabled person.
Authority to allot ordinary shares and disapplication Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Groups policy of pre-emption rights wherever practicable to provide continuing employment under Ordinary resolution 14 will be put to the AGM of the Company to normal terms and conditions and to provide training, career renew the Directors power to allot shares.
The Directors currently development and promotion to disabled employees wherever have a general authority to allot relevant securities up to a maximum possible.
amount of 177,355.19 together with specific authorities to allot shares to satisfy the consideration payable in connection with the Employee involvement acquisition of Thames River and the related commutation During the year, the policy of providing employees with information arrangements and for the settlement of awards made under the about the Group has been continued through internal presentations management share plans the Specific Authorities.
The resolution by the Executive Directors and Group Management and the internal proposes that a similar general authority be granted in substitution publication of relevant information.
Wherever appropriate, employees of the existing general authority to allot securities up to a maximum are consulted to ensure that their views are taken into account before amount of 177,355.19, representing approximately 33.33 per cent.
decisions are taken which are likely to affect their interests.
of the Companys total issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares as at the date of this report.
The Specific Authorities Equal opportunities will remain unaffected by the passing of this resolution.
The Group aims to provide equal opportunities for all, without In addition, in accordance with guidance issued by the Association discrimination on the grounds of race, religion, marital status, age, of British Insurers in December 2008, the Company is seeking sex, sexual orientation or disability.
We recruit and promote those additional authority to allot securities in connection with a prebest suited for the job.
The Group respects the dignity of individuals emptive rights issue up to a maximum amount of 177,355.19, and their beliefs.
The Group does not tolerate any sexual, racial, representing approximately 33.33 per cent.
of the Companys total physical or mental harassment of staff in the work place.
issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares as at the date of this report.
The benefit to the Company of obtaining such Share incentive schemes authority on an annual basis is that it would allow the Company to During the year, employees participated directly in the business implement a rights issue of an amount equal to approximately through a number of Employee Share Schemes, details of which are 66.67 per cent.
of the issued ordinary share capital without the included within the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 34 to need to call an additional general meeting.
This would shorten the 39 or the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages implementation timetable for such a rights issue.
The Directors 90 to 98. have no present intention of exercising this authority.
The authority Annual General Meeting AGM will expire at the end of the AGM to be held in 2013, unless previously cancelled or varied by the Company in general meeting.
The Company will hold its AGM on Wednesday, 9 May 2012 at It is the intention of the Directors to renew this authority annually at Ironmongers Hall, Shaftesbury Place, Barbican, London EC2Y 8AA.
16272 F&C Annual Report Part 1:Layout 1 28 03 2012 18:12 Page 26 26 | GOVERNANCE | Report of the Directors Special resolution 15 will renew the present power to allot unissued same date, excluding treasury shares.
If the buy-back authority is ordinary share capital and to sell ordinary shares held in treasury for renewed at the 2012 AGM and is then utilised in full, the options cash without first being required to offer such shares to existing outstanding at the date of this report would represent 22.12 per shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company excluding treasury shares.
Such power will apply to the allotment of unissued ordinary shares and treasury shares sold up to a maximum nominal amount of Any ordinary shares purchased pursuant to this authority would 26,605.94 representing approximately 5 per cent.
of the either be held as treasury shares or cancelled.
While any shares are Companys issued ordinary share capital as at the date of this held in treasury, voting rights are suspended and currently no report, except that: dividends or any other distribution are paid or made on such shares.
The Directors consider it appropriate to have in place the 1 the maximum nominal amount of shares that can be allotted in facility to acquire shares in circumstances where they believe that connection with a pre-emptive rights issue is 354,710.38 future shareholder returns can be enhanced by taking such action.
of the Companys This authority, if renewed, will only be exercised if to do so would total issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares as result in an increase in earnings per ordinary share and if it is at the date of this report: and considered to be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
2 the maximum nominal amount of unissued ordinary shares that can be allotted or treasury shares sold: Notice of General Meetings We are currently able to call general meetings other than AGMs on a pursuant to any other pre-emptive offering where legal or 14 days notice.
We are proposing Special resolution 17 at the regulatory requirements prevent the issue of shares wholly Meeting so that we can continue to be able to do so.
The flexibility on a pre-emptive basis : or offered by this resolution will only be used where it is, in the opinion b in order to satisfy options or awards under any share of the Directors, appropriate in relation to the business to be scheme for employees or share incentive plan approved by considered at the meeting and merited in the interests of the the Company in general meeting, shareholders as a whole.
is 177,355.19, representing approximately 33.33 per cent.
The authority being sought pursuant to Special resolution 17 will of the Companys total issued ordinary share capital expire at the conclusion of the AGM to be held in 2013.
It is the excluding treasury shares as at the date of this report.
current intention of the Directors to renew this authority annually.
The Directors consider that the authority proposed to be granted by resolution 14 and the power proposed to be granted by resolution Auditor 15 are necessary in order to take advantage of opportunities as they KPMG has expressed its willingness to continue in office as auditor arise and to retain flexibility.
The Directors do not have any intention and a resolution proposing its re-appointment and for the Directors of exercising such authority or power at the present time other than to determine its fees will be submitted at the AGM.
for the purposes referred to in 2 b above.
Details of the auditors remuneration is provided in note 4 c to the Consolidated Financial Statements and further detail on how the Purchase of own shares Board ensures the independence of the auditor is detailed on pages Special resolution 16 will be put to the AGM to renew the present 32 and 33 within the Directors Report on Corporate Governance.
power to make market purchases of the Companys own ordinary shares.
Pursuant to the renewed power, the maximum aggregate Adequacy of the information provided to the auditor number of ordinary shares which may be purchased pursuant to the The Directors who held office at the date of approving this Directors authority shall be 53,211,879 being approximately 10 per cent.
of Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at the date of relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is this report.
The minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary unaware, and each Director has taken all the steps that he is obliged share shall be 0.1 pence exclusive of expenses.
The maximum to take as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant price for an ordinary share again exclusive of expenses shall be an audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is amount equal to 105 per cent.
of the average of the middle market aware of that information.
quotations for the Companys ordinary shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase.
The power By order of the Board, conferred by this resolution will expire on the earlier of the date falling 15 months after the date of the passing of this resolution and W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be Secretary held in 2013.
80 George Street Edinburgh EH2 3BU As at the date of this report, the Company had 105,957,664 options to subscribe for ordinary shares outstanding representing 19.91 per 23 March 2012 cent.
of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company at the
