Corporate Information Investment Manager FIL Investment Management Hong Kong Limited 17 F, One International Finance Centre John Owen CMG MBE 1,2, 3 Central DL Hong Kong Chairman date of appointment: 4 February 2010.
Mr Owen has Unlisted Investment Manager, Secretary and enjoyed careers in both the Registered Office diplomatic service and industry.
FIL Investments International He served in the diplomatic Beech Gate service for 30 years until his Millfield Lane retirement in 1999, serving in Lower Kingswood Indonesia, Vietnam, France, El Salvador, Iran, Brazil, Tadworth China and London.
Mr Owen was British Consul General Surrey KT20 6RP in Boston, USA from 1992 to 1995, and Governor of the Cayman Islands from 1995 to 1999.
He also worked in Financial Advisers and Stockbrokers industry for seven years.
Mr Owen is currently chairman Cenkos Securities plc of several companies including Iceman Capital Advisors 6,7, 8 Tokenhouse Yard Limited, an investment advisory company specialising in London EC2R 7AS investment in the developing markets of Asia.
He has a number of directorships including Queensgate Bank Independent Auditor Limited and Queensgate Trust Company Limited.
Grant Thornton UK LLP Mr Owen is also chairman of the Friends of Cayman in Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditor London.
He is an Honorary Fellow of the University of 30 Finsbury Square Wales and also a Deputy Lieutenant of the County of London EC2P 2YU Isle of Wight.
Bankers and Custodian JPMorgan Chase Bank London Branch 125 London Wall 1,2, 3 London EC2Y 5AJ Nicholas Bull FCA Senior Independent Director Registrars date of appointment: 4 February Capita Registrars 2010.
Mr Bull is the chairman of The Registry Smiths Corporate Advisory 34 Beckenham Road Limited and a non-executive Beckenham director of its parent company, Kent BR3 4BR Westhouse Holdings PLC, which is listed on AIM.
He is also an Lawyers independent director of the hotel business fide Vere Slaughter and May group.
Previously Mr Bull has worked for over 30 years as One Bunhill Row a corporate finance practitioner with Morgan Grenfell London EC1Y 8YY subsequently Deutsche Bank, Socit Gnrale and ABN AMRO in London, Sydney, Singapore and Hong Kong.
He is a qualified chartered accountant.
Page 14 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2011 Board of Directors 1,2, 3 2 David Causer FCA Gary Shaughnessy Chairman of the Audit date of appointment: 1 March Committee date of 2011.
Mr Shaughnessy is appointment: 4 February 2010.
Managing Director of the UK Mr Causer is a non-executive Defined Contribution and Retail director and audit committee business of Fidelity International.
chairman of Schroder Income Mr Shaughnessy has over Growth Fund plc, an investment 20 years experience in the trust listed on the London Stock financial services industry, Exchange.
He is a qualified chartered accountant and a including roles spanning the general insurance, life and member of the Securities Institute.
Mr Causer has held a pensions, personal finance and investment marketplace.
number of senior positions within financial services He has held positions with the Bank of Scotland, the organisations, including as finance director of Mercury Automobile Association, AXA, M&G Investments and Asset Management Group plc and as a managing the Prudential Group where he was Managing Director director of Merrill Lynch Investment Managers until 2001. of Prudentials Retail Life and Pensions business in the He was finance director of The British Red Cross Society UK and Europe until joining Fidelity in 2008. until December 2007.
He is a trustee of a number of charities and of a pension fund.
Peter Pleydell- 1,2, 3 Bouverie DL Chairman of the Investment Committee date of appointment: 4 February 2010.
Mr Pleydell-Bouverie is an investment professional with over 30 years of investment experience, particularly in the Far East and emerging markets.
His current non-executive positions include acting as a trustee on investment committees for family and charitable trusts.
He is also a Deputy Lieutenant of the County of Wiltshire.
Previously, Mr Pleydell-Bouverie spent ten years with FIL where he was investment director until 1996, managing Japanesefocused unit trusts, offshore funds, pension funds and the Fidelity Emerging Markets Fund.
Prior to this, he was an associate director at Kleinwort Grieveson Investment Management and fund manager at Grieveson, Grant and Co, where he also managed Asia-focused investment funds.
All the Directors are non-executive directors and with the exception of Mr Shaughnessy are independent.
1 Member of the Audit Committee and the Management Engagement Committee 2 Member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee 3 Member of the Investment Committee Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2011 Page 15
