Directors Report Financial reports and other publicly available SUBSTANTIAL SHARE INTERESTS documentation are also available on the Companys As at the date of this report, 47.6% of the issued website www.
Details about Fidelitys ordinary share capital was held by investors in the own community involvement may be found on its Fidelity Individual Savings Account and the Fidelity website, www.
As at the date of this report notification had been received of the following interests DIRECTORS REPORT GENERAL in 3% or more of the voting rights and or issued ordinary All appointments to the Board, elections, re-elections share capital of the Company: and replacements of Directors take place in accordance with the Companies Act and the Companys Articles of Substantial shareholders % Association.
Details of the Directors who served in the 1 FIL Limited 47.72 period to 31 March 2011 are set out on pages 14 and 15.
1 Direct holding on own account 6.45% and indirect holdings for Fidelitys ISA and Share Plan clients 41.27%.
During the period, the entire Board was appointed and as such all Board members are subject to election at the An analysis of ordinary shareholders as at 31 March 2011 forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Information on is detailed in the table below.
the process of appointment, election and replacement of Directors is included in the Corporate Governance Analysis of ordinary shareholders % of issued Statement.
as at 31 March 2011 share capital 1 Private shareholders 40.17 On 1 March 2011, Douglas Naismith resigned from the Board and Gary Shaughnessy was appointed as a nonInstitutions and wealth managers 50.87 executive Director of the Company.
Mr Shaughnessy is Insurance companies 4.20 also Managing Director of Fidelity Internationals UK Defined Contribution and Retail business.
Pension companies 2.82 Other 1.94 Mr Shaughnessy is an Executive Director of FIL Investments International a member of the FIL Limited 1 Includes Fidelity Share Plan and ISA investors Group of Companies.
SHARE CAPITAL No Director has a contract of service with the Company The Companys share capital comprises ordinary shares and no contracts existed during or at the end of the of 1 penny each.
As at 31 March 2011 the total number financial period in which any Director was materially of shares in issue was 656,404,480 at launch: interested and which were significant in relation to the 460,000,000.
Each share carries one vote.
Deadlines for Companys business except as disclosed in relation to the exercise of voting rights and details of arrangements Mr Shaughnessys interests in the Management by which someone other than the shareholder can Agreement.
There have been no other related party exercise voting rights are detailed in the Notes to the transactions requiring disclosure under International Notice of Meeting on pages 53 to 55.
The Companys Accounting Standard 24. ordinary shares have a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The interests of the Directors and FIL Limited in the ordinary shares of the Company as at 31 March 2011 are SHARE ISSUES shown on page 22.
During the period since launch the Company issued a total of 38,750,000 ordinary shares under its share issue DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS LIABILITY authority and 166,250,000 C Shares of 100 pence INSURANCE each, which were subsequently converted into In addition to benefits enjoyed under the Managers 157,654,480 new ordinary shares on 1 March 2011. global Directors and Officers liability insurance arrangements, the Company maintains insurance cover Since 31 March 2011, the Company has issued a further for its Directors under its own policy as permitted by the 6,250,000 ordinary shares of 1 penny each.
Directors are also covered by the Director Indemnity provisions in accordance with the The Board will be seeking shareholder approval at the Articles of Association as approved by the shareholders.
forthcoming Annual General Meeting to grant the Board the authority to issue shares and disapply pre-emption ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION rights.
Any amendments to the Companys Articles of Association must be made by special resolution.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2011 Page 21 Directors Report 1 1.5% of the arithmetic mean of the value of assets with Shares held at valuations calculated at the end of each month during Shares held 31 March 2 the year.
Any outperformance above this cap will be at launch 2011 Changes carried forward.
If the Company underperforms, the John Owen 40,600 53,433 12,833 underperformance must be made good before any further Performance Fee becomes payable.
For the Nicholas Bull 50,000 65,804 15,804 period to 31 March 2011, no performance fee was David Causer 50,000 65,804 15,804 payable.
Peter Pleydell-Bouverie 45,000 59,224 14,224 In addition, FIL Investments International provided Gary Shaughnessy n a 66,393 n a accounting, administrative and secretarial services to the Company pursuant to the Secretarial Services Douglas Naismith Agreement dated 25 February 2010 under which the FIL Limited 32,000,000 42,666,666 10,666,666 Company has agreed to pay a secretarial fee of up to 600,000 per annum, payable quarterly in arrears.
For 1 No changes to shareholdings since 31 March 2011 the period to 31 March, a secretarial fee of 568,000 was 2 Due to C Share issue payable.
POLITICAL AND CHARITABLE DONATIONS The Management Engagement Committee has reviewed The Company has not made any political or charitable the performance of the Investment Managers taking donations during the period.
into consideration those items in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 25 to 30 of this Annual PAYMENT OF CREDITORS Report.
The Committee concluded that it was in the The Companys principal supplier is the Investment interests of shareholders that the Management Manager who is paid in the month following the end of Agreements should continue.
The Investment Manager each calendar quarter, in accordance with the terms of also provides certain services, including marketing and the Management Agreement detailed below.
administration, in connection with the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan and the Fidelity ISA under The Companys policy for the period to 31 March 2011 an agreement dated 19 February 2010. and 31 March 2012, for all suppliers, is to fix terms of payment when agreeing the terms of each business RESPONSIBILITY AS AN INSTITUTIONAL transaction to ensure that the supplier is aware of these SHAREHOLDER terms and to abide by the agreed terms of payment.
The Board has adopted the Managers Principles of The Company did not have any trade creditors in the Ownership in relation to investments.
These Principles year under review and to date.
Other suppliers are paid include the pursuit of an active investment policy in accordance with the individual payment terms agreed through portfolio management decisions, voting on with them.
resolutions at general meetings and maintaining a continuing dialogue with the management of investee MANAGEMENT COMPANY companies.
The Manager, in its Principles of Ownership, During the period to 31 March 2011, the investments of expressly declares that it supports the Financial the Company other than in unlisted securities were Reporting Councils Stewardship Code setting out the managed by FIL Investment Management Hong Kong responsibilities of institutional shareholders and agents.
Limited, who provided portfolio management services to Further details of the Managers Principles of Ownership the Company pursuant to the Investment Management and voting may be found at www.
SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT The investments of the Companys unlisted securities are The Managers primary objective is to produce superior managed by FIL Investments International, who provided financial returns for the Companys shareholders.
It portfolio management services to the Company believes that high standards of corporate social pursuant to the Discretionary Investment Management responsibility CSR make good business sense and Agreement dated 5 January 2011. have the potential to protect and enhance investment returns.
Consequently, its investment process takes For the period to 31 March 2011, the respective social, environmental and ethical issues into account Management Agreements provided for an annual when, in the Managers view, these have a material management fee of 1.5% of the net asset value of the impact on either investment risk or return.
In addition the Investment Managers are entitled to an annual ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Performance Fee of 15% of any change in NAV THIS SECTION IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES attributable to performance which is more than 2% YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
above the returns on the MSCI China Index, subject to a If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, maximum Performance Fee payable in any year equal to you should seek your own personal financial advice from Page 22 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2011 Directors Report your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor or other audit information of which the Auditor is unaware and financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services each Director has taken all the steps that ought to have and Markets Act 2000. been taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the The Board is recommending to shareholders resolutions Auditor is aware of that information.
which give the Directors authority to allot securities in the Company.
The authorities sought by these AUDITORS APPOINTMENT resolutions are to provide the Directors with the flexibility A resolution to reappoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as to issue further ordinary shares if they deem it Auditor to the Company will be proposed at the appropriate to do so.
However, these authorities will forthcoming AGM together with a resolution to authorise expire on the date of the next Annual General Meeting the Directors to determine the Auditors remuneration.
By law, directors are not permitted to allot new shares or to grant rights over shares unless GOING CONCERN authorised to do so by shareholders.
The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, Resolution 11 provides the Directors with a general performance and position are set out in the Business authority to allot securities in the Company up to an Review on pages 18 to 21.
The financial position of the aggregate nominal value of 662,654.
If passed, this Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing resolution will enable the Directors to allot a maximum of facilities are described in the Financial Statements and 66,265,400 ordinary shares which represents Notes thereto on pages 33 to 52. approximately 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 17 June 2011.
The Directors would The Companys objectives, policies and processes for not intend to use this power unless they considered that managing its capital, financial risk management it was in the interests of shareholders to do so.
objectives, details of financial instruments and its Resolution 12 is a special resolution disapplying preexposures to credit and liquidity risk are also set out on emption rights and granting authority to the Directors, pages 19 and 20 and in the Notes to the Financial without further specific shareholder approval, to make Statements on pages 47 to 52. allotments of equity securities for cash by way of a rights issues and b other issues up to an aggregate The Companys assets consist mainly of securities which nominal value of 662,654 approximately 10% of the are readily realisable and, where outsourcing issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at arrangements are in place, alternative service providers 17 June 2011. are readily available.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Company is well placed to manage its Resolution 13 is a special resolution which, if approved, business risks successfully despite the current uncertain will renew the Companys authority to purchase up to economic outlook.
14.99% of the number of ordinary shares in issue on 17 June 2011 for cancellation.
Purchases of ordinary The Board receives regular reports from the Investment shares will be at the discretion of the Board and within Managers and the Directors have a reasonable guidelines set from time to time by the Board in the light expectation that the Company has the adequate of prevailing market conditions.
Purchases will only be resources to continue in operational existence for the made in the market at prices below the prevailing net foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the asset value per share, thereby resulting in an increased going concern basis of accounting in preparing the net asset value per share.
Recommendation: The Board considers that each of the By Order of the Board resolutions is likely to promote the success of the FIL Investments International Company and is in the best interests of the Company Secretary and its shareholders as a whole.
The Directors 17 June 2011 unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of the resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Full details are given in the Corporate Governance Statement which forms part of the Directors Report, on pages 25 to 30.
AUDITORS RIGHT TO INFORMATION As required by Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 the Directors in office as at the date of this report each confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2011 Page 23
