The Boards Policies INTRODUCTION No single investment will, on acquisition, represent more The role of the Board of Directors of your Company than 15% of the portfolio value.
includes determining the policies which govern how it is managed, which are: The Investment Managers are not required to seek to ensure that the Companys cash resources are fully INVESTMENT GOAL: LONG TERM CAPITAL invested at all times.
Accordingly, there may be times GROWTH when the Company holds cash or money market As set out in the Prospectus of the Company dated instruments pending investment.
7 January 2011, the Board of Directors recognise that long term investment success will best be achieved for The Company currently invests in China A Shares the Company through understanding the prospects for through the Investment Managers QFII license and individual companies based on in-depth local research through third parties who have a QFII facility.
The Board believes that China represents a compelling investment opportunity, but acknowledges Unlisted securities that investing in China is a long term process and returns The Company is permitted to invest up to 5% of Gross are likely to vary.
However, the Boards primary objective Assets in unlisted securities issued by, and other interests is to provide long term capital growth to shareholders.
in, entities carrying on business, or which have significant interests, in China or Hong Kong.
DIVIDEND POLICY As the Companys objective is to achieve long term There were no investments in unlisted securities during capital growth, the Board does not expect that dividends the period to 31 March 2011. will constitute a material element of any return to shareholders.
However, in order to continue to qualify as Borrowing, gearing policy and derivatives an investment trust, the Company is required by The Board considers that long term capital growth can Chapter 4 of Part 24 of Corporation Tax Act 2010 to be enhanced through the use of borrowing.
distribute sufficient net income so that it retains no more than 15% of the income it derives from shares and The Board is responsible for the level of gearing in the securities.
Company and reviews the position on a regular basis.
The Board recommends the payment of a final dividend The Company may borrow up to 25% of NAV and the of 0.25p per ordinary share for the period ended Board has adopted the policy that the Gross Asset 31 March 2011.
Exposure of the Company, whether from borrowing or derivatives, will not exceed the NAV of the Company by INVESTMENT POLICY more than 30%.
The Company invests in a diversified portfolio consisting primarily of securities issued by companies listed in The Company may use derivative instruments for China or Hong Kong and China related companies listed efficient portfolio management, gearing and hedging.
The Company may also They may also be used in order to achieve the obtain exposure to other listed companies which have investment objective i. e. to enhance portfolio significant interests in China or Hong Kong.
The Company may invest through equities, index linked, The Gross Asset Exposure of the Company did not equity linked and other debt securities, cash deposits, exceed the 30% limit during the period to 31 March money market instruments, foreign currency exchange 2011. transactions, equity related securities, forward transactions and other interests including derivative FOREIGN EXCHANGE HEDGING POLICY instruments.
Forward transactions and derivatives, The Companys financial statements are denominated in including futures, options and contracts for difference, sterling, while investments are made and realised in may be used to enhance portfolio performance as well currencies other than sterling, including Chinese as for efficient portfolio management and hedging.
renminbi, Hong Kong dollars and US dollars.
It is not the policy to hedge the underlying currencies of the The Company invested in forward currency contracts, holdings in the portfolio but rather to take the currency equity linked notes, call & put options, index futures and risk into consideration when making investments.
long & short contracts for difference during the period ended 31 March 2011.
INVESTMENT IN OTHER INVESTMENT TRUSTS: LIMIT OF 15% The Company may enter into derivative contracts that The Board has set a limit of 15% on the proportion of the expose the Company to unlimited liability, but only Companys total assets that can be invested in the where the exposure to the counterparty, after taking into securities of other listed investment companies account other derivative contracts entered into with the including listed investment trusts which themselves do counterparty, does not exceed 15% of Gross Assets.
not have stated investment policies.
Page 16 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2011 The Boards Policies As at 31 March 2011 there were two such holdings totalling 1.5% of the Companys gross assets.
PREMIUM & DISCOUNT MANAGEMENT The Board recognises that the price of the shares of the Company is affected by the interaction of supply and demand in the market as well as the NAV per share.
This being the case, the market price of the shares may, from time to time, represent either a discount or premium to NAV.
The Board regularly reviews the difference between the market price of the shares and the NAV per share, and reserves the right to manage the difference through the powers granted by the shareholders of the Company.
During the period to 31 March 2011, the Company issued 38,750,000 ordinary shares through its share issue authority.
CORPORATE ACTIVISM The Board believes that the Company should, where necessary, take an active interest in the affairs of the companies in which it invests and that it should exercise its voting rights at their general meetings.
Unless there are any controversial issues which are then referred to the Board, it delegates the responsibility for corporate activism and shareholder voting to the Managers.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2011 Page 17
