Managers Report temporary pause and flows will return to emerging markets.
One of the fascinating things about China is the fact that investors attitudes to it are very polarised: it is like one of those optical illusions where some viewers perceive a smiling face and some a sad one the same picture can provoke two very different interpretations.
Some see China as the main driver of Asian growth, on its way to becoming the biggest economy in the world, while others are concerned about excessive credit growth and Anthony Bolton has more than 30 years experience of managing inflation, property and bad debt problems.
Probably the equity funds and began investing in Chinese equities in 2004. truth lies somewhere between these two extremes.
He previously acted as portfolio manager for a number of I want to spend some time in this report on the negative Fidelity funds, including Fidelity Special Situations Fund, which he managed from 1979 until 2007.
He also managed the case as, although many of the concerns are valid, I portfolios of two listed investment trusts, Fidelity Special Values believe some of the conclusions being drawn are wrong.
PLC from 1994 to 2007 and Fidelity European Values PLC Like any investment proposition, China is not without from 1991 to 2001. risks but I continue to believe that the case for investing is compelling.
INFLATION My first observation is that in todays two-speed world When I wrote the first interim report in October last year most emerging markets are probably going to have to I did so in a mood of optimism my transition to Hong live with higher levels of structural inflation than in the Kong was going well and I had settled back into a recent past.
Indeed, the actual level of inflation in China familiar fund managers routine.
I was enjoying meeting is probably higher than the 5.4% official figure suggests, lots of Chinese companies, interacting with our team of maybe more like high single digits.
Chinas new five year analysts and other fund managers who follow China and plan is targeting annual real wage increases of at least reading lots of broker and other third party research.
7% and this does not sit easily with an official inflation Most importantly, the NAV was up about 15% from target of 4%, which I believe will probably be increased launch.
I did preface my remarks by saying it was still in the future.
That said, the Chinese authorities have early days, however, and it is now clear that the funds many powers to influence inflation powers like price first period has been one of two halves.
About the time I controls which are generally not available in other wrote my report the market and NAV peaked and the countries.
We have already seen this with official or second half proved much tougher, with the market unofficial price controls on a number of products.
Recent falling until it made a low in mid March round the time of evidence seems to suggest that food inflation which the C share issue.
There was some recovery in April but makes up 70% of Chinas official CPI is at or past its recently the NAV has returned to near 100p.
The second peak, although core inflation is creeping up.
I would not half of the period and performance since the period end want to say that inflation is not a problem but I do not has been disappointing for investors and me personally.
think it will stop the bull market unless it gets completely out of control.
The authorities must tread a delicate path I still believe world equities are in a bull market and what between slowing the economy to alleviate inflationary we have recently experienced in Chinese stocks is a pressures and suppressing growth too much but I normal pause in that cycle.
I do not yet see either the believe they will strike the right balance.
I am expecting investor behaviour or market valuations that one would growth to fall back to 7-8% compared with last years normally associate with a bull market peak.
In fact, given 10%, but that is still a very attractive level relative to the the extraordinary world events in the first quarter of this developed world.
year, markets have been remarkably resilient, illustrating how bull markets typically climb a wall of worry.
As I PROPERTY have maintained for some time, I still feel we are in a Residential property prices in most Chinese cities have two-speed world where growth in the developed been in a generally rising trend for a number of years economies will be below normal for several years the and affordability looks pretty stretched.
Because of the solution to the financial crisis has left them with debt negative public opinion associated with this, the Chinese problems that will hold back growth for the foreseeable authorities last year imposed a number of measures to future.
The US, Europe and Japan have major challenges cool demand, including unprecedented controls in some ahead and, although emerging markets will not be cities on buying multiple properties and purchases by immune to the effects of this, I believe the relatively individuals not resident in that city.
These measures have higher growth they offer will be increasingly attractive to removed a lot of the short term speculative money from investors.
For the first part of 2011 investor flows have the market.
The Government has also embarked on a returned to developed markets and emerging market very ambitious social housing programme 10 million funds have seen redemptions.
I believe this is a units this year and a total of 36 million over the next five Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2011 Page 5 Managers Report years.
A number of the negative reports I have received underestimate the challenges from this major change of on China suggest that there are several empty cities in course for the economy, with many workers having to China: this may indeed be the case but the Chinese retrain for completely new careers in new places.
often build infrastructure well in advance of when it is However, the pragmatism and flexibility of Chinese needed and I expect most of the empty cities to fill up in workers and their managers impresses me.
These reports also suggest there are as many as plan also underwrites a further phase of urbanisation in 65 million empty apartments.
I am unable to confirm a China.
Some people worry about the demographics of source for this figure and the research I have seen China, with an aging population due to the one child suggests a figure significantly smaller than this.
I think in maybe ten years time this could be a empty, these properties are all owned by individuals who problem but today the continued shift of workers from chose to keep them as empty shells there is not a huge rural areas to cities is the more important trend.
backlog of unsold apartments owned by developers.
The key question is whether owners try to sell out if, as Finally, the five year plan underwrites the so called looks likely later this year, we experience a period of S curve effect where domestic growth speeds up once falling property prices.
My view is that most will hold on, a certain level of GDP per head is exceeded.
The growth seeing property as a longer term investment rather than in the China consumer story remains for me the a short term speculation.
Also, the mortgage debt dominant investment theme which will continue to exert against these properties is generally not high so they are a positive influence on markets long after the short term unlikely to be forced sellers.
The long term demand concerns have been resolved.
picture for residential housing is still very favourable.
KOREA BAD LOANS One other risk in the region that has particularly China has experienced over two years of rapid credit concerned me is the political situation between North growth.
Government measures such as raising interest and South Korea.
We have seen several hostile acts from rates and increasing reserve requirements appear to the North on the South and my concern is that, if this have led to a slow down in the rate of growth, although continues, next time the reaction of the South may be to lending outside the banking system still appears to be retaliate.
Such an event I believe would, at least in the growing fast.
Once credit has been expanded strongly it short term, be very worrying for investors in the region.
is always difficult to wean banks, companies and I think Chinese equities would be affected by this.
That said, credit at the individual level is Because of my concern I have purchased out of the still very low in China by international standards.
One money put options on the Korean index to protect about area that observers are particularly concerned about is 25% of the funds gross assets.
Like any form of loans by banks to vehicles set up by local Governments insurance it is something that I hope will not be needed.
to help finance infrastructure and other local projects.
The cost of these options has been the largest negative Listed banks have lent RMB 6.25 trillion to these contributor to the funds performance during the period.
The bank regulator CBRC has required all I have recently renewed these options for a further banks to look at such loans very closely and it appears as six month period.
if up to 20% are at some sort of risk of not being repaid.
The other thing that worries investors is that local GEARING Governments main source of income is usually selling The Company has two types of gearing.
The first is a land they own to developers.
If there are problems in the bank debt facility of US$100m post the C share issue property market, it may become more difficult for them increased to US$150m.
The debt is in US$ rather than to sell land, which would restrict their financing flexibility.
HK$ as I believe there is a possibility of the Hong Kong I agree that this is a risk, particularly from 2012 when US dollar peg being removed at some stage and the many of these loans become due.
However, I believe the HK$ moving up against the US$.
The second form of central Government will step in to help the local gearing is through derivatives principally via contracts for Governments through any temporary difficulties.
difference against some of the largest holdings these are marked in the Forty Largest Holdings.
Investors are rightly concerned about inflation, the property market and credit growth, but for the reasons I PORTFOLIO have outlined here I believe the conclusions they have The fund continues to be mainly focused on the Chinese drawn are too pessimistic.
On a more positive note, the consumption and service sectors with about a third of authorities have launched an ambitious and challenging the fund in consumer sectors, like retailers, luxury cars, new five year plan which envisages a major transition of food and drink, consumer products, internet and hotels the economy away from low value manufactured exports and restaurants, and about half the fund in service towards domestic consumption and the growth of businesses, such as financial services, mobile telephony, services.
They have put specific targets on how much of healthcare, IT services and education.
The rest of the GDP will in the future come from these two areas.
fund is in materials companies gold and paper, Interestingly, this very much endorses the strategy that I  manufacturing companies and have pursued in managing the fund, with my main focus some investment companies.
The portfolio remains very being on these two areas.
I do not think anyone should underweight in most exporters, and infrastructure and Page 6 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2011 Managers Report commodity names, including oil shares.
This low oil through investments held, the Company also had exposure has hurt the fund this period but for the additional RMB exposure through RMB foreign moment I am maintaining the position.
in general, I think the valuations are high, they are very popular and over-owned and therefore risky.
I do not In summary, I remain as convinced as ever by the think they reflect the slowing growth in China and low long-term case for investing in China.
In the short term, growth in the rest of the world.
It is interesting that there are challenges as the Chinese authorities try to Glencore, one of the most successful commodity trading effect a soft landing for their economy, but I believe they houses, has chosen now to list when, maybe, a number will succeed.
I expect investment flows to resume their of commodity prices are near a peak.
Oil is different from trend out of the developed world into emerging markets other commodities, having a political angle that the like China: this may lead, at some stage, to valuations others largely do not.
We will have to watch the situation going well above fair value.
I hope that with the help of in the Middle East carefully and especially Saudi Arabia.
our excellent team here in Hong Kong, we can continue I also view gold differently from the other commodities to uncover the companies that are best placed to benefit as it has characteristics more like a currency.
In a world from the ongoing transformation of Chinas economy.
where so many currencies have problems, some exposure to gold makes sense to me.
Anthony Bolton 17 June 2011 Within financials, the main exposure is to Hong Kongbased banks about 12% of the gross assets and property companies about 5% rather than mainland banks and property companies.
The funds only exposure to the mainland residential property market is through two estate agent companies about 1% of the fund.
Because of the Governments tightening measures and the uncertainties about the banks bad loans and the poor short term outlook for the property market on the mainland, I have preferred the Hong Kong companies.
Hong Kong banks are benefiting from good loan growth, the prospect of higher margins and the effects of the internationalisation of the RMB.
This should be a new source of revenue as the Hong Kong-based banks are in pole position to benefit from this trend.
The majority of the fund is invested in private companies rather than state owned enterprises.
Private companies are generally more dynamic although they can also be more risky.
Also, 44% of the fund is in small companies with a market capitalisation below 1 billion, 28% in medium-sized companies 1-5 billion and another 28% in large companies over 5 billion.
I continue to feel the medium-sized and smaller companies offer some of the best potential and they are also the least well researched.
Fidelity has received its QFII licence and clearance to invest so, since the period end, I have been using this quota to invest in Chinese A Shares.
Most of our quota has been used to replace the broker provided QFII that we have used to date.
The majority of the funds A share exposure is in financial shares, where the A shares often sell at a significant discount to the Hong Kong-listed shares of dual-listed companies companies listed in both the mainland and Hong Kong.
In most other areas, I continue to find the A shares expensive relative to the shares of similar companies listed in Hong Kong or the US.
At the period end, 66% of the gross assets was in Hong Kong-listed shares, 8.5% was in mainland-listed A or B shares, about 15% in USlisted shares and 7.5% in Chinese exposed companies in other markets.
As well as underlying exposure to RMB Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2011 Page 7
