Counterparty risk SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT The Company relies on a number of main counterparties, namely The Managers primary objective is to produce superior financial the Manager, Registrar and Custodian.
The Manager is the returns to investors.
It believes that high standards of corporate member of a privately owned group of companies on which a social responsibility CSR make good business sense and have regular report is provided to the Board.
The Manager, Registrar the potential to protect and enhance investment returns.
and Custodian are subject to regular audits by Fidelitys internal Consequently, its investment process takes social, environmental audit team and the counterparties own internal controls reports and ethical issues into account when, in its view, these have a are received by the Board and any concerns investigated.
material impact on either investment risk or return.
Control systems, regulation, governance including The Manager recognises and supports the view that social, shareholder relations risks environmental and ethical best practice should be encouraged so The Company is dependent on the Managers control systems and long as the potential for financial return is not reduced.
It favours those of its Custodian and Registrar, both of which are monitored companies committed to high standards of CSR and to the and managed by the Manager in the context of the Companys principles of sustainable development.
assets and interests on behalf of the Board.
The security of the Companys assets, dealing procedures and the maintenance of The Manager does not set out to manage an ethical investment investment trust status under Section 1159 of the Corporation Tax fund and does not screen out companies from its investment Act 2010, among other things, rely on the effective operation of universe purely on the grounds of poor social, environmental or such systems.
These are regularly tested and a programme of subjective ethical records.
Instead it adopts a positive engagement internal audits is carried out by the Manager to maintain approach whereby social, environmental and ethical matters are standards.
Regular reports are provided to the Board.
discussed with management with the aim of improving procedures and attitudes.
The Manager believes that this is the most effective 8.
Other risks way to improve the attitude of business towards CSR and the Other risks monitored on a regular basis include loan covenants, Board endorses this approach.
at times when the Company takes out loans, which are subject to daily monitoring, together with the Companys gearing and cash position, and the continuation vote at a time of poor GENERAL performance.
ENVIRONMENTAL, EMPLOYEE, SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY DIVIDENDS MATTERS The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 26.50 pence The Company is managed by FIL Investments International, has no 2010: 15.75 pence per share be paid on 25 May 2012 to employees and all of its Directors are non-executive, the shareholders on the register at the close of business on 16 March Companys day to day activities being carried out by third parties.
There are therefore no disclosures to be made in respect of employees.
The Board fully endorses Fidelitys strong procedures SHARE CAPITAL which are involved in the making of its investments.
The Companys issued share capital comprises ordinary shares of 25 pence each.
As at 31 December 2011, 44,294,946 shares were The Company has no premises, consumes no electricity, gas or in issue 2010: 49,449,986 shares.
Each share in issue carries one diesel fuel and consequently does not have a measurable carbon vote.
Deadlines for the exercise of voting rights and details of footprint.
FIL Investments International is registered with the Carbon arrangements by which someone other than the shareholder can Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme administered by exercise voting rights in respect of this years Annual General the Environment Agency.
Meeting are detailed in the Notes to the Notice of Meeting on pages 53 and 54.
The Companys financial reports are printed by a company which has won awards for its environmental awareness and further The Companys ordinary shares have a premium listing on the details of this may be found on the back cover of this report.
Financial reports and other publicly available documentation are also available on the Companys website www.
Details about Fidelitys own community involvement may be found on its website www.
co. uk Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2011 17 Directors Report SHARE CAPITAL SHARE REPURCHASES AND SHARE ISSUES Both the net asset value and Index are calculated on a total return Pursuant to the authority granted at the 2010 Annual General basis, while the fee is based on the weighted average number of Meeting 1,347,218 ordinary shares of 25p each were repurchased shares in issue.
for cancellation between 1 January 2011 and 17 May 2011.
At the Annual General Meeting held on 18 May 2011 the Companys In the event of underperformance of the NAV relative to the shareholders passed a special resolution which granted the benchmark index in any year, no performance fee is payable for a Directors authority to purchase up to 7,366,800 ordinary shares in subsequent accounting year unless and until such and all the market for cancellation.
Pursuant to this authority, during the cumulative underperformance has been made good.
The period 20 May 2011 to 31 December 2011 a further 3,807,822 performance related fee was subject to an upper limit of 1.5% of ordinary 25p shares were repurchased for cancellation.
If performance is such that the aggregate the total shares repurchased during the year ended 31 performance related fee would exceed this cap, any excess December 2011 was 5,155,040 2010: 1,666,619 11.6% of the outperformance would be carried forward and offset against any issued share capital as at 31 December 2011 2010: 3.3% for a future underperformance deficit but will not be counted towards total consideration of 55,664,000 2010: 17,968,000. future performance related fees.
For the year ended 31 December 2011 no performance fee was payable 2010: nil.
The authority to repurchase shares With effect from 1 January 2012 the annual performance related expires on 16 May 2012 and a special resolution to renew the fee has been reduced from 20% to 15% of any change in net asset authority in respect of up to 14.99% of the issued share capital as value as described above.
The upper limit has been reduced from at 6 March 2012 will be put to shareholders for approval at the 1.5% to 1.0% of net assets.
The Board reviews the services provided by the Manager and also Since the year end, a further eleven share repurchases have been the terms of the Management Agreement on a regular basis.
The made totalling 603,605 ordinary 25p shares.
The issued share Management Agreement will continue unless and until terminated capital as at 6 March 2012 was 43,691,341.
No share issues were by either party giving to the other not less than six months notice made during the year 2010: nil.
The Management Agreement may, however, be terminated without compensation if the Company is liquidated in POLITICAL AND CHARITABLE DONATIONS 2012, or in any subsequent year thereafter, pursuant to the The Company has not made any political or charitable donations procedures laid down in the Articles of Association of the in the year 2010: nil.
PAYMENT OF CREDITORS The Management Agreement may also be terminated forthwith as The Companys principal supplier is the Manager who is paid in a result of a material breach of the Agreement or on the insolvency the month following the end of each calendar quarter in of the Manager or the Company.
In addition, the Company may accordance with the terms of the Management Agreement terminate the agreement by six months notice if the Manager detailed below.
The Companys policy for the year to 31 ceases to be a subsidiary of FIL Limited or if the Board shall resolve December 2012 2011: same for all suppliers, is to fix terms of at two successive quarterly meetings that there has been a material payment when agreeing the terms of each business transaction to and continuing underperformance in the portfolio of assets.
ensure that the supplier is aware of these terms and to abide by the agreed terms of payment.
The Company did not have any The Management Engagement Committee met on 19 January trade creditors in the year 2010: nil.
2012 and reviewed the performance of the Manager for the year to 31 December 2011.
Further details of this review are included in MANAGEMENT COMPANY the Companys Corporate Governance Statement on page 26.
The During the year to 31 December 2011, the Manager, FIL Committee concluded that it was in the interests of shareholders Investments International, a subsidiary of FIL Limited, provided that the appointment of the Manager should continue.
The management, accounting, administrative and secretarial services Manager also provides certain services, including marketing and to the Company pursuant to the Management Agreement dated administration, in connection with the Fidelity Investment Trust 18 May 2010 as amended with effect from 1 January 2012.
Share Plan and the Fidelity Individual Savings Account under an agreement dated 4 March 1996.
The amount payable for these For the year ended 31 December 2011, the Management services for the year to 31 December 2011 was 119,000 2010: Agreement provided a quarterly base fee of 0.2125% of net assets 128,000.
The Management Agreement the Manager under the above agreements at 31 December 2011 excludes the value of any investment in any other fund which is and is included in other creditors in Note 12 to the financial managed by the Manager or an Associate of the Manager in the statements on page 41. calculation of fees.
There was no additional company secretarial fee 2010: same.
In addition there was an annual performance Fidelity has adopted a broker segmentation policy which has related fee of 20% 2010: 20% of any change in net asset value in reduced the number of brokers used and allows it to concentrate excess of the returns on the FTSE World Europe ex UK Index plus on those brokers who, in its opinion, offer the best service in terms 0.5%.
These brokers are Fidelitys core brokers.
At the same time, the Manager evaluates the research provided by other brokers and uses some of them for their research.
These 18 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2011 Directors Report brokers are called Secondary State Research firms SSRs.
As a The Board complies with the AIC Code of Corporate Governance consequence of the policy, the core brokers earn a larger requirements for all Directors of FTSE 350 Companies to be subject percentage of the commission paid.
These core brokers pay to annual re-election.
Further details on re-election can be found in away some of the increased commission earned to the SSRs to the Corporate Governance Statement on page 24. compensate them for the research provided to Fidelity.
Under FSA regulations this type of payment from one broker to another is No Director is under a contract of service with the Company and currently treated as softing.
The Managers soft commission no contracts existed during or at the end of the financial period in policy complies with the UK regulations.
Fidelity adopts a best which any Director was materially interested and which were execution policy that applies to all transactions in all instruments, significant in relation to the Companys business, except as regardless of the fund or account or location of the trading desk.
disclosed previously in relation to Mr Frasers interest in the Management Agreement and his directorship of Barclays Bank The Manager has an arrangement with certain brokers whereby a PLC.
There have been no other related party transactions requiring portion of commissions from security transactions may be paid to disclosure under Financial Reporting Standard FRS 8.
The the Company to reduce transaction costs.
Amounts received by the interests of the Directors in the ordinary shares of the Company as Company under this arrangement are credited to capital.
In the at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010 are shown above.
Information on the Companys Articles of Association is included in There is a regulatory requirement on the Manager to obtain best the Corporate Governance Statement on page 23.
Any execution and no individual deal is entered into which prevents amendments to the Companys Articles of Association must be compliance with this requirement.
DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS LIABILITY INSURANCE Mr Fraser was employed by the FIL Limited group until the end of December 2008.
Mr Fraser is a Director of Barclays PLC and In addition to benefits enjoyed under the Managers global Barclays Bank PLC.
Mr Fraser had no influence over the decision Directors and Officers insurance arrangements, the Company by Barclays Bank PLC in its former lending relationship with the maintained insurance cover for its Directors and Officers under its Company.
own policy as permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
SUBSTANTIAL SHARE INTERESTS FIL Limited has no interest in shares of the Company 2010: 112,379 shares or 0.23%.
As at 6 March 2012 notification had been received of the following interests in 3% or more of the voting rights of the Company: DIRECTORS Shareholders % Details of the Directors who served during the year to 31 December 2011 are set out on page 13 with a brief description of Fidelity ISA and Share Plan 25.71 their careers, each of which indicates their qualifications for Board membership.
Further details of the contribution made by the 1607 Capital Partners 6.43 Directors may also be found in the Chairmans Statement on page 1 Rathbone Brothers PLC 5.32 4.
All of the Directors served throughout the year to 31 December 2011.
Berwin Dolphin 4.69 DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDINGS 2 Legal & General Investment Management 3.72 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 1 Indirect holding for Rathbone Group companies 2 Direct holding for various Legal & General entities 1 Humphrey van der Klugt 4,000 3,000 Analysis of Ordinary Shareholders 2 Simon Duckworth, DL 2,000 1,500 as at 31 December 2011 % of issued share capital 3 Simon Fraser 6,970 6,946 Private individuals 52.51 Robin Niblett Mutual funds 33.42 4 James Robinson 3,000 2,000 Pension funds 5.62 1 Purchase of 1,000 shares 2 Insurance companies 5.27 Purchase of 500 shares 3 Dividend reinvestment resulted in purchase of 24 shares 4 Purchase of 1,000 shares Hedge funds 2.19 All holdings beneficial Trading companies 0.99 Total 100.00 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2011 19 Directors Report ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Resolution 13 is a special resolution which renews the Directors THIS SECTION IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE authority to repurchase the Companys shares for cancellation.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should proposed that the Board be authorised to make arrangements to take, you should seek your own personal financial advice from purchase through the London Stock Exchange up to 6,549,332 your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor or other financial adviser ordinary shares of 25 pence each equivalent to 14.99% of the authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. shares in issue at 6 March 2012.
By utilising this power to repurchase shares when they are trading at a discount to net asset At the 2012 Annual General Meeting resolutions will be proposed value, the Company will increase the resulting net asset value per to renew the Directors authority to allot securities in the Company.
Purchases of shares will be The authorities sought by these resolutions are to replace the made at the discretion of the Board and within guidelines set from existing powers of the Directors which expire on the date of the time to time by the Board in the light of prevailing market Annual General Meeting and will provide the Directors with the conditions.
Purchases will only be made in the market at prices flexibility to issue further ordinary shares if they deem it below the prevailing net asset value.
By law, directors are not permitted to allot new shares or to grant rights over shares unless authorised to do The full text of the resolutions is set out in the Notice of Meeting so by shareholders.
Resolution 11 provides the Directors with a contained on pages 51 to 54. general authority to allot securities in the Company up to an aggregate nominal value of 546,141.
If passed, this resolution will Recommendation: The Board considers that each of the enable the Directors to allot a maximum of 2,184,564 ordinary resolutions is likely to promote the success of the Company and is shares which represents approximately 5% of the issued ordinary in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a share capital of the Company as at 6 March 2012. whole.
The Directors unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of the resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their This authority provides the Directors with a degree of flexibility to own beneficial holdings.
increase the assets of the Company by the issue of new shares should any favourable opportunities arise to the advantage of CORPORATE GOVERNANCE shareholders.
If new ordinary shares are allotted for cash, the Full details are given in the Corporate Governance Statement on Companies Act 2006 requires such new shares to be offered to pages 22 to 27.
The Corporate Governance Statement forms part existing holders of ordinary shares pre-emption rights.
In certain of this Directors Report.
circumstances it is beneficial for the Directors to allot shares for cash otherwise than pro rata to existing shareholders and the AUDITORS RIGHT TO INFORMATION Companies Act 2006 provides for shareholders to give such power As required by Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 the to the Directors by waiving their pre-emption rights.
Directors in office as at the date of this report each confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of Resolution 12 is a special resolution disapplying pre-emption rights which the Auditor is unaware and each Director has taken all the and granting authority to the Directors, without the need for further steps that ought to have been taken as a Director to make specific shareholder approval, to make allotments of equity themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to securities for cash by way of a rights issues where practical establish that the Auditor is aware of that information.
considerations, such as fractions and foreign securities laws, make this desirable, and b other issues up to an aggregate nominal AUDITORS APPOINTMENT value of 546,141 approximately 5% of the issued share capital of A resolution to reappoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as Auditor to the the Company as at 6 March 2012.
The authority to issue ordinary Company will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General shares for cash under Resolution 11 will, inter alia, enable the Meeting together with a resolution to authorise the Directors to Directors to issue additional new ordinary shares to participants in determine the Auditors remuneration.
the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan and the Fidelity ISA in the event that the ordinary shares are trading at a premium to their By order of the Board net asset value.
The Directors would only intend to use this power if FIL Investments International such premium were in excess of 2% and they considered that it 6 March 2012 was in the interests of shareholders to do so.
20 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2011
