Managers Review FIL Investments International Sam Morse The Company is managed by FIL Investments International which Sam is a portfolio manager with FIL Investment Services UK is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
FIL Limited based in London.
Sam has more than 20 years Investments International is part of the FIL Limited group which, as investment experience.
He also manages the Fidelity European at 31 December 2011, had total assets under management Fund.
PERFORMANCE REVIEW As markets fell, politicians struggled to come up with any policy As shown in the Financial Summary on page 2, the NAV per share response that provided optimism that the twin problems of high of Fidelity European Values decreased by 11.5 % in the year to 31 debt and a lack of growth would be overcome.
A series of December 2011, outperforming the FTSE World Europe ex UK summits produced new lows to the point that pessimism Index, which fell by 14.7 %.
All performance figures are quoted on pervaded.
The market bottomed in late September, having fallen a total return basis and in sterling.
more than 30% from its peak in February.
MARKET BACKGROUND The year ended, however, on a more positive note.
The new 2011 was a very disappointing year for the European markets.
Governor of the European Central Bank, Mario Draghi, announced two cuts in interest rates, reversing his predecessors hikes, and The year started well.
There was an expectation that the economic introduced a new three year Long Term Refinancing Operation rebound from the financial crisis would continue to strengthen.
This LTRO with expanded collateral.
This provided investors, and optimism was reflected in a strong reversionary bounce in banks, with a chink of light at the end of a very long tunnel, given stockmarkets in January, led by the banking sector and companies the positive impact this would have, in the short term, on funding listed in the periphery of Europe Spain, Italy, Portugal, Greece and liquidity thereby providing more planning time for lasting and Ireland.
solutions to the sovereign debt crisis.
PORTFOLIO REVIEW This early optimism, shared by your Manager, was rattled as uncertainty about global economic growth rose following the Arab Your Manager continues to focus on identifying, and investing in, spring and the dreadful earthquake and tsunami in Japan.
The attractively valued companies, with sound balance sheets, which European Central Bank, however, still fearing inflation, raised can deliver consistent dividend growth.
The Company is interest rates fifty basis points with hikes in April and July.
constructed from the bottom up which means that stock selection Uncertainty turned into a full scale rout, during the summer months, drives sector and country positioning rather than the other way when a suspicion that the economy might slow threatened to turn around.
Your Manager does, however, apply top down risk a sovereign debt crisis into a European catastrophe with global control to make sure that the fund will not be blown too far off consequences.
course, relative to its European benchmark, in the event of a change in the economic or market back-drop.
Some commentators even began to suggest the unthinkable: disorderly disintegration of the Eurozone and a return to national In 2011 the NAV outperformed a declining benchmark by 3.2%.
Companies in the financials sector, in particular banks, Relative performance was aided, mainly, by stock selection but whose fortunes are inextricably linked to the prospects for was held back by gearing which was kept at a level of between economic growth and sovereign debt risk, took the brunt of 4% and 10% during the year.
CFDs replaced fixed term loans for investors pessimism.
gearing purposes in the later months of 2011 and the process has bedded down well.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2011 5 Managers Review Key positive stock contributions mainly came from sectors with less There are few optimistic market forecasts for 2012 unlike at the short term sensitivity to the economy such as healthcare, food beginning of 2011.
This is understandable given the on-going producers, tobacco and energy.
Outside those sectors, there were uncertainty about economic growth in Europe in 2012 and the tailthree companies among the top ten contributors all of which made risk of more upheaval in the Eurozone with investors mulling the positive absolute returns in a year when the market fell.
Hugo Boss possibility of a disorderly Greek exit and the resulting contagion.
benefited from strong results and an upgrade to its longer term Politics will, again, play an important role in 2012 and noise guidance.
Iliad was marked higher on the introduction of a new around the elections in France and Greece may unsettle the set-top box which helped the company to regain a share in the markets.
The technocratic government, led by Mario Monti, seems French broadband market and as investors looked forward to the to have been successful in bringing an element of relative calm to launch of their mobile business.
Finally, SAP enjoyed a strong year Italy but, with elections looming in 2013, investors may become as it became apparent that new products and demand from more cautious as the year progresses.
companies for their software, partly to reduce costs in a more difficult environment, were driving earnings above expectations.
Your Managers base case scenario remains that the Eurozone should stay together in 2012 because, although austerity is painful, Most of the detractors to performance were financials, banks in the costs of exit are too great for the Eurozone nations to bear.
Your Manager increased the weighting in financials Europes economies are likely, therefore, to remain sluggish, partly during the year on the view that many of these companies, unlike due to continued austerity, particularly in the periphery.
In such non-financial cyclicals, were already discounting a very pessimistic an environment, attractively valued companies, with sound outlook such that they were attractively valued on a low level of balance sheets, which can deliver consistent dividend growth, will earnings.
Your Manager was also encouraged, in the early part of continue to perform well.
the year, that some banks were beginning to re-instate and grow dividends.
That optimism proved misplaced, however, as the FIL Investments International prospects for dividends and dividend growth worsened as the year progressed due to growing sovereign debt risks and 6 March 2012 evidence of slowing economies.
The French banks, BNP and Societe Generale, were particularly poor performers suffering from concerns about a lack of capital and funding in the face of increased sovereign debt and economic risk.
Your Manager sold the holding in Societe Generale, following its announcement that it would not be paying a dividend for 2011, and redistributed the proceeds among other bank holdings with more robust prospects for dividends and dividend growth.
OUTLOOK Although stockmarkets fell in 2011, European companies overall grew their earnings and dividends such that valuations ended the year at a historic low with an aggregate dividend yield approaching 4.5%, which is a full 50% above the longer term average for Europe over the last few decades.
2011 was a poor year for European stockmarkets because markets look ahead.
Valuation is attractive but there is a risk that aggregate earnings, and dividends, fall in 2012, given that nonfinancial corporate margins are at a historical high, a European recession is possible and governments may target a relatively prosperous corporate sector.
Even in a pessimistic scenario it would be hard, however, to envisage a reduction in dividends that mirrored the 30% cut experienced during the financial crisis when many banks reduced dividends from generous levels to nothing.
There are risks to forecasts, but these are largely discounted and so your Manager believes there is fundamental value in European shares.
As always, risk and reward are common bed-fellows and the biggest rewards often come when risk appears high.
6 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2011
