Managers Review FIL Investments International Sanjeev Shah The Company is managed by FIL Investments International which joined Fidelity in 1996 as a research analyst.
He became a is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
FIL portfolio manager in 2002: between October 2002 and August Investments International is part of the FIL Limited group which, as 2005 he managed the Fidelity UK Aggressive Fund and between at 30 September 2011, had total assets under management September 2005 and May 2007 he managed Fidelity Funds exceeding 133.7 billion.
Since January 2008 he has managed Fidelity Special Situations Fund.
Mr Shah took over responsibility for the Companys portfolio on 1 January 2008.
INTRODUCTION As in 2010, 2011 has been another challenging year for investors, The Companys previous financial year ending on 31 August 2010 with a significant increase in volatility at the very end of the saw a game of two halves, with a strong recovery phase in the first Companys financial year.
Over the 12 months to 31 August 2011, half of the year, but with investor confidence dipping in the the UK stock market posted a positive return of 7.3%: however in summer so that the year ended with concerns over a double dip August alone, the market fell by 6.9%, thereby giving back nearly recession uppermost in investors minds.
2011 saw the same cycle half the returns achieved in the first 11 months of the year.
repeated: significantly improved economic indicators from both the UK and also the rest of the world economy during the final quarter During this period, the NAV of the Company fell by 4.1% total of 2010 saw an initial strong period of stock market recovery, with the FTSE All-Share Index up by 16.5% at the time of the Companys return basis.
This represents a very disappointing result, with the Company not only failing to beat its benchmark, but also at the Half-Yearly report at the end of February 2011.
This performance same time posting a negative return in absolute terms.
As a result, was led by the cyclical areas of the market, where concerns over although the Company has delivered positive longer term capital oil supply in the light of the Arab Spring saw oil prices in March growth, with its returns over the longer 3 and 5 year periods still move above the US$120 per barrel level for the first time since 2008, a new all-time high in sterling terms.
being positive, they are now behind those of the market over both periods.
I explain the contributors to this and the reasoning underpinning my portfolio construction in the Portfolio Review on However, during the second half of the year, investor confidence page 7. was hit hard by a succession of negative events.
First, the world economy was buffeted by the knock-on effects to global supply UK MARKET REVIEW chains of the catastrophic earthquake and tsunami in Japan: then market concern turned to peripheral Europes sovereign debt GDP growth was very weak over the period: during the 12 months to August 2011 the UK economy only expanded by issues, where the true cost of governments attempts to bail out 0.5%, and at the end of August 2011 was still 3.9% behind its their domestic banking systems was brought into sharp focus by a peak level of February 2008. round of refinancings in the early summer.
Finally, these concerns Inflation again rose as a result of higher oil prices and the reached the US, where Standard & Poors downgraded US Treasury debt in August as the Republicans stalled the Democrats increase of VAT from 17.5% to 20% in January 2011: the annual CPI figure at the end of September 2011 stood at 5.2%.
Unlike the European Central Bank, the Bank of England again kept interest rates unchanged throughout the year at a level of Against this backdrop, in the UK, the grind to recover to pre-crash 0.5%.
levels of economic activity looked increasingly difficult as GDP only The UK market rose during the 12 month period, but investor grew by the slimmest of margins 0.5% during the year to August optimism had turned to fear by the end of the Companys 2011.
This hit investor confidence hard, with the market in August financial year with a significant market correction taking place falling by 6.9% - nearly 50% of the returns experienced during the in August 2011. previous 11 months.
At a sector level, Technology and Consumer Goods led the way with the market buoyed by the performance of Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2011 6 Managers Review companies with significant global revenue earning capabilities a slow and multi year recovery from the 2008 lows.
As a such as ARM, Autonomy, and Burberry.
In what could be the start contrarian investor, my view was that at the start of the year the of a round of global M&A merger and acquisition, where world economy had not worked through all the issues that caused companies with strong cash balance sheets but low internal the crisis in 2008, and this view has, to some extent, been revenue growth prospects attempt to buy growth, the end of the confirmed by the sharp corrections experienced by these sectors in year saw Autonomy bid for by Hewlett Packard of the US.
Elsewhere, Financials, and in particular the retail banks, continued to lag the market, being the only sector to post a negative Media stocks overall detracted 1% from relative performance.
absolute return over the year as the shadow of potential regulation However, there were some notable positive and negative dented investor confidence that a return to more normal returns contributors within the sector.
The investment in Yell has been from banks would be possible in anything other than the long costly and I clearly underestimated the cyclical downturn in SME term.
Here, Lloyds and RBS, the banks where the Government still advertising, balance sheet risk and structural challenges the owns significant stakes, were the worst hit, along with Barclays, business model faces.
Today the position in Yell is less than 0.3% where investors were concerned that it might be forced to split off of the portfolio.
Elsewhere, News Corporations announcement its investment banking activities.
that it was dropping its bid for BSkyB given the hacking scandal hurt the stocks valuation in the second half of the year.
I have During the year, sterling reversed the trend of the previous 12 held the stock since I first took over the portfolio, based on its months and strengthened against the dollar, up from $1.54 to pipeline of superior revenue-enhancing domestic product offerings $1.63.
from HD through 3D and Triple Play, and hence my thesis is not dependent on the realisation of the bid premium arising from News Corporations interest in the company.
I have recently PORTFOLIO REVIEW As noted earlier, performance this year has been very added to the position given the companys unique market position disappointing.
Banks have been the biggest detractor to and growth potential.
Importantly ITV and Moneysupermarket performance, costing the portfolio 3.4% in relative performance.
were notable top 10 contributors to performance driven by the The macroeconomic uncertainty, regulatory risk and recent recovery strategies adopted by new management.
I continue to maintain the overweight in media names.
This includes growth concerns over the Eurozone sovereign crisis have impacted the stock prices of the banks very negatively.
I continue to have ideas such as Pearson, but more recently, given the market conviction that strong value has emerged in good retail and correction, cyclically exposed names such as ITV are looking more commercial banking franchises.
Banks continue to be the most interesting.
underweighted sector amongst institutional investors, are disliked by sell side analysts and valuations are at multi year lows on Turnaround situations continue to feature in the portfolio.
Stocks like Lloyds that provide a very real Unfortunately there have been some notable detractors to opportunity for potentially doubling their current valuation are rare, performance from the likes of bwin.
Party, an on-line gambling and and do indeed represent a special situation.
It is noticeable that sports betting company, and Logica, a technology and IT the absence of concrete moves on regulation by the Government outsourcing provider.
Party has been impacted by poor caused investor sentiment towards the stock to change in the few operational performance of its bwin sports betting division weeks, prior to our year end.
We remain committed to the long following the merger of bwin with PartyGaming in March 2011 and term potential that it affords.
I used that recent weakness in the negative surprises around regulation in Germany.
I have taken the Lloyds share price to add to my position and maintain my decision to reduce my holding as my conviction on the thesis has exposure to HSBC and Citigroup.
Logica, having been a top contributor to performance in the previous year, has been impacted by poor operational performance in the Benelux region.
I have maintained my position The overweight in financials was not all bad news.
My strong exposure to Diversified ie non-bank Financial Services and given the turnaround instituted by new management.
Conversely, Commercial Real Estate stocks resulted in them being the two best the turnaround of QinetiQ in the Aerospace and Defence space performing sectors in the portfolio.
London Stock Exchange was the has been a top contributor to performance and I maintained the top 10 position during the year.
highest contributing holding over the year, driven by recovering transaction volumes and increasing global consolidation of the exchange sector.
I have used its strength to halve my holding.
Finally a theme that still attracts me is the rise in the consumer Both British Land and Land Securities contributed strongly driven by class in the Emerging Markets, which I see as a multi year a better understanding of the yield credentials of property and a phenomenon.
There are relatively few stocks in the UK that allow recovery in the City and West End rental outlook.
I have sold out me to play this theme.
However, one of them, Burberry, was a top of both names recently.
10 contributor to the portfolio over the year and I am happy to retain this holding going forward.
The cyclical sectors that drove the strong performance of the market during the first half of the year, in particular sectors in Oil Again, during the year I made use of three main derivative and Gas and Materials which impacted the portfolio by -1.7% and strategies but these remain a small part of the portfolio.
Firstly, I -0.9% respectively in relative performance, are usually sectors that bought long Contracts For Difference CFDs to achieve perform in the last cycle of a recovery.
As such it was surprising additional gearing within the fund as a cheaper alternative to and disappointing for shareholders to see these sectors borrowing additional funds.
These operate in the same way as outperform to such an extent in what are still the earlier phases of regular borrowing and serve to increase or gear the performance Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2011 7 Managers Review of the underlying share prices in both directions.
Secondly, I bought short CFDs to take advantage of certain stocks where I believed that they were overvalued and were likely to fall.
Industrial Cyclicals continue to be the main short exposure in the portfolio.
Finally, I bought a number of Index put and call options in the FTSE 100 Index to take advantage of periods where I considered the whole market to be over or undervalued.
The first two CFD strategies performed broadly in line with the physical equities within the portfolio.
My put and call options added a very small amount of positive return to the Company.
OUTLOOK Market volatility and concern over the UK economy sliding back into recession has once again very much clouded the end of the Companys financial year.
I have positioned the portfolio for a long road to economic recovery, but not a double dip recession or a Japan like scenario many years of very sluggish growth in the West.
In this low-growth environment, I believe that companies which are able to demonstrate sustainable sales and earnings growth should be priced at a significant premium, which currently is not the case.
These growth names such as BSkyB, many of which are also unloved and unfashionable, make up a significant part of the portfolio today.
I am also finding more opportunities in early cycle names geared to the US housing market such as Wolseley.
Turnaround situations under new management continue to feature in the portfolio such as Ladbrokes and QinetiQ.
Finally, the portfolio has benefited from M&A activity, especially in small and mid capitalisation companies, and I believe this trend will continue.
Holidaybreak and Avis are two recent examples of companies which have attracted corporate interest.
I acknowledge that I have much work to do this year to deliver a better return for shareholders.
I believe we are probably a large way through the correction in terms of the size of the decline from peak to trough: for an investor who likes to go against the flow, this represents the best chance in more than two years to find new opportunities or to add to my positions.
The recent volatility in stock markets has, in my opinion, provided the best opportunity to invest in equities since March 2009.
Sanjeev Shah FIL Investments International 4 November 2011 Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2011 8
