Directors Report No Director has a contract of service with the Company and no DIRECTORS REPORT GENERAL contracts existed during or at the end of the financial period in which any Director was materially interested and which were THE BOARD significant in relation to the Companys business, except as All appointments to the Board, re-elections and replacements of disclosed in relation to Nicky McCabes interests in the Directors take place in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 Management Agreement.
There have been no other related party and the Companys Articles of Association.
All of the Directors transactions requiring disclosure under Financial Reporting served throughout the year ended 31 August 2011 and their Standard FRS 8. biographical details are set out on page 18.
The Board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to discharge Since 2004, the Board has followed a process whereby all its duties effectively and the first table below gives the attendance Directors are subject to re-election on an annual basis.
Information record for the meetings held during the year.
on the process of appointment, re-election and replacement of Directors is included in the Corporate Governance Statement.
The interests of the Directors and FIL Limited in the ordinary shares of the Company as at 31 August 2011 and 31 August 2010 are Nicky McCabe is Chief Operating Officer of Moonray Investors, a shown in the second table below and the table on page 24. division of FIL Limited Group.
Nicky McCabe has waived her entitlement to Directors fees.
Management Regular Nomination Audit Engagement Board Committee Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Lynn Ruddick 5 5 1 1 1 1 1 1 Sharon Brown 5 5 1 1 2 2 1 1 Andy Irvine 5 5 1 1 2 2 1 1 Douglas Kinloch Anderson 5 5 1 1 2 2 1 1 Nicky McCabe 4 5 0 1 n a n a Ben Thomson 5 5 1 1 2 2 1 1 Retired as Chairman of the Audit Committee on 26 October 2010 Figures indicate those meetings for which each Director was eligible to attend and attended in the year.
Regular Board meetings exclude procedural meetings held to discharge, for example, formal approvals.
Number of ordinary Number of ordinary shares held at shares held at 31 August 2011 31 August 2010 Changes Lynn Ruddick 7,803 7,665 138 shares acquired due to automatic dividend reinvestment Sharon Brown 2,000 nil 2,000 shares acquired August 2011 Andy Irvine 10,000 10,000 No change Douglas Kinloch Anderson 18,134 18,011 123 shares acquired due to automatic dividend reinvestment Nicky McCabe 1,000 1,000 No change Ben Thomson nil nil No change FIL Limited nil nil No change Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2011 23 Directors Report SUBSTANTIAL SHARE INTERESTS SHARE REPURCHASES At the date of this report notification had been received that the At the Annual General Meeting held on 15 December 2010 the shareholders listed in the table below held more than 3% of the Companys shareholders passed a special resolution which voting rights and or issued share capital of the Company.
granted the Directors authority to purchase up to 8,535,140 ordinary shares in the market for cancellation.
410,000 shares were Number of repurchased for cancellation during the year 2010: nil and Shareholders ordinary shares % 310,000 shares have been repurchased for cancellation since the year end.
1 FIL Limited 19,211,595 34.02 2 DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS LIABILITY INSURANCE Henderson Global Investors 3,181,375 5.63 In addition to benefits enjoyed under the Managers global 3 Directors and Officers liability insurance arrangements, the Brewin Dolphin 2,048,869 3.63 Company maintains insurance cover for its Directors under its own 2 Alliance Trust 2,016,597 3.57 policy as permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
2 Legal & General Investment 1,984,521 3.51 ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION Any amendments to the Companys Articles of Association must be 1 Held in aggregate by investors in the Fidelity ISA and the Fidelity Investment Trust made by special resolution.
Share Plan 2 Direct and indirect holdings for clients and on own account 3 Indirect holdings POLITICAL AND CHARITABLE DONATIONS The Company has not made any political or charitable donations An analysis of ordinary shareholders as at 31 August 2011 is during the year 2010: nil.
detailed in the table below.
PAYMENT OF CREDITORS Analysis of ordinary shareholders % of issued The Companys principal supplier is the Manager which is paid in as at 31 August 2011 share capital the month following the end of each calendar quarter, in accordance with the terms of the Management Agreement Private shareholders 78.39 detailed below.
The Companys policy for the years to 31 August 2011 and 31 August 2012, for all suppliers, is to fix terms of Pensions 8.21 payment when agreeing the terms of each business transaction to ensure that the supplier is aware of these terms and to abide by Institutions 8.05 the agreed terms of payment.
The Company did not have any Insurance 4.65 trade creditors in the year under review 2010: nil.
Other suppliers are paid in accordance with the individual payment terms agreed Other 0.70 with each supplier.
100.00 MANAGEMENT COMPANY The Manager, FIL Investments International, a subsidiary of FIL 1 Includes Share Plan and ISA investors Limited, provides management, accounting, administrative and secretarial services to the Company under an agreement the SHARE CAPITAL Management Agreement entered into on 6 February 2006.
The The Companys issued share capital comprises ordinary shares of Management Agreement replaced that between the same parties 25 pence each.
As at 31 August 2011 the total number of shares in dated 19 October 1994 and provides for an annual fee of an issue was 56,528,896 2010: 56,938,896.
Each share carries one amount equal to 0.875 per cent of net assets per annum for vote.
Deadlines for the exercise of voting rights and details of investment management and 600,000 for non-portfolio arrangements by which someone other than the shareholder can management services payable quarterly in arrears and calculated exercise voting rights are detailed in the Notes to the Notice of as of the last business day of March, June, September and Meeting on pages 55 and 56.
The Companys ordinary shares December in each year.
In computing the net asset value, the have a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
value of any investment in any fund which is managed by the Manager or an associate of the Manager is excluded.
SHARE ISSUES The Management Agreement will continue unless and until No shares were issued during the year and none have been terminated by either party giving to the other not less than six issued since the year end.
The authority to issue shares and months notice in writing.
The Management Agreement may, disapply pre-emption rights, granted by shareholders at the however, be terminated without compensation if the Company is Annual General Meeting held on 15 December 2010, expires at liquidated pursuant to the procedures laid down in the Articles of the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting and therefore Association of the Company.
The Management Agreement may resolutions to renew the authority will be put to shareholders for also be terminated forthwith as a result of a material breach of the approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 15 Agreement or on the insolvency of the Manager or the Company.
In December 2011. addition, the Company may terminate the Agreement by sixty days notice if the Manager ceases to be a subsidiary of FIL Limited.
Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2011 24 Directors Report The Management Engagement Committee has reviewed the business sense and have the potential to protect and enhance performance of the Manager taking into consideration those items investment returns.
Consequently, its investment process takes in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 28 to 32 of this social, environmental and ethical issues into account when, in the Annual Report.
The Committee concluded that, although returns in Managers view, these have a material impact on either the short term had been below the benchmark, it was in the long investment risk or return.
term interests of shareholders that the Management Agreement should continue.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all Directors are The Manager also provides certain services, including marketing made aware of shareholders concerns and this is done through a and administration, in connection with the Fidelity Investment Trust combination of meetings with shareholders and feedback from the Share Plan and the Fidelity ISA under an agreement dated 17 Companys stockbroker and Fidelity.
The amount payable for these services for the year to meetings with the Portfolio Manager are held throughout the year.
An amount of The shareholder profile of the Company is regularly monitored.
It is 1,726,000 2010: 700,000 was due to the Manager under all the believed that shareholders have proper access to the Manager at above agreements at 31 August 2011 and is included in other any time and to the Board, if they so wish.
Members of the Board creditors in Note 12 on page 46. may be contacted through the Company Secretary whose details are given on page 18.
Fidelity operates a broker segmentation policy, which allows it to concentrate on those brokers who, in its opinion, offer the best At general meetings all proxy votes are counted and, except service in terms of overall execution.
These brokers are Fidelitys where a poll is called, proxy voting is reported for each resolution core brokers.
At the same time, the Manager evaluates the after it has been dealt with on a show of hands.
Proxy votes are research provided by other brokers and uses some of them for disclosed on the Companys pages of the Managers website.
These brokers are called Secondary State Research firms SSRs.
The Notice of Meeting on pages 53 and 54 sets out the business of the meeting and the special resolutions are explained more fully As a consequence of the policy, the core brokers earn a larger on page 26.
A separate resolution is proposed on each percentage of the commission paid.
These core brokers pay substantially separate issue including the annual report and away some of the increased commission earned to the SSRs, to financial statements.
compensate them for the research provided to Fidelity.
Under FSA regulations this type of payment from one broker to another is The Chairman of the Board, the Chairman of the Audit Committee currently treated as softing.
The Managers soft commission policy and other Directors will be available to answer questions at the complies with the UK regulations.
Fidelity adopts a best execution Annual General Meeting.
policy that applies to all transactions in all instruments, regardless of the fund or account or location of the trading desk.
The The Notice of the Annual General Meeting and related papers are Manager has an arrangement with certain brokers whereby a sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
portion of commissions from security transactions may be paid to the Company to reduce transaction costs.
Amounts received by the ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Company under this arrangement are credited to capital and THIS SECTION IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE included in the gains losses on sales of investments in Note 9 on ATTENTION.
In the year to 31 August 2011 104,000 was received If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, you should 2010: 114,000. seek your own personal financial advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor or other financial adviser authorised under There is a regulatory requirement on the Manager to obtain best execution and no individual deal is entered into which prevents the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. compliance with this requirement.
The Board is recommending to shareholders the approval of a RESPONSIBILITY AS AN INSTITUTIONAL SHAREHOLDER dividend of 11.25 pence per share for the year ended 31 August The Board has adopted the Managers Principles of Ownership in 2011.
If approved, this dividend will be paid on 19 December 2011 relation to investments.
These principles include the pursuit of an to shareholders on the register on 18 November 2011.
The exactive investment policy through portfolio management decisions, dividend date will be 16 November 2011.
In addition, resolutions voting on resolutions at general meetings and maintaining a will be imposed to renew the Directors authority to allot securities continuing dialogue with the management of investee companies.
The authorities sought by these resolutions are to The Manager, in its Principles of Ownership, expressly declares replace the existing powers of the Directors which expire on the that it supports the Financial Reporting Councils Stewardship Code date of the Annual General Meeting AGM and to provide the setting out the responsibilities of institutional shareholders and Directors with the flexibility to issue further ordinary shares if they agents.
Further details of the Managers Principles of Ownership deem it appropriate to do so.
By law, directors are not permitted and voting may be found at www.
co. uk to allot new shares or to grant rights over shares unless authorised to do so by shareholders.
SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT The Managers primary objective is to produce superior financial returns for the Companys shareholders.
It believes that high standards of corporate social responsibility CSR make good Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2011 25 Directors Report Resolution 12 provides the Directors with a general authority to The Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing allot securities in the Company up to an aggregate nominal value its capital, financial risk management objectives, details of of 1,405,472.
If passed, this resolution will enable the Directors to financial instruments and its exposures to credit and liquidity risk allot a maximum of 5,621,888 ordinary shares which represents are also set out on pages 20 to 22 and in the Note 17 to the approximately 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Financial Statements on pages 48 to 52.
The Directors would not intend to use this power unless the premium was in excess of 2% and The Companys assets consist mainly of securities which are readily unless they considered that it was in the interests of shareholders realisable and, where outsourcing arrangements are in place, to do so.
alternative service providers are readily available.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Company is well Resolution 13 is a special resolution disapplying pre-emption rights placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current and granting authority to the Directors, without further specific uncertain economic outlook.
shareholder approval, to make allotments of equity securities for cash by way of a rights issues and b other issues up to an The Board receives regular reports from the Manager and the aggregate nominal value of 1,405,472 approximately 10% of the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 4 November the adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 2011. foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
Resolution 14 is a special resolution which, if approved, will renew the Companys authority to purchase up to 14.99% of the number of Continuation votes are held every three years and the next ordinary shares in issue on 4 November 2011 for cancellation.
continuation vote will be put to shareholders at the 2013 AGM.
Purchases of ordinary shares will be at the discretion of the Board and within guidelines set from time to time by the Board in the By Order of the Board light of prevailing market conditions.
Purchases will only be made FIL Investments International in the market at prices below the prevailing net asset value per Secretary share, thereby resulting in an increased net asset value per share.
4 November 2011 Recommendation: The Board considers that each of the resolutions is likely to promote the success of the Company and is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
The Directors unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of the resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Full details are given in the Corporate Governance Statement which forms part of the Directors Report, which can be found on pages 28 to 32.
AUDITORS RIGHT TO INFORMATION As required by Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 the Directors in office as at the date of this report each confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Auditor is unaware and each Director has taken all the steps that ought to have been taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Auditor is aware of that information.
AUDITORS APPOINTMENT A resolution to reappoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as Auditor to the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM together with a resolution to authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors remuneration.
GOING CONCERN The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business Review on pages 20 and 21.
The financial position of the Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and gearing are described in the Financial Statements and Notes thereto on pages 35 to 52.
Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2011 26
