The Boards Policies INTRODUCTION USE OF DERIVATIVES The role of the Board of Directors of your Company includes Derivatives are used on a limited basis as a tool to meet the determining the policies which govern how it is managed, which investment objectives of the Company.
They are used principally in are: the following ways: INVESTMENT GOAL: CAPITAL GROWTH 1.
As an alternative form of gearing to bank loans or bonds.
The Board of Directors recognises that investing in equities is a The Company will purchase long CFDs that achieve an long term process and that there will be variations from year to equivalent effect to bank gearing but often at lower year in the Companys returns to shareholders.
primary objective is to make money for you, the shareholders, over 2.
To hedge equity market risks where the Portfolio Manager the long term.
The Board believes that investment predominantly in considers that suitable protection can be purchased to equities will achieve this aim and we consider a five year time limit the downside of a falling market at a reasonable span to be the most appropriate term over which to consider the cost.
To enhance the investment returns by taking short exposures on stocks that the Portfolio Manager considers to be over-valued.
DIVIDEND POLICY The portfolio is managed actively in the pursuit of capital growth.
Hence, in any one year the dividend income received from The Board has created strict policies and exposure limits to investments will vary according to which stocks are owned during manage derivatives and their impacts on the different parts of the the period and so will the net income earned and the dividend business and these are monitored on a daily basis.
CURRENCY INVESTMENT POLICY The Company does not carry out currency speculation.
However, The objective of the Company is to invest predominantly in the as a sterling based fund, investments can be made in stocks in stocks and shares of companies with certain characteristics which, overseas currencies and the Portfolio Manager can reduce in the Portfolio Managers judgement, offer unusual opportunities currency exposure through the use of CFDs.
These characteristics are usually found in one or more of the following investment themes: GEARING POLICY The Board believes that long term capital growth can be Turnaround or recovery situations: enhanced by the selective use of gearing.
The Portfolio Manager Unrecognised growth opportunities: has the discretion to gear up to a maximum of 130% of Total Net Hidden jewels an under-appreciated product or division: Assets, and will use a range of instruments for gearing, such as Franchises which may be subject to corporate activity debt and CFDs, depending on the relative cost and availability of those instruments.
The Portfolio Manager has a distinct contrarian style which focuses on significant valuation anomalies in sectors and stocks which are LIQUIDITY POLICY unloved and under-owned by other institutional investors.
Where The Company will predominantly invest in securities.
The Company the opposite is true the Portfolio Manager may short companies will also ensure it has sufficient liquidity to meet its ongoing on a limited basis.
Although the portfolio consists predominantly of holdings in UK CORPORATE ACTIVISM companies, up to 20% can be invested in the shares of overseas The Board believes that the Company should, where necessary, companies.
The Company invests mainly in shares but may also take an active interest in the affairs of the companies in which it invest in equity-related instruments such as convertible bonds, invests and that it should exercise its voting rights at their general warrants or derivative contracts and in debt instruments.
The Company delegates the responsibility for corporate Company may also invest up to 5% of its assets in unquoted activism and shareholder voting to Fidelity.
Further details may be securities, but it is unlikely that the Portfolio Manager will make found in the Directors Report on page 25. such investments except where it is expected that the securities will shortly be listed.
The Board has not set a policy limiting the PREMIUM DISCOUNT MANAGEMENT amount that can be invested in any one security or sector other The Board seeks authority from shareholders each year to issue than that limited by Section 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010. new shares at a premium or buy back shares at a discount to the net asset value.
The Board may use these authorities to enhance The current investment approach is detailed in the Managers the net asset value and to protect or improve the Review on pages 6 to 8. premium discount rating of the shares.
A breakdown of the current distribution of the Companys portfolio INVESTMENT IN OTHER INVESTMENT TRUSTS is detailed on pages 11 and 12.
The Board has set a limit of 15% on the proportion of the Companys total assets that can be invested in the securities of other listed investment companies including listed investment trusts which themselves do not have stated investment policies.
Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2011 19 19
