About your Company Objective Performance To secure long-term growth in capital and income Share price total return of -4.6% over one year.
through a policy of investing primarily in an Share price total return of 13.9% and 62.3% over five internationally diversified portfolio of publicly listed and ten years respectively.
equities, as well as unlisted securities and private Dividend up 115%, or 7.8% compound, over ten years.
equity, with the use of gearing.
Increase in dividend every year for the past 41 years.
Heritage Founded in 1868 as the first ever investment trust.
Advantages of an investment trust Pioneered the concept of collective investment, by The ability as a closed-end fund to take a longgiving the small investor the same advantage as the term view and ride out difficult conditions we large institution by reducing risk through a spread of have ridden through two world wars and many investments.
Today The flexibility to invest in a wide range of assets in One of the largest global growth trusts, with total recent years we have increased our exposure to assets of over 2.2 billion investing in over 490 listed private equity.
The freedom to borrow money to improve returns Some 110,000 shareholders, with over 91,000 to shareholders in rising markets we can borrow investors through the F&C savings plans.
in sterling and foreign currencies.
Reputation The ability to buy back shares to enhance net asset Well-known and respected brand, with a reputation value and reduce discount volatility we have a buy for delivering its long-term objectives in a responsible, back policy to keep the discount below 10% in normal prudent and effective way.
Management Low charges to investors, typically well below Independent Board of Directors responsible for those for comparable unit trusts our total expense overall strategy and monitoring performance.
The cumulative benefits of such low costs over many years are very significant Management of the investments is carried out by for long-term investors.
External third party sub-managers are used to enhance investment performance where appropriate.
No cross-directorships, no cross-holdings and no conflicts of interest exist between the Company and its Manager.
com Potential investors are reminded that the value of investments and the income from them may go down as well as up and investors may not receive back the full amount invested.
Tax benefits may vary as a result of statutory changes and their value will depend on individual circumstances.
Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
