Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011 Back to contents Our services Hargreaves Lansdown aims to help each client make more of their money throughout their life.
Over the last year we have saved our clients more than 180 million in discounts on initial and annual charges along with rebates paid to clients via our Loyalty Bonus.
Vantage Service A retirement service that could Whether a first time investor or wanting to increase your income by up to 40% improve the way that existing investments We help individuals obtain a superior are managed, our aim is to give our clients retirement income.
Our annuity service all the tools, help and information they enables clients to find a better pension need to make their own investment income - in some cases it could improve decisions and save money.
In effect we income by up to 40% more.
We save want to help people become their own thousands of pounds in charges on new financial adviser.
and existing income drawdown pensions.
The Vantage Service allows clients to Looking for investment advice?
bring all their ISAs, Pensions SIPPs, and We understand that not everyone feels funds and share accounts into one easy to confident in making their own investment manage place.
decisions and some prefer individual advice.
Clients can manage their investments by Where that is the case we have a team of telephone, post or online.
By dealing with over 60 highly qualified independent us directly, they save money.
advisers based nationwide who are able to help clients either face to face or over the Timely, free investment research to telephone.
They can give one off advice, help make better investment decisions help build an investment portfolio, or Our research team headed by investment provide access to a full ongoing Portfolio experts Mark Dampier and Lee Management Service PMS.
We also provide Gardhouse investigate thousands of our own range of multi-manager funds.
The different investments and meet hundreds Hargreaves Lansdown approach is unique of fund managers a year.
Its findings are and represents the best starting point if available free via our Wealth 150 list of you're seeking advice.
It's based upon our favourite funds in each sector, latest belief you should only pay for things you investment ideas and our Investment need and value.
We believe this is just as Times newsletter.
We also keep clients up true for advice as for any other walk of life.
to date with tax and economic information in our regularly updated free guides and Corporate Services expert comments.
In addition to services for private individuals we are a leading provider and Serving clients investment needs broker of corporate pension and wrap throughout their life solutions.
Our corporate wrap allows It is now possible to have a SIPP shortly employees to benefit from the Hargreaves after you are born.
From November 2011 Lansdown Vantage service via their the Junior ISA is being launched for workplace.
From the age of 16 clients can award-winning SIPP, ISA, Fund and Share have the standard ISA, and from 18 a accounts.
We also offer a market-leading Fund and Share dealing account.
All these retirement and annuity broking service accounts can remain with our clients and allowing employees to obtain a higher be administered by us for life.
Along the income via our annuity search engine.
way we shall aim to continue to offer our clients the best price, best information Other Services and best service to help maintain We offer a foreign currency service to both complete client satisfaction.
As and when private clients and companies and for the investment landscape, pension rules, more sophisticated investors the ability to or tax laws change we will be here to invest in Venture Capital Trusts VCTs, assist clients to help them make the most Enterprise Investment Schemes EIS, appropriate decisions on their Contracts For Difference and Financial investments.
4 Back to contents Our Clients Hargreaves Lansdown was We have 380,000 active Vantage clients established 30 years ago and and 11,400 clients in our Portfolio offers a range of investment Management Service.
We have client products, investment services, relationships with 570 companies including 30 FTSE100 companies.
The key financial planning and advice.
to the growth and success of our services is that we listen to our clients and respond We have established a reputation to their needs.
We welcome comments and for providing high quality service criticisms so that we can further improve the service and provide clients with what and value-for-money products to they want.
Our management team review private investors, whether they are and respond to client feedback personally.
making their own investment decisions or looking for an The full range of our services can be advisory or discretionary service.
viewed on the website at www.
co. uk investment services Our Corporate annuity and Corporate Vantage wrap services are provided to many household names: 5 Financial Statements Governance Performance Review Strategic Review Introduction Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011 Back to contents Case studies McCarthy & Stone - Simplifying pension administration and helping its employees to manage their savings.
McCarthy & Stone is Britains largest One simpler scheme builder of retirement homes.
Following Reduced administration a major review of its pension More choice arrangements, McCarthy & Stone Better education switched to Hargreaves Lansdowns Better web access and service Corporate Vantage in November 2010.
Good value and greater transparency The problem The launch The previous pension schemes were The new scheme allowed employees to timeconsuming to administer and join online, through a branded website, oered very limited web access.
Our financial The Hargreaves Lansdown Corporate They had complicated charges with education team held 19 group Wrap delivered exactly what it little transparency.
presentations and 314 individual promised: simple administration, meetings across six company sites, seamless implementation and The sheer complexity prevented many managing the whole process with excellent financial education sessions employees from taking up a pension.
minimal disruption for McCarthy & for our people.
An excellent result McCarthy & Stone wanted one simple Stone and its employees.
Paula Jordan, scheme with easy set-up and McCarthy & Stone HR Director administration, a wider choice of funds, The results easy web access, good value and better financial education.
20% increase in pension take-up compared with the The solution previous scheme After months of research, McCarthy & 42% of current members Stone could not nd an insurance increased their contributions Switching to the Vantage provider able to meet all its Several employees have taken requirements.
Hargreaves Lansdowns up the HL Corporate ISA SIPP to cut costs Corporate Vantage ticked all the boxes: Edward Pearson 63 from West Yorkshire became disillusioned with the costs he was paying his pension provider.
Why I transferred to the Vantage SIPP Richard Cooke 43 transferred to the statement a There were several features that Vantage SIPP so he could hold his year, which attracted me to the Vantage SIPP, the pension alongside his ISAs and often left me main one being cost.
I was paying a 2% investments unsure where annual charge on my old pension and my pension the service was poor.
Ive been using the Vantage Service for was invested.
several years to invest in funds and Switching to the Vantage SIPP has shares.
I nd it low cost and convenient The SIPP is far more transparent as I can helped me cut costs.
There were no set and like having the option of managing get a valuation and see where Im up charges, no charges to transfer in my my account online.
I can make my pension and I pay Hargreaves Lansdown own decisions and invest almost no initial or annual charges for my funds.
I recently transferred my pension, a anywhere I like.
stakeholder, to the Vantage SIPP so I I like being able to buy and sell could manage my pension alongside my Transferring was easy.
The legwork was investments online.
I can now see them all on a done by Hargreaves Lansdown on my Lansdown helpdesk is always on hand single statement.
behalf and it ran very smoothly.
The to answer my questions too.
I heard service has been first class, exactly good reports about Hargreaves The investment choice in my stakeholder what Ive come to expect from Lansdown and Im pleased to say was very limited.
I received just one Hargreaves Lansdown.
