Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011 Back to contents Board of Directors Michael Evans, FIA Michael became a non-executive director of the Company in September 2006.
Michael Chairman, 50 is a qualied actuary with 27 years' industry experience.
He has recently completed a two year assignment as director of life insurance at Pinsent Masons LLP.
Michael was Appointed Chairman in formerly Chief Operating Ocer at Skandia UK Limited.
December 2009 Non-Executive Director of ING Real Estate Investment Management UK Limited.
Ian Gorham, ACA Ian joined Hargreaves Lansdown in 2009 as Chief Operating Ocer.
Ian qualied as a Chief Executive Ocer, 39 Chartered Accountant in 1996.
Previously he helped build Deloitte's UK financial services operations and was Head of Grant Thornton's UK financial services business.
Appointed CEO in Ian has worked with many financial services companies on a wide range of strategic September 2010 and operational matters.
Tracey Taylor, FCCA MSI Tracey joined Hargreaves Lansdown in 1999.
Her responsibilities within the Group Group Finance Director, 39 have included systems, group finance, treasury, client accounting and the company secretarial function.
In 2006 Tracey was appointed to the role of Group Accounting Appointed Group Finance Director in Director and to the Executive Committee before being appointed to the main Board in November 2008 2008.
Prior to joining Hargreaves Lansdown she qualied as an accountant in 1994 before working for LloydsTSB.
Peter Hargreaves, FCA Peter co-founded Hargreaves Lansdown in 1981, and was Chief Executive of the Group Executive Director, 64 until September 2010.
Previously, he qualied as a Chartered Accountant and worked for KPMG, Unisys Group and Whitbread Plc.
Appointed to his current role in September 2010 formerly CEO Non-Executive director of ITM Power Plc.
Jonathan Bloomer, FCA Jonathan was Chief Executive of Prudential plc.
He also spent twenty years in practice Senior Independent with Arthur Andersen LLP.
Jonathan was Chairman of the Practitioner Panel of the FSA.
Non-Executive Director, 57 His previous positions also include board membership of the Association of British Insurers, Geneva Association International Association for the Study of Insurance Appointed Non-Executive Director in Economics and Railtrack plc.
Chairman of the Audit Committee, Nomination Committee and Jonathan is a Partner in Cerberus European Capital Advisers LLP, Executive Chairman of Remuneration Committee Lucida Plc, Chairman of Scottish RE Group Ltd, non-executive director of Autonomy Plc.
Chris Barling, BSc Chris became a non-executive director of the Company in August 2010.
Chris has over Non-Executive Director, 55 30 years IT industry experience and formerly held senior IT roles in Cable & Wireless and Reuters.
He is the co-founder of Actinic, the software company specialising in Appointed Non-Executive Director in ecommerce solutions for SMEs.
Member of the Audit Committee, Nomination Committee and Chairman of Private Software Limited, and wholly owned subsidiaries, including Actinic Remuneration Committee Software Limited, and director of WorriedNow Limited.
Stephen Lansdown, FCA, FSI Stephen co-founded Hargreaves Lansdown in 1981, and was Chairman of the Group Non-Independent until November 2009.
Previously, he qualied as a Chartered Accountant in 1975 and Non-Executive Director, 59 specialised in taxation with Touche Ross & Co. Stephen is a Fellow of the Securities & Investment Institute.
Appointed to his current role in His other directorships are Pula Limited, Pula Properties Limited, Sustainable Technology August 2010 formerly Chairman Guernsey Limited, Willoughby 481 Limited and St James Parade 122 Limited.
