InvestMent MAnAgeRs RePoRt The 5.1% decline in NAV is disappointing, and at odds with what has seemed a very good year.
Throughout the year many days have started miserably with the deluge of grim political and economic news.
Earthquakes and floods have added to the woes.
Yet every day we have been cheered by meetings and results from companies with news flow that has been altogether more satisfactory.
It seems that the TMT technology, media and telecommunications sector in which we invest has operated on a different cycle, not economically, but temperamentally.
The sectors period of madness was in 2000, when excessive confidence led to insane valuations: over-exuberant growth plans: excessive investment: and unsound jargon became the order of the day: land grab, multiples of sales, salary inflation, excessive IPOs, acquisitions using overrated paper etc.
The sector came down to earth with a bump in 2002.
Since then, technology company managements are wiser, and sound business fundamentals have resumed with cash-generative, controlled growth the objective.
The madness of the financial and property sector bubbles followed that of the TMT bubble, eventually extending to the consumer.
I fear excessive leverage will take longer to repair than the TMT follies, but let us hope that there is a similarly effective grounding in other parts of the economy.
Meanwhile we can enjoy the progress in the sector in which we invest.
UK The UK declined marginally in capital terms, but yield raised the total return to 1.5%.
This is some 15% ahead of the HGSC Index plus AIM capital gains ex investment companies, but this is a general index, so a flattering comparator on this occasion.
Nevertheless, since inception the internal rate of return of HITs UK portfolio is nearly 15% in capital terms versus the HGSC Index rising just over 3% per annum, so 2011s outperformance is not so far ahead of the long-term average.
Eleven holdings appreciated by more than 1m over the year, and 19 fell by more than 1m, so performance was mixed.
Phoenix IT and IQE proved the most expensive, each declining more than 5m, but neither are troubled businesses, and I remain confident about their potential.
In contrast, both Alterian and Patsystems genuinely disappointed expectations and in consequence were both defenceless when approached for a takeover.
Imagination, Telecom Plus and NCC were large holdings that performed well, offsetting the losers.
There were five other UK takeovers which, including Alterian and Patsystems, yielded 29m cash.
Collectively over time the stocks taken over increased the assets of the Company by 15.6m, of which Group NBT was the most significant.
In recent years I have been disappointed by some takeovers occurring at too low a price.
It has been frustrating to have invested pre-profits at a high risk stage to find the company is taken over at a much lower-risk stage, with profits potential remaining.
I have been less anguished by this years takeovers, because a number had management issues.
As ever, the cash is helpful, and in particularly short supply when there are excellent opportunities arising from low, and sometimes anomalously low valuations associated with the perennial cash outflow from shrinking the UK equity market.
The Bank of England helpfully quantified this in a recent report.
Between 2003 and 2008, the average monthly net withdrawal primary capital issues less take-over and buybacks was 0.7bn.
There was a brief respite in 200910 reflecting rescue rights issues, but outflows have resumed at a similar rate in 2011.
The TMT space should be an area prolific for IPOs, but when fund managers have negative cash flows the resources are not available, which I find disturbing as a UK taxpayer.
It is advantageous to be able to buy stocks inexpensively, but it is disappointing to have missed out on investable propositions, because there were insufficient other funds prepared to invest.
HERALD INVESTMENT TRUST plc 7 InvestMent MAnAgeRs RePoRt continued Us The Trusts US return was marginally negative at -2.5%, which was 6.2% ahead of the most relevant index, the Russell 2000 Technology Index.
In contrast the large capitalisation index was virtually flat.
As in the UK, performance was mixed.
com and Anadigics all fell by $4m, but were offset by the star performer for the year, Silicon Motion.
At the start of the year HIT was its largest institutional shareholder, but some quality names have built stakes this year.
It provides controllers for flash memory, which is being widely used in Android mobile phones.
Ceva and OCZ also contributed usefully, the first providing IP for the baseband in phones, and the second also in the flash memory market.
The long term returns for HIT in the US have been materially inferior to the UK and European returns, albeit better than the relevant US indices.
This may appear anomalous given the number of strong US companies, but reflects valuations that have often discounted too much growth at IPO.
However, these have come down, and technology stocks no longer have a premium valuation to the S&P in p e terms in spite of the S&P p e also being low by historic standards.
I am more tempted than at any stage to increase the US weighting because of improved relative valuations.
europe Europe has had a dire year.
This was reflected in very limited exposure to Europe, and the decline of 21.8% would have been worse but for the takeovers of Norkom Ireland and Infovista France.
The European exposure of 9.3m at the year-end, and only 12.3m at the start of the year is minimal.
The trouble is that so much of Europe is so horribly uncommercial, with shareholders ranking low in the pecking order.
It seems things can only get worse in the short term.
We are privileged at Herald to have the chance to meet management around the globe.
More than ever the UK and the US appear safer homes than raw economic data might suggest.
Far east It has been a challenging year in Asia.
We have previously commented that the manufacturing nature of the Far East, often with little pricing power, makes companies vulnerable to reduced demand.
This has occurred this year, particularly in the second half.
The biggest exposure is to South Korea, which seems to be moving up the value chain, and performance positively returned 1.5%, but Taiwan was poor.
Overall the Far East declined 16.6% swap The fund continues to have a facility of 50m.
Nearly four years ago interest rates seemed attractively low, and worth locking in at the available level.
Neither the Board nor I anticipated the degree to which yields have continued to fall.
The mark to market loss is now 20.4m, but need never be realised if we carry forward the position, as we currently plan to do.
