CoMPAnY sUMMARY CoMPAnY DAtA At 31 DeCeMBeR 2011 total assets shareholders funds Market capitalisation 520m 449m 363m Before deduction of bank loans and derivative financial instruments Policy and Objective Heralds objective is to achieve capital appreciation through investments in smaller quoted companies, in the areas of telecommunications, multimedia and technology TMT.
Investments may be made across the world.
The business activities of investee companies will include information technology, broadcasting, printing and publishing and the supply of equipment and services to these companies.
The Companys investment policy is contained within the Business Review on page 22.
Comparative Index The portfolio comparative index against which performance is measured 2 is 3 Hoare Govett Smaller Companies Index plus AIM capital gains ex.
1 investment companies and 3 Russell 2000 small cap Technology Index in sterling terms.
Though we consider this comparative index to provide a reasonable base for measuring the Companys performance, the portfolio is not modelled on it and outcomes may diverge widely.
Management Details Herald Investment Management Limited HIML is the appointed investment manager to the Company.
The management contract can be terminated at twelve months notice.
Administration of the Company and its investments is contracted by HIML to Baillie Gifford & Co, who also act as Company Secretary.
Capital Structure The Companys share capital consists of 79,698,283 Ordinary shares of 25p each which are issued and fully paid.
The Company has been granted authority to buy back a limited number of its own Ordinary shares for cancellation.
During the year 215,000 Ordinary shares were bought back for cancellation.
The Directors are seeking to renew this authority at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Management Fee Herald Investment Management Limiteds annual remuneration is 1.0% of the Companys net asset value based on middle market prices, calculated on a monthly basis payable in arrears.
Wind-Up At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held in April 2010 shareholders voted in favour of the Company continuing to operate as an investment trust.
The next continuation vote is in 2013 and every third year thereafter.
AIC The Company is a member of the Association of Investment Companies.
None of the views expressed in this document should be construed as advice to buy or sell a particular investment.
Investment trusts are UK public listed companies and as such comply with the requirements of the UK Listing Authority.
They are not authorised or regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
