Enterprise Gartner is a leading IT research house which analyses the large enterprises IT budgets.
They have published interesting statistics stating that the average IT spend per employee for their customer base was $12,700 in 2011.
Of this, 41% was spent on IT staff and a further 21% outsourced.
75% of total spend was operational expenditure versus 25% capital investment.
Internal IT departments are facing huge challenges.
Legacy systems are hugely expensive to maintain, and employees from 21 year old starters to the Chairman are increasingly IT literate, and expect consumer quality, which comes at a small fraction of the cost of business systems, whose development costs cannot be amortised over millions of units.
Enterprises have to address the requirement for mobile internet, and they are having to respond to the social media phenomena in marketing, advertising and more sophisticated business intelligence applications.
The majority of IT spend relates to legacy applications, and expenditure will be made to save costs.
It seems probable that internal operational expenditure will fall as legacy applications are gradually replaced by cloud architecture, which may well be outsourced.
This is akin to the food retailing chains development of their buying power, which squeezed the food manufacturers.
As companies migrate IT resources to third party data centres, with large buying power, it seems probable that there will be a similar squeeze on suppliers.
Again winners and losers are inevitable, but note that 75% of spend is virtually non-discretionary operational cost, which can only be reduced with investment.
The big trend to come has been described as the internet of everything.
The internet began as a network of computers, then phones, and next devices.
A hyperconnected world is emerging where everything physical and virtual has its own URL IP address and can communicate information.
Machine-to-machine communication, RFID chips, QR codes, GPS, NFC, IP video are innovations that have already begun to emerge, but there will be more.
summary The prospective p e of the portfolio is c. 12x on analysts forecasts.
It seems that forecasts may in aggregate fall to a lower rate of growth, but a couple of warnings on US holdings left the share prices relatively unscathed.
I expect a more difficult year for profits growth, but a better year for share prices, because there is fundamental value.
A resolution of the structural issues in Europe could see a dramatic upside, and a lower chance of a worsening.
Currently the fund is fully invested reflecting confidence in the value in the portfolio, but it is reassuring to have the proceeds of the borrowing facility available if there is a material wobble, which could provide some outstanding opportunities.
