InvestMent MAnAgeRs RePoRt continued sector Background The TMT space has the luxury and challenge of supplying multiple market sectors.
It is wise to assume that consumer, Government and enterprise spending will be constrained in the coming year, so how will it affect the TMT sectors?
Consumer There are now over 2 billion connected consumers globally.
This century has seen universal consumer adoption of the internet: Initially narrow band for e-mails, and search Google, and progressively broadband, and the mobile internet.
This has led to the emergence of social media Facebook, Twitter et al, internet TV Netflix now accounts for 40% of internet traffic in the US, e-Readers, online shopping and more.
Can the indebted consumer in the Anglo-Saxon world, or the poor consumers in the emerging world afford to maintain, and even increase their expenditure?
Increasingly the consumer cannot afford not to be connected.
Indeed for many users the cost of internet connection is actually negative, reflecting the sums saved on flights, holidays, insurance, on-line shopping etc.
The savings are being created by disintermediation of middlemen insurance brokers, travel agents, book shops, specialist retailers etc, by reduced administration costs and by the enablement of pricing comparisons and therefore suppliers margin pressure.
In addition for many products there is a profound disruption in the retail channel.
There is evidently a diversion of consumer expenditure to fund internet access, the devices that enable it and the products and services available over it.
As networks are upgraded, and users learn the enhanced capabilities usage will grow, and the thirst for upgraded devices will continue.
Usage will have to become metred, and the days of unlimited access are numbered.
In the emerging world, while expenditure and therefore savings are less, the communications leap is greater, and more basic markets such as banking are being opened up.
There remains a strong following wind!
Government With fiscal deficits everywhere there will be pressures.
However, large parts of Government are bureaucratic, and have been slow and inefficient about adopting cost-saving technology solutions.
Furthermore, Governments have huge installed bases of legacy systems with viciously high maintenance costs.
Some of the large legacy technology companies could well be challenged by an erosion of these lucrative maintenance charges when applications and databases are migrated to more efficient cloud architectures.
Essentially the cloud is not an application, but it enables existing applications to be delivered more cheaply, and enables new applications such as social media to exist.
There has been a fashion for outsourcing services.
While this has further to run, in the UK and US many long term contracts are firmly in renewal territory.
These suppliers should be vulnerable to difficult headwinds.
Traditional defence expenditure looks particularly vulnerable, but as military headcount and weapons expenditure reduce, there simply must be a corresponding diversion of resources to cyber security.
i protecting data against criminals internally as well as externally.
ii protecting data and infrastructure against terrorists or hostile states.
iii it has become evident this year with the Arab Spring and riots in the UK, that social media poses new challenges that Governments will have to address.
IT spending looks set to rise overall, but almost certainly there will be incumbent losers, and newcomers addressing the new issues.
