DIReCtoRs RePoRt continued Corporate governance Compliance The Board is committed to achieving and demonstrating high standards of Corporate Governance.
This statement outlines how the principles of the June 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, which can be found at www.
uk, were applied throughout the financial year.
The Board confirms that the Company has complied throughout the year under review with the relevant provisions of the Code, except that Mr J Cazalet, Chairman of the Board, is a member of the Audit Comittee.
The Board believes that it is appropriate for Mr Cazalet to be a member of the Audit Committee as he is considered to be independent and there are no conflicts of interest.
The Association of Investment Companies has published its own Code of Corporate Governance which provides a framework of best practice for investment companies which can be found at www.
The Board is of the opinion that the Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code.
the Board The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys affairs.
It has a number of matters reserved for its approval including strategy, approval of the financial statements, investment policy, borrowings, gearing, treasury matters, dividend and corporate governance policy.
The Board also reviews the financial statements, investment transactions, revenue budgets and performance.
Full and timely information is provided to the Board to enable it to function effectively and to allow Directors to discharge their responsibilities.
Following the appointment of Mr SW Newton on 6 January 2012, the Board comprises five Directors, all of whom are non-executive.
The Chairman is responsible for organising the business of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The executive responsibilities for investment management and administration have been delegated to Herald Investment Management Limited HIML and Baillie Gifford & Co respectively, and in the context of a Board comprising entirely non-executive Directors, there is no chief executive officer.
Mr DCP McDougall is the senior independent director.
The Directors believe that the Board has a balance of skills and experience which enable it to provide effective leadership and proper governance of the Company.
Information about the Directors, including their relevant experience, can be found on page 4.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to seek independent professional advice if necessary at the Companys expense.
terms of Appointment The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set out in formal letters of appointment which are available for inspection on request.
Under the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association, a Director appointed during the year is required to retire and seek election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
The Board has agreed that all Directors will retire annually and if appropriate, offer themselves for re-election.
Independence of Directors All the Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of the Manager and free of any business or other relationship which could interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Mr CM Brendish and Mr DCP McDougall have served on the Board for more than nine years.
Mr Brendish is not offering himself for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The Directors recognise the importance of succession planning for company boards and review the Board composition annually.
However, the Board is of the view that length of service will not necessarily compromise the independence or contribution of Directors of an investment trust company, where continuity and experience can be a benefit to the Board.
The Board subscribes to the view expressed in the AIC Code that long-serving directors should not be prevented from being considered as independent.
Following a formal performance evaluation, the Board has concluded that Mr Brendish and Mr McDougall continue to be independent in character and judgement and their skills and experience have been a benefit to the Board.
Meetings There is an annual cycle of Board meetings which is designed to address, in a systematic way, overall strategy, review of investment policy, investment performance, revenue budgets, dividend policy and communication with shareholders.
The Board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to discharge its duties effectively.
The table on page 25 shows the attendance record for the Board and Committee meetings held during the year.
All the Directors attended the Annual General Meeting.
