Board of Directors The Directors, all of whom are non-executive and independent of the Investment Adviser, are listed below.
Mr Graham Picken 62 Chairman Appointed to the Board 12 January 2006 Graham Picken is an experienced banker and financial practitioner and has been Chairman of the Company since its launch.
Formerly, a non executive director of the Derbyshire Building Society, he was appointed Chief Executive of the Derbyshire in February 2008 and led the society to a merger with Nationwide Building Society in December 2008, standing down at the end of March 2009 to take on a short-term advisory role with the Bank of England.
Until 2003, Grahams career spanned over thirty years with Midland and HSBC Banks where, before he retired, he was General Manager of HSBC Bank plc responsible for commercial and corporate banking including specialised and equity Standing: John Hallam left and Chris Russell right.
Seated: Sarah Evans left and Graham Picken right.
Before that Graham was Chief Executive of Forward Trust Group, an authorised bank, and Chairman of First Direct, a division of HSBC Bank plc.
Graham has also been a non-executive director of Mr John Hallam 62 HM Customs & Excise.
Appointed to the Board 12 January 2006 Graham has no other listed company directorships John lives in Guernsey, is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and qualified as an accountant in Mrs Sarah Evans 56 1971.
He is a former partner of  having Appointed to the Board 9 June 2008 retired in 1999 after 27 years with the firm both in Guernsey and in other countries.
He is currently Chairman of Cazenove Absolute Sarah Evans is a Chartered Accountant and is a director of several Equity Ltd, Dexion Absolute Ltd and Partners Group Global other listed investment funds, as well as an unlisted fund of hedge Opportunities Ltd as well as being a director of a number of other funds.
She is a member of the Institute of Directors.
He served for many years as a member Sarah spent over six years with the Barclays Bank PLC group from 1994 of the Guernsey Financial Services Commission from which he retired to 2001.
During that time she was a treasury director and from 1996 to in 2006, having been its Chairman for the previous three years.
1998 she was Finance Director of Barclays Mercantile, where she was Other public company directorships responsible for all aspects of financial control and operational risk listed in London unless noted otherwise : management.
Prior to joining Barclays Sarah ran her own consultancy BH Global Limited listed on London, Bermuda and Dubai business advising financial institutions on all aspects of securitisation.
Cazenove Absolute Equity Limited From 1982 to 1988 Sarah was with Kleinwort Benson, latterly as head Dexion Absolute Limited of group finance.
She is resident in Guernsey.
NB Distressed Debt listed on SFM London Other public company directorships listed in London : NB Private Equity Partners Limited listed on SFM London and Crystal Amber Fund Limited listed on AIM Amsterdam CQS Diversified Fund Limited Partners Group Global Opportunities Limited listed on Ireland Harbourvest Senior Loans Europe Limited Vision Opportunity China Fund Limited listed on AIM Japanese Leisure Hotels Limited listed on AIM Mr Chris Russell 62 Mr Henri Grisius 67 Appointed to the Board on 1 June 2010 Appointed to the Board 12 January 2006, Henri retired as a director Chris is a Guernsey resident non-executive director of investment of the Company on 1 June 2010. and financial companies in the US, UK, Hong Kong and Guernsey.
He Henri lives in Luxembourg and is the founder and managing partner is also Deputy Chairman of the UK trade body, the Association of of RSM Henri Grisius & Associs Srl, and is a director of a number Investment Companies.
Chris was formerly a director of Gartmore of international investment companies.
He is a former partner of Investment Management Plc, where he was Head of Gartmores Ernst & Young and BDO in Luxembourg.
Before that he set up the businesses in the US and Japan and before that was a holding board investment funds department of Banque fide Luxembourg in director of the Jardine Fleming Group in Asia.
He is a Fellow of the UK Luxembourg.
He started his career with the Luxembourg Stock Society of Investment Professionals and a Fellow of the Institute of Exchange in 1969.
Chartered Accountants in England & Wales.
Henri has no other public company directorships Other public company directorships listed in London unless noted otherwise : JP Morgan Japan Smaller Companies Trust plc Certain of the Directors maintain additional directorships that F&C Commercial Property Trust Ltd are also listed but not actively traded on various exchanges.
Korea Fund Inc listed in New York Details may be obtained from the Corporate Secretary.
