HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Global businesses Products and services Products and services HSBC Premier provides preferential banking services and Retail Banking and Wealth Management global recognition to our mass affluent customers and their immediate families with a dedicated relationship manager, RBWM offers its products and services to customers specialist wealth advice and tailored solutions.
Customers can based on their individual needs.
Premier and Advance access emergency travel assistance, priority telephone banking services are targeted at mass affluent and emerging and an online global view of their Premier accounts around the world.
affluent customers who value international connectivity and benefit from our global reach and HSBC Advance provides a range of preferential products and services customised to meet local needs.
For customers who have simpler everyday telephone service, access to wealth advice and online tools to banking needs, we offer a full range of banking support financial planning, it gives customers an online global products and services reflecting local requirements.
view of their Advance accounts.
Wealth Solutions & Financial Planning: a financial In addition, we are one of the largest card issuers planning process designed around individual customer needs in the world, offering HSBC branded cards, co-branded to help our clients to protect, grow and manage their wealth cards with selected partners and private label store through investment and wealth insurance products manufactured by Global Asset Management, Global Markets cards.
and HSBC Insurance and by selected third-party providers.
Typically, customer offerings include personal Global Asset Management offers investment solutions to banking products current and savings accounts, individual investors, financial intermediaries and institutions globally.
mortgages and personal loans, credit cards, debit cards Customers can transact with the bank via a range of channels and local and international payment services and such as internet banking and self-service terminals in addition to wealth management services insurance and traditional and automated branches and telephone service centres.
investment products and financial planning services.
Lending: we offer a broad range of domestic and cross-border Commercial Banking financing, including overdrafts, term loans and syndicated, leveraged, acquisition and project finance.
Asset finance is also We segment our CMB business into Corporate, to offered in selected countries.
serve both corporate and mid-market companies with more sophisticated financial needs, and Business International trade and receivables finance: we provide buyers and suppliers with products and services such as Banking, to serve small and medium-sized enterprises documentary credits and collections, import and export SMEs.
This enables the development of tailored finance, guarantees and forfaiting to facilitate trade payments, customer propositions while adopting a broader view finance the trade cycle and help mitigate risk throughout the supply chain.
Our Receivables Finance proposition for of the entire commercial banking sector, from sole domestic and international customers is offered through an traders to large corporations.
This allows us to provide extensive network.
continuous support to companies as they grow both Payments and cash management: we are a leading domestically and internationally, and ensures a clear provider of domestic and cross-border payments, collections, focus on internationally aspirant customers, who are liquidity management and account services offering local, typically key to innovation and growth in market regional and global solutions delivered via e-enabled platforms designed to address the current and future needs of our clients.
GB&M: our CMB franchise represents a key client base for We place particular emphasis on international GB&M products and services, including foreign exchange and connectivity to meet the needs of our business interest rate products, together with capital raising on debt and equity markets and advisory services.
We aim to be recognised as the Leading international trade and business bank by focusing on Commercial cards: card issuing helps customers enhance faster-growing markets, enhancing collaboration with cash management, credit control and purchasing.
Card acquiring services enable merchants to accept credit and debit GB&M, capturing growth in international SMEs and card payments in person or remotely.
driving efficiency gains through adopting a global Insurance: we offer business and financial protection, trade operating model.
insurance, employee benefits, corporate wealth management and a variety of other commercial risk insurance products 44 Global Markets operations consist of treasury and capital Global Banking and Markets markets services.
Products include foreign exchange: currency, interest rate, bond, credit, equity and other derivatives: GB&M provides tailored financial solutions to major government and non-government fixed income and money government, corporate and institutional clients and market instruments: precious metals and exchange-traded private investors worldwide.
Managed as a global futures: equity services: distribution of capital markets business, GB&M operates a long-term relationship instruments: and securities services, including custody and clearing services and funds administration to both domestic management approach to build a full understanding of and cross-border investors.
Sector-focused client Global Banking offers financing, advisory and transaction service teams comprising relationship managers and services.
Products include: product specialists develop financial solutions to meet capital raising, advisory services, bilateral and syndicated individual client needs.
With presence in over 60 lending, leveraged and acquisition finance, structured and project finance, lease finance and non-retail deposit taking: countries territories and access to HSBCs worldwide international, regional and domestic payments and cash presence and capabilities, this business serves management services: and trade services for large corporate subsidiaries and offices of our clients on a global basis.
GB&M is managed as two principal business lines: Global Markets and Global Banking.
This structure allows us to focus on relationships and sectors that best fit the Groups footprint and facilitate seamless delivery of our products and services to clients.
Private Banking services comprise multi-currency deposit Global Private Banking accounts and fiduciary deposits, credit and specialist lending, treasury trading services, cash management, securities custody HSBC Private Bank is the principal marketing name of and clearing.
GPB works to ensure that its clients have full our private banking business, GPB.
Utilising the most access to other products and services available in HSBC such suitable products from the marketplace, GPB works as credit cards, internet banking, corporate banking and investment banking.
with high net-worth clients to offer both traditional and innovative ways to manage and preserve wealth while Investment Management comprises both advisory and discretionary investment services.
A wide range of investment optimising returns.
vehicles is covered, including bonds, equities, derivatives, options, futures, structured products, mutual funds and GPB has a global presence with major centres in alternatives hedge funds, private equity and real estate.
Hong Kong, Singapore, London, Switzerland, Monaco, Trust Solutions comprises inheritance planning, trustee New York and Miami to identify opportunities which and other fiduciary services designed to protect wealth and meet clients needs and investment strategies.
preserve it for future generations through structures tailored to meet the individual needs of each family.
Areas of expertise include trusts, foundation and company administration, charitable trusts and foundations, insurance, family office advisory and philanthropy.
Corporate Finance Solutions helps provide clients with cross-border solutions for their companies, working in conjunction with GB&M.
45 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Global businesses RBWM Retail Banking and Wealth Management Review of performance RBWM reported a profit before tax of RBWM provides banking and wealth US$4.3bn, 11% higher than 2010 and 6% higher management services to individual on an underlying basis, most notably in Rest of customers across our principal Asia-Pacific and Latin America, where the geographic markets.
increased profitability reflected strong business and revenue growth.
The pre-tax profit of RBWM was significantly 2011 2010 2009 affected by the US Card and Retail Services US$m US$m US$m business, of which we announced the pending Net interest income........... 24,101 24,166 25,099 sale, and the US run-off portfolios.
Net fee income.................. 8,226 8,397 9,138 Other income.................... 1,206 1,048 2,060 RBWM profit loss before tax 52 Net operating income.... 33,533 33,611 36,297 2011 2010 2009 53 Impairment charges........ 9,319 11,259 19,902 US$m US$m US$m Net operating income..... 24,214 22,352 16,395 US Card and Retail Services 2,061 1,979 498 US run-off portfolios........... 4,472 4,076 5,065 Total operating expenses.. 21,202 19,539 18,976 Rest of RBWM.................... 6,681 5,936 2,721 Operating profit loss.... 3,012 2,813 2,581 4,270 3,839 1,846 54 Income from associates.. 1,258 1,026 735 Profit loss before tax.... 4,270 3,839 1,846 Revenue was marginally lower than 2010, with 55 strong growth in Latin America 9% and Rest RoRWA 1.2% 1.1% 0.5% of Asia Pacific 8% and modest growth in Hong Kong 3% more than offset by lower revenues in North America from the continued Strong revenue growth in run-off in the CML portfolios, lower balances in faster-growing regions US Card and Retail Services and an increase in adverse fair value movements on non-qualifying hedges.
Run-off portfolio balances reduced by In Latin America, revenue growth reflected US$8.9bn increased average lending and higher sales of unit-linked pensions and credit protection products in Brazil, together with business growth in Argentina on the back of favourable Best Wealth Management House, economic conditions.
Gains on the sale and Hong Kong leaseback of branches in Mexico contributed The Asset Triple A Investment Awards 2011 US$36m to revenue growth.
Strategic direction Revenue in Rest of Asia-Pacific increased, RBWMs aim is to provide consistent and high quality retail primarily as a result of significant lending banking and wealth management services to our customers.
growth in mortgages, notably in Australia and We will provide retail banking services in markets where we Singapore due to competitive product offerings already have scale or where scale can be built over time and we and strong property markets, and increased will implement standardised distribution and service models to ensure we can deliver them more efficiently.
As wealth creation deposit spreads in a number of countries such as continues to grow in both developed and faster-growing markets, mainland China and India.
This was partly offset we will leverage our global propositions such as Premier and our by narrower asset spreads reflecting competitive bancassurance and asset management capabilities to deepen our existing customer relationships and the penetration of our wealth pressures.
In Hong Kong, revenues increased from sales We focus on three strategic imperatives: of wealth management products, notably from developing world class wealth management for retail customers: insurance, reflecting successful sales activity leveraging global expertise in retail banking: and and higher demand.
This was partly offset by portfolio management to drive superior returns.
narrower asset spreads, reflecting a shift in the product mix to lower yielding, HIBOR-linked For footnotes, see page 95. mortgages and competitive pressures.
46 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk Asset Management was broadly unchanged, provisions fell by 18% to US$9.3bn with a reflecting difficult market conditions, significant decline in North America as we particularly in the second half of the year.
continued to run off the CML portfolios, and as Growth in our insurance operations was largely balances fell and delinquency rates improved in driven by strong sales of unit-linked and the Card and Retail Services business.
deferred annuity products in Hong Kong and Excluding our US Card and Retail Services and sales of unit-linked products in Brazil.
We also US run-off portfolios, loan impairment charges benefited from a refinement to the calculation of decreased by US$650m reflecting lower the PVIF asset.
Favourable trends during the delinquency rates in the UK due to improved first half of the year were partly offset by collections, and the managing down of weaker investment returns in the second half of unsecured lending portfolios in Rest of Asia- 2011.
Pacific and the Middle East, which more than offset increases in Latin America resulting from During the year, 62% of the qualifying lending growth.
population of HSBC Global Asset Management Funds ranked in the top half based on past Operating expenses increased by 6% to performance against their peer and sector groups US$21.2bn.
Increased costs included US$875m over a 3 year period, up from 47% in 2010. of provisions relating to UK customer redress Global Asset Management also successfully programmes, including a charge in respect of the launched an Asian High Yield Bond Fund possible mis-selling of PPI in the UK in raising US$1.2bn in 2011. previous years.
This was partly offset by a US$264m credit resulting from a change in the Our World Selection global investment offering inflation measure used to calculate the defined continued to attract new assets as a core wealth benefit obligation for deferred pensions, also in solution for customers, resulting in total FuM of the UK.
Restructuring costs were incurred US$8.6bn at 31 December 2011 compared with during 2011 as we drove organisational change US$7.2bn at 31 December 2010.
During 2011 to reduce the cost base and exited certain we launched the Global Investment Centre in markets or non-strategic lines of business.
In the UK, which will complement our existing North America, costs increased reflecting US services and deliver significant efficiencies to mortgage foreclosure and servicing costs the way we are able to serve our Wealth US$257m and increased litigation costs.
Costs were higher in Latin America, Rest of Good progress was made in developing our Asia-Pacific and Hong Kong as a result of wage Wealth Management infrastructure.
In 2011 we inflation and higher average headcount to implemented multi-channel financial simulators support business growth.
in the UK, a funds platform in Taiwan and the UK, and bond trading in mainland China and Share of profit from associates and joint further deployed our foreign currency webventures rose by 17%, reflecting higher profits enabled Get Rate programme.
These from Ping An as a result of strong growth in deployments are all part of the strategic focus to sales in its insurance business and a rise in provide expanded Wealth Management services income from its banking business following the utilising common technology.
acquisition of Shenzhen Development Bank in July 2011.
Leveraging global expertise in retail banking Strategic imperatives During 2011, we extended our mobile banking offering to 11 new markets.
We launched our Developing world class wealth management for global cards platform in five new markets in retail customers Asia, with deployment in Brazil and Mexico We aim to increase Wealth Management due to be completed during 2012.
We also revenues by US$4bn in the medium term, introduced renminbi-denominated deposits in against which target we made modest progress nine new markets.
in 2011 with revenue growth of some US$300m.
Notably, we had strong sales of insurance products in Hong Kong, Latin America and Rest of Asia-Pacific, while revenue from distribution of investment products to our clients and Global 47 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Global businesses RBWM CMB In Hong Kong, we retained our position of Commercial Banking having the largest market share in residential CMB offers a full range of commercial mortgages in 2011.
We were also market leaders financial services and tailored in life insurance.
propositions to over 3.6m customers For 2011 we set an aggressive goal to achieve ranging from sole proprietors to our target customer recommendation in 75% by publicly quoted companies in revenue weighting of the 16 markets surveyed, against which we met the target in five markets, 65 countries.
The shortfall 2011 2010 2009 resulted mainly from a challenging environment US$m US$m US$m in many of our large markets, with strong local competitors improving their service Net interest income........... 9,931 8,487 7,883 Net fee income.................. 4,291 3,964 3,702 performance, and a negative reaction to some Other income.................... 1,389 1,383 1,268 portfolio management activity, particularly in 52 Net operating income.... 15,611 13,834 12,853 the US and Canada.
We had a very strong fourth 53 quarter, with 77% of the markets by revenue Impairment charges......... 1,738 1,805 3,282 weighting meeting target, driven in part by Net operating income...... 13,873 12,029 9,571 traction from service quality programmes Total operating expenses.. 7,221 6,831 5,963 implemented in Mexico, the UK and the UAE, Operating profit.............. 6,652 5,198 3,608 and we finished the year ranked first in 5 of the 54 6 markets surveyed in Asia.
Income from associates.. 1,295 892 667 Profit before tax.............. 7,947 6,090 4,275 Portfolio management to drive superior returns 55 RoRWA 2.2% 2.0% 1.4% During 2011, we embarked on a process to improve our return on capital using the five Record annual profit before tax filters analysis to determine portfolio US$7.9bn rationalisation initiatives.
As a result, we completed the sale of our Mexican pension administration business HSBC Afore, our UK Revenue growth of motor insurance business and our Canadian 12% brokerage business.
We announced the closure ahead of cost growth of 4% of our retail banking businesses in Poland, on an underlying basis Russia, Georgia, and Kuwait, the sale of our operations in Chile, Central America Costa Rica, El Salvador and Honduras and, most recently, the disposal of our retail operations in Number one trade finance Thailand.
We also announced the cessation of bank in the world Oliver Wyman Global Transaction Banking Survey 2011 life insurance manufacturing in the US, the sale of the Card and Retail Services business and upstate New York branches in the US.
Strategic direction CMB aims to be the banking partner of choice for international The North American business has continued to businesses by building on our rich heritage, international focus on managing down the residual balances capabilities and relationships to enable connectivity and support in our US run-off portfolios.
trade and capital flows around the world, thereby strengthening our leading position in international business and trade.
We focus on four strategic imperatives: focus on faster-growing markets while connecting revenue and investment flows with developed markets: enhance collaboration with GB&M, providing capital market access and a wider range of sophisticated risk management and liquidity products to the growing mid-market corporates: capture growth in international small and medium-sized enterprises: and drive efficiency gains through adopting a global operating model.
48 Review of performance pensions in the UK.
Our cost efficiency ratio improved, reflecting our ability to manage our CMB reported a record profit before tax of cost base and rising inflationary pressures while US$7.9bn in 2011, 31% higher than in 2010.
On continuing to invest in key markets for ongoing an underlying basis, profit before tax increased expansion.
by 30%, driven by increased net interest income, a higher share of profits from associates in Income from associates increased by 41%.
The mainland China and lower loan impairment contribution from BoCom was driven by strong charges.
Our 20 priority markets generated more lending growth, wider deposit spreads following than 90% of our profit before tax, benefiting interest rate rises in mainland China and higher from our strong international network and longfee income, including revenue earned from term approach to customer relationships.
investment banking, settlements and cards.
Income from Industrial Bank also increased as a Revenue grew by 12%, despite increasing result of strong growth in customer lending and economic, political and regulatory headwinds.
This was largely driven by higher net interest income from lending activities and from growth Strategic imperatives in customer account balances.
Net interest income from lending benefited from the strong Focus on faster-growing markets while customer loan growth achieved in 2010 which connecting with developed markets continued into 2011, albeit at a slower pace In line with our strategy to focus and invest in during the latter part of the year.
Loans and faster-growing markets, our operations in Rest advances to customers rose by 12% to of Asia-Pacific, Latin America, Hong Kong and US$262bn as a result of increased demand for the Middle East and North Africa expanded credit in Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific, Latin more quickly than in developed markets.
Average customer account Revenue from faster growing regions grew by balances also rose, reflecting successful 20% to US$8.5bn, representing 54% of the marketing campaigns, notably in Hong Kong CMB total, driven by Brazil, Hong Kong, and Rest of Asia-Pacific as part of a targeted mainland China, Mexico, Argentina and strategy to support growth in customer lending.
Customer lending growth was almost Customer account balances grew by 9% to twice that of Europe and North America, and US$306bn during 2011. accounted for 50% of CMBs total lending.
Net fee income and net trading income benefited Total trade and receivables finance revenues from the strong collaboration with GB&M, increased by 22% to US$2.6bn, of which 75% particularly in foreign exchange and interest rate was generated from the faster-growing regions.
Net fee income also rose, Our businesses in these markets expanded more reflecting strong volumes and market share in quickly than in developed regions as we our trade and payments businesses in Hong leveraged our international capabilities to Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific and Latin America.
Loan impairment charges and other credit risk Making it easy for customers to do business provisions declined by 6% as credit quality with HSBC is at the heart of our approach.
remained strong despite the economic During 2011, we merged our Trade and Supply challenges.
Specific impairments decreased, Chain and Receivables Finance businesses to notably in North America, reflecting improved enable us to streamline our product proposition.
credit quality and in Business Banking lower It will also help us to expand our Receivables delinquency levels, partly offset by a specific Finance offering beyond its current locations provision relating to a single commercial and achieve our goal of doubling trade revenue customer in Latin America.
Collective over the medium term.
We also rolled out our impairment charges rose reflecting strong Commodity and Structured Trade Finance lending growth, notably in Latin America.
service, strengthening our sales teams in Europe Operating expenses increased by 4%.
This was and Asia and enhancing our infrastructure.
driven by a rise in costs to support business Revenue from our Payments and Cash growth, along with restructuring costs, partly Management products rose by 15%, as they offset by a credit of US$212m resulting from a facilitated increased levels of cross-border change in the inflation measure used to calculate transactions.
We continued to roll out the award the defined benefit obligation for deferred 49 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Global businesses CMB GB&M winning ClientSphere platform in the regions to accelerating investment to enhance our help simplify our customers cash management.
international connectivity, notably in those markets such as Brazil, Mexico, mainland Successful cross-border referrals within CMB China, the US, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore increased by 12% compared with 2010, with and Turkey which we see as core to providing a total transaction value in 2011 of more than opportunities for growth.
A significant proportion of this increase came from mainland China as Chinese We are repositioning Business Banking to focus companies looked to expand internationally.
on attracting and better serving the growing number of internationally aspirant SMEs.
In the We maintained our position as a leading UK we invested in International Commercial international bank for renminbi products with Managers ICMs who focus exclusively on services offered in over 50 countries.
Our international customers and we will continue to geographical coverage of renminbi cross-border invest in ICMs in other markets in 2012. trade services is the widest of all foreign banks in mainland China.
We continue to develop new Partnerships with leading international products in the currency, including renminbi businesses are helping to position HSBC as structured deposits, renminbi cashier orders and the bank of choice for international SMEs.
In the renminbi business card in Hong Kong.
the US, we signed a partnership agreement with the Export-Import Bank in the US and in Strong partnership with GB&M the UAE we entered into partnerships with a number of Free Trade Zones to provide Our customers benefit significantly from our improved access to banking services for partnership with GB&M.
By working with our  SMEs.
colleagues in the GB&M product teams we are able to provide customers with financing We exceeded our 2011 lending intentions under solutions, including access to capital markets Project Merlin in the UK, both in terms of total and risk management products, as they expand and SME facilities.
Revenues from sales of GB&M products to CMB customers, which are shared Drive efficiency gains through adopting a global between the two global businesses, grew operating model strongly in all regions, increasing by more than During the second half of 2011 and continuing US$500m compared with 2010.
This was in 2012, we are rolling out a globally consistent primarily from foreign exchange activity but business model across all CMB countries to also interest rate management products, realise cost efficiencies through greater leveraged and acquisition finance and debt standardisation of key processes and practices.
This includes the deployment of streamlined In collaboration with GB&M, we have cross-border account opening, trade processing successfully completed our first global US and credit approval processes which will reduce dollar renminbi cross-currency swap.
We are the time it takes to bring new customers on also able to benefit from our market leading board.
We are also undertaking an status in offshore renminbi bonds.
organisational effectiveness review to align and standardise our business structures across We continued to work closely with the other countries, which will result in a reduction in global businesses.
CMB referred 43% of the staff numbers and will allow us to redeploy total net new money generated from internal resources towards our key growth markets.
referrals to GPB in 2011, and successful internal premier account referrals from CMB to RBWM We continued to develop our direct banking increased by 27%.
solutions to enhance accessibility and service for our customers.
HSBCnet, our internet Capture growth in international SMEs banking platform, now has over 400,000 users with access from more than 200 countries At the end of 2011, we had over 3.4m customers worldwide.
Following a successful pilot in the worldwide in Business Banking, which first half of 2011, HSBCnet Mobile was represented 54% of CMBs total deposits.
launched in more than 60 countries.
In addition, To optimise our Business Banking portfolio over 200,000 customers have downloaded our performance, we are reshaping our business iApp, which is now live in five countries.
portfolio based on the five filters and 50 Global Banking and Markets Review of performance GB&M reported profit before tax of US$7.0bn, GB&M is a global business which 24% lower than in 2010 as eurozone debt provides tailored financial solutions concerns continued to dominate European to major government, corporate and market sentiment.
On an underlying basis, profit institutional clients worldwide.
before tax declined by 23% as a result of lower revenues in Credit, Rates and Balance Sheet Management.
Notwithstanding the difficult 2011 2010 2009 trading conditions, revenue grew strongly in US$m US$m US$m over half of our lines of business, including Net interest income........... 7,263 7,343 8,618 Global Banking, Foreign Exchange and Equities, Net fee income.................. 3,227 3,664 3,463 56 Net trading income......... 5,204 5,830 6,867 and particularly in the faster-growing regions Other income 1,363 2,075 1,990 of Rest of Asia-Pacific and Latin America.
This was 53 Impairment charges........ 984 990 3,168 primarily due to significantly lower trading Net operating income..... 16,073 17,922 17,770 revenues in Credit and Rates, notably in Europe, despite higher gains on structured liabilities Total operating expenses.. 9,722 9,228 7,853 from widening credit spreads, as turmoil in Operating profit.............. 6,351 8,694 9,917 eurozone sovereign debt markets escalated, 54 Income from associates... 698 521 345 particularly in the second half of 2011, resulting Profit before tax.............. 7,049 9,215 10,262 in trading losses as increased risk aversion and 55 RoRWA 1.8% 2.5% 2.6% limited client activity led to a significant widening of spreads on certain eurozone sovereign and corporate bonds.
Balance Sheet Resilient financial performance Management reported lower revenues and despite eurozone uncertainty revenues from our legacy credit portfolio see page 23 also declined.
Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions of US$984m in 2011 were broadly in Strong growth in Latin America line with 2010.
Loan impairment charges and Rest of Asia-Pacific declined by US$62m as specific impairments taken in 2010 following the restructuring of exposures of a small number of large clients in the Middle East and North Africa did not recur.
Bookrunner in six of the 10 Credit risk provisions on the available-for-sale largest IPOs in Hong Kong in 2011 portfolio were slightly higher than in 2010.
A US$145m charge in respect of available-for-sale Greek sovereign debt was offset in part by a Strategic direction reduction in credit risk provisions on ABSs GB&M continues to pursue its well established emerging within our legacy credit portfolio from markets-led and financing-focused strategy, with the objective of US$444m reported in 2010 to US$409m, as being a leading global wholesale bank.
This strategy has evolved losses arising in underlying collateral pools to include a greater emphasis on connectivity, leveraging the Groups extensive distribution network.
generated lower impairment charges on ABSs.
We focus on four strategic imperatives: Operating expenses increased by 4%, reflecting reinforce client coverage and client-led solutions for major a rise in costs incurred in strengthening our government, corporate and institutional clients: compliance resources, predominantly in the US: continue to selectively invest in the business to support the targeted investment, including selective delivery of an integrated suite of products and services: recruitment of senior hires and development of enhance collaboration with other global businesses, particularly our trading and sales platforms: and CMB, to deliver incremental revenues: and restructuring in the form of various focus on business re-engineering to optimise operational efficiency and reduce costs.
Performancerelated awards were substantially lower than in For footnotes, see page 95.
2010, reflecting the decline in net 51 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Global businesses GB&M Management view of total operating share of global bond issuances.
Fair value gains on income expense structured liabilities also increased, mainly in Rates, as credit spreads widened more significantly than in 2011 2010 2009 2010, resulting in a gain of US$458m compared with US$m US$m US$m a reported gain of US$23m in 2010.
In Rates 1,341 2,052 2,648 our Equities business, revenues rose as investment in Foreign Exchange......... 3,272 2,752 2,979 platforms improved our competitive positioning and Equities 961 755 641 helped capture increased client flows, notably in the Securities Services........ 1,673 1,511 1,420 Asset and Structured first half of the year in Europe and Hong Kong.
Finance 516 454 346 Foreign Exchange also delivered a strong performance in the year, driven by increased client Global Banking................. 5,401 4,621 4,630 Financing and Equity activity in Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific, North Capital Markets......... 3,233 2,852 3,070 America and Latin America.
Market volatility during Payments and Cash 2011, caused by geopolitical tensions, ongoing 58 Management............ 1,534 1,133 1,053 eurozone concerns and interventions by central Other transaction 59 banks, resulted in an improved trading environment services.................... 634 636 507 for Foreign Exchange compared with 2010.
In Balance Sheet 60 addition, increased client demand and a rally in Management............... 3,488 4,102 5,390 precious metal prices led to significant revenue Principal Investments....... 209 319 42 61 Other 139 697 512 growth in our metals business, also reported within Foreign Exchange.
Securities Services revenues Total operating income..... 17,057 18,912 20,938 increased as interest income benefited from higher Comparative information has been adjusted to reflect the spreads in Rest of Asia-Pacific and Latin America.
Fee income also rose, reflecting higher transaction For footnotes, see page 95. volumes along with a rise in average assets under custody and administration.
operating income, although this was mostly offset by Global Banking delivered a strong performance as higher amortisation charges for previous years we continued to focus on key client relationships.
performance shares and accelerated expense Higher revenues in Financing and Equity Capital recognition of current year deferred bonus awards.
Markets reflected a rise in average corporate lending Cost growth was partly offset by a credit of balances, continued new business origination in US$111m in 2011 arising from a change in the project and export finance and lower losses on inflation measure used to calculate the defined portfolio hedges compared with 2010.
Revenues in benefit obligation for deferred pensions in the UK, the advisory business within Financing and Equity together with the non-recurrence of payroll and Capital Markets also increased, notably in Europe, bonus taxes in the UK and France in 2010. driven by success in cross-border transactions.
Global Markets delivered full year revenues of Payments and Cash Management revenue rose by US$8.1bn in a very challenging trading environment.
32%, despite the prolonged low interest rate As noted above, the decline was driven by environment in many developed markets, as robust significantly lower Credit and Rates trading revenues growth in liability balances led to higher net interest in Europe.
A sharp reduction in revenues from our income.
The Rest of Asia-Pacific region performed legacy credit portfolio, which decreased from particularly strongly, reflecting a combination of US$848m reported in 2010 to US$165m in 2011, strong sales activity and interest rate rises in some also contributed to the decline in Credit.
This Asian markets, notably in mainland China.
reflected a non-recurrence of the price appreciation Revenues in Balance Sheet Management declined, in 2010 and lower holdings as a result of maturities driven by the maturity of higher yielding positions, and disposals aimed at reducing capital limited opportunities for reinvestment in the consumption, together with a reduction in effective prevailing low interest rate environment, and yields and lower income from management services flattening yield curves.
generated from the securities investment conduits.
This was partly offset by resilient Rates trading On a reported basis, the decline in Other reflected revenues in Hong Kong, North America and Latin the non-recurrence of gains resulting from the sale of America as client flows increased, coupled with Eversholt Rail Group and HSBC Private Equity higher primary market revenues in the Rates Asia Ltd in 2010.
On an underlying basis, the business in most regions as we increased our market 52 reduction was driven by higher allocated funding focusing on selected European countries and faster costs, mainly in Europe, reflecting debt issuances growing markets where we have a natural during the year.
Our Equity Capital Markets team achieved Top 10 league table positions in six out of Principal Investments reported lower revenues as the nine target countries, as well as significant market deterioration in market confidence resulted in fewer share improvement in Asia and other key locations.
disposal opportunities and lower gains on sale.
We also strengthened our Equity Research team which, together with targeted client interaction, Strategic imperatives enabled us to move into the top ten of equity Reinforce client coverage and client-led solutions research houses for the first time.
Investment in selective recruitment across our client Collaborate with other global businesses to deliver coverage groups is key to delivering our strategy.
incremental revenues Since June 2011, we have announced a number of key appointments to lead our global coverage teams In order to further enhance our collaboration with and relocated a Co-Head of Global Banking to Asia CMB, we appointed heads of Coverage and to maintain our focus on growth markets.
Distribution to coordinate the specialist CMB sales teams and dedicated execution desks within GB&M.
We also established the Corporate Treasury Revenues from the sale of GB&M products to CMB Solutions Group, which brought together our fixed customers, which are shared between the two global income, currency, commodities, debt financing and businesses, grew by more than US$500m, primarily risk management capabilities in Europe, Middle East from foreign exchange and interest rate management and North Africa.
This enabled our client-facing products.
In addition, we secured lead roles in a teams to provide integrated, cross-product solutions number of event deals with CMB clients in 2011, to our corporate clients.
utilising our expertise in equity and debt capital We continued to leverage our unique geographical markets, leveraged and acquisition finance and franchise and global connectivity through our advisory.
Cross-border desks We extended the Wealth Solutions Group model established in 2010 in Rest of Asia-Pacific, Latin from Europe, Middle East and North Africa into America and the Middle East and North Africa to Asia and the US to increase the sales of GB&Ms capitalise on growing international trade flows in wealth-related products, including foreign exchange, South-South trade corridors generated strong structured products and securities execution, through growth in revenues from these markets in 2011.
We also developed new products aligned to customer needs, including Protected Enhance core product strengths and selectively World Selection funds and mortgage protection develop new capabilities products in the UK, which have led to growth in We continued to invest in e-commerce platforms to revenues from our RBWM distribution network.
enhance our product offerings in foreign exchange.
The first phase of our new e-FX platform is Strategic re-engineering to deliver sustainable cost complete and it is live internally in Hong Kong, savings Dubai, London, Toronto and New York.
Get Rate, We continued to reshape our business with the aim which provides customers with live dealable of lowering the future cost base of our operations.
exchange rates, is now available in 11 countries We undertook an organisational effectiveness through various channels.
These developments have review, which resulted in a reduction in staff contributed to a 43% increase in electronic volumes numbers as we aligned our client coverage model and a 16% rise in foreign exchange revenues in and implemented productivity measures.
We focused on generating efficiency gains from the Prime Services, which offers a fully integrated set of better use of technology and continued to rationalise services including custody, financing solutions and and standardise our operational and trading reporting to alternative fund managers, is now live platforms across asset classes and markets.
This will in Europe and Asia and a significant number of enable ongoing investment in people and hedge fund managers are in the process of oninfrastructure to support our strategic priorities while boarding.
We also upgraded our equity execution and research platforms in 2011 in response to client demand, 53 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Global businesses GPB Other Global Private Banking Review of performance Reported profit before tax of US$944m was GPB serves high net worth individuals 10% lower than in 2010 and 11% lower on an and families with complex and underlying basis, as revenue growth was offset international needs.
by higher operating expenses and increased loan impairment charges.
2011 2010 2009 US$m US$m US$m Revenue increased by 5%, primarily driven by growth in Europe and, to a lesser extent, in Rest Net interest income........... 1,439 1,345 1,474 of Asia-Pacific.
Net interest income increased Net fee income.................. 1,382 1,299 1,236 Other income.................... 471 449 402 due to higher average lending resulting from 52 continued client demand and, particularly in the Net operating income... 3,292 3,093 3,112 UK, improved asset spreads.
Net fee income Impairment charges 53 benefited from a significant increase in recoveries.................... 86 12 128 transaction volumes related to higher market Net operating income..... 3,206 3,105 2,984 volatility and net new money inflows of Total operating expenses.. 2,266 2,035 1,884 US$13bn in part driven by the recruitment of Operating profit.............. 940 1,070 1,100 additional front line staff particularly in 54 faster-growing markets.
Income from associates.. 4 16 8 Profit before tax.............. 944 1,054 1,108 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk 55 provisions increased as a result of an impairment RoRWA 3.9% 4.1% 4.0% recorded in respect of available-for-sale Greek sovereign debt securities.
Loan impairment charges also increased in Europe against a small Net new money inflows of number of individual customers.
US$13bn 2010: US$13bn: 2009: US$ 7 bn The increase in operating expenses was mainly driven by the appreciation of the Swiss franc, which accounts for a significant proportion of our cost base, see footnote 62.
In addition we Continued investment in front-line incurred higher regulatory compliance costs.
We capabilities in line with strategy also recruited front office staff to cover faster-growing markets which resulted in higher staff costs, coupled with restructuring costs to drive operational efficiencies.
Best Private Banking in Asia Euromoney 2011 Private Banking Survey Client assets 2011 2010 US$bn US$bn Strategic direction GPB works with high-net worth clients to manage and preserve At 1 January 390 367 their wealth while connecting them to global opportunities.
We Net new money 13 13 focus on four strategic imperatives: Value change.... 20 13 further expand our business in domestic and faster-growing Exchange and other 6 3 markets and deliver emerging markets products to clients in At 31 December..... 377 390 developed markets: continue to leverage our intra-Group connectivity with CMB, Client assets see footnote 63, which include GB&M and RBWM to deliver the full suite of HSBC products funds under management and cash deposits, and services to clients: declined as net new money inflows were offset increase our managed assets, and build on our expertise in by adverse movements in financial markets and alternative investments, foreign exchange and trust and estate planning: and negative movements in foreign exchange, continue to invest in front-office client systems with strong data primarily in the second half of the year.
security, while maintaining a focus on risk management and Total client assets, the equivalent to many cost control.
industry definitions of assets under management which include some non-financial assets held in For footnotes, see page 95. client trusts, decreased marginally to US$496bn at 31 December 2011.
54 Strategic imperatives Other Expand in faster-growing markets Other contains the results of certain property transactions, unallocated Progress was made in implementing key strategic initiatives, including developing the investment activities, centrally held faster-growing markets business through investment companies, movements in investment in front line staff and systems.
The fair value of own debt, central support majority of net new money in 2011 has and functional costs with associated originated from faster-growing markets.
recoveries, HSBCs holding company and Grow annuity revenue financing operations.
Product capabilities were enhanced with the launch of renminbi-based products and further development of our alternative investment 2011 2010 2009 offerings and trust and estate planning products.
US$m US$m US$m Net interest expense.......... 911 998 1,035 Leverage intra-Group strengths Net trading income expense 355 311 279 Intra-Group referrals contributed net new money of US$6.3bn or 49% of total net new money.
Change in credit spread on long-term debt........... 4,161 258 6,247 Referrals from GB&M for institutional private Other changes in fair clients grew significantly, and benefited from value 78 42 196 Net income expense from the continued success of the Family Office financial instruments advisory scheme.
designated at fair value.. 4,239 216 6,443 Other income.................... 6,172 6,185 5,176 Invest in platform while controlling costs Net operating income 52 expense 9,145 4,660 2,023 The global roll-out of the front-office systems programme continued in order to improve Impairment charges 53 recoveries 3 8 operational efficiency and client service, and information security standards were enhanced.
Net operating income expense 9,145 4,663 2,031 Progress was made in rationalising the business, through the use of the five filters analysis, with Total operating expenses.. 7,492 5,918 4,715 the closure of operations in Russia and sale of Operating profit loss.... 1,653 1,255 6,746 our operations in Japan.
A restructuring exercise 54 Income from associates.. 9 94 26 is also underway in line with our targets to Profit loss before tax.... 1,662 1,161 6,720 improve operational effectiveness, reflected in a 4% reduction in staff numbers in the second half For footnotes, see page 95. of 2011.
55 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Global businesses Other Analysis Notes Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value of US$304m in 2011 Reported profit before tax of US$1.7bn compared with net expense from financial compared with a loss before tax of US$1.2bn in instruments designated at fair value in 2010 as 2010.
This included favourable movements of favourable fair value movements from interest US$3.9bn on the fair value of HSBCs own debt and exchange rate ineffectiveness in the hedging attributable to a widening in credit spreads of long-term debt designated at fair value issued compared with adverse fair value movements of by HSBC Holdings and our European and North US$63m in 2010.
In addition, reported profits American subsidiaries compared with adverse included a gain of US$62m on the fair value movements in 2010. reclassification of Bao Viet as an associate in 2010 and accounting gains of US$188m and Other operating income increased as a result of US$181m in 2010 and 2011, respectively, higher intra-group recharges in line with the arising from the dilution of our shareholding in increase in costs from centralised operational Ping An following its issue of share capital to and migrated activities described below.
We also reported a re-measurement was partly offset by the non-recurrence of gains loss of US$48m relating to Ping Ans of US$250m recognised from the sale and acquisition of its associate, Shenzhen leaseback of our Paris and New York Development Bank and a dilution gain of headquarters in 2010.
US$27m as a result of the reduction in our Operating expenses increased by 26% to holding in HSBC Saudi Arabia Limited US$7.5bn.
Costs in 2011 included a charge of following its merger with SABB Securities US$570m in relation to the UK bank levy and a Limited in 2011.
On an underlying basis, the charge of US$217m, primarily relating to loss before tax increased by US$1.1bn to impairment of intangibles and staff related costs, US$2.4bn.
This was primarily driven by the UK to restructure our regional and country support bank levy, restructuring provisions and the nonfunctions in Latin America as measures were recurrence of gains from the sale and leaseback taken to streamline processes and lower the of buildings in 2010.
For a description of the future cost base of our operations.
A rise in main items reported under Other, see centralised operational and migrated activities, footnote 61. in line with our Global Resourcing model, also Net trading expense rose, driven by adverse fair contributed to higher costs in the period.
These value movements on derivatives relating to costs are recorded in Other and charged to certain provident funds in Hong Kong as global businesses through a recharge mechanism long-term investment returns fell.
This was with income reported as Other operating partly offset by lower adverse fair value income.
movements on non-qualifying hedges of US$276m in 2011 compared with adverse fair value movements of US$304m in 2010.
These mainly related to cross-currency swaps used to economically hedge fixed rate long-term debt issued by HSBC Holdings.
59 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Geographical regions Europe Economic background Europe After growing by 2.1% in 2010, UK gross domestic Our principal banking subsidiaries in Europe product GDP growth eased to 0.9% in 2011.
The are HSBC Bank plc in the UK, HSBC France S. A. unemployment rate rose to 8.4% in December 2011.
HSBC Bank A. S. in Turkey, HSBC Bank Malta Despite the weakness in the domestic economy, an p. l. c. HSBC Private Bank Suisse S. A. and increase in the rate of value added tax and rising oil HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG.
Through these prices early in the year pushed the annual rate of subsidiaries we provide a wide range of banking, treasury and financial services to consumer price index CPI inflation to 5.2% in personal, commercial and corporate customers September 2011 before moderating to 3.6% in across Europe.
The Bank of England maintained the Bank Rate at 0.5% throughout the year and expanded the size of its Asset Purchase Programme by 75bn US$120bn to 275bn US$440bn in 2011 2010 2009 October 2011.
US$m US$m US$m The eurozone economy grew by 1.5% in 2011, Net interest income........... 11,001 11,250 12,268 on the back of a recovery in global trade in the first Net fee income.................. 6,236 6,371 6,267 Net trading income........... 2,161 2,863 5,459 half of 2011 and domestic fixed investment growth.
Other income expense.... 4,848 2,266 450 Within the region, Germany saw the strongest 52 recovery with GDP growing by 3%.
The German Net operating income... 24,246 22,750 23,544 unemployment rate, as measured by the International 53 Impairment charges........ 2,512 3,020 5,568 Labour Organisation, fell during the year, touching Net operating income..... 21,734 19,730 17,976 5.5% in December but, for the eurozone as a whole, Total operating expenses.. 17,069 15,445 13,988 unemployment rose further to 10.4% in December.
Concerns about sovereign debt sustainability Operating profit.............. 4,665 4,285 3,988 persisted in 2011, leading to banking sector strains.
54 Income from associates.. 6 17 21 The European Central Bank cut interest rates to 1% Profit before tax.............. 4,671 4,302 4,009 and introduced several new measures to ease strains Cost efficiency ratio......... 70.4% 67.9% 59.4% in the banking sector including long-term 55 RoRWA 1.5% 1.3% 1.2% refinancing operations of 36 months maturity and Year-end staff numbers.... 74,892 75,698 76,703 easing of commercial banks collateral requirements for use in these liquidity operations.
Credit and Rates Review of performance revenues within GB&M adversely affected by Our European operations reported a pre-tax profit of eurozone uncertainty US$4.7bn, 9% higher than in 2010.
These results included favourable fair value movements of US$2.9bn in 2011 due to the change in credit spreads on the Groups own debt held at fair value, Best Debt House in Western Europe compared with adverse fair value movements of Euromoney Awards for Excellence 2011 US$198m in 2010.
In addition, 2010 included gains of US$107m and US$255m on the disposal of HSBC Insurance Brokers Limited and Eversholt Rail Group, respectively.
53% Underlying profit before tax, excluding these reduction in RBWM loan impairment charges items, decreased by 61% as turmoil in eurozone sovereign debt markets dominated European market sentiment, resulting in markedly lower revenues in GB&M.
During the year, we began to reshape our business portfolio and announced the closure of our retail banking businesses in Poland and Russia, the For footnotes, see page 95.
The commentary on Europe is on an underlying basis unless stated exit of operations from Georgia and the disposal of otherwise.
our UK motor insurance business.
To support our customers effectiveness, we took measures to streamline our through the prevailing economic conditions, we processes with the aim of lowering the future cost committed to make available 350m US$542m to base of our operations while maintaining high UK mortgage borrowers with deposits of 15% or standards of service.
As a result of these initiatives, less.
In addition, an increase in the customer base of total restructuring costs of US$404m were incurred 5% contributed to a growth in our UK deposit across the region in 2011. balances of 4%.
In RBWM, further progress was made in In CMB, we made further progress on our implementing our strategy of building long-term strategy of becoming the leading international trade sustainable relationships with Premier customers.
and business bank with a significant increase in the The Wealth Management business continued to number of international customers, resulting in develop with HSBC World Selection assets under strong income growth from our trade-related management increasing by 21% during 2011 to business.
We continue to strengthen our partnership 2.5bn US$3.8bn as a result of a strategic focus with GB&M with a focus on driving product income and continued marketing.
The Global Investment growth, particularly in strategic financing and Centre service was successfully launched in October treasury risk management products.
We also 2011, enabling investors to hold and trade a wide achieved strong growth in UK lending, reflecting range of third party and HSBC funds on-line.
our continued support to UK businesses during the difficult economic conditions.
We exceeded our We continued to support the UK housing market 2011 lending intentions under the Project Merlin during 2011, achieving strong growth in mortgage agreement with the UK Government, both in terms balances driven by successful marketing campaigns.
of total and SME facilities.
Our share of new lending increased to 10% in 2011, while maintaining a conservative loan to value ratio 61 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Geographical regions Europe In Continental Europe, we experienced strong strong deposit growth across the region, mainly demand in term lending and significant growth in driven by marketing campaigns, although offset in our deposit base in both RBWM and CMB, part by strong competition for deposits resulting in reflecting marketing and pricing initiatives.
Our lower deposit spreads, notably in RBWM in the UK.
Trade and Supply Chain business performed strongly Net fee income declined by 4% as management across the region, following the launch of our export services income generated from the securities initiative during 2011.
In Europe we now have 18 investment conduits within our legacy credit countries with full renminbi functionality with the portfolio was lower, along with higher intercompany ability to settle trade transactions via either Shanghai fees payable on intra-group referrals.
overdraft fees declined due to reduced customer We won several awards in GB&M including appetite for debt in the current market conditions.
Best Debt House in Western Europe and the UK This was partly offset by higher levels of client from Euromoney Awards for Excellence in 2011. activity in GPB due to an increase in transaction We continued to invest in technology platforms volumes related to higher market volatility.
including Equities and Prime Services and are Net trading income decreased by 33%, due to therefore well positioned to capture medium-term significantly lower trading revenues in Credit and opportunities in the region.
We also continued to Rates as turmoil in eurozone sovereign debt markets focus on cross-border initiatives to position escalated in the second half of 2011.
Increased risk ourselves to take advantage of trade flows.
In aversion and limited client activity led to a Payments & Cash Management, enhanced network significant widening of spreads on certain eurozone capabilities together with innovative liquidity, sovereign and corporate bonds, resulting in losses channel and payables solutions allowed us to win in our Credit and Rates businesses.
In addition, substantial business across the corporate and legacy credit revenues fell due to the non-recurrence financial institution business segments.
of the price appreciation on legacy assets in 2010.
In GPB, revenue growth was driven by increased Lower favourable foreign exchange movements client activity as we leveraged our global businesses were also reported on trading assets held as strengths and connectivity.
GPB continues to build economic hedges of foreign currency debt on its expertise in alternative investments, emerging designated at fair value.
These offset lower adverse markets and foreign exchange.
foreign exchange movements on the foreign currency debt which are reported in Net expense The pace of regulatory reform is expected to gain from financial instruments designated at fair value.
This will include forthcoming legislation arising from the UK Independent Trading income included a favourable fair value Commission on Banking which is likely to require us movement of US$391m from structured liabilities, to make significant changes to our corporate mainly in Rates, as credit spreads widened compared structure and business activities conducted through with adverse fair value movements of US$29m in our UK banking subsidiary, HSBC Bank see 2010.
In our Equities business, revenues rose as page 101. investment in platforms improved our competitive positioning and helped capture increased client Net interest income decreased by 6%, reflecting flows.
This was coupled with lower losses on the decline in Balance Sheet Management revenues portfolio hedges in Global Banking compared with as higher-yielding positions matured and the previous year.
opportunities for reinvestment at similar yields were limited by the prevailing low interest rate Net expense from financial instruments environment.
This was coupled with a fall in Credit designated at fair value was US$479m, reflecting and Lending net interest income as a result of lower net investment losses during 2011 on assets held by balances, coupled with a decrease in effective yields our insurance business to meet liabilities under and lower asset holdings in our legacy credit insurance and investment contracts as equity markets portfolio as a result of maturities and disposals fell, notably in the second half of 2011, compared aimed at reducing capital consumption.
The above with gains reported in 2010.
To the extent that these factors were partly offset by higher net interest losses were attributable to policyholders holding income in CMB, driven by an increase in term unit-linked insurance policies and insurance or lending balances in the UK and Continental Europe investment contracts with DPF, there was a as a result of targeted campaigns during 2010 and corresponding decrease in Net insurance claims 2011.
Net interest income also benefited from strong incurred and movement in liabilities to mortgage balance growth in the UK along with policyholders.
These losses were partly offset by 62 lower adverse foreign exchange movements on Loan impairment charges and other credit foreign currency debt designated at fair value, issued risk provisions decreased by 20% to US$2.5bn.
This as part of our overall funding strategy, with an offset mainly reflected a range of successful initiatives reported in Net trading income.
taken to mitigate credit risk within RBWM including a focus on monitoring and identifying customers Gains less losses from financial investments were facing financial hardship.
This resulted in lower broadly in line with 2010.
Net gains from the delinquency rates across both the secured and disposal of available-for-sale debt securities unsecured lending portfolios.
In CMB, loan increased as part of normal portfolio management impairment charges declined as the non-recurrence activities.
These were offset by lower gains from the of specific provisions in the UK was partly offset by disposal of available-for-sale equity securities as a higher specific provisions related to a small number deterioration in market confidence resulted in fewer of customers in Greece.
In GB&M, we recorded a disposal opportunities and lower gains from the charge of US$145m to write down to market value disposal of private equity investments.
In addition, available-for-sale Greek sovereign debt now judged there were write-downs of our equity investments in to be impaired.
In addition, impairments of US$46m real estate companies.
were included in our GPB and insurance businesses Net earned insurance premiums decreased by in relation to Greek available-for-sale debt securities.
3%, resulting from the non-renewal and transfer to These were partly offset by lower credit risk third parties of certain contracts in our Irish business provisions on ABSs as the losses arising in the and the continued run-off and subsequent disposal of underlying collateral pools generated lower charges our motor insurance business in the UK.
partly offset by an increase in premiums as we Operating expenses increased by 9%.
This launched targeted sales campaigns, notably for included provisions of US$898m relating to UK investment contracts with DPF in France, and customer redress programmes, including a charge in expanded distribution channels for unit-linked respect of possible mis-selling of PPI in previous products in the UK.
years, a cost of US$570m in respect of the UK bank Other operating income decreased by 15%, levy and restructuring provisions of US$404m.
driven by the non-recurrence of a gain on the sale These were partly offset by a credit of US$587m and leaseback of our Paris headquarters in 2010.
In resulting from a change in the inflation measure used addition, there was a reduction in the PVIF asset to calculate the defined benefit obligation for from net experience and assumption updates and a deferred pensions in the UK.
Costs in 2010 included higher unwind of cash flows related to the growing one-off payroll and bonus taxes of US$354m in-force book, compared with 2010.
This reduction US$324m as reported in the UK and France.
was partly offset by a rise in the PVIF asset as a Excluding these items, operating expenses rose as result of higher life insurance sales and a positive we incurred higher regulatory and compliance costs, impact from a refinement to the PVIF calculation along with an increase in expenses as a result of the during 2011. strengthening of the Swiss franc, which accounts for a significant proportion of the GPB cost base.
In Net insurance claims incurred and movement GB&M, performance-related awards were in liabilities to policyholders decreased by 28% as a substantially lower than in 2010, reflecting the result of investment losses experienced in 2011 on decline in revenues, although this was mostly offset unit-linked insurance policies and insurance and by higher amortisation charges for previous years' investment contracts with DPF as equity markets performance shares and an acceleration in the declined, which contrasted with investment gains in expense recognition of current-year deferred bonus 2010.
Also, the non-renewal and transfer to third awards.
Notwithstanding these factors, we have parties of certain contracts in the Irish business achieved about US$300m of sustainable savings and the continued run-off and subsequent disposal during 2011.
This has enabled the funding of of our legacy motor business in the UK resulted in investment in strategic initiatives, including the a decrease in net insurance claims incurred and development of Prime Services and equity market movement in liabilities to policyholders.
Partly capabilities and the expansion of the Rates and offsetting these declines were increases in liabilities Foreign Exchange e-commerce platforms.
to policyholders established for new business written.
63 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Geographical regions Europe Profit loss before tax and balance sheet data Europe 2011 Retail Global Banking Banking Global Interand Wealth Commercial and Private segment 64 Management Banking Markets Banking Other elimination Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Profit before tax Net interest income expense.... 5,653 3,107 2,102 936 574 223 11,001 Net fee income 2,633 1,640 989 942 32 6,236 Trading income expense excluding net interest income........ 40 5 602 191 201 637 Net interest income on trading 11 16 1,205 16 53 223 1,524 activities...... 56 Net trading income expense.. 51 21 1,807 207 148 223 2,161 Changes in fair value of longterm debt issued and related derivatives.. 3,180 3,180 Net income expense from other financial instruments designated at fair value........... 672 21 65 46 712 Net income expense from financial instruments designated at fair value........... 672 21 65 3,226 2,468 Gains less losses from financial investments.............. 51 1 453 1 11 515 Dividend income 1 1 42 4 1 49 Net earned insurance premiums.
65 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Geographical regions Hong Kong Hong Kong Economic background Hong Kong registered very strong economic growth HSBCs principal banking subsidiaries in Hong entering 2011.
This eased during the course of the Kong are The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking year due to supply chain disruptions triggered by the Corporation Limited and Hang Seng Bank Limited.
The former is the largest bank earthquake in Japan and some slowing in demand incorporated in Hong Kong and is our flagship from mainland China following a tightening of bank in the Asia-Pacific region.
It is one of Hong policy to counter inflation.
Nonetheless, Hong Kong Kongs three note-issuing banks, accounting for GDP grew by 5% in 2011.
Some slowing in the pace more than 65% by value of banknotes in of growth was welcomed as it helped reduce circulation in 2011. inflationary pressures that had been mounting earlier in 2011in both consumer and property markets.
Unemployment rates in Hong Kong improved steadily during 2011, falling from 3.9% at the end of 2011 2010 2009 2010 to 3.2% by the end of the year.
Inter-bank US$m US$m US$m interest rates stayed low during 2011, rising slightly Net interest income........... 4,691 4,246 4,195 to 0.325% by 31 December.
On an underlying basis, Net operating income..... 10,526 10,088 8,967 excluding gains arising from the reclassification of Total operating expenses.. 4,758 4,431 3,946 Bao Viet as an associate and following the sale of Operating profit.............. 5,768 5,657 5,021 HSBC Private Equity Asia Ltd, both in 2010, profit 54 before tax rose by 5%.
Income from associates.. 55 35 8 Profit before tax.............. 5,823 5,692 5,029 The increase in profitability was driven by higher revenues from increased customer lending Cost efficiency ratio......... 44.5% 43.4% 41.7% 55 RoRWA 5.3% 5.0% 4.2% which reflected growth in trade flows, coupled with strong demand for wealth management products, Year-end staff numbers.... 28,984 29,171 27,614 partly offset by a rise in staff and support costs reflecting wage inflation and higher business Increase in profitability driven by increased volumes in 2011. customer lending and growth in trade flows Following significant loan growth in 2010 and combined with strong cost discipline.
the first half of 2011, we experienced slower growth in our businesses during the second half of 2011.
In RBWM, we retained market leadership across 25% growth in trade revenues our key products.
In residential mortgages we retained the number one market position as we continued to provide competitive products for our customers.
Our leading market share in life insurance reflected our strong customer focus and diverse product offerings.
We also maintained Best offshore renminbi bond house IFR Asia Awards 2011 market leadership in the provision of mandatory provident funds and launched a new product which offers our customers a wider choice and lower fees.
We retained our number one position in cards reflecting the success of our various marketing campaigns and customer focus, and saw continued strong sales of wealth management products, though For footnotes, see page 95. revenues were affected in the latter part of 2011 as The commentary on Hong Kong is on an underlying basis unless stock market turnover reduced and investor stated otherwise.
The Hong Kong for more than half of our new-to-bank CMB property market slowed in the second half of 2011 customers.
The number of cross-border referrals and we continued to lend conservatively, with between Hong Kong and mainland China increased average loan to value ratios of 49% on new by 9%.
We also opened four new business banking residential mortgage draw-downs and an estimated centres in Hong Kong and set up the China 37% on the portfolio as a whole.
Corporate team in Hong Kong to service mainland Spreads narrowed in RBWM due to a shift in Chinese companies looking to expand the product mix to lower-yielding HIBOR-linked internationally.
mortgages, and in CMB as growth was concentrated We continued to strengthen the collaboration in lower-margin trade financing and HIBOR-linked between CMB and GB&M, resulting in incremental loans.
HIBOR-linked spreads began to improve revenue growth through the provision of foreign marginally in the second half of the year due to exchange and interest rate management products to product repricing.
Average customer deposit balances rose despite In GB&M, we maintained our number one a highly competitive environment, supported by the market position in Hong Kong dollar bond opening of new business centres, growth in the issuance and acted as a joint lead manager on the offshore renminbi market, our comprehensive suite governments first inflation-linked bond issue, the of renminbi solutions across Trade and Supply largest ever retail bond issue in Hong Kong.
We also Chain, and Payments and Cash Management.
continued to enhance our equity capital markets Net fee income increased by 5% as a result capabilities, expanded our equity research team, of higher sales of wealth management products, and were bookrunner in six of the ten largest initial particularly unit trusts reflecting increased product public offerings IPOs in Hong Kong this year.
offerings, competitive pricing and ongoing During 2011 we won several awards including Best marketing campaigns.
This was achieved in the low Investment Bank and Best Equity House from interest rate environment in which clients sought FinanceAsia and Best Flow House and Best Debt products which could increase their returns.
Card Capital Markets House in Asia from Euromoney.
transactions grew, reflecting higher retail spending We continued to reinforce our position as a in 2011 supported by marketing campaigns.
leading international renminbi bank and became the Underwriting fees rose due to our participation in market leader in offshore renminbi bond issuance many of the largest equity capital market and won awards from both Finance Asia and IFR transactions in 2011 supported by the continued Asia for Best Offshore Renminbi Bond House.
We enhancement of our equity market capabilities.
arranged the first ever renminbi subordinated bank Remittances and trade-related fees also increased bond and participated in the largest ever offshore reflecting increased product offerings and higher renminbi bond deal by a sovereign issuer, cross-border trade volumes.
This was partly offset by demonstrating the depth and diversity of our lower broking income, notably towards the end of involvement in this market.
the year due to increased competition.
Net interest income was 11% higher than in Net trading income reduced by 9%.
We 2010, driven by the income from strong lending recorded adverse fair value movements on growth during 2010 and the first half of 2011 which derivatives relating to certain provident funds as reflected increased trade flows and demand for long-term investment returns fell.
We saw more moderate loan growth in losses on equity options backing an endowment 67 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Geographical regions Hong Kong product in RBWM due to unfavourable movements corresponding increase in Net insurance claims in the underlying equity indices which resulted in a incurred and movement in liabilities to corresponding decrease in Net insurance claims policyholders.
incurred and movement in liabilities to Other operating income increased by 10%, policyholders.
largely due to an increase in PVIF and higher These losses were partly offset by higher trading revaluation gains on investment properties.
PVIF income in GB&M due to a rise in net interest income rose as a result of higher life insurance sales, a from trading activities from Asian government debt one-off gain of US$135m recognised upon the securities and corporate bonds.
Trading income fell refinement of the calculation of the PVIF and a through lower revenues in credit trading as credit net increase from updates for experience and spreads widened in some markets.
This was partly assumptions during 2011.
Partially offsetting this offset by higher revenues in foreign exchange was a higher unwind of cash flows related to the following greater market volatility in the region and growing in-force book.
the collaboration between CMB and GB&M.
In Loan impairment charges and other credit risk addition, revenues in Equities increased in line with provisions increased by US$42m from a low base improved volumes in the business.
due to a specific impairment charge against one Net expense from financial instruments customer, higher collective impairment charges in designated at fair value was US$537m compared CMB resulting from lending growth, and an with gains in 2010 due to investment losses on assets impairment recorded in respect of available-for-sale held by the insurance business as a result of negative Greek sovereign debt securities in GPB.
These were movements in the equity market during the second partly offset by releases in GB&M relating to half of 2011.
To the extent that these investment specific impairment charges raised in 2010. losses were attributed to policyholders of unit-linked Operating expenses rose by 7% due to higher insurance policies and insurance contracts with DPF, staff costs across the business reflecting wage there was a corresponding decrease in Net insurance inflation in a competitive labour market and a rise claims incurred and movement in liabilities to in average staff numbers to support increased policyholders.
Performance costs increased in Net earned insurance premiums increased by GB&M due to higher amortisation charges for 18% as a result of successful sales initiatives for previous years performance shares and accelerated deferred annuities, unit-linked products and a expense recognition of current year deferred bonus universal life insurance product targeted at high net awards.
During 2011 we incurred US$68m of worth individuals.
This reflected our strategic focus restructuring costs as we took steps to improve on wealth management, of which insurance is a efficiency, including the restructuring of our regional key part.
The growth in premiums resulted in a head office.
70 Economic background Rest of Asia-Pacific In mainland China, reducing the pace of consumer We offer a full range of banking and financial price inflation was a key priority for policymakers in services in mainland China, mainly through our the first half of 2011.
Monetary conditions were local subsidiary, HSBC Bank China Company tightened by increasing the reserve requirement ratio Limited.
We also participate indirectly in to 21.5% for large banks and a number of measures mainland China through our associates.
were implemented, focused specifically on reducing Outside mainland China, we conduct demand in the property market.
As a result, credit business in 22 countries and territories in the growth slowed in the second half of the year which, Rest of Asia-Pacific region, primarily through coupled with the downturn in global trade, helped to branches and subsidiaries of The Hongkong slow the pace of growth and reduce inflationary and Shanghai Banking Corporation, with pressures.
The annual rate of inflation peaked at particularly strong coverage in Australia, India, 6.5% in July and eased to around 4% by the year Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore.
Meanwhile, the annual pace of GDP growth slowed from 9.7% in the first quarter to 8.9% in the fourth quarter, bringing the full year GDP growth 2011 2010 2009 down to 9.2% in 2011 from 10.4% in 2010.
In the US$m US$m US$m final months of the year, the outlook for growth in Net interest income........... 5,102 3,828 3,539 the eurozone became more of a concern and Net fee income.................. 2,111 1,932 1,557 policymakers reverted to easing monetary and fiscal Net trading income........... 1,658 1,618 1,606 conditions.
Towards the end of 2011, the reserve Other income.................... 1,842 1,854 1,301 requirement ratio was cut and a number of fiscal 52 Net operating income... 10,713 9,232 8,003 stimulus measures were enacted.
53 Impairment charges........ 267 439 896 Japans economy began 2011 strongly, but Net operating income..... 10,446 8,793 7,107 the earthquake and tsunami in March led to a Total operating expenses.. 5,806 5,143 4,450 sharp contraction in output.
Japan continued to suffer Operating profit.............. 4,640 3,650 2,657 from deflationary pressures, leading the Bank of 54 Japan to expand its quantitative easing programme.
Income from associates.. 2,831 2,252 1,543 It also intervened in foreign exchange markets to Profit before tax.............. 7,471 5,902 4,200 stem the upward pressure on the yen.
Cost efficiency ratio......... 54.2% 55.7% 55.6% 55 The Rest of Asia-Pacific region experienced a RoRWA 3.1% 3.1% 2.4% relatively strong first half, with exports and domestic Year-end staff numbers.... 91,051 91,607 87,141 demand growing robustly, following which growth slowed in the latter months of 2011.
The highly trade-dependent economies of South Korea, 24% Taiwan and Singapore experienced the most growth in commercial lending significant decline in activity.
Regional trade was disrupted by the Japanese earthquake in March and floods in the fourth quarter in Thailand, which caused a sharp contraction in the production of Profits increased critical electronic and car components.
As a result, across all key markets trade expanded at a slower pace in 2011 than in in the region 2010.
In a number of economies, notably India and South Korea, domestic demand also slowed markedly in the second half of 2011 after rising inflationary pressures prompted central banks to Best Foreign Commercial Bank in China 2011 tighten monetary policy.
In Malaysia, domestic Finance Asia Country Awards 2011 demand proved more resilient and the level of GDP in Malaysia in the fourth quarter was 5.2% higher than the level seen a year earlier.
Across Asia, inflation peaked in the middle of the year providing policymakers in India, Thailand and Indonesia For footnotes, see page 95. room to start easing monetary policy.
The commentary on Rest of Asia-Pacific is on an underlying basis unless stated otherwise.
In Australia GDP growth in early 2011 was Review of performance initially affected by weather-related disruptions, Our operations in the Rest of Asia-Pacific region particularly to coal exports.
However, activity reported pre-tax profits of US$7.5bn compared with strengthened and GDP rose by 2.5% in the year to US$5.9bn in 2010, an increase of 27%.
Reported September, predominantly from ongoing investment profits included gains arising from the dilution of in the mining sector.
Labour market conditions eased HSBCs shareholding in Ping An following its issue during the year, with the unemployment rate rising of share capital to third parties in 2010 and 2011 of modestly to 5.2% by the year end.
The Reserve Bank US$188m and US$181m, respectively.
On of Australia reduced its policy rate in November and an underlying basis, excluding these gains, pre-tax December from 4.75% to 4.25%.
72 The growth in profitability in the region we announced the sale of our RBWM operations in reflected strong lending and deposit growth during Thailand.
We expect to complete these transactions 2010 and 2011, mainly in Singapore and mainland during 2012.
China, coupled with widening deposit spreads due to Net interest income increased by 28%.
Average higher interest rates in certain countries, notably lending balances grew most notably in CMB and India and mainland China.
Loan impairment charges GB&M, particularly in mainland China, as we improved as a result of the non-recurrence of a captured inbound and outbound trade flows and as number of individual impairments and the reduction demand for credit in the region increased.
In RBWM of certain unsecured lending portfolios.
Costs mortgage lending balances rose, notably in increased, though to a lesser extent than revenues, to Singapore and Australia, driven by competitive support business expansion, notably in mainland product offerings and strong property markets.
China, and maintain our competitive position in our six strategic markets.
The contribution from our This was partly offset by continued pressure on associates in mainland China also grew, benefiting asset spreads, most notably in RBWM particularly from ongoing loan growth and increased income in Singapore and Australia, due to competitive from fee-based revenue streams.
pressures and growth in residential mortgage lending at lower spreads.
We continued to invest in building our franchise in mainland China where the operating profit of our Customer deposit balances rose across most operations more than doubled and we remained of the region, notably in Payments and Cash the leading foreign bank by network size.
In CMB, Management reflecting our investment in we increased the coverage of our renminbi trade infrastructure as part of a targeted strategy to settlement services to 24 cities within the country, support growth in customer lending.
Deposit spreads representing the widest geographic coverage among increased as interest rates rose in a number of all foreign banks, and offered renminbi capabilities countries, particularly in mainland China and India.
Cross-border Net interest income from Balance Sheet referrals between mainland China and the rest of the Management was higher than in 2010, reflecting world grew by 9% compared with 2010 as we increased interest rates and the widening of onshore capitalised on our international network to capture US dollar lending spreads in mainland China, and a outbound and inbound trade flows.
In GB&M, we higher return from short-term lending and growth in focused on leveraging our global connectivity and the balance sheet in Singapore as we attracted product capabilities to be the leading international increased customer deposits.
bank of choice for multinational corporations doing business with mainland China and large corporates Net fee income increased by 4%, primarily from looking to expand internationally.
trade-related fees as we targeted asset growth and trade activity, largely in mainland China, Bangladesh Profit before tax increased in other key countries and Singapore, supported by marketing activities, across the region as we maintained our strategic customer acquisition and a rise in transactions from focus on these markets, particularly in existing customers.
Card fees rose, notably in intermediating cross-border trade flows.
Trade Australia from the increased issuance of our corevenues grew in most of our sites and we were branded credit cards, higher retail spending, and awarded the Best Trade Finance Bank in Asia more customers converting to a higher card status.
Pacific by FinanceAsia for the fourteenth consecutive year.
Trade-related lending grew Net trading income of US$1.7bn was broadly strongly in Singapore as we continued to enhance unchanged compared with 2010.
Net interest income our trade finance capabilities.
In Malaysia we on trading activities was lower as we progressively expanded our branch network through the launch of reduced our positions in government debt securities new Amanah branches.
We also experienced strong following increased market volatility in bond commercial lending growth in both Malaysia and markets, and from growth in structured deposits Indonesia as a result of various marketing where the related income is recorded under Net campaigns.
In India, we were ranked the number one interest income.
This was offset by higher Foreign foreign bank by Bloomberg for domestic bonds in Exchange trading income due to increased customer 2011 and issued the first and only offshore renminbi transaction volumes resulting from the collaboration bond in the country.
between GB&M and CMB and as more clients sought protection from volatility in the markets.
As part of our strategic review process, in December 2011 we announced the sale of our private Net expense from financial instruments banking operations in Japan and, in January 2012, designated at fair value was US$18m compared with 73 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Geographical regions Rest of Asia-Pacific income of US$29m in 2010.
This was due to Loan impairment charges and other credit investment losses on assets held by the insurance risk provisions decreased by 42% to US$267m as a business, primarily in Singapore, as a result of result of the non-recurrence of a number of negative equity market movements during the individual loan impairment charges in GB&M on a second half of 2011.
To the extent that these small number of accounts, coupled with the ongoing investment losses were attributed to policyholders of reduction of unsecured lending portfolios in India.
unit-linked insurance policies and insurance We remain cautious on the outlook for credit quality contracts with DPF, there was a corresponding and sustained our focus on maintaining high levels decrease in Net insurance claims incurred and of underwriting and asset quality.
movement in liabilities to policyholders.
Operating expenses increased by 8% due to Losses from financial investments were US$23m wage inflation which reflected the competitive compared with gains of US$151m in 2010, due to an labour market, along with an increase in average impairment loss on an equity investment in 2011 in staff numbers, notably in mainland China.
Increased GB&M, lower gains on the disposal of government business volumes across the region led to higher debt securities across the region and the nonsupport costs.
Premises and equipment costs also recurrence of a gain on disposal of an equity rose in certain countries, reflecting increased rental investment in a Singaporean property company in expenses resulting from lease renewals and new 2010. branch openings.
Net earned insurance premiums increased by Share of profit from associates and joint ventures 58% to US$759m as a result of successful sales increased by 22%.
The contribution from BoCom initiatives, most notably resulting in improved sales rose, driven by strong loan growth, wider deposit of a universal life insurance product targeted at high spreads following interest rate increases in mainland net worth individuals in Singapore.
The growth in China and higher fee income, notably from premiums resulted in a corresponding increase in investment banking, settlements and cards.
Income Net insurance claims incurred and movement in from Industrial Bank also increased as a result of liabilities to policyholders.
strong growth in customer lending, a rise in feebased revenue and a fall in loan impairment charges.
Other operating income increased by US$92m, Higher profits from Ping An resulted from strong largely due to a rise in the PVIF asset in Singapore growth in sales in the insurance business and as a result of higher life insurance sales and a net increased income from the banking business increase from experience and assumption updates.
following the acquisition of Shenzhen Development Bank in July 2011.
74 Profit before tax and balance sheet data Rest of Asia-Pacific 2011 Retail Global Banking Banking Global Interand Wealth Commercial and Private segment 64 Management Banking Markets Banking Other elimination Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Profit before tax Net interest income 1,838 1,254 1,964 116 123 193 5,102 Net fee income expense............ 904 513 621 82 9 2,111 Trading income expense excluding net interest income.
Cost efficiency ratio.................... 78.1 46.6 32.8 67.0 71.8 54.2 49 Balance sheet data US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and advances to customers net 40,970 38,404 41,114 3,190 190 123,868 Total assets.......... 54,484 50,688 195,549 12,879 16,616 12,400 317,816 Customer accounts 60,831 40,423 60,855 11,872 31 174,012 75 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Geographical regions Rest of Asia-Pacific Middle East and North Africa 2010 Retail Banking Global and Wealth Banking Global  and Private segment 17 17 64 ment Banking Markets Banking Other elimination Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Profit before tax Net interest income 1,581 938 1,435 91 55 272 3,828 Net fee income expense............ 834 442 611 55 10 1,932 Trading income expense excluding net interest income.
76 Economic background Middle East and North Africa In the Middle East and North Africa region, GDP The network of branches of HSBC Bank Middle grew by more than 5% in 2011, though the headline East Limited, together with HSBCs subsidiaries figure masks a wide variance in overall performance and associates, gives us the widest reach in the and growth drivers.
In the oil producing states of the region.
Our associate in Saudi Arabia, The Gulf, high oil prices prompted growth in oil output Saudi British Bank 40% owned, is the and encouraged substantial increases in current and Kingdoms sixth largest bank by total assets.
capital spending, most notably in Saudi Arabia.
The export-oriented service sectors of countries including the UAE also grew robustly, supported 2011 2010 2009 in part by firm Asian demand.
US$m US$m US$m The aggregate fiscal and current account Net interest income........... 1,432 1,367 1,485 surpluses of the Gulf Co-operation Council members Net fee income.................. 627 677 625 stood at 15% and 25% of GDP, respectively, Net trading income........... 482 370 394 Other income.................... 66 4 90 significantly higher than in 2010.
Despite the 52 pick-up in growth, CPI inflation remained generally Net operating income... 2,607 2,410 2,594 muted with slow private sector wage growth and 53 Impairment charges........ 293 627 1,334 broadly unchanged real estate prices.
Net operating income..... 2,314 1,783 1,260 Regional political uncertainties weighed more Total operating expenses.. 1,159 1,078 1,001 heavily on performance elsewhere, however, Operating profit.............. 1,155 705 259 particularly in countries that were subject to regime 54 Income from associates.. 337 187 196 change.
In Egypt, the level of GDP fell by an estimated 6 percentage points year-on-year as unrest Profit before tax.............. 1,492 892 455 held back investment and service sector exports, Cost efficiency ratio......... 44.5% 44.7% 38.6% particularly tourism, contracted.
Increased pressure 55 RoRWA 2.6% 1.6% 0.8% on public finances and external account balances Year-end staff numbers.... 8,373 8,676 8,281 also added to the challenges for the post-revolution economies.
Pre-tax profit significantly Review of performance above 2010 despite regional political unrest and economic pressures Our operations in the Middle East and North Africa reported a profit before tax of US$1.5bn, an increase of US$600m, or 67%.
In 2010, we completed the sale of our investment in the British Arab Commercial Bank on which a loss of US$42m was Loan impairment charges incurred.
In 2011, we recorded a dilution gain of decline to 2008 levels US$27m as a result of the reduction of our holding in HSBC Saudi Arabia Limited following its merger with SABB Securities Limited.
On an underlying basis, excluding these items, pre-tax profits increased by 57% as significant loan impairment Best trade finance bank in the Middle East charges in 2010 did not recur and trading income and North Africa rose.
In addition, profits from our associate, The Global Trade Review 2011 Saudi British Bank, increased significantly driven by for the fourth consecutive year a decline in loan impairment charges as the credit environment in Saudi Arabia improved.
Despite political unrest and economic pressures, profits increased in all countries with the exception of Qatar, which was adversely affected by new regulations on foreign banks which curtailed growth in certain products, and Jordan, where we incurred a For footnotes, see page 95.
The commentary on Middle East and North Africa is on an underlying basis unless stated otherwise.
Customer deposits across the phones.
region grew by 10%, reflecting the overall resilience In CMB, we continued to strengthen our of the oil-based regional economies and the strength position as a leading international trade and business of the HSBC brand.
bank, achieving double-digit trade-related growth We initiated a number of strategic programmes year-on-year and increasing market share in key to optimise and reconfigure our branch network.
We also launched services to support This resulted in branch closures and consolidations settlements in renminbi to further facilitate trade in Jordan, Lebanon, Qatar and Bahrain together with between mainland China and the region.
an exit from our retail operations in Kuwait and part In the UAE, we entered into partnerships with a of our Principal Investments business.
We also number of Free Trade Zones to provide improved reconfigured domestic private banking in the UAE in access to banking services for internationallyorder to focus solely on international private banking oriented SMEs.
products and services through the conversion of the existing operation into a representative office for In Payments and Cash Management, we GPB.
launched ClientSphere, a system which will further simplify cash management products and improve the In RBWM, we continued to focus on wealth overall customer experience.
We also won a number management and secured lending, while building of awards, including Best Overall Bank for Cash long-term relationships through our Premier and Management in the Middle East from Global Advance customer offerings.
During 2011, we Finance Awards and Best Cash Management Bank implemented new technologies to improve our in the Middle East from Euromoney.
We also successfully launched mobile banking in the UAE, Oman, Bahrain and Jordan allowing customers to access 78 Greater collaboration between CMB and Trading income increased by 31%, mainly in GB&M benefited both businesses with a significant Rates in GB&M due to an increase in government increase in GB&M-related revenues from 2010. bond trading along with a net release of credit valuation adjustments driven by movements in In GB&M, we continued to focus on our key exchange rates and an improvement in counterparty clients and used our global expertise and reach both risk.
A greater focus on sales of GB&M products to to complete a number of cross-border deals for CMB customers, notably foreign exchange, also regional clients and provide risk management contributed to the rise in trading income.
solutions tailored for customer needs, including Islamic products.
We won a number of awards, Loan impairment charges and other credit risk including Best for Middle Eastern Currencies in provisions decreased markedly as the significant the Euromoney FX survey and Best Risk Advisor in loan impairment charges which resulted from Middle East from Euromoney.
We continued to be restructuring activity for a small number of large recognised as a leading provider of Islamic financial GB&M customers in 2010 did not recur.
In addition, services and we were awarded Best Islamic lower loan impairment charges in RBWM reflected a Investment Bank, Middle East and Sukuk House of significant improvement in delinquency rates, which the Year from The Asset Magazine Triple A Islamic resulted from a repositioning of the loan book Finance Awards.
towards higher quality lending as we continued to manage down higher risk unsecured lending, Net interest income rose by 6%, driven by together with strengthened collection practices.
Our strong growth in average trade lending balances in lending portfolios were not significantly adversely the second half of 2010 and throughout 2011 in affected by political instability in the region, CMB as we leveraged opportunities to support although uncertainties remain in certain of these global and intra-regional trade flows.
benefited from the restructuring of a large customer facility along with improved spreads on investment Operating expenses increased by 8% due portfolios.
This was partly offset by a reduction in to an increase in staff costs as we enhanced the spreads in CMB as we priced competitively to drive employee base, and to a lesser extent, in line with volume growth.
In addition, average lending inflation.
Strategic programmes, including balances declined in RBWM as unsecured lending fide-layering our management structure, streamlining portfolios continued to be managed down and our business processes and implementing the hub replaced by higher quality lending resulting in an and spoke model to drive future sustainable cost overall improvement in the credit quality of the savings, resulted in lower staff numbers than last portfolio.
Central bank regulations limiting interest year.
This resulted in restructuring costs of US$31m.
rates on certain products in Qatar also contributed to Marketing costs also rose as we increased lower net interest income.
investment in the promotion of the HSBC brand.
Net fee income decreased by 7%, despite higher Profit from associates and joint ventures trade volumes in CMB, as lower institutional equity increased by 81%, mainly from The Saudi British activity in GB&M reflected the challenging political Bank, driven by a decline in loan impairment environment.
In addition, net fee income in RBWM charges as the credit environment in Saudi Arabia decreased due to a decline in the number of credit improved, along with cost control.
cards in issue as certain portfolios were managed down, along with lower late fees as a result of an improvement in delinquency rates.
79 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Geographical regions Middle East and North Africa Profit loss before tax and balance sheet data Middle East and North Africa 2011 Retail Global Banking Banking Global Interand Wealth Commercial and Private segment 64 Management Banking Markets Banking Other elimination Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Profit loss before tax Net interest income 589 496 371 2 2 28 1,432 Net fee income expense............ 173 271 173 13 3 627 Trading income expense excluding net interest income.
81 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Geographical regions North America Economic background North America In the US, GDP expanded by 3.0% in 2010 and the Our North American businesses are located in adoption of stimulative tax policies at the end of that the US, Canada and Bermuda.
Operations in year suggested an even faster rate of growth in 2011. the US are primarily conducted through HSBC However, this failed to materialise for a number of Bank USA, N. A. and HSBC Finance, a national reasons.
The first was the adoption of fiscal austerity consumer finance company.
HSBC Markets by state and local governments.
Second, the sharp USA Inc. is the intermediate holding company of, inter alia, HSBC Securities USA Inc.. HSBC rise in crude oil prices in the first half of 2011 Bank Canada and HSBC Bank Bermuda operate dampened both business and consumer spending.
By in their respective countries.
the second quarter of 2011, average crude oil prices were 50% higher than the levels a year earlier.
The third development concerned the disruption to motor vehicle production caused by parts shortages arising from the Japanese earthquake.
Finally, financial 2011 2010 2009 market turmoil caused by the eurozone debt crisis US$m US$m US$m and the debt ceiling debate in Washington adversely Net interest income........... 11,480 12,439 13,670 affected business and consumer confidence.
The Net fee income.................. 3,308 3,664 4,817 Net trading income housing market remained weak, although there were expense 362 314 331 some tentative signs of recovery towards the end of Other income expense.... 1,574 630 2,513 the year, albeit from a very low level.
53 Impairment charges........ 7,016 8,295 15,664 US headline inflation increased during 2011 Net operating income..... 8,984 8,752 641 with the annual rate of CPI inflation rising to 3.1% compared with 1.7% in 2010, but core inflation Total operating expenses.. 8,919 8,322 8,391 remained subdued.
The labour market recovery Operating profit loss.... 65 430 7,750 continued to be lacklustre: employment grew 54 Income from associates.. 35 24 12 roughly 0.6% in 2011 following a decline of the Profit loss before tax.... 100 454 7,738 same magnitude in 2010.
The unemployment rate fell to 8.5% in December 2011, down from 9.6% in Cost efficiency ratio......... 55.7% 48.8% 51.5% 55 RoRWA 0.0% 0.1% 2.1 % 2010, but much of the decline can be attributed to a fall in labour force participation.
The Federal Year-end staff numbers.... 30,981 33,865 35,458 Reserve remained focused on countering deflationary pressures: it committed itself to keeping The sale of our Card and Retail Services the Fed funds rate in a range of 0 to 0.25% until at business and 195 non-strategic branches least mid-2013 and, in September, with the intention announced of exerting downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, it decided to extend the average maturity of its securities portfolio by selling US$400bn of short-term Treasury securities and Gross balances in buying an equivalent amount of longer-term run-off portfolio down by Treasury securities in their place.
These moves US$8.9bn helped stabilise financial asset prices in the final to US$49.5bn quarter of the year.
The annual rate of GDP growth in Canada slowed in 2011 to 2.4% from 3.2% in 2010.
Slower economic growth in the US and other export partners Reported pre-tax profit of in Europe held back the rate of growth and a US$965m slowdown in the pace of job creation dampened the from our Canadian operations growth of consumer spending as well.
Higher energy prices contributed to a rise in inflation, leading to an increase in the annual rate of core CPI inflation to 2.9% from 1.8% the year before.
The Bank of For footnotes, see page 95.
Canada held its policy interest rate steady at 1.0% The commentary on North America is on an underlying basis unless stated otherwise.
However, these effects US$454m in 2010, a decrease of 78%.
Reported were partly offset by a corresponding decline in loan profits included favourable movements on our own impairment charges.
debt designated at fair value of US$970m resulting from changes in credit spreads, compared with Performance in the second half of 2011 favourable movements of US$142m and a gain of deteriorated, driven by an increase in adverse fair US$66m on the sale of our stake in the Wells Fargo value movements on non-qualifying hedges as HSBC Trade Bank in 2010.
On an underlying basis, US long-term interest rates declined reflecting which excludes the above, we reported a pre-tax loss increased concerns regarding the pace of US of US$870m in 2011 compared with a profit before economic recovery and ongoing eurozone tax of US$285m in 2010. concerns.
In addition, there was a marked rise in loan impairment charges in our run-off portfolio, Our 2011 North American results continued to reflecting deterioration in delinquency rates, be affected by the pace of recovery of the US and higher estimated costs to obtain and realise economy, in particular the decline in house prices collateral, both related to the industry-wide delays and high levels of unemployment, as well as the in foreclosure processing.
impact of proposed regulatory changes and ongoing compliance initiatives.
We expect these factors, as Our Canadian business continued to perform well as the ongoing delays in foreclosure processes, strongly during 2011.
Profit before tax increased by to continue to affect our results going forward.
4% to US$955m driven by improved credit quality in our CMB business, while in GB&M, higher preThe reduction in our underlying profit was tax profits were driven by a rise in revenue from partly attributable to a decline in GB&M driven Balance Sheet Management.
by higher costs, mainly from compliance and remediation, lower releases of collective loan In 2011, we made significant progress in our impairment allowances and reduced trading income, strategy for our North American businesses.
In the which in part reflected the non-recurrence of price second half of 2011, we announced the sale of our appreciation on assets in the legacy credit portfolio.
Card and Retail Services business to Capital One In our consumer finance portfolios, revenue Financial Group, which we expect to complete in the 83 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Geographical regions North America first half of 2012.
We also announced the sale of 195 Net interest income from Balance Sheet non-strategic branches, principally in upstate New Management activities increased compared with York, to First Niagara Bank, N. A.
We expect this 2010, largely driven by an increase in securities transaction to close in stages, commencing in holdings in the US investment portfolio, and the second quarter of 2012.
These transactions favourable positioning for interest rate movements remain subject to regulatory approval.
we announced the disposal of our Canadian Net fee income fell by 10% to US$3.3bn investment advisory business and sold our private reflecting the closure of our Taxpayer Financial equity businesses in the US and Canada as well as Services business and the sale of our vehicle finance the cessation of life insurance manufacturing in the loan portfolio and loan servicing platform in 2010.
US, with effect from January 2012.
In our Card and Retail Services business fee The results of our Card and Retail Services income reduced, driven by lower late and overlimit business can be seen on page 46.
We expect the sale fees reflecting reduced delinquencies and fewer of this business to have a significant impact on both accounts, as well as the effect of customers actively the revenue and profitability of our North American seeking to reduce credit card debt and the CARD operations going forward.
In addition, fee expense rose as revenue-share In 2011, we incurred charges of US$236m payments to our credit card partners increased as 2010: US$13m associated with restructuring improved portfolio performance resulted in activities in North America which included the increased cash flows.
The decline in net fee income impairment of software development costs.
In was partly offset by a reduction in fees written off addition we reduced the size of many of our support reflecting lower fees billed to our customers and functions to correspond to the reduced scale of improved credit quality.
our operations in the region.
During 2011 we Net trading expense of US$362m compared achieved about US$240m of sustainable savings.
with net trading income of US$319m in 2010, In RBWM, we remained focused on managing primarily driven by an increase in adverse fair value down the residual balances in our run-off CML movements on non-qualifying hedges used to portfolio.
We also continued to direct efforts towards economically hedge floating rate debt issued by the expansion of wealth management and Premier HSBC Finance.
This was due to a decrease in longpropositions.
term US interest rates, reflecting heightened concerns regarding the pace of US economic In our CMB and GB&M businesses, we recovery and the ongoing eurozone crisis.
These continued to proactively target companies that trade rates declined to a greater extent than in 2010, and invest internationally.
In 2011, we increased the resulting in adverse fair value movements of number of CMB relationship managers in areas with US$1.1bn in 2011 compared with US$353m in strong international connectivity, including the US 2010.
West Coast, Texas, Florida and central Canada.
We grew revenue from the sale of GB&M products to In GB&M, trading income declined by 29% as CMB customers and, in GB&M, we continued to revenue in the legacy credit portfolio was adversely interconnect our operations across the Americas to affected by the non-recurrence of price appreciation deliver more integrated solutions for our customers.
on assets, as well as a 2010 gain from a legal settlement of US$89m relating to certain loans Net interest income declined by 8% to previously purchased for resale from a third party US$11.5bn, primarily due to lower lending balances which did not recur, and the exit from the Bank in HSBC Finance resulting from the continued runNotes business in 2010.
This decline was partly off of the residual balances in the CML portfolio, as offset by a rise in foreign exchange and metals well as the sale of our vehicle finance portfolio in revenue, reflecting greater client activity and 2010.
In Card and Retail Services, lower net interest increased price volatility resulting from global income reflected a reduction in lending balances economic uncertainty.
Metals revenue also benefited despite higher customer spending, as our customers from a rally in precious metal prices.
In addition, continued to reduce outstanding credit card debt.
It growth in revenue from Rates was driven by an was also affected by lower yields due to the effects increase in new deal activity.
In RBWM, charges of the US Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility for loan repurchase obligations relating to loans and Disclosure Act CARD Act, which included previously sold fell from US$341m to US$92m.
restrictions on the repricing of delinquent accounts.
These reductions were partly offset by a fall in our cost of funds.
84 Gains less losses from financial investments This was mainly due to lower lending balances and increased by 82% following the sale of availableimproved credit quality in Canada.
In the US the for-sale debt securities in the Balance Sheet decline was mainly in the commercial real estate and Management portfolio.
These transactions were mid-market sectors, while loan impairment charges undertaken to manage portfolio risk and duration.
in Business Banking also declined reflecting improved credit quality and lower delinquency Other operating income increased by 37% to levels.
This was partly offset by a specific loan US$226m due to the non-recurrence of losses on the impairment charge associated with the downgrade of sale of our vehicle finance loan portfolio in 2010. a commercial real estate loan exposure.
This was partly offset by adverse movements in the PVIF asset within the insurance business reflecting The reduction in loan impairment charges and assumption updates, including an increase in other credit risk provisions was partly offset by an expected expense rates and updates to mortality, increase in GB&M reflecting lower releases of as well as the non-recurrence of a US$56m gain on collective loan impairment allowances than in 2010. the sale of our New York headquarters in 2010.
In addition, 2011 included an individually assessed loan impairment charge associated with a corporate Loan impairment charges and other credit risk lending relationship.
provisions decreased by 16% to US$7.0bn, the lowest reported level since 2006.
Operating expenses increased by 7% to US$8.9bn, including an increase in litigation Loan impairment charges in the CML portfolio provisions and a new provision of US$257m related fell reflecting the continued run-off, partly offset by to US mortgage foreclosure servicing costs.
In higher costs to obtain collateral and delays in the addition, we incurred a charge of US$48m timing of expected cash flows from our real estate associated with costs expected to arise from secured portfolio as a result of the delays in foreclosure delays involving loans serviced for processing foreclosures.
During 2011, restructuring initiatives resulted increased in the second half of 2011 following a in charges of US$236m, while in 2010 operating deterioration in delinquency and the adverse effects expenses benefited from a pension curtailment gain of the continued disruption to foreclosures.
We anticipate delinquency and write-off levels Operating expenses also increased in our in the CML portfolio will remain under pressure in GB&M business.
This largely reflected higher legal 2012 as the US economic environment continues and compliance costs, and an increase in staff costs to affect our business, as well as from foreclosure which included higher amortisation charges for delays.
The magnitude of these trends will largely previous years performance shares and accelerated be dependent on economic recovery, including expense recognition of current year deferred bonus unemployment rates and improvements in the awards.
The drivers of expense growth in North housing market.
America were in part offset by lower costs following In our Card and Retail Services business, loan the sale of the vehicle finance servicing operation in impairment charges and other credit risk provisions 2010 and the closure of Taxpayer Financial Services, declined by 26% to US$1.6bn driven by lower as well as lower marketing expenses in our Card lending balances and improved delinquency rates and Retail Services business.
Our third party as overall credit quality improved.
collection costs were also lower, reflecting reduced delinquencies and the continued run-off of lending Further commentary on delinquency trends in balances in the CML portfolio.
the US RBWM portfolios is provided in Areas of special interest US personal lending on page 124.
We expect that costs incurred in ensuring that we satisfy requirements relating to our mortgage In CMB, loan impairment charges and other foreclosure process will increase our operating credit risk provisions declined by 68%, with expenses in the future.
significant reductions in both Canada and the US.
85 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Geographical regions North America Profit loss before tax and balance sheet data North America 2011 Retail Global Banking Banking Global Interand Wealth Commercial and Private segment 64 Management Banking Markets Banking Other elimination Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Profit loss before tax Net interest income 8,931 1,528 893 187 9 68 11,480 Net fee income expense............ 1,836 551 773 149 1 3,308 Trading income expense excluding net interest income.
87 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Geographical regions North America Latin America North America RBWM profit loss before tax and balance sheet data 2011 2010 Card and Card and Retail Run-off Rest of Retail Run-off Rest of Services portfolios RBWM RBWM Services portfolios RBWM RBWM US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Profit loss before tax Net interest income 4,128 2,990 1,813 8,931 4,727 3,404 1,781 9,912 Net fee income expense........... 1,273 49 612 1,836 1,333 55 754 2,142 Trading income expense excluding net interest income 1,145 199 946 377 95 472 Net interest income on 25 25 24 24 trading activities 56 Net trading income expense.. 1,145 224 921 377 71 448 Changes in fair value of longterm debt issued and related derivatives......... Net income from other financial instruments designated at fair value........... 6 6 Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value........ 6 6 Gains less losses from financial investments.............. 55 3 58 5 5 Dividend income.... 5 10 15 3 3 12 18 Net earned insurance premiums.
88 Economic background Latin America In Brazil, economic growth in 2011 slowed more Our operations in Latin America principally quickly than expected, and is anticipated to have comprise HSBC Bank Brasil S. A.
-Banco ended the year with the economy growing at an Mltiplo, HSBC Mxico, S. A. HSBC Bank annual rate of 3%.
While the fallout from the crisis Argentina S. A. and HSBC Bank Panama S. A. in the eurozone contributed to the slowdown, it was In addition to banking services, we operate mostly attributable to an easing in domestic demand insurance businesses in Brazil, Mexico, Argentina and Panama.
following a tightening in monetary conditions in response to rising inflation.
By the end of 2011 inflation had fallen to 6.5% after peaking at around 7.5% in June.
This allowed the government to reverse much of the policy tightening implemented 2011 2010 2009 in early 2011.
US$m US$m US$m Net interest income........... 6,956 6,311 5,573 Mexicos economy maintained a robust rate of Net fee income.................. 1,781 1,749 1,729 growth in 2011, although export growth moderated Net trading income........... 1,378 733 848 at the end of the year on the back of lower external Other income.................... 1,338 938 874 demand.
By contrast, domestic demand continued to 52 Net operating income... 11,453 9,731 9,024 strengthen, reflecting the greater availability of 53 Impairment charges........ 1,883 1,544 2,526 credit, growth in wages and a steady reduction in unemployment.
The annual rate of CPI inflation rose at the Total operating expenses.. 7,255 6,394 5,375 end of 2011 to 3.8% due to a rebound in some Operating profit.............. 2,315 1,793 1,123 agricultural prices and exchange rate depreciation.
54 Income from associates.. 2 1 The Central Bank of Mexico maintained its policy interest rate at 4.5% throughout the year.
Profit before tax.............. 2,315 1,795 1,124 Cost efficiency ratio......... 63.3% 65.7% 59.6% In Argentina, during the first three quarters of 55 RoRWA 2.3% 2.0% 1.4% 2011, real GDP increased by 9.4% compared with the same period in 2010, mainly from increases in Year-end staff numbers.... 54,035 56,044 54,288 consumption of 11.3% and in gross fixed investment of 19.9%.
The annual rate of CPI inflation remained Underlying pre-tax profit driven by high and the GDP deflator measure of inflation accelerated to 16.4% in the third quarter of 2011. strong revenue growth and operating expense discipline Review of performance In Latin America, our operations reported a profit before tax of US$2.3bn in 2011, an increase of 29% 14% compared with 2010.
On an underlying basis, which growth in CMB lending balances excludes a gain of US$83m from the sale of HSBC Afore the Mexican pension administration business, profit before tax increased by 21%.
This was driven by strong growth in lending balances in Strong increase our CMB and RBWM businesses in Brazil, which in sales of GB&M products reflected the favourable economic environment.
to CMB customers Improved revenue in GB&M arose from higher income from foreign exchange driven by greater volatility and an increase in client activity, while growth in insurance revenue followed an increase in our sales force.
This was partly offset by cost growth driven by restructuring initiatives, inflationary pressures and business growth, while a rise in loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions For footnotes, see page 95. reflected the strong rise in lending, particularly in The commentary on Latin America is on an underlying basis unless stated otherwise.
During 2011, we made progress in the execution 2010, most notably from the sale of GB&M foreign of our regional strategy while also improving the exchange products.
We recruited additional To enhance efficiency, we restructured our relationship managers in our CMB businesses in regional and country support functions, and in Brazil to support business growth, particularly from Mexico we consolidated the branch network, Business Banking and mid-market customers and the reducing it by 43 in the last quarter of 2010 and 77 increasing number of businesses with international in 2011.
In the second half of 2011 we completed requirements.
We increased our focus on sales and the sale of HSBC Afore and our retail banking customer service with the addition of relationship operations in Chile.
As a consequence, we reduced managers in RBWM in Brazil, and opened 14 new staff numbers by more than 1,900 in 2011. branches in Argentina to capture opportunities arising from demographic changes and upward In January 2012, we entered into an agreement social mobility.
to sell our operations in Costa Rica, Honduras and El Salvador.
We expect to complete this transaction In order to improve the risk profile of our during 2012, subject to regulatory approval.
RBWM business we continued to reposition our lending portfolio towards higher credit-quality Net interest income rose by 7% to US$7.0bn, customers, notably by building long-term driven by growth in average lending balances in both relationships with customers.
In Brazil, we increased 2010 and in 2011.
This was mainly in CMB and our focus on secured lending and wealth RBWM, reflecting favourable economic conditions management products.
and growing consumer demand, partly offset by a rise in internal funding costs on higher balances of In GB&M, our pre-tax profits increased to over reverse repos and government bonds held for US$1.0bn in 2011 as we continued to utilise the trading.
In CMB, we grew our average customer connectivity of the HSBC network to serve the lending balances, particularly in Brazil, reflecting the growing number of global corporate businesses in favourable economic conditions, the increase in our Latin America.
During 2011, our GB&M sales force customer base and our investment in relationship actively targeted our CMB customer base and managers.
The rise was mainly in working capital achieved strong growth in revenue compared with products following marketing campaigns and new 90 product launches, while higher overdraft balances Argentina, strong growth in net insurance premiums arose from increased utilisation rates.
We also grew was mainly attributable to volume growth and the our trade-related lending in response to strong repricing of motor insurance policies in response to customer demand and our focus on sales to inflationary pressures.
In Mexico, a rise in net customers with international connectivity.
In insurance premiums was principally due to higher RBWM, increased average lending balances and sales of an endowment product and improved term strong lending growth in 2011 led to higher net life lapse rates.
The growth in net insurance interest income, mainly in Brazil and Argentina, premiums, as well as the increase in policyholder reflecting economic growth, lower unemployment assets described above, resulted in corresponding and increased household income.
This was partly increases in Net insurance claims incurred and offset by a compression of asset spreads in Mexico movement in liabilities to policyholders.
and Brazil as an increased proportion of our lending Other operating income of US$244m was 74% book comprised secured, lower-yielding products.
higher than in 2010 due to gains of US$61m Net fee income declined marginally, driven by a resulting from the sale and leaseback of branches in reduction in Mexico where regulatory changes Mexico.
In addition, there was a net increase in the relating to ATM transactions resulted in a reduction PVIF in Brazil and Mexico as a result of higher life in the fees we were able to charge for use of our insurance sales, partly offset by a net decrease from network.
Credit card fees in Mexico declined as a experience and assumption updates in addition to a result of lower balances.
This was partly offset by higher unwind of cash flows from the growing ingrowth in fee income from our CMB business in force book.
Brazil, mainly in Payments and Cash Management Loan impairment charges and other credit risk and Account Services, reflecting increased volumes.
provisions rose by 17% to US$1.9bn.
The increase Net trading income was 82% higher than in was mainly in Brazil driven by strong lending 2010.
The majority of the increase was in Brazil due growth in RBWM and CMB, as well as worsening to a rise in net interest income earned on trading delinquency in the second half of 2011, notably in activities resulting from an increase in reverse repos the credit card and Business Banking portfolios.
In and government bonds held for trading.
The cost of addition, higher loan impairment charges included a internally funding these assets also increased, but significant individually assessed loan impairment the related interest expense is reported within Net charge related to a single commercial customer.
Additionally, trading income in Loan impairment charges and other credit risk Brazil increased as a result of higher revenue from provisions in Mexico declined by 28% reflecting the sales of foreign exchange products reflecting market continued managed decline of the higher risk sections volatility, while in Mexico higher trading income of the credit card portfolio, as well as improvements was due to the completion of a small number of to both the collections and credit quality of the individually large derivative transactions in GB&M.
portfolio following targeted sales campaigns and Net income from financial instruments enhanced pre-screening.
designated at fair value was 26% higher than in Operating expenses were 10% higher than in 2010, mainly due to growth in premiums from unit- 2010.
In 2011, we incurred US$338m of linked pension products in Brazil which resulted in restructuring costs, the majority of which are an increase in the underlying financial assets.
Since reported in Other, as we took steps to improve the investment income accruing from these assets was ongoing efficiency of our operations in the region, largely attributable to policyholders, there was a including cancelling certain regional projects, corresponding increase in Net insurance claims restructuring regional and country support functions incurred and movement in liabilities to and consolidating the branch network in Mexico.
In addition, operating expenses were adversely Gains less losses from financial investments affected by inflationary pressures across the region, rose by 36%, mainly due to a gain on the sale of as well as union agreed wage increases and a rise in shares in a Mexican listed company and increased volume-driven transactional taxes in Brazil and gains from the sale of debt securities in Argentina.
Sustainable savings of about US$220m Net insurance premiums increased by 26% to resulting from the restructuring and organisational US$2.7bn.
This was mainly in Brazil, reflecting effectiveness programmes enabled investment in strong growth in sales of unit linked pension and life strategic initiatives, including the recruitment of and credit protection products, following an increase additional relationship managers.
in the sales force and targeted sales campaigns.
In 91 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Geographical regions Latin America Profit loss before tax and balance sheet data Latin America 2011 Retail Global Banking Banking Global Interand Wealth Commercial and Private segment 64 Management Banking Markets Banking Other elimination Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Profit loss before tax Net interest income expense..... 4,519 2,229 882 25 7 692 6,956 Net fee income 939 610 196 36 1,781 Trading income expense 68 106 372 5 7 544 excluding net interest income.
93 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview
