HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Other information Footnotes Other information Assets held in custody and under administration Funds under management and assets held in Custody is the safekeeping and servicing of custody securities and other financial assets on behalf of Funds under management clients.
At 31 December 2011, we held assets as 2011 2010 custodian of US$5.2 trillion, 7% lower than the US$bn US$bn US$5.7 trillion held at 31 December 2010.
This was Funds under management mainly driven by a decrease in the market value of At 1 January 925 857 assets and adverse foreign exchange movements.
Net new money 2 42 Value change... 40 33 Our assets under administration business, which Exchange and other 40 7 includes the provision of various support function At 31 December...... 847 925 activities including the valuation of portfolios of securities and other financial assets on behalf of clients, complements the custody business.
At At 31 December 31 December 2011, the value of assets held under 2011 2010 US$bn US$bn administration by the Group amounted to Funds under management by US$2.6 trillion, compared with US$2.7 trillion business in 2010.
Global Asset Management.......... 396 439 Global Private Banking............... 259 277 Property Affiliates 3 3 Other...... 189 206 At 31 December 2011, we operated from some 847 925 9,500 operational properties worldwide, of which approximately 2,270 were located in Europe, 2,940 Funds under management FuM at 31 December in Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific, 840 in North 2011 amounted to US$847bn, a decrease of 8% America, 3,210 in Latin America and 250 in the when compared with 2010.
Both Global Asset Middle East and North Africa.
These properties had Management and GPB fund holdings decreased, an area of approximately 65.7m square feet 2010: reflecting adverse equity market and foreign 71.3m square feet.
Our freehold and long leasehold properties, Global Asset Management funds, including together with all our leasehold land in Hong Kong, emerging market funds, decreased by 10% to were valued in 2011.
The value of these properties US$396bn as a result of client withdrawals from was US$8.9bn 2010: US$7.1bn in excess of their lower yielding liquidity funds mainly in Europe and carrying amount in the consolidated balance sheet.
North America and adverse global equity markets In addition, properties with a net book value of performance and foreign exchange movements, US$1.3bn were held for investment purposes.
partly offset by inflows in long-term funds, Our operational properties are stated at cost, particularly in Europe.
being historical cost or fair value at the date of GPB funds decreased by 7% compared with transition to IFRSs their deemed cost less any 31 December 2010 to US$259bn as net new money impairment losses, and are depreciated on a basis inflows which benefited from cross-business calculated to write off the assets over their estimated referrals and the focus on faster-growing market useful lives.
Properties owned as a consequence of business were more than offset by adverse an acquisition are recognised initially at fair value.
movements in financial markets and foreign Further details are included in Note 25 on the exchange.
Client assets, which include FuM and Financial Statements.
cash deposits and provide an indicator of overall GPB volumes, decreased by US$12bn to US$377bn Legal proceedings and regulatory matters due to the reduction in FuM.
Details are included in Note 44 on the Financial Other FuM, decreased by 8% to US$189bn Statements.
primarily due to the disposal of the real estate and infrastructure fund management activity during the year.
94 Accounting for deferred bonus arrangements financial year.
As a result, the vesting period in respect of deferred awards expected to be granted in Recent regulatory and best practice guidance has March 2012 is therefore determined to have started clarified the required structure and terms of deferred on 1 January 2011.
An additional expense of bonus arrangements awarded to employees, who US$163m in respect of these deferred awards was now have a better understanding of the likely nature recognised in Operating expenses during 2011. of awards to be granted in respect of a particular Footnotes to pages 2 to 93 Financial highlights 1 Dividends recorded in the financial statements are dividends per ordinary share declared in a year and are not dividends in respect of, or for, that year.
The third interim dividend for 2010 of US$0.08 was paid on 12 January 2011.
The fourth interim dividend for 2010 of US$0.12 was paid on 5 May 2011.
First, second and third interim dividends for 2011, each of US$0.09 per ordinary share, were paid on 6 July 2011, 6 October 2011 and 18 January 2012, respectively.
Note 11 on the Financial Statements provides more information on the dividends declared in 2011.
On 27 February 2012 the Directors declared a fourth interim dividend for 2011 of US$0.14 per ordinary share in lieu of a final dividend, which will be payable to ordinary shareholders on 2 May 2012 in cash in US dollars, or in pounds sterling or Hong Kong dollars at exchange rates to be determined on 23 April 2012, with a scrip dividend alternative.
The reserves available for distribution at 31 December 2011 were US$34,621m.
Quarterly dividends of US$15.50 per 6.2% non-cumulative Series A US dollar preference share, equivalent to a dividend of US$0.3875 per Series A ADS, each of which represents one-fortieth of a Series A US dollar preference share, were paid on 15 March 2011, 15 June 2011, 15 September 2011 and 15 December 2011.
Quarterly coupons of US$0.508 per security were paid with respect to 8.125% capital securities on 18 January 2011, 15 April 2011, 15 July 2011 and 15 October 2011.
Quarterly coupons of US$0.50 per security were paid with respect to 8% capital securities on 15 March, 15 June, 15 September and 15 December 2011.
2 Return on average invested capital is based on the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders.
Average invested capital is measured as average total shareholders equity after adding back goodwill previously amortised or written-off directly to reserves, deducting average equity preference shares issued by HSBC Holdings and deducting adding average reserves for unrealised gains losses on effective cash flow hedges and available-for-sale securities and property revaluation reserves.
This measure reflects capital initially invested and subsequent profit.
3 The return on average ordinary shareholders equity is defined as profit attributable to shareholders of the parent company divided by average ordinary shareholders equity.
4 The cost efficiency ratio is defined as total operating expenses divided by net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions.
5 Each American Depositary Share represents five ordinary shares.
6 Total shareholder return is defined as the growth in share value and declared dividend income during the relevant period.
7 The Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 Index, the Morgan Stanley Capital International World Index and the Morgan Stanley Capital International World Bank Index.
8 The core tier 1 capital ratio in 2011 includes the effect of the Basel 2.5 rules.
9 HBEU is HSBC Bank plc: HBAP is The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation: and HBUS is HSBC Bank USA.
Figures provided for HSBC Bank plc and The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation incorporate the major overseas branches of these entities.
Subsidiaries of these entities are not included unless there is unrestricted transferability of liquidity between the subsidiaries and the parent.
Other entities comprise our other main banking subsidiaries and, as such, includes businesses spread across a range of locations, in many of which we may require a higher ratio of net liquid assets to customer liabilities to reflect local market conditions.
Reconciliations of reported and underlying profit loss before tax 10 These columns comprise the net increments or decrements in profits in the current year compared with the previous year which are attributable to acquisitions or disposals gains on the dilution of interests in associates and or movements in fair value of own debt attributable to credit spread.
The inclusion of acquisitions and disposals is determined in the light of events each year.
11 Currency translation is the effect of translating the results of subsidiaries and associates for the previous year at the average rates of exchange applicable in the current year.
13 Positive numbers are favourable: negative numbers are unfavourable.
14 Changes in fair value due to movements in own credit spread on long-term debt issued.
This does not include the fair value changes due to own credit spread on structured notes issued and other hybrid instruments included within trading liabilities.
15 Other income in this context comprises net trading income, net income expense from other financial instruments designated at fair value, gains less losses from financial investments, dividend income, net earned insurance premiums and other operating income less net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders.
16 Net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions.
17 With effect from 1 March 2011, our Global Asset Management business was moved from GB&M to RBWM.
Comparative data have been adjusted accordingly.
95 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Footnotes Financial summary 19 In 2008, an impairment charge of US$10,564m to fully write off goodwill in PFS in North America was reported in Total operating expenses.
This amount is excluded from Total operating expenses in calculating the ratio.
20 The effect of the bonus element of the rights issue in 2009 has been included within the basic and diluted earnings per share.
21 Dividends per ordinary share expressed as a percentage of basic earnings per share.
22 Net interest income includes the cost of funding trading assets, while the related external revenues are reported in Trading income.
In our global business results, the cost of funding trading assets is included with GB&Ms net trading income as interest expense.
23 Gross interest yield is the average annualised interest rate earned on average interest-earning assets AIEA.
24 Net interest spread is the difference between the average annualised interest rate earned on AIEA, net of amortised premiums and loan fees, and the average annualised interest rate paid on average interest-bearing funds.
25 Net interest margin is net interest income expressed as an annualised percentage of AIEA.
26 In 2011, other interest-earning assets includes the average assets of disposal groups held for sale.
In prior years other interest-earning assets included intercompany eliminations.
In 2011, intercompany eliminations have been included in the relevant line item.
27 Interest income on trading assets is reported as Net trading income in the consolidated income statement.
28 Interest income on financial assets designated at fair value is reported as Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value in the consolidated income statement.
29 This includes interest-bearing bank deposits only.
30 Interest expense on financial liabilities designated at fair value is reported as Net income on financial instruments designated at fair value in the consolidated income statement, other than interest on own debt which is reported in Interest expense.
31 This includes interest-bearing customer accounts only.
32 The cost of internal funding of trading assets was US$1,161m 2010: US$902m: 2009: US$1,309m and is excluded from the reported Net trading income line and included in Net interest income.
However, this cost is reinstated in Net trading income in our global business reporting.
33 Net trading income includes income of US$458m 2010: income of US$23m: 2009: expense of US$444m, associated with changes in the fair value of issued structured notes and other hybrid instrument liabilities derived from movements in HSBC issuance spreads.
34 Other changes in fair value include gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that are managed in conjunction with HSBCs long-term debt issued.
36 Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders arise from both life and non-life insurance business.
For non-life business, amounts reported represent the cost of claims paid during the year and the estimated cost of notified claims.
For life business, the main element of claims is the liability to policyholders created on the initial underwriting of the policy and any subsequent movement in the liability that arises, primarily from the attribution of investment performance to savings-related policies.
Consequently, claims rise in line with increases in sales of savings-related business and with investment market growth.
Consolidated balance sheet 37 Net of impairment allowances.
38 The calculation of capital resources, capital ratios and risk-weighted assets for 2008 to 2010 is on a Basel II basis.
2011 includes the effect of rule changes under Basel 2.5.
39 2007 comparatives are on a Basel I basis.
40 Capital resources are total regulatory capital, the calculation of which is set out on page 214.
41 Includes perpetual preferred securities, details of which can be found in Note 34 on the Financial Statements.
42 The definition of net asset value per share is total shareholders equity, less non-cumulative preference shares and capital securities, divided by the number of ordinary shares in issue.
43 Currency translation is the effect of translating the assets and liabilities of subsidiaries and associates for the previous year-end at the rates of exchange applicable at the current year-end 44 France primarily comprises the domestic operations of HSBC France, HSBC Assurances Vie and the Paris branch of HSBC Bank plc.
Economic profit 45 Expressed as a percentage of average invested capital.
46 Average invested capital is measured as average total shareholders equity after: adding back the average balance of goodwill amortised pre-transition to IFRSs or subsequently written-off, directly to reserves less goodwill previously amortised in respect of the French regional banks sold in 2008 : deducting the average balance of HSBCs revaluation surplus relating to property held for own use.
This reserve was generated when determining the deemed carrying cost of such properties on transition to IFRSs and will run down over time as the properties are sold: deducting average preference shares and other equity instruments issued by HSBC Holdings: and deducting average reserves for unrealised gains losses on effective cash flow hedges and available-for-sale securities.
47 Return on invested capital is profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent company, which can be found in Note 12 on the Financial Statements on page 335.
Global businesses and geographical regions 48 The main items reported under Other are certain property activities, unallocated investment activities, centrally held investment companies, gains arising from the dilution of interests in associates and joint ventures, movements in the fair value of own debt designated at fair value the remainder of the Groups gain on own debt is included in GB&M and HSBCs holding company and financing operations.
The results also include net interest earned on free capital held centrally, operating costs incurred by the head office operations in providing stewardship and central management services to HSBC, and costs incurred by the Group Service Centres and Shared Service Organisations and associated recoveries.
At 31 December 2011, there was a US$208m gain arising from the dilution of interests in associates and joint ventures 2010: US$188m gain: 2009: nil and favourable fair value movements on HSBCs own debt designated at fair value were US$3.9bn 2010: US$0.1bn adverse: 2009: US$6.5bn adverse.
96 49 Assets by geographical region and global businesses include intra-HSBC items.
These items are eliminated, where appropriate, under the heading Intra-HSBC items or inter-segment elimination, as appropriate.
50 RWAs from associates have been reallocated in order to properly align with the classification of income.
RWAs from Global Asset Management have been reallocated to RBWM, principally from GB&M.
Both items represent a reclassification from the basis used in HSBCs 2010 Pillar 3 disclosures.
51 The movement includes the impact of the rule changes under Basel 2.5.
52 Net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions.
53 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions.
54 Share of profit in associates and joint ventures.
55 Pre-tax return on average risk-weighted assets.
The 2009 RoRWA is based on the 2009 period end risk-weighted assets.
56 In the analysis of global businesses, net trading income comprises all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities classified as held for trading, together with related external and internal interest income and interest expense, and dividends received: in the statutory presentation internal interest income and expense are eliminated.
57 In 2011, Global Markets included a favourable fair value movement of US$458m on the widening of credit spreads on structured liabilities 2010: favourable fair value movement of US$23m: 2009: adverse fair value movement of US$444m.
58 Total income earned on payments and cash management products in the Group amounted to US$5.6bn 2010: US$4.4bn: 2009: US$4.1bn, of which US$4.0bn was in CMB 2010: US$3.3bn: 2009: US$3.1bn and US$1.5bn was in GB&M 2010: US$1.1bn: 2009: US$1.1bn.
59 Total income earned on other transaction services in the Group amounted to US$3.2bn 2010: US$2.7bn: 2009: US$2.2bn, of which US$2.6bn was in CMB relating to trade and receivables finance 2010: US$2.1bn: 2009: US$1.7bn and US$634m was in GB&M of which US$601m related to trade and receivables finance 2010: US$523m: 2009: US$382m and US$33m related to banknotes and other 2010: US$113m: 2009: US$125m.
60 In each Group entity, Balance Sheet Management is responsible for managing liquidity and funding under the supervision of the local Asset and Liability Management Committee.
Balance Sheet Management also manages the structural interest rate position of the entity within a Global Markets limit structure.
61 Other in GB&M includes net interest earned on free capital held in the global business not assigned to products.
62 The foreign exchange effect is not eliminated on an underlying basis as the reporting currency of the principal business within GPB is US dollars.
Client assets are translated at the rates of exchange applicable for their respective period-ends, with the effects of currency translation reported separately.
The main components of client assets are funds under management, which are not reported on the groups balance sheet, and customer deposits, which are reported on the groups balance sheet.
64 Inter-segment elimination comprises i the costs of shared services and Group Service Centres included within Other which are recovered from global businesses, and ii the intra-segment funding costs of trading activities undertaken within GB&M.
HSBCs Balance Sheet Management business, reported within GB&M, provides funding to the trading businesses.
To report GB&Ms Net trading income on a fully funded basis, Net interest income and Net interest income expense on trading activities are grossed up to reflect internal funding transactions prior to their elimination in the inter-segment column.
65 Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders.
66 Employee expenses comprises costs directly incurred by each global business.
The reallocation and recharging of employee and other expenses directly incurred in the Other category is shown in Other operating expenses.
67 RWAs are non-additive across geographical regions due to market risk diversification effects within the Group.
68 Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness were reclassified from RBWM to Other at 1 January 2010.
69 US includes the impairment of goodwill in respect of RBWM North America.
97 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Risk profile Managing risk Top and emerging risks Managing risk Risk Unaudited 1 Risk profile 98 1 The continued growth in our business in 2011 was Managing risk 98 1 achieved while ensuring risks were assumed in a Top and emerging risks 99 3 measured manner and in line with our appetite for Credit risk.. 104 2 such risks.
This approach is encapsulated within our Liquidity and funding 157 3 risk appetite framework.
The diversification of our lending portfolio across the regions, together with our broad range of Risk profile global businesses and products, ensured that we were Unaudited not overly dependent on a few countries or markets to generate income and growth in 2011.
Our Managing our risk profile geographical diversification also supported our A strong balance sheet is core to our philosophy.
strategies for growth in faster-growing markets and those with international connectivity.
We ensured that our portfolios remain aligned to our risk appetite and strategy.
During 2011 financial markets were dominated by concerns over sovereign debt default risk within We actively managed our risks, supported by the peripheral eurozone countries and the potential strong forward looking risk identification.
for contagion across core European countries.
Middle East turmoil and the perception that the Maintaining capital strength and world economic recovery remained fragile continued strong liquidity position to cause concerns.
Within the challenging economic Our core tier 1 capital ratio remains strong at and financial environment, we maintained our 10.1%.
conservative risk profile by reducing exposure to the most likely areas of stress.
Our top and emerging We have sustained our strong liquidity position risk framework supports our approach to throughout 2011. forward-looking risk identification and assists in The ratio of customer advances to deposits providing focus on appropriate stress tests required remains below 90%.
to evaluate the potential impact of emerging scenarios.
Where applicable and necessary, we have Strong governance adjusted our risk appetite.
Robust risk governance and accountability is We continued to selectively manage our exposure embedded across the Group.
to sovereign debt, with the overall quality of the portfolio remaining strong.
We regularly updated our The Board, advised by the Group Risk assessment of higher risk countries and adjusted our Committee, approves our risk appetite.
risk appetite and exposures to reflect the updates.
A new global operating model has been During 2011, credit quality improved in general implemented across the global Risk function.
terms and loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions declined, most notably in the US Our top and emerging risks reflecting lower lending balances in our consumer Macro-economic and geopolitical risk.
finance portfolios, partly offset by increases in new collectively assessed loan impairment allowances in Macro-prudential, regulatory and legal risks to both Latin America and Hong Kong on the back of our business model.
On a constant currency basis, Risks related to our business operations, our loan impairment charges and other credit risk governance and internal control systems.
provisions in 2011 were US$12.1bn, 15% lower than in 2010.
For details of HSBCs policies and practices regarding risk management and governance see the Appendix to Risk on page 188.
98 Capital and liquidity Trade and capital flows may contract as a result of banks deleveraging, protectionist measures Preserving our strong capital position has long been, being introduced in certain markets or the and will remain, a key priority for HSBC.
We are emergence of geopolitical risks, which in turn well equipped to respond to the capital requirements might curtail profitability.
imposed by Basel III, which are discussed further on page 212, and to sustain future growth.
We utilise A prolonged period of low interest rates due to an enterprise-wide approach to testing the policy actions taken to address the eurozone sensitivities of our capital plans against a number crisis will constrain, through spread of scenarios: our approach to scenario stress testing compression and low returns on assets, the analysis is discussed on page 188. interest income we earn from investing our excess deposits.
We continue to maintain a very strong liquidity position and are well positioned for the emerging In the event of contagion from stress in the new regulatory landscape.
peripheral eurozone sovereign and financial sectors, our ability to borrow from other Top and emerging risks financial institutions or to engage in funding Unaudited transactions may be adversely affected by market dislocation and tightening liquidity.
Details of the top and emerging risks identified through our risk management processes are set out We have actively managed the risk of sovereign below: defaults during 2011 by reducing exposures and other measures.
Macro-economic and geopolitical risk Eurozone member departing from the Eurozone risk of sovereign default currency union Eurozone member departing from the The risk of a eurozone member departing from the currency union currency union is a plausible scenario.
Should it materialise it would have a significant impact on the Increased geopolitical risk in certain entire financial sector and the wider economy.
It regions would crystallise sovereign risks and those to the bank and corporate sectors, and the disruption Eurozone risk of sovereign and caused would affect consumer activity.
counterparty defaults Exposures to the eurozone have received increasing Potential impact on HSBC focus given the continued instability in the area and We could incur significant losses stemming the potential for contagion from the peripheral to from the exit of one or more countries from the core eurozone countries.
eurozone and the return to their local There is an increasing risk of sovereign defaults currencies.
by the peripheral eurozone countries which would In addition, should such an event happen in a place further pressure on banks within the core disorderly manner, it could trigger banking European countries that are exposed to these defaults in companies with which we do sovereigns.
Although our exposure to the peripheral business and have a knock-on effect on the eurozone countries is relatively limited, we are global banking system.
exposed to counterparties in the core European countries which could be affected by any sovereign In seeking to manage and mitigate this risk, we crisis.
Our eurozone exposures are described in more have prepared and tested detailed operational detail on pages 113 to 118. contingency plans to deal with such a scenario.
We are keeping these plans under close review Potential impact on HSBC as events develop.
Our exposures to European banks may come under stress, heightening the potential for credit and market risk losses, if the sovereign debt crisis in the region increases the need to recapitalise parts of the sector.
99 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Top and emerging risks Increased geopolitical risk in certain regions be introduced as formal requirements in a supraequivalent manner and to differing timetables across We are subject to geopolitical risks in the countries regulatory regimes.
During 2011, these were particularly heightened in the Middle East and in Regulatory developments affecting our certain parts of Asia.
business model and Group profitability In the Middle East, the Arab Spring has spread There are several key regulatory changes which are across the region, leading to political instability in a likely to have an effect on our activities.
These are number of countries.
In Asia, tensions persist in set out below: certain areas following leadership and regime changes which pose a threat of instability and Basel III CRD IV potential conflict.
Derivatives and central counterparty clearing: measures have been introduced to give effect to Potential impact on HSBC the G20 commitments designed to reduce Our results are subject to the risk of loss from systemic risk and volatility relating to unfavourable political developments, currency derivatives trading.
The G20 agreed that all fluctuations, social instability and changes in standardised over-the-counter OTC government policies on matters such as derivatives were to be exchange traded where expropriation, authorisations, international appropriate, reported to trade repositories and ownership, interest-rate caps, foreign exchange centrally cleared by the end of 2012.
Higher transferability and tax in the jurisdictions in capital requirements under Basel III will be which we operate.
Actual conflict could bring imposed for bilateral uncleared transactions about loss of life amongst our staff and physical to incentivise the use of clearing.
Quality of capital: The Capital Requirement Directive CRD IV requires a further We have increased our monitoring of the strengthening and harmonisation of the criteria geopolitical and macro-economic outlook, in for eligibility of capital instruments with an particular in countries where we have material emphasis on common equity as the principal exposures and a physical presence.
Our internal component of tier 1 capital.
credit risk rating of sovereign counterparties takes these factors into account and drives our Capital buffers: CRD IV proposals comprise a appetite for conducting business in those capital conservation buffer of 2.5% of RWAs to countries.
Where necessary, we adjust our be built up during periods of economic growth, country limits and exposures to reflect our aimed at ensuring the capacity to absorb losses appetite and mitigate these risks as appropriate.
in stressed periods that may span a number of years, and a countercyclical capital buffer of up Macro-prudential, regulatory and legal risks to an additional 2.5% to be built up in periods in to our business model which credit growth exceeds GDP growth.
Counterparty credit risk: requirements for Regulatory developments affecting our managing and capitalising counterparty credit business model and Group profitability risk are to be strengthened.
In particular, an Regulatory investigations and additional capital charge for potential requirements relating to conduct of losses associated with the deterioration in the business and financial crime negatively creditworthiness of individual counterparties, affecting our results and brand the capital valuation adjustment, will be introduced.
Dispute risk Liquidity and funding: a new minimum Financial service providers face increasingly standard, the liquidity coverage ratio, designed stringent and costly regulatory and supervisory to improve the short-term resilience of a banks requirements, particularly in the areas of capital liquidity risk profile, will be introduced after and liquidity management, conduct of business, an observation and review period in 2015.
To operational structures and the integrity of financial promote resilience by creating incentives for services delivery.
Increased government intervention banks to fund their activities with more stable and control over financial institutions, together with sources of funding, the European Commission measures to reduce systemic risk, may significantly will consider proposing a net stable funding alter the competitive landscape.
These measures may 100 ratio after an observation and review period submissions to the US authorities on, inter alia, the in 2018. overall scope and extra-territorial effects of the proposed rule.
However, rulemaking to implement In addition, the Basel Committee on the provisions of the Volcker Rule has not been Banking Supervision will monitor a completed.
leverage ratio based on a minimum 3% tier 1 capital ratio over the period beginning G-SIBs: the capital impact of being designated a in 2013.
G-SIB is discussed on page 213.
UK Independent Commission on Banking: the Potential impact on HSBC forthcoming legislation in relation to the report of the Independent Commission on Banking ICB is The proposals relating to capital and liquidity likely to require us to make major changes to our will affect the capital adequacy and liquidity corporate structure and the business activities we frameworks under which financial institutions conduct in the UK through our major banking operate and result in increased capital and subsidiary, HSBC Bank, arising from: liquidity requirements, although the nature, timing and effect of many of the changes remain the likelihood that the retail banking activities unclear.
Increases in capital and liquidity currently carried out within that entity may have requirements could have a material effect on our to be spun-off into a ring-fenced retail bank.
future financial condition or the results of our These changes would take an extended period to operations.
There is also the risk of second and implement with a significant effect on costs to third order impacts of regulation which could both implement the changes and run the ongoing constrain the flow of credit within the economy.
operations as restructured: The proposed leverage ratio could cause HSBC, the call for banks to hold a specified level of as an institution with a relatively low-risk primary loss-absorbing capital PLAC up to portfolio overall, to constrain business activity 20% of their respective risk-weighted loans and in areas which are well collateralised or possess investment assets.
Many of the areas which sufficient risk mitigants.
could affect our business are precisely those areas where changes to the proposals appear For a further description of the possible effects likely or where consultation is being undertaken of the new Basel III CRD IV rules on HSBC see by the UK government.
If either the quality or amount of the has indicated that it may modify the Groups capital were to fall outside the proposed recommendations in the report and is proposing regulations, we could be required to raise more to undertake extensive consultation in two capital or reduce our level of RWAs to meet the stages during 2012: requirements.
Such actions and any resulting transactions may not be within our operating introduction of a non-risk based leverage ratio, plans and may not be conducted on the most not as a binding prudential requirement but as favourable terms.
This could lead to lower an instrument for supervisory review pillar 2. returns on equity and cause some business Bank levy: legislation in respect of the UK bank activities and products to be less profitable and, levy was enacted on 19 July 2011.
A charge of in some instances, to fail to cover their cost of US$570m for the UK bank levy has been recognised equity.
The UK levy is based The proposed changes relating to remuneration, on the consolidated balance sheet at the year-end.
bank levies and other taxes could increase the Bank levies have also been introduced, most notably Groups cost of doing business in the regulatory in France, Germany and South Korea.
The overall regimes in which these changes are cost in 2011 was US$587m.
The Volcker Rule: while we do not have Proposed changes in regulations such as the segregated proprietary trading desks, the so called rules relating to derivatives and central Volcker Rule proposed under the Dodd-Frank Wall counterparties regulation, the UK ICB ringStreet Reform & Consumer Protection Act the fencing proposals, recovery and resolution plans Dodd-Frank Act could affect HSBC in North and the Volcker Rule may affect the manner in America and across the Group.
On 11 October 2011, which we conduct our activities and structure a proposed rule was published which generated ourselves, with the potential to both increase the extensive public comment.
A number of foreign costs of doing business and curtail the types of governments and other bodies have made public business we can carry out, with the risk of 101 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Top and emerging risks decreased profitability as a result.
Due to the Risks related to our business operations, stage of development and implementation of governance and internal control systems these various regulations, it is not possible to Challenges to achieving our strategy in estimate the effect, if any, on our operations.
a downturn We are closely engaged with the governments Internet crime and fraud and regulators in the countries in which we operate to help ensure that the new requirements Social media risk are properly thought through and understood so Level of change creating operational that they can be implemented in an effective complexity and heightened operational manner.
We are also ensuring that our capital risk and liquidity plans take into account the potential effects of the changes.
Capital Information security risk allocation and liquidity management disciplines have been expanded to incorporate future Challenges to achieving our strategy in a increased capital and liquidity requirements and downturn drive appropriate risk management and The external environment remains challenging mitigating actions.
and the structural changes which the financial sector is going through are creating obstacles to Regulatory investigations and requirements the achievement of strategic objectives.
This, relating to conduct of business and financial combined with the prolonged global macroeconomic crime negatively affecting our results and slowdown, could affect the achievement of our brand strategic targets for the Group as a whole and our Financial service providers are at risk of regulatory global businesses.
sanctions or fines related to conduct of business and financial crime.
The incidence of regulatory Potential impact on HSBC proceedings and other adversarial proceedings The downturn may put pressure on our ability to against financial service firms is increasing.
earn returns on equity in excess of our cost of equity while operating within the overall Potential impact on HSBC parameters of our risk appetite.
We are subject to a number of regulatory actions Through our strategic initiatives, which have and investigations.
See Note 44 on the Financial heightened the focus on capital allocation and Statements.
It is inherently difficult to predict cost efficiency, we are actively seeking to the outcome of the regulatory proceedings manage and mitigate this risk.
An adverse outcome could have a material adverse effect on our Internet crime and fraud results and brand.
We are exposed to potentially fraudulent and In response to this risk, we are progressing a criminal activities, in particular from a growing number of initiatives which seek to address the threat from internet crime which could result in the issues identified and enhance our governance loss of customer data and sensitive information.
The threat of external fraud may increase during adverse economic conditions, especially in retail Dispute risk and commercial banking.
The current economic environment has increased our We also face breakdowns in processes or exposure to actual and potential litigation against the procedures and systems failure or unavailability Group.
Further details are discussed in Note 44 on and are subject to the risk of disruption to our the Financial Statements.
business arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, such as internet Potential impact on HSBC crime and acts of terrorism.
Dispute risk gives rise to potential financial loss and significant reputational damage which could adversely affect customer and investor confidence.
102 Potential impact on HSBC systems failures and fraud.
It can also increase operational costs.
Internet crime and fraud may give rise to losses in service to customers and or economic loss to The implementation of our strategy, based HSBC.
These risks equally apply when we rely on the application of our five filters methodology on external suppliers or vendors to provide see page 11, may involve the withdrawal from services to us and our customers.
certain markets, which presents disposal risks which must be carefully managed.
We have increased our monitoring and have implemented additional controls such as twoPotential impact on HSBC factor authentication to mitigate the possibility of losses from these risks.
Critical systems failure and a prolonged loss of service availability could cause serious damage Social media risk to our ability to serve our clients, breach regulations under which we operate and cause The scale and profile of social media networks long-term damage to our business, reputation SMNs have grown both in terms of customer and brand.
We seek to ensure that our critical demographic and geographical reach to represent systems infrastructure is constantly monitored a significant potential reputational risk to our and properly resourced to mitigate against organisation, given that these networks can be used systems failures.
as powerful broadcasting tools with the capability to reach large numbers of people in a very short time The potential effects of disposal risks include frame.
regulatory breaches, industrial action, loss of key personnel and interruption to systems and Potential impact on HSBC processes during business transformation, and they can have both financial and reputational SMNs can be used to exacerbate the effect of implications.
Management actions to manage customer complaints and service failures, and these risks proactively include a close dialogue provide a means for employees to publicise with regulators and customers and the confidential information.
SMNs present involvement of HR, legal, compliance and other significant risks to our reputation and brand.
In order to reduce our exposure to these risks, an HSBC presence has been created in several Information security risk of the larger SMNs in order to provide an The reliability and security of our information and official point of contact for our customers technology infrastructure and customer databases and stakeholders.
Monitoring has also been and their ability to combat internet fraud are crucial implemented in some entities to protect our to maintaining our banking applications and brand and identity and to understand general processes and to protecting the HSBC brand.
sentiment towards us and, in some cases, our specific products and initiatives.
Potential impact on HSBC Level of change creating operational These risks give rise to potential financial loss complexity and heightened operational risk and reputational damage which could adversely affect customer and investor confidence.
Loss of There are many drivers of change across HSBC and customer data would also result in regulatory the banking industry including change driven by new breaches which would result in fines and banking regulation, the increased globalisation of the penalties being incurred.
economy and business needs, new products and delivery channels, and organisational change.
We have invested significantly in addressing this risk through increased training to raise staff Operational complexity has the potential to awareness of the requirements, enhanced heighten all types of operational risk across our controls around data access and heightened activities.
This includes the risk of process errors, monitoring of information flows.
Impairment of loans and advances 134 Collateral....... 144 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk Securitisation exposures and other structured products... 149 provisions Audited 2011 2010 Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a US$m US$m customer or counterparty fails to meet a At 31 December 12,127 14,039 payment obligation under a contract.
It % % arises principally from direct lending, trade Personal 77 80 finance and leasing business, but also from Corporate and commercial.............. 17 16 off-balance sheet products such as Financial 1 1 guarantees and derivatives, and from the Impairment of available-for-sale Groups holdings of debt and other securities.
debt securities 5 3 Credit risk generates the largest regulatory of which: Greek Government...... 2 capital requirement of the risks we incur.
100 100 In 2011, loans and advances to customers continued Total gross loans and advances to represent the Groups most significant exposure to decreased by 2% to US$1,139bn credit risk.
At 31 December 2011, total gross loans reflecting the reclassification of assets to and advances were US$1,139bn, a decrease of 2% held for sale.
on a constant currency basis compared with Balance sheet exposure to the sovereign 31 December 2010.
The decline reflected the and agency debt of Greece, Ireland, reclassification to assets held for sale of balances Italy, Portugal and Spain was US$4.7bn relating to the pending sale of our US Card and at 31 December 2011.
Retail Services business and 195 branches in upstate New York.
For further detail on assets held for sale see page 105.
We have amended our presentation of impaired loans During 2011, we reduced our exposure to as described on page 133.
Other than that, there were sovereigns and banks in the peripheral European no material changes to our policies and practices for countries.
We also reduced our exposure to risk from the management of credit risk in 2011. sovereign and financial institution counterparty positions across the broader eurozone and from specific financial institutions in other countries.
At A summary of our current policies and 31 December 2011, our on-balance sheet exposure to practices regarding credit risk is provided in the sovereign and agency debt of Greece, Ireland, the Appendix to Risk on page 188.
Italy, Portugal and Spain was US$4.7bn.
In 2011, we recognised an impairment charge of US$212m in respect of Greek sovereign and agency exposures classified as available for sale.
Our sovereign exposures to Ireland, Italy, Portugal, and Spain are not considered to be impaired at 31 December 2011.
104 On a constant currency basis, our personal Reclassification to assets held for sale lending book was US$394bn, 6% lower than at During 2011, the decline in gross loans and advances 31 December 2010 following the reclassification was partly due to a reclassification of certain lending referred to above.
Excluding the reclassification, balances to assets held for sale.
Disclosures relating total personal lending grew, primarily in the UK due to assets held for sale are provided in certain credit to growth in mortgage balances, driven by successful risk management tables, primarily where the marketing campaigns, and also in Hong Kong, as we disclosure is relevant to the measurement of these continued to provide competitive mortgage products financial assets, as follows: for our customers, partly offset by the continued runoff of the CML portfolio in the US.
Maximum exposure to credit risk page 107 : Distribution of financial instruments by credit At US$279bn, residential mortgage lending quality page 127 : and continued to comprise the Groups largest Ageing analysis of days past due but not concentration in a single exposure type at impaired gross financial instruments page 129.
The Groups most significant exposure to mortgage lending was in the UK, the US Although gross loans and advances and related and Hong Kong.
Our UK mortgage portfolio impairment allowances are reclassified from Loans remained of high quality with an average loan to and advances to customers and Loans and value LTV ratio for new business of 53%, while advances to banks in the balance sheet, there is no in Hong Kong the average LTV ratio on new equivalent income statement reclassification.
The average LTV result, charges for loan impairment losses shown in ratio of our mortgage books in the UK and Hong the credit risk disclosures include loan impairment Kong remained low at 52% and 37%, respectively.
charges relating to financial assets classified as assets held for sale.
The Groups exposure to personal lending in the US remained significant.
At 31 December 2011, The table below presents Loans and advances total personal lending balances were US$67bn, a to customers and Loans and advances to banks as decline of 39% compared with 31 December 2010, reported, and those classified as held for sale: largely due to the reclassification of certain lending balances to held for sale.
In 2011, we continued to Reported and held-for-sale loans make progress in running off the CML portfolio as At 31 December 2011 balances declined by 15% to US$49.5bn.
The rate at Impairment which balances declined during 2011 was slowed by Total gross allowances loans and on loans and the industry-wide examination of foreclosure advances advances practices.
US$m US$m In dollar terms, lending balances that were two As reported 1,139,052 17,636 months or more delinquent in the CML portfolio Assets held for sale.................... 37,273 1,614 decreased modestly in 2011 reflecting the continued Total reported and held for sale.
1,176,325 19,250 run-off, partly offset by the temporary suspension of foreclosure activities.
In our held-for-sale Card 2010 comparative data have not been separately and Retail Services portfolio, two months or more presented for the credit risk management disclosures delinquency rates improved as the credit quality of as the amounts are insignificant.
In 2011, we conducted a review of loan Credit exposure portfolios with significant levels of forbearance.
Maximum exposure to credit risk The review resulted in no significant change in our Audited loan impairment allowances, though we amended Our credit exposure is spread across a broad range our presentation of impaired loans to provide more of asset classes, including derivatives, trading assets, relevant information on the effects of forbearance loans and advances to customers, loans and advances on the credit risk of loans and advances see to banks and financial investments.
Our balance of impaired loans increased significantly under the revised presentation, reducing In 2011, our exposure to credit risk remained the ratio of total impairment allowances to impaired well diversified across asset classes.
On a restated basis, this ratio was 42.3% we reduced our exposure to the peripheral eurozone 2010: 43% instead of 71.6% under the previous countries and to countries across the broader presentation.
European economic area, in particular by 105 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Credit exposure transferring our excess liquidity away from reflecting the placement of excess liquidity with sovereign and bank-issued debt securities and from central banks in Europe and North America.
money market placements with banks to placements Our exposure to derivatives increased in 2011, with central banks in the most highly-rated countries.
mainly in Europe reflecting an increase in the fair Despite this, we increased our overall exposure to value of interest rate contracts.
This was credit risk in 2011. compounded by an increase in the notional value of outstanding contracts, partly offset by higher netting The Maximum exposure to credit risk table page 107 which rose in line with the increase in fair values.
presents our maximum exposure to credit risk from balance Despite the increase in maximum exposure, our net sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments before taking account of any collateral held or other credit exposure to derivatives in 2011 decreased due to a enhancements unless such enhancements meet accounting rise in the derivative offset.
For financial assets recognised on the balance sheet, the maximum exposure to credit risk equals The derivative offset amount in the table on their carrying amount: for financial guarantees and similar page 107 relates to exposures where the counterparty contracts granted, it is the maximum amount that we would have to pay if the guarantees were called upon.
For loan has an offsetting derivative exposure with HSBC, a commitments and other credit-related commitments that are master netting arrangement is in place and the credit irrevocable over the life of the respective facilities, it is risk exposure is managed on a net basis or the generally the full amount of the committed facilities.
position is specifically collateralised, normally in the form of cash.
At 31 December 2011, the total amount Loans and advances to customers represent our of such offsets was US$306bn 2010: US$198bn, of largest exposure to credit risk: however, this balance which US$272bn 2010: US$178bn were offsets reduced at the end of 2011, compared with the end under a master netting arrangement, US$33.0bn of 2010 as certain lending balances were reclassified 2010: US$19.1bn were collateral received in as Assets held for sale.
We were able to cash and US$0.7bn 2010: US$0.2bn were other successfully grow our residential mortgage collateral.
These amounts do not qualify for net portfolios in many other markets, notably in Hong presentation for accounting purposes as settlement Kong and the UK where credit quality remained may not actually be made on a net basis.
high and LTV ratios were low.
During 2011, we decreased our exposure to Our exposure to loans and advances to banks trading assets.
This reflected a reduction in our decreased in 2011, mainly in Europe as funds from holdings of government and highly-rated corporate maturing term loans and reverse repo balances were debt securities and equity positions, notably in redeployed to Cash and balances at central banks.
In addition, our reverse repo exposure This was offset in part by higher central bank declined in North America as we did not replace lending in Rest of Asia-Pacific, reflecting strong maturities.
deposit growth in the region.
Our net exposure to In 2011, our loss experience continued to be loans and advances to banks also decreased.
dominated by the personal lending portfolios, with The loans and advances offset adjustment some 77% of our loan impairment charges related to primarily relates to customer loans and deposits this lending category of which 56% was related to and balances arising from repo and reverse repo US personal lending.
This compared with 80% in transactions.
The offset relates to balances where 2010, of which 57% was related to US personal there is a legally enforceable right of offset in the lending.
event of counterparty default and where, as a result, While not considered as offset in the table there is a net exposure for credit risk management below, other arrangements including short positions purposes.
However, as there is no intention to settle in securities and financial assets held as part of these balances on a net basis under normal linked insurance investment contracts where the risk circumstances, they do not qualify for net is predominately borne by the policyholder, reduce presentation for accounting purposes.
our maximum exposure to credit risk.
In addition, We increased our exposure to cash and balances we hold collateral in respect of individual loans and at central banks in 2011, as discussed above, advances see page 144.
107 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Credit exposure Concentration of exposure Summary of gross loans and advances to customers Unaudited Concentrations of credit risk are described in US$bn 473 the Appendix to Risk on page 188.
500 446 425 394 2011 2010 400 Reported basis Securities held for trading 300 Unaudited 200 Total securities held for trading within trading 102 assets were US$186bn at 31 December 2011 2010: 86 100 US$235bn.
The largest concentration of these assets 5 6 0 was to government and government agency debt Personal Corporate and Financial ABSs securities.
A detailed analysis of securities held for commercial reclassified trading is provided in Note 15 on the Financial Statements and an analysis of credit quality on The following commentary is on a constant currency page 127. basis: Personal lending balances of US$394bn in 2011 Debt securities, treasury and other eligible bills were 6% lower than at 31 December 2010 following Unaudited the reclassification of balances to held for sale, and Our holdings of corporate debt, ABSs and other the continued run-off of the CML portfolio, partly securities were spread across a wide range of issuers offset by growth in residential mortgage lending in and geographical regions, with 17% invested in the UK and Hong Kong.
For more information on securities issued by banks and other financial Personal lending, see Areas of special interest institutions.
A detailed analysis of financial personal lending on page 119. investments is provided in Note 21 on the Financial Corporate and commercial lending was 49% of Statements and an analysis by credit quality on gross lending to customers at 31 December page 127.
2011, representing our largest lending category.
At 31 December 2011, our insurance businesses International trade and services was the biggest held diversified portfolios of debt and equity portion of this category, increasing by 6% compared securities designated at fair value of US$28.9bn with 31 December 2010 following economic growth, 2010: US$28.3bn and debt securities classified as particularly in Asia.
Commercial real estate lending, financial investments of US$40.1bn 2010: which represented 8% of total gross lending to US$38.5bn.
For an analysis of securities held by the customers, increased by 4% in 2011, as the demand insurance businesses, see page 178. for funds in property investment and development remained strong in Hong Kong and certain countries Derivatives in the Rest of Asia-Pacific region.
Unaudited In the financial category, our largest exposure Derivative assets were US$346bn at 31 December was to non-bank financial institutions which 2011 2010: US$261bn, of which the largest decreased by 13% to US$85.3bn: this was mainly concentrations were interest rate and foreign in North America and related to lower reverse repos exchange derivatives.
For an analysis of derivatives, as we increased our placements of excess liquidity see Note 20 on the Financial Statements.
Loans and advances Loans and advances to banks were widely Unaudited distributed across many countries in 2011 and decreased by 11% as funds from maturing term loans On a reported basis, gross loans and advances and reverse repo balances were redeployed into to customers excluding the financial sector at central banks, mainly in Europe.
31 December 2011were US$872bn, a decrease of US$5.0bn or 1% from 31 December 2010.
The following tables analyse loans by industry sector and by the location of the principal operations of the lending subsidiary or, in the case of the operations of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, HSBC Bank, HSBC Bank Middle East and HSBC Bank USA, by the location of the lending branch.
Movements in the above table attributed to the manufacturing international trade and services, and reclassification of certain loans and advances to held US$0.4bn of commercial real estate, US$0.5bn of for sale were: US$33.2bn of other personal lending, loans and advances to banks and US$0.6bn related to US$1.3bn of residential mortgages, US$1.3bn of other industry sectors.
This Wholesale lending process was particularly focused on our surplus Unaudited liquidity, which resulted in significant placements Wholesale lending covers the range of credit directly with central banks in the most highly rated facilities granted to sovereign borrowers, banks, countries.
non-bank financial institutions, corporate entities We actively sought to identify those and commercial borrowers.
Our wholesale counterparties domiciled in core European portfolios are well diversified across geographical countries that had exposures to sovereigns and or and industry sectors, with certain exposures subject banks in peripheral eurozone countries of sufficient to specific portfolio controls.
size to threaten their on-going viability in the event During the year, we continued to reduce our of an unfavourable conclusion to the current crisis.
sovereign and financial institution counterparty This was undertaken through the analysis of credit risk positions in peripheral eurozone publicly available information, reviews of external countries.
We also reduced our exposure to risk analyst reports and meetings with the counterparties from financial institution counterparty positions 112 officials.
This process enabled us to form a view of The ongoing sovereign debt crisis, slow the credit standing and the level of exposure that economic growth, dearth of market financing for the counterparties have to peripheral eurozone banks and private sector deleveraging severely sovereigns and banks.
The majority of these affected the eurozone financial system, increasing counterparties are located in France, Germany and the possibility of further banking stress in the region.
the Netherlands, where the exposures are disclosed The banking sector within the peripheral eurozone in aggregate below.
Vulnerable counterparties were countries was particularly under threat as the credit identified, subject to enhanced monitoring and our risk of domestic and cross-border exposures exposure was managed in a way similar to the increased significantly.
This prompted calls from the monitoring and management of direct exposures to European Banking Authority EBA and the IMF the peripheral eurozone countries.
for funding and liquidity support and or the recapitalisation of certain European banks.
The overall quality of the portfolio was strong with most in-country and cross-border limits The ratings downgrade of a number of eurozone extended to countries with high-grade internal credit countries by major rating agencies in 2011 and risk ratings.
We regularly update our assessment of January 2012 was generally anticipated and was, in higher risk countries and adjust our risk appetite most cases, not as large as feared, with the exception accordingly.
of Portugal which is now rated below investment grade.
The downgrades are likely to have Exposures to countries in the eurozone implications for the ratings of European banks and Unaudited government guaranteed securities, as evidenced by the downgrade of the European Financial Stability 2011 was a turbulent year for the global markets, Fund EFSF.
dominated by the continuing eurozone debt crisis that started with the global financial crisis in 2007 and, We continue to closely monitor events and have by 2011, had developed into a severe sovereign debt stress-tested our capital position for potential crisis.
The measures taken by governments during scenarios.
that period to avoid a financial collapse resulted in The tables below summarise our exposures to higher debt levels, large fiscal deficits and, in certain selected eurozone countries, including: cases, social and political disruption.
During 2011, a number of eurozone countries came under severe governments and central banks of selected financial pressure and their ability to raise, refinance eurozone countries along with near quasi and service their debt was put into question by government agencies: markets, as demonstrated by the record high spreads banks: and during most of the year.
Greece, Ireland and Portugal other financial institutions and other corporates.
were forced to seek support packages from the Exposures to banks, other financial institutions European Central Bank ECB and the International and other corporates are based on the country of Monetary Fund IMF under strict conditions, while domicile of the counterparty.
fear of contagion to other eurozone countries forced governments to reduce debt levels through austerity The following analysis of our exposures to measures that, at least in the short term, were seen selected European countries is made voluntarily to as the cause of slow growth for some countries and reflect developments in best practice disclosure.
Whilst certain analysis is subject to audit and incorporated into the Groups risk management Despite a number of high profile summits and disclosure, it is not required for the purposes of meetings the EU was unable to agree and implement compliance with IFRSs.
a strong coherent policy response to the crisis, prompting fear of default or the exit from the euro of Basis of preparation one or more members.
Under pressure during most of Audited 2011, EU members showed an increasing willingness to agree a structured common approach, but they also The countries presented were selected as they demonstrated divergent opinions on the way forward exhibited levels of market volatility during 2011 and on the measures to be taken.
This resulted in the which exceeded other eurozone countries and three major rating agencies either downgrading, or demonstrated fiscal or political uncertainty.
Certain putting on the watch list for possible downgrade, a of these countries also have high sovereign debt to number of sovereigns which intensified the pressure, GDP ratios and a short to medium-term maturity even on the stronger eurozone countries.
113 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Areas of special interest Wholesale lending The eurozone disclosure includes information in the event of default and certain other credit about our exposures to France, Germany and the events.
There is no significant mismatch between Netherlands as these countries are seen to have the maturity of the Greek government bonds and the considerable exposure to the sovereign debt of the CDS protection.
Other CDS contracts disclosed in peripheral eurozone countries.
In addition, these are the tables below were principally entered into for countries where our total direct exposure is greater customer facilitation.
These CDSs are mainly entered than 5% of the Groups equity at 31 December 2011. into with banks and financial institutions where their An analysis of loans and advances to customers by terms are typically drawn up in accordance with the significant countries is provided on page 111. guidance set out in the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions and the July 2009 Supplement.
The credit The on-balance sheet exposures disclosed in the events that trigger the payout of CDSs may differ exposure tables below are presented based on the as they are based on the terms of each agreement appropriate IFRSs classification.
Trading assets are between the counterparties.
Such credit events net of short positions as the fair value of the short normally include bankruptcy, payment default on a positions reference the fair value of the trading reference asset or assets, restructuring and assets.
Derivative assets are shown gross and net of repudiation or moratoria.
collateral and derivative liabilities that reduce the overall risk exposure.
Off-balance sheet exposures mainly relate to commitments to lend and the amount shown in the Credit default swaps and off-balance sheet exposures tables represents the maximum amount that could be Unaudited drawn down by the counterparty.
In some instances, limitations are imposed on a counterpartys ability The Group purchased CDS protection on certain of to draw down on a facility.
These limitations are its holdings of Greek government bonds.
The net governed by the legal documentation, which differs fair value of these CDS was US$0.5bn, and the net from counterparty to counterparty.
In the majority of notional value was US$0.8bn as at 31 December cases, we are bound to fulfil commitments made to 2011.
The CDS were transacted with banks with third parties.
investment grade credit ratings, and would pay out Summary on-balance sheet exposures to peripheral eurozone countries Unaudited Greece Ireland Italy Portugal Spain Total US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn At 31 December 2011 Sovereign and agencies 0.4 0.3 2.3 0.5 1.2 4.7 Banks............................ 0.7 1.9 2.0 0.5 3.1 8.2 Other financial institutions and corporate............ 3.9 3.2 2.6 0.1 6.0 15.8 Personal......................... 1.0 1.0 6.0 5.4 6.9 1.1 10.3 29.7 Eurozone sovereigns and agencies support package has increased to 130bn Unaudited US$172bn and includes debt swap arrangements, direct support by ECB and an additional haircut by During 2011, Portugal joined Greece and Ireland in private debt holders.
the list of the eurozone countries requiring rescue packages to remain solvent.
Greece required a In 2012, we forecast that the eurozone will second support package, which was formalised as continue to experience slow growth or possibly EU leaders announced a 3-year programme totalling recession, with unemployment reaching record high 109bn US$155bn.
In addition, the EFSF rules levels and households continuing to reduce debt.
were changed to allow it to buy bonds on the We expect that the ECB, along with countries in the secondary market, finance the recapitalisation of eurozone, will continue to focus on resolving intrabanks and provide pre-emptive credit lines to eurozone imbalances, rebuilding public finances, eurozone countries under pressure in debt markets.
improving fiscal discipline, strengthening the The announcement of the second package was banking system and managing cross-border risk.
followed by months of negotiations between the Concerns of contagion of the debt crisis in Greece, parties to determine its details.
Final agreement was Ireland and Portugal to other countries, notably Italy eventually reached in February 2012 ahead of the and Spain, are likely to persist, causing the risk March 2012 deadline for the euro bond payment of premium on most European countries sovereign 14.5bn US$19bn by the Greek government, debt to remain high.
The German economy has calming fears of a disorderly default.
The total demonstrated positive signs of stability and has 114 experienced positive growth during the year and, Our exposure in Germany and France is although it has shown modest growth, the French commensurate to the size of our operations and is economy is expected to stay resilient should the well diversified across sectors and products.
crisis spread to other eurozone countries.
During 2011, an impairment charge of At 31 December 2011, our exposure to the US$212m was recognised in respect of Greek sovereign and agency debt of Greece, Ireland, Italy, sovereign and agency exposures classified as Portugal and Spain was US$4.7bn, US$2.2bn lower available for sale, reflecting the further deterioration than at the end of 2010.
Of the total financial in Greeces fiscal position and the expected effect of investments available for sale in these countries, the range of recently announced support measures.
approximately 46% mature within one year, 21% The amount of the impairment charge represented the between one and three years and 33% in excess of cumulative fair value loss on these securities as at the three years.
end of 2011, and does not necessarily represent the expectation of future cash losses.
The impairment At 31 December 2011, our exposure to the charge was transferred from the available-for-sale sovereign and agency debt of Germany, France and reserve to the income statement.
Our sovereign Netherlands was US$87bn.
Of the total financial exposures to Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain were investments available for sale in these countries, not considered to be impaired at 31 December 2011 approximately 26% mature within one year, 28% because, despite financial difficulties in these between one and three years and 46% in excess countries, the situation is not severe enough to of three years.
Our exposure in the Netherlands conclude that loss events have occurred which will predominantly comprises cash placements with the have an impact on the future cash flows of these Dutch Central Bank, which in turn are put in to the countries sovereign securities.
euro clearing system Target 2 managed by ECB.
115 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Areas of special interest Wholesale lending Summary balance sheet exposures to core eurozone countries sovereigns and agencies Audited France Germany Netherlands Total US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn At 31 December 2011 27 20 40 87 Eurozone banks test exercise in July 2011 with further updates in Unaudited October and December 2011.
Those banks in which As a direct result of the eurozone sovereign debt a capital shortfall was identified were required to crisis, economic slowdown, uncertain property submit plans to respective national regulators by markets and low credit growth, banks in the 20 January 2012 and reach a minimum core tier 1 eurozone area continue to face severe stress.
capital ratio of 9% by the end of June 2012.
The total capital shortfall covering 71 large banks was During the year, banks with direct exposure to calculated as 109bn US$146bn within the eurozone sovereigns saw their costs and access to peripheral eurozone countries, with Greece, Italy, funding deteriorate.
The concern about solvency of Portugal and Spain comprising 68% of the estimate.
weaker banks intensified further following the rescue of Dexia Bank Belgium and the failure of MF Global HSBC successfully passed these stress tests Holdings in the US, which lost access to the funding with a core tier 1 ratio of 10.5% under the modelled markets due to its significant exposures to eurozone adverse scenario, exceeding the post-stress minimum sovereign debt.
Market volatility and funding issues core tier 1 capital requirement of 5% used in the were further exacerbated due to downgrades of December 2011 update to the exercise.
European banks by the major credit rating agencies, We expect challenging market conditions for citing concerns over their ability to absorb losses eurozone banks to persist for most of 2012.
There due to possible sovereign debt default, reliance on are significant sovereign and bank refinancing volatile wholesale funding markets and a perceived requirements and private sector deleveraging will weakening in government support.
A crisis of continue, the eurozone sovereign debt crisis will confidence emerged and banks became increasingly remain and growth will stay low with the risk of reluctant to lend to each other through the inter-bank recession in some developed economies.
In addition, market, prompting the ECB to take a number of the pace of a multitude of regulatory reforms and extraordinary measures to ease funding pressures in related initiatives that have been launched and or the banking system.
These included two unlimited outlined by various policymakers will gather speed liquidity operations with a 3-year maturity, the in 2012, most notably in the areas of capital, widening of eligibility criteria for collateral, liquidity and systemic risk Basel III, CRD IV and assistance in providing access to liquidity for capital surcharges, new banking structures in the more medium-sized banks and lowering reserve UK and revised supervisory structures.
The slowdown in the inter-bank funding market and the ECBs liquidity Our exposure within the eurozone is largely measures resulted in the provision of a large part to the banks in stronger countries.
We continue to of eurozone market liquidity being transferred to closely monitor and manage eurozone bank central banks of highly rated countries, which was exposures in the peripheral eurozone countries, and a further indicator of fide-risking by banks in the are cautious in lending to this sector.
These measures helped to ease the update our assessment of higher-risk eurozone banks liquidity crisis in the short term, though mediumand adjust our risk appetite accordingly.
Where term funding challenges remain.
possible, we also seek to play a positive role in maintaining credit and liquidity supply.
We have The measures taken by policy-makers and banks not recognised any impairment as a result of the to strengthen the sector have had mixed results.
eurozone crisis, in respect of the exposures outlined Banks have deleveraged by selling certain types of below.
assets and investing in safe haven assets in a flight to quality.
Summary balance sheet exposures to core eurozone countries banks Audited The France Germany Netherlands Total US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn At 31 December 2011 47 21 15 83 Other financial institutions and other corporates multinational corporates and other financial Unaudited institutions with significant operations outside these The credit quality of other financial institutions and countries that mitigate the risk.
At 31 December other corporate portfolios remains strong with no 2011, our exposure to Greek shipping companies significant impairments recognised in respect of amounted to US$2.0bn.
We believe the industry is them.
The portfolios largely comprise large less sensitive to the Greek economy as it is mainly dependent on international trade.
Summary balance sheet exposures to core eurozone countries other financial institutions and corporates Audited The France Germany Netherlands Total US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn At 31 December 2011 35 7 9 51 Intra-Group funding to peripheral eurozone US budget deficit Unaudited countries Unaudited During 2011, the US economy expanded moderately.
We fund our business through local bank deposits In August 2011, Standard and Poors S&P and by extending intra-Group loans from parts lowered its long term debt rating for the US to AA, of HSBC with surplus funds.
Funding carries risk in citing the rising public debt burden and policythe event of the exit of a member country from the making uncertainty as the key reasons.
Fitch and eurozone and the redenomination to national Moodys changed the US debt ratings outlook from currencies which would follow and may result in stable to negative for similar reasons.
To date, the their significant depreciation.
Measures taken to effect of the US downgrade has been less severe than mitigate these risks include changes to composition originally feared.
of internal funding sources and seeking access to alternative external funding sources to reduce potential currency mismatches.
118 We expect low growth to continue in 2012 the South East, though many other regions were despite the projected continuing fiscal and monetary negatively affected by weak growth in the UK expansion and positive business outlook.
We are closely monitoring re-financing political gridlock continues to cast doubts on the requirements in the UK market over the next two administrations ability to approve a medium-term to three years.
In North America, the market has fiscal consolidation plan aimed at reducing public continued to be relatively stable, in part supported debt to more sustainable levels while pursuing by the low levels of interest rates.
A European banking crisis is On a constant currency basis, the aggregate of likely to cause severe damage to the global financial our commercial real estate and other property-related system, including the US, and will certainly affect lending was US$113bn at 31 December 2011, an the credit supply to consumers and businesses there, increase of 7% compared with 31 December 2010, despite strong liquidity and fide-leveraging by US representing 12% of total loans and advances to banks during 2011. customers.
In 2011, credit quality across this sector We continue to closely monitor events and showed some deterioration from 2010 and there have stress-tested our capital position for potential remains risk of stress in certain markets.
scenarios at Group level and for the US business Accordingly, across our portfolios, credit risk is only.
These results inform Group and US-specific mitigated by long-standing and conservative policies capital planning and risk appetite setting as part of on asset origination which focus on relationships our annual operating planning process.
with long-term customers and limited initial leverage.
Group Risk, in conjunction with major Middle East and North Africa subsidiaries, designates real estate as a Controlled Unaudited Sector and, accordingly, implements enhanced Although significant unrest and political changes exposure approval, monitoring and reporting were witnessed in the Middle East and North Africa procedures.
We set and monitor risk appetite limits in 2011, the majority of the Groups exposures in for the sector at both Group and regional levels to the region were concentrated in our associate detect and prevent higher risk concentrations.
A investment in Saudi Arabia and in the UAE, where quarterly report comparing the risk-weighted the respective political landscapes remained stable exposures of the regions and global businesses and economic growth continued to recover.
In the with these appetite limits is provided to senior countries in which we have a presence and there was management.
While individual regions may differ unrest or political change or which exhibited similar with regard to local market regulatory and legal socio-economic, political and demographic profiles structures and real estate market characteristics, to countries experiencing unrest, we continued to typically, origination LTV ratios would be less than carefully monitor and respond to developments 65% across the Group where loans are secured on while assisting our customers in managing their commercial real estate assets.
Lending to the sector own risks in the volatile environment.
also includes lending to large real estate developers which is typically not secured directly by charges We also continued to work closely with Dubai over the underlying real estate assets.
World and the various entities related to the Government of Dubai to address their prevailing Personal lending issues.
In March 2011, Dubai World signed a final Unaudited deal with HSBC and other creditors restructuring We provide a broad range of secured and unsecured US$25bn of its debt.
The arrangement extends loan personal lending products to meet customer needs.
maturities for five to eight years at discounted rates, Given the diverse nature of the markets in which allowing Dubai World to sell off its non-core assets we operate, the product is not standard across while focusing on its core earnings businesses.
all countries but is tailored to meet local demands while using appropriate distribution channels and, Commercial real estate wherever possible, global IT platforms.
Unaudited Our exposure to the commercial real estate sector is Personal lending includes advances to customers concentrated in Hong Kong, the UK and North for asset purchases, such as residential property and America.
The market in Hong Kong was relatively motor vehicles, where the loans are typically secured buoyant in 2011: however, transaction volumes by the assets being acquired.
We also offer loans declined and asset prices began to stabilise following secured on existing assets, such as first and second initiatives taken by supervisory authorities.
The UK liens on residential property: unsecured lending continued to exhibit relative strength in London and products such as overdrafts, credit cards and payroll 119 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Areas of special interest Personal lending loans: and debt consolidation loans which may be centralisation of the approval process.
A range of secured or unsecured.
account management tools were deployed with the aim of identifying and supporting customers who Group credit policy prescribes the range of appear to be encountering financial hardship.
acceptable residential property LTV thresholds with the acceptable maximum upper limit for new loans In Hong Kong, we adopted more conservative set between 75% and 95%.
Specific LTV thresholds LTV thresholds and debt-to-income ratios, partially and debt-to-income ratios are managed at regional in response to regulatory requirements, and and country levels and, although such parameters increased our focus on offering lending products must adhere with Group policy, strategy and risk to our existing customer base, particularly within appetite, they differ in the various locations in which the higher quality Premier and Advance segments.
we operate in order to reflect different economic and The commentary that follows is on constant housing market conditions, regulations, portfolio currency basis.
performance, pricing and other product features.
At 31 December 2011, total personal lending In 2011, credit quality in most personal lending was US$394bn, 6% lower than at 31 December portfolios improved, reflecting a recovery of 2010.
Excluding the reclassification of balances held economic conditions in many markets.
Loan for sale, total personal lending grew, primarily in the impairment charges declined, particularly in those UK and Hong Kong residential mortgage segment.
countries which had previously been most affected Within our personal lending portfolios, total loan by rising unemployment and house price impairment charges of US$9.3bn were 18% lower depreciation.
than in 2010 with the most significant fall in the US In recent years, the Group has undertaken reflecting the continued run-off of the CML portfolio a review of consumer finance activities and has and lower balances and improved delinquency rates reduced the sale of consumer finance and higher-risk in our Card and Retail Services business.
personal lending products in favour of lower-risk Total personal lending in the UK increased by facilities and loans secured by owner-occupied 4% from 31 December 2010 to US$133bn, due to an residential properties.
Most notably, we have increase in residential mortgage balances, driven by curtailed the use of third party sales agents for successful marketing initiatives and competitive lending products and the sale of second lien pricing focused on our target customers.
UK mortgages has been significantly restricted, mortgage lending is discussed in greater detail on contributing to the balance reductions set out on page 122.
This was partly offset by a 13% fall in page 123.
Individual businesses continue to monitor, other personal lending balances, reflecting the review and amend their debt-to-income ratios, LTV continued shift from unsecured products such as thresholds and other lending criteria to reflect risk credit cards and personal loans.
appetite, portfolio performance and regulatory requirements in different countries.
In Hong Kong, total personal lending grew by 10% to US$63bn, due to growth in residential In the US, the origination of new personal mortgage lending, mainly in the first half of 2011. lending is extremely limited as we have Personal lending balances in Rest of Asia-Pacific progressively closed the consumer finance also reflected a strong property sector with distribution network since 2007, completely residential mortgage lending growth of 13%, most discontinuing all new consumer finance real estate notably in Singapore and Australia.
originations following the closure of the Consumer Lending branch network at the beginning of 2009.
Total personal lending in the US at 31 December As a result, we are managing sizeable reductions in 2011 was US$67bn, a decrease of 39% compared customer balances across HSBC Finance portfolios with the end of 2010 reflecting the reclassification as detailed on page 122. of balances to held for sale and the run-off of the CML portfolio.
In the UK, we reduced our risk appetite.
Underwriting was enhanced across all UK For an analysis of loan impairment allowances businesses, most notably through the use of and impaired loans, see page 134. improved credit bureau information and the 120 Exposures to countries in the eurozone scheme and unsecured personal loans, and both Unaudited delinquency and impairment charges remained low.
Our retail activities within the eurozone countries are Our exposure within Greece totalled US$1.0bn, limited, with our only significant exposures in substantially in the form of residential mortgages.
In France, our exposure to The portfolio remained well secured and personal lending at 31 December 2011 was delinquencies stable as we took measures to manage US$14bn.
This exposure was mainly in residential and contain the risks therein.
The commentary that follows is on a Unaudited constant currency basis.
We offer a wide range of mortgage products At 31 December 2011, the total mortgage designed to meet customer needs, including capital lending balance, comprising residential and second repayment, interest-only, affordability and offset lien lending, was US$287bn, 3% higher than at the 121 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Areas of special interest Personal lending end of 2010.
Our most significant concentrations of Mortgage lending in HSBC Finance was mortgage lending were in the UK, the US and Hong US$44.1bn at 31 December 2011, 11% of our Kong.
gross loans and advances to personal customers.
These balances declined by 13% from 31 December US mortgage lending 2010 as the run-off of the CML portfolio continued.
However, despite the continued low interest rate US mortgage lending balances, including second lien environment, our loan repayment rates declined mortgages, were US$59.5bn at 31 December 2011, a compared with historical experience, in part due to decline of 11% compared with the end of 2010. our ongoing efforts to assist customers avoid Overall, US mortgage lending represented 15% of foreclosure through our loan modification our total personal lending compared with 16% at programmes which have resulted in slower 31 December 2010. repayment rates.
At HSBC Bank USA, mortgage lending while in others additional verification of information balances were US$15.4bn at 31 December 2011, a was required prior to foreclosure.
This combination reduction of 4% compared with the end of 2010. of factors led to a significant backlog of foreclosures This was primarily due to the reclassification of which will take some time to resolve, and may result balances relating to the pending sale of certain nonin additional delays which could have an adverse strategic branches to assets held for sale in the third effect on house prices resulting in higher loss quarter of 2011, partly offset by an increase in new severities.
mortgage sales to our Premier customers.
For discussion of credit trends in the US As previously reported, the Federal Reserve mortgage lending portfolio and the steps taken to Board completed an industry-wide examination mitigate risk, see US personal lending credit into foreclosure practices in 2010.
The resulting quality on page 124.
Servicing Consent Order required us to take prescribed actions to address certain deficiencies in Mortgage lending rest of the world our foreclosure processes, as well as review all Mortgage lending in the UK was US$112bn at foreclosures pending or completed between January 31 December 2011, our largest concentration of this 2009 and December 2010.
We continue to work exposure, representing 12% of total gross lending to closely with the regulators to align our processes as customers.
The balance was 8% higher than at required and are implementing operational changes the end of 2010. as necessary.
Although we have resumed foreclosures in 48 states, it will be a number of In the UK, the majority of mortgage lending was months before we fully resume all foreclosure to existing customers holding current or savings activities in all states, as we need to ensure that all account relationships with HSBC.
We continued to necessary enhancements have been satisfactorily restrict lending for the purchase of residential implemented.
property for the purpose of rental, and almost all new business was originated through our own sales force, During 2011, certain courts and state with self-certification of income not permitted.
legislatures issued new rules relating to foreclosures.
These lending practices helped to ensure that our UK In some courts, scrutiny of documentation increased, mortgage portfolio remained of high quality, and our 122 average LTV ratios for new business and our total the Hong Kong Monetary Authority HKMA mortgage books were 53% and 52%, respectively.
to introduce measures in both the second half of 2010 and June 2011 such as increasing deposit Loan impairment charges and delinquency requirements, reducing the maximum LTV ratios for levels in our UK mortgage book remained at very new loans and capping the maximum debt-to-income low levels, reflecting the strong credit quality of the ratios.
These resulted in a reduction in property portfolio and the low interest rate environment prices in the second half of the year and lower which helped to make mortgage repayments more sales volumes.
The quality of our mortgage book affordable for customers, some of whom were remained strong with an average LTV ratio of actively reducing their outstanding debt levels.
49% on new mortgage sales and 37% on our total In Hong Kong, mortgage lending was mortgage books.
US$46.8bn, an increase of 10% compared with the The following table shows the levels of end of 2010.
It was supported by the low interest rate mortgage lending products in our various portfolios environment and the strength of the local property in the US, the UK and the rest of the Group.
123 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Areas of special interest Personal lending US personal lending US personal lending portfolio, two months or more delinquent balances Unaudited increased in dollar terms from US$4.9bn at 31 December 2010 to US$5.1bn at 31 December Credit quality 2011, while in our Mortgage Services portfolio they During 2011, economic conditions in the US remained unchanged at US$2.8bn.
However, they began to show At HSBC Bank USA, two months or more signs of improvement during the fourth quarter as delinquency rates increased from 7.9% to 8.2% employment growth accelerated, in part due to at 31 December 2011, reflecting the suspension of seasonal hiring, and increased consumer spending.
House prices remained under pressure during 2011 due to foreclosure levels, which remained high, Second lien mortgage loans have a risk profile despite the industry-wide delays in foreclosure characterised by higher LTV ratios because in the processing.
majority of cases the loans were taken out to complete the refinancing of properties.
Loss Unemployment rates, which are a major factor experience on default of second lien loans has in the deterioration of credit quality, remained high typically approached 100% of the amount at 8.5% in December 2011, down from 9.4% in outstanding, as any equity in the property is initially December 2010.
Unemployment rates were at or applied to the first lien loan.
The majority of second above the US national average in 17 states.
lien loans are to customers that hold a first lien A future improvement in the US economy mortgage issued by a third party.
Impairment remains dependant upon a recovery in the housing allowances for these loans are determined by market, a fall in unemployment rates, the applying a roll-rate migration analysis which stabilisation of energy prices and improved captures the propensity of these loans to default consumer confidence.
Any further weakening in based on past experience.
Approximately 97% of these factors may continue to adversely affect our US second lien mortgages, where the first lien consumer payment patterns and credit quality.
mortgages are held or serviced by us and have a delinquency status of 90 days or more past due, Mortgage lending are themselves 90 days or more past due.
Once we assume a second lien mortgage loan is likely to In 2011, we further reduced our mortgage exposure progress to write-off, the loss severity assumed in in the US as balances continued to run-off in the CML establishing our impairment allowance is close to portfolio, as discussed on page 122.
In the US, second lien mortgage balances 2011, residential mortgage lending balances were declined by 24% to US$7.1bn at 31 December 2011, US$52.5bn, a decline of 9% compared with the end of representing 12% of the overall US mortgage 2010.
The ratio of impairment allowances to total lending portfolio.
Two months or more delinquent mortgage lending in HSBC Finance increased from balances were US$0.7bn at 31 December 2011 8.5% at 31 December 2010 to 11.5% at 31 December compared with US$0.8bn at 31 December 2010.
This increase largely reflected the effects of the delays in foreclosure activity and the increased Prior to foreclosure, carrying amounts of the forbearance activity within the portfolio.
loans in excess of fair value less costs to sell are written down to the discounted cash flows expected Real estate markets in the US have been affected to be recovered, including from the sale of the by stagnation or declines in property values.
Broker price opinions are obtained and result, LTV ratios for our real estate secured loans updated every 180 days and real estate price trends have generally deteriorated since origination.
Lending are reviewed quarterly to reflect any improvement balances with LTV ratios of greater than 100% have or additional deterioration.
Our methodology is historically had a greater likelihood of becoming regularly validated by comparing the discounted delinquent, resulting in higher loss severity which cash flows expected to be recovered based on current could adversely affect our loan impairment market conditions including estimated cash flows allowances.
For more information on residential from the sale of the property to the updated broker mortgages by levels of collateral, see page 144. price opinion, adjusted for the estimated historical In the CML portfolio, two months or more difference between interior and exterior appraisals.
delinquent balances increased compared with the end The fair values of foreclosed properties are initially of 2010.
This was due to the temporary suspension of determined based on broker price opinions.
Within foreclosure activities, which resulted in a slowing in 90 days of foreclosure, a more detailed property the rate at which lending balances were transferred to valuation is performed reflecting information foreclosed.
As a result, in our Consumer Lending obtained from a physical interior inspection of the 124 property and additional loan impairment allowances the table HSBC Finance foreclosed properties in the or write-downs are recorded as appropriate.
Updates US below for more detail.
to the valuation are performed no less than once Since their introduction in 2010, HSBC Finance every 45 days until the property is sold, with has increased the use of deed-in-lieu and short declines recorded through an impairment allowance sales to assist our real estate secured receivable on the property.
Increases to the valuation are customers.
Under a deed-in-lieu agreement, the recorded to the extent of cumulative losses borrower agrees to surrender the deed to the property previously recognised through the impairment without being subject to foreclosure proceedings and allowance on the property.
HSBC Finance releases the borrower from further In late 2010, we temporarily suspended all new obligation.
Under a short sale, the property is offered foreclosure proceedings and in early 2011 ceased for sale to potential buyers at a price which has been foreclosures where judgement had yet to be entered pre-negotiated between HSBC Finance and the while we enhanced our processes.
This pre-negotiated price is based on together with an increase in foreclosed property updated property valuations and the expectation of sales, the number of foreclosed properties at HSBC future cash flows from the customer.
Short sales Finance decreased compared with the end of also release the borrower from further obligations.
HSBCs total losses on deed-in-lieu and short sales are generally lower than losses from foreclosed The average total loss on foreclosed properties loans, or loans where we have previously elected not and the average loss on sale of foreclosed properties to pursue foreclosure, and the practices generally both increased compared with the end of 2010.
This obtain resolution of the delinquent receivable over a was a result of the continued decline in house prices, shorter period of time than the normal foreclosure as well as a greater mix of foreclosed properties proceedings.
HSBC Finance currently expects that being sold which we have held for longer periods of the use of deed-in-lieu and short sales will continue time.
Typically the longer the holding period, the to be significant in the future as it works with its greater the loss we recognise by the time of sale.
HSBC Finance foreclosed properties in the US Unaudited Half-year ended 31 Dec 30 Jun 2011 2011 2011 2010 Number of foreclosed properties at end of period 3,511 3,511 6,982 10,940 Number of properties added to foreclosed inventory in the year quarter..... 11,187 3,116 8,071 20,489 16 Average loss on sale of foreclosed properties.... 8% 9% 8% 5% 17 Average total loss on foreclosed properties........ 56% 57% 55% 51% Average time to sell foreclosed properties days. 185 200 168 161 For footnotes, see page 185. Credit cards while, in our private label cards portfolio, two months or more delinquency rates decreased from In the second half of 2011, we announced the sale 3.0% at 31 December 2010 to 2.5% at 31 December of our Card and Retail Services business, which 2011 reflecting an increasing willingness on the part includes both our credit card and private label of customers to make repayments and reduce operations.
We have reclassified the associated outstanding credit card debt levels.
balances to assets held for sale.
We will continue to offer all card products and services during transition.
Personal non-credit card HSBC Bank USA continues to offer credit cards to branch-based customers and corporate cards to Personal non-credit card lending balances in the US commercial and wholesale banking clients.
decreased significantly, largely due to continued run-off.
As a result two months or more delinquency Two months or more delinquency rates in balances declined from US$0.8bn at 31 December our credit card portfolio declined from 4.7% at 2010 to US$0.5bn at 31 December 2011.
The balance of these financial derivatives are defined in the Appendix to Risk on instruments was US$2,413bn, an increase of 5% page 188.
Additional credit quality information in in 2011, of which US$1,649bn or 68% was classified respect of our consolidated holdings of ABSs is as strong.
This percentage was broadly in line with provided on page 152.
The proportion of financial instruments classified as good and satisfactory remained broadly During 2011, we amended our presentation of stable at 16% and 12%, respectively, while the impaired loans for portfolios with significant levels proportion of sub-standard financial instruments of forbearance to provide more relevant information was 2% in both 2011 and 2010. on the effect of forbearance on the credit risk of loans and advances.
This change in presentation does Derivative assets increased by 33% to not affect the accounting policy for the recognition US$346bn.
This increase was mainly in Europe, of loan impairment allowances.
Further details are reflecting an increase in the fair value of interest rate provided on page 133. contracts compounded by an increase in the notional value of outstanding contracts during the period.
The For the purpose of the following disclosure, credit quality of our derivatives portfolio remained retail loans which are past due up to 89 days and are strong with 81% of balances in this classification, not otherwise classified as impaired in accordance broadly in line with 2010. with our disclosure convention see page 133, are not disclosed within the expected loss EL grade Cash and balances at central banks, on which to which they relate, but are separately classified as credit quality has been assessed, more than doubled past due but not impaired.
This increase was mainly in Europe and in North America as we deposited a larger portion of our excess liquidity with central banks in these regions.
As the increases in placements are 126 with central banks considered strong, the proportion in line with the end of 2010, at 54% and 22% of balances classified as strong increased from 90% respectively.
Trading assets, on which credit quality has Loans and advances held at amortised cost, on been assessed, decreased by 10% to US$309bn which credit quality has been assessed, decreased by in 2011.
This reflected a reduction in our holdings 4% to US$1,121bn.
The decline was mainly in North of government and highly-rated corporate debt America, following the reclassification of certain securities and equity positions, notably in Europe.
lending balances to assets held for sale.
Despite the Despite the decline in balances, the proportion of reclassification of balances, the proportion of the balances classified as strong remained stable at 75%.
Past due but not impaired gross financial one year: and short-term trade facilities past due instruments more than 90 days for technical reasons such as Audited delays in documentation, but where there is no concern over the creditworthiness of the Past due but not impaired loans are those for which counterparty.
Where groups of loans are collectively the customer is in the early stages of delinquency assessed for impairment, collective impairment and has failed to make a payment, or a partial allowances are recognised for loans classified as past payment, in accordance with the contractual terms of due but not impaired.
This is typically where a loan is less than 90 days past due and there are no other At 31 December 2011, US$20.0bn of loans and indicators of impairment.
advances held at amortised cost were classified as past due but not impaired 2010: US$22.7bn.
The Further examples of exposures past due but not largest concentration of these balances is in HSBC impaired include individually assessed mortgages Finance.
The decrease compared with 2010 was that are in arrears more than 90 days where there are primarily due to the reclassification of the Card and no other indicators of impairment, but where the Retail Services business to held for sale and the value of collateral is sufficient to repay both the continued run-off of the CML portfolio.
Renegotiated loans and forbearance of a customer.
When the contractual payment terms Audited of a loan have been modified because we have significant concerns about the borrowers ability to Current policies and procedures regarding renegotiated loans and forbearance are meet contractual payments when due, these loans are described in the Appendix to Risk on classified as renegotiated loans.
For the purposes of page 188. this disclosure the term forbearance is synonymous with the renegotiation of loans for these purposes.
The contractual terms of a loan may be modified for a number of reasons including changing market In the Annual Report and Accounts 2011, the conditions, customer retention and other factors not Group has separately presented all renegotiated loans related to the current or potential credit deterioration by credit quality classification and has adopted a 129 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Credit quality of financial instruments more stringent impaired loan disclosure convention The following tables show the Groups holdings for portfolios with significant levels of forbearance of renegotiated loans and advances to customers by as described on page 133. industry sector, geography and credit quality classification.
Of the total renegotiated loans in Europe, Unaudited US$6.0bn were presented as impaired at 31 December 2011 2010: US$4.8bn, and the ratio Renegotiated loans totalled US$46.0bn at of total impairment allowances to impaired loans at 31 December 2011 2010: US$48.1bn.
The significant volume of renegotiation activity took renegotiated loans in Europe were largely place in North America and, at 31 December 2011, concentrated in the commercial real estate sector amounted to US$28.5bn or 62% of total renegotiated 41% 2010: 39% and the corporate and commercial loans 2010: US$32.0bn or 66%, substantially all of sector 32% 2010: 31%.
The commercial real estate which were retail loans held by HSBC Finance.
Of sector, particularly in the UK, faced a weakening in the total renegotiated loans in North America, property values and a reduction in institutions US$17.8bn were presented as impaired at funding commercial real estate lending.
The 31 December 2011 2010: US$22.0bn, and the ratio commercial real estate mid-market sector continued of total impairment allowances to impaired loans at to experience higher levels of renegotiation activity 31 December 2011 was 28% 2010: 25%.
than is evident with larger corporates, where Europe was the next largest region for borrowers are generally better capitalised and have renegotiation activity which, at 31 December 2011, access to wider funding market opportunities.
In all amounted to US$11.5bn 2010: US$10.7bn, cases, in assessing the acceptability of renegotiated constituting 25% of total renegotiated loans 2010: loans, we consider the ability to service interest as a 130 minimum and reduce capital repayments as Overview by type of loan renegotiation programme in HSBC Finance available.
Despite Europe, and the UK in particular, A temporary modification is a change to the contractual holding the single largest retail lending portfolio in terms of a loan that results in the giving up of a right to the Group, renegotiations of retail loans in this contractual cash flows over a pre-defined period of time.
region were limited due to the quality of the With a temporary modification the loan is expected to revert back to the original contractual terms including the interest residential mortgage book.
rate charged after the modification period.
An example is reduced interest payments.
Forbearance activity within the Middle East and A substantial number of HSBC Finance modifications Latin America primarily in Mexico and Brazil was involve interest rate reductions.
These modifications predominately undertaken in the commercial real lower the amount of interest income HSBC Finance is estate and corporate and commercial sectors.
contractually entitled to receive in future periods.
Historically, modifications have generally been for a period Forbearance activity within Hong Kong and Rest of of six months although extended modification periods are Asia-Pacific was insignificant.
Loans that have been temporarily modified within HSBC HSBC Finance loan modifications and re-ageing Finance remain classified as impaired until they have Unaudited demonstrated a history of payment performance against the original terms for typically 18 months after the modification HSBC Finance maintains loan modification and date.
re-age loan renegotiation programmes in order to A permanent modification is a change to the contractual manage customer relationships, improve collection terms of a loan that results in giving up a right to contractual cash flows over the life of the loan.
An example is a opportunities and, if possible, avoid foreclosure.
permanent reduction in the interest rate charged.
Since 2006, HSBC Finance has implemented Permanent or very long-term modifications, which are due an extensive loan renegotiation programme, and a to an underlying hardship event, remain classified as impaired for their full life.
significant portion of its loan portfolio has been The term re-age is a renegotiation whereby the contractual subject to renegotiation at some stage in the life of delinquency status of a loan is reset to current after the customer relationship as a consequence of the demonstrating payment performance.
The overdue principal economic conditions in the US and the nature of and or interest is deferred and paid at a later date.
Loan reages enable customers that have been unable to make a HSBC Finances customer base.
small number of payments to have their loan delinquency status reset to current, thus remediating overdue balances From late 2009 and continuing into 2011, the that affect their credit score.
volume of loans that qualify for a new modification Loans that have been re-aged remain classified as impaired has reduced significantly.
We expect this to continue until they have demonstrated a history of payment to decline as HSBC Finance believes a decreasing performance against the original contractual terms for at percentage of its customers with unmodified loans least 12 months.
would benefit from loan modification in a way that A temporary or permanent modification may also lead to a re-ageing of the loan although a loan may be re-aged would avoid non-payment of future cash flows.
In without any modification to the original terms and addition, volumes of new loan modifications are conditions of the loan.
expected to decrease due to improvements in economic conditions over the long-term, the Qualifying criteria cessation of new real estate secured and personal non-credit card receivables originations, the For an account to qualify for renegotiation it must continued run-off of the portfolio and, beginning in meet certain criteria.
However, HSBC Finance the second quarter of 2010, more stringent qualifying retains the right to decline a renegotiation.
The payment requirements for loan modifications.
extent to which HSBC Finance renegotiates accounts that are eligible under its existing policies will vary depending upon its view of prevailing economic conditions and other factors which may change from year to year.
In addition, exceptions to policies and practices may be made in specific situations in response to legal or regulatory agreements or orders.
131 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Credit quality of financial instruments Renegotiated real estate secured and personal review was performed partly as a result of updated non-credit card receivables are not eligible for a US guidance on troubled debt restructurings and subsequent renegotiation until 12 or 6 months, because an increasing percentage of the portfolio has respectively, with a maximum of five renegotiation been subject to forbearance in recent years, with the actions within a five-year period.
Borrowers must be closure of the portfolio to new business.
The review approved for a modification and generally make two involved extensive statistical analysis of actual minimum qualifying monthly payments within 60 default experience in the portfolio.
Amongst other days to activate a modification.
improvements, this review resulted in changes to further differentiate the credit characteristics In certain circumstances where the debt has of forbearance cases, including those which return to been restructured in bankruptcy proceedings, fewer performing status following forbearance.
The review or no payments may be required.
Accounts whose included consideration of the application of the borrowers are subject to a Chapter 13 plan filed with Groups accounting policy for the recognition of a bankruptcy court generally may be re-aged upon impairment allowances for the CML portfolio, and receipt of one qualifying payment, whereas accounts changes to improve assumptions about default and whose borrowers have filed for Chapter 7 severity rates for the purposes of measuring bankruptcy protection may be re-aged upon receipt impairment allowances.
The consequent changes of a signed reaffirmation agreement.
In addition, for did not result in a material change to impairment some products, accounts may be re-aged without allowances recorded by HSBC Finance under receipt of a payment in certain special circumstances IFRSs.
However, the Groups revised impaired loan e. g. in the event of a natural disaster or a hardship disclosure convention was adopted.
At 31 December 2011, renegotiated real estate Review of loan classification methodology secured accounts represented 86% 2010: 85% of North Americas total renegotiated loans, and In the third quarter of 2011, HSBC Finance US$16bn 2010: US$18.2bn of renegotiated real undertook a review of its loan classification estate secured loans in HSBC Finance were methodology to provide greater differentiation of classified as impaired.
Further details of HSBC loans based on their credit risk characteristics.
This Finances real estate secured accounts and renegotiation programmes are provided below.
Gross loan portfolio of HSBC Finance real estate secured accounts Unaudited Total ImpairTotal reTotal nonTotal impairment Modified negotiated renegotiated gross ment allowances 22 Re-aged and re-aged Modified loans loans loans allowances gross loans US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m % 31 December 2011.......... 10,265 12,829 1,494 24,588 19,464 44,052 5,087 12 31 December 2010........... 10,693 14,053 2,286 27,032 23,813 50,845 4,336 9 For footnote, see page 185.
Number of renegotiated real estate secured accounts remaining in HSBC Finances portfolio Unaudited Number of renegotiated loans Modified Re-aged and re-aged Modified Total 000s 000s 000s 000s 31 December 2011 121 112 14 246 31 December 2010. 123 115 20 258 During 2011, the aggregate number of renegotiation during the year which did not appear in renegotiated loans reduced, despite renegotiation the statistics presented above.
These statistics activity continuing, due to the run-off of the present a loan as an addition to the volume of portfolio.
Within the constraints of our Group credit renegotiated loans on its first renegotiation only.
At policy, HSBC Finances policies allow for multiple 31 December 2011, renegotiated loans were 56% renegotiations under certain circumstances, and a 2010: 53% of HSBC Finances real estate secured number of accounts received a second or further accounts.
132 Corporate and Commercial forbearance However, it introduces a more stringent approach to Unaudited the assessment of whether renegotiated loans are presented as impaired.
Management believes that For the current policies and procedures regarding forbearance in the corporate and this revised approach better reflects the nature of commercial sector, see the Appendix to Risk risks and inherent credit quality in our loan portfolio on page 188. as it is more closely calibrated to the types of forbearance concession granted and applies stricter The majority of the increase in renegotiated loans requirements for the performance of renegotiated activity for the commercial real estate sector in 2011 loans before they may be presented as no longer arose in Europe, which increased by US$617m.
It also reflects developments in industry increase predominately related to the renegotiation best practice disclosure, as well as a refinement of of a large exposure together with high levels of loan segmentation in our North America consumer forbearance in the UK towards the end of 2011 lending business.
The revised disclosure convention reflecting current economic conditions, including a affects the disclosure presentation of impaired loans weakening in property values and a reduction in but does not affect the accounting policy for the institutions funding commercial real estate lending.
In the corporate and commercial sector the Under this revised disclosure convention, increase in renegotiated loans in 2011 was again a impaired loans and advances are those that meet any result of increased forbearance activity in Europe.
of the following criteria: The increase related to renegotiations of a small number of larger lending arrangements provided to loans and advances classified as CRR 9, CRR European corporate entities and economic pressures 10, EL 9 or EL 10 a description of our internal in Europe more generally.
This was partially off-set credit rating grades is provided on page 191 : by repayments and write-offs of renegotiated loans retail exposures 90 days or more past due, in Europe, Rest of Asia-Pacific and Latin America.
unless individually they have been assessed as In the financial sector the increase in not impaired: or renegotiated loans in 2011 primarily related to renegotiated loans and advances that have been financial difficulties in one financial sector entity.
In subject to a change in contractual cash flows as the government sector renegotiation activity was a result of a concession which the lender would wholly due to increases in Latin America caused by not otherwise consider, and where it is probable term extension restructurings of municipal and local that without the concession the borrower would authority facilities.
be unable to meet its contractual payment obligations in full, unless the concession is Impaired loans disclosure insignificant and there are no other indicators Audited of impairment.
Renegotiated loans remain During 2011 we adopted a revised disclosure classified as impaired until there is sufficient convention for the presentation of impaired loans evidence to demonstrate a significant reduction and advances which affects the disclosure of loans in the risk of non-payment of future cash flows, and advances in the geographical regions with and there are no other indicators of impairment.
significant levels of forbearance activity.
The For loans that are assessed for impairment on previous impaired loan disclosure convention was a collective basis, the evidence to support that impaired loans and advances were those reclassification as no longer impaired typically classified as CRR9, CRR10, EL9 or EL10 and all comprises a history of payment performance against retail loans 90 days or more past due, unless the original or revised terms, depending on the individually they had been assessed as not impaired.
nature and volume of forbearance and the credit risk Renegotiated loans that did not meet the above characteristics surrounding the renegotiation.
For criteria were classified as neither past due nor loans that are assessed for impairment on an impaired or past due but not impaired as individual basis, all available evidence is assessed on appropriate, however these loans were assessed for a case by case basis.
impairment in accordance with the Groups accounting policy on the recognition of impairment In HSBC Finance, where a significant majority allowances, as described on page 193. of HSBCs loan forbearance activity occurs, the demonstrated history of payment performance is The revised disclosure convention continues to with reference to the original terms of the contract, be based on internal credit rating grades and, for reflecting the higher credit risk characteristics of this retail exposures, 90 days or more past due status.
133 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Impairment of loans and advances portfolio.
The payment performance periods are comparative periods.
This includes information monitored to ensure they remain appropriate to the about assumptions that would have been made in levels of recidivism observed within the portfolio.
establishing the revised, more stringent period of payment performance for renegotiated loans before Further disclosure about loans subject to they are regarded as unimpaired.
The difficulty forbearance is provided on page 129.
Renegotiated associated with determining these estimates relates loans and forbearance disclosures are subject to principally to retail portfolios that are assessed for evolving industry practice and regulatory guidance.
impairment on a collective basis: these estimates Impaired loan comparative data for become more difficult when a longer period of time 31 December 2010 have been restated to reflect has passed since the credit condition occurred.
the revised impaired loans disclosure convention.
The following table shows the effect of the Restatement of comparative data prior to revised disclosure convention on total reported 31 December 2010 is not practicable as sufficient impaired loans and advances to customers for information is not available to determine what geographical regions with significant levels of assumptions management would have made in forbearance.
134 Impairment allowances loans and advances that are either individually Audited assessed or collectively assessed, and collective impairment allowances on loans and advances The tables below analyse by geographical region the classified as not impaired.
Including these loans and advances to 3.51%.
2011 compared with 2010 New loan impairment allowances were Unaudited US$13.7bn, a decline of 12% compared with 2010, reflecting lower lending balances in our US On a reported basis, loan impairment charges to the consumer finance portfolios.
Releases and recoveries income statement of US$11.5bn in 2011 declined by of US$2.2bn were 17% higher, mainly in Europe and 15% compared with 2010 and by 16% on a constant Latin America reflecting improvements in our currency basis.
During 2011, we revised our collections operations.
disclosure convention for impaired loans for regions with material levels of forbearance which resulted in Impaired loans were 4% of total gross loans and an increase in the population of impaired loans.
advances at the end of 2011, in line with Impaired loan comparative data for 2010 has been 31 December 2010. restated to reflect the change in disclosure In Europe, new loan impairment allowances convention.
On a reported basis our restated were US$2.9bn, 14% lower than 2010.
Individually impaired loans were US$41.7bn, 11% lower than at assessed new loan impairment allowances decreased, 31 December 2010. mainly in the UK, as the credit quality of our lending The following commentary is on a constant portfolio improved, partly offset by an increase in currency basis.
allowances in respect of a small number of CMB 142 customers in Greece.
New collectively assessed loan restricted to a small number of corporate exposures impairment allowances also declined, mainly in the and significant charges recorded in 2010 following UK personal lending book, as a result of improved the restructuring of corporate exposures in the delinquency rates, reflecting improved quality in UAE did not recur.
New collectively assessed loan both the secured and unsecured portfolios, and a impairment allowances also declined, primarily in range of successful actions taken to mitigate credit the UAE, due to lower delinquencies reflecting a risk within RBWM including a focus on monitoring repositioning of the loan book to reduce our and identifying customers facing financial difficulty exposure to unsecured lending and focus on higher at an earlier stage.
In addition, lower new loan quality customers.
Impaired loans declined by 4% impairment allowances reflected a reduction in from 31 December 2010 due to improved unsecured lending balances.
Impaired loans of delinquency in line with stricter credit criteria, as US$11.8bn were 5% higher than at 31 December referred to above.
Releases and recoveries in the region increased Releases and recoveries in Europe were by 63% to US$183m in 2011 due to improved US$949m, an increase of 36% compared with the economic conditions.
end of 2010 due to successful actions taken to In North America, new loan impairment mitigate credit risk as described above.
allowances declined markedly, reducing by 16% In Hong Kong, new loan impairment to US$7.3bn.
New collectively assessed loan allowances fell by 10% compared with 2010 driven impairment allowances declined, mainly in the CML by a reduction in new loan impairment allowances portfolio, reflecting continued run-off and, in our against specific exposures.
This was partly offset by Card and Retail Services business, lower balances, a rise in new collectively assessed loan impairment as well as improved delinquency rates as overall allowances following a more significant release of credit quality improved.
This was partly offset by allowances in 2010, as well as strong growth in additional new loan impairment allowances related lending balances.
Impaired loans declined by 9% to the effects of the delays in foreclosure activity.
from 31 December 2010, reflecting loans whose Releases and recoveries in North America declined performance improved following the renegotiation by 36% to US$242m.
This reflected both the of terms and are therefore regarded as no longer improvement in economic conditions in 2010, which impaired.
enabled a high volume of customers who were in financial difficulty to make repayments, and the Releases and recoveries in Hong Kong were continued reductions in outstanding balances in 2011 US$88m, 4% lower than at the end of 2010. as the CML portfolio continued to run off.
New loan impairment allowances in Rest of Impaired loans decreased by 18% from the Asia-Pacific decreased by 22% to US$573m.
The end of 2010 to US$22.8bn, due to the continued rundecline reflected lower new collectively assessed off of the CML portfolio and the reclassification of loan impairment allowances, mainly in India, where balances relating to the pending sale of our Card and lending balances fell as certain higher risk unsecured Retail Services business.
This was partly offset by portfolios were managed down.
New individually the effects of the delays in foreclosure processing assessed loan impairment allowances also decreased, which slowed the rate at which lending balances mainly in Singapore, due to lower new loan were transferred to foreclosed.
impairment allowances raised against a single GB&M customer compared with 2010.
Impaired In Latin America, new loan impairment loans in the region decreased by 16% from the end allowances increased by 21% to US$2.3bn.
The of 2010 to US$1.1bn at the end of 2011, mainly in increase in new loan impairment allowances was India due to the repayment or write-off of previously primarily in Brazil reflecting strong lending growth impaired loans.
in RBWM and CMB, as well as a rise in delinquency rates, notably in the second half of 2011.
This was Releases and recoveries in the region increased partly offset by lower new collectively assessed loan by 5%, mainly due to the increased release of impairment allowances in Mexico, driven by the individually assessed allowances, principally in managed decline of the riskier elements of the credit Australia and India.
Impaired loans were 8% higher than In the Middle East and North Africa, new at the end of 2010 driven by increased delinquency loan impairment allowances declined by 35% to observed during the year.
New individually assessed loan Releases and recoveries in Latin America impairment allowances fell, as charges in 2011 were increased by 36% from the end of 2010 to 143 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Collateral US$463m, largely reflecting an increase in the Depending on its form, collateral can have a volume of accounts that are delinquent.
significant financial effect in mitigating our exposure to credit risk.
For an analysis of loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions, see page 104.
The tables below provide a quantification of the value of fixed charges we hold over a borrowers Collateral specific asset or assets where we have a history of enforcing, and are able to enforce, the collateral in Collateral and other credit enhancements satisfying a debt in the event of the borrower failing held to meet its contractual obligations, and where the Audited collateral is cash or can be realised by sale in an Loans and advances held at amortised cost established market.
The collateral valuation in the tables below exclude any adjustments for obtaining Although collateral can be an important mitigant and selling the collateral.
of credit risk, it is the Groups practice to lend on the basis of the customers ability to meet their We may also manage our risk by employing obligations out of their cash flow resources rather other types of collateral and credit risk than rely on the value of security offered.
Depending enhancements, such as second charges, other on the customers standing and the type of product, liens and unsupported guarantees, but the valuation facilities may be provided unsecured.
However, for of such mitigants is less certain and their financial other lending a charge over collateral is obtained and effect has not been quantified.
In particular, loans considered in determining the credit decision and shown in the tables below as not collateralised may pricing.
In the event of default the bank may utilise benefit from such credit mitigants.
the collateral as a source of repayment.
Off-balance sheet commitments overdrafts, credit cards and second lien mortgage include loans that have been approved but which the portfolios.
Second lien lending is supported by customer has not yet drawn, and the undrawn portion collateral but the claim on the collateral is of loans that have a flexible drawdown facility such subordinate to the first lien charge.
The majority of as the off-set mortgage product.
The collateral our second lien portfolios were originated in North included in the table above consists of first charges America where loss experience on defaulted second on real estate.
lien loans has typically approached 100%: The LTV ratio is calculated as the gross onconsequently, we do not generally attach any balance sheet carrying amount of the loan and any significant financial value to this type of collateral.
off-balance sheet loan commitment at the balance Credit cards and overdrafts are generally unsecured.
sheet date divided by the value of collateral.
The methodologies for obtaining residential property Corporate, commercial and financial non-bank collateral values vary throughout the Group, but lending are typically determined through a combination Collateral held is analysed separately below for of professional appraisals, house price indices or commercial real estate and for other corporate, statistical analysis.
Valuations must be updated on commercial and financial non-bank lending.
This a regular basis and, as a minimum, at intervals of reflects the difference in collateral held on the every three years.
Valuations are conducted more portfolios.
In each case, the analysis includes offfrequently when market conditions or portfolio balance sheet loan commitments, primarily undrawn performance are subject to significant change or credit lines.
when a loan is identified and assessed as impaired.
Due to the complexity of collateral valuations for commercial real estate, local valuation policies Facilities are disclosed as not collateralised for determine the frequency of review based on local this sector if they are unsecured or benefit from market conditions.
Revaluations are sought with credit risk mitigation from guarantees, which are greater frequency where, as part of the regular credit not quantified for the purposes of this disclosure.
assessment of the obligor, material concerns arise in Lending to major property companies in Hong relation to the transaction which may reflect on the Kong is, by market practice, typically secured by underlying performance of the collateral, or in guarantees or is unsecured.
In Europe, facilities of circumstances where an obligors credit quality a working capital nature are generally not secured has declined sufficiently to cause concern that the by a first fixed charge and are therefore disclosed principal payment source may not fully meet the as not collateralised.
obligation i. e. the obligors credit quality classification indicates it is at the lower end e. g. sub-standard, or approaching impaired.
The frequency of revaluation is above primarily includes first legal charges over real undertaken on a similar basis to commercial real estate and charges over cash in the commercial and estate loans and advances: however, for financing industrial sector, and charges over cash and activities in corporate and commercial lending that marketable financial instruments in the financial are not predominantly commercial real estatesector.
Government sector lending is generally oriented, collateral value is not as strongly correlated unsecured.
Collateral values will generally be refreshed when an obligors It should be noted that the table above excludes general credit performance deteriorates and it is other types of collateral which are commonly taken necessary to assess the likely performance of for corporate and commercial lending such as secondary sources of repayment should reliance unsupported guarantees and floating charges over upon them prove necessary.
For this reason, the table the assets of a customers business.
While such above reports values only for customers with CRR 8 mitigants have value, often providing rights in to 10, reflecting that these loans and advances insolvency, their assignable value is insufficiently generally have valuations which are of comparatively certain and they are assigned no value for disclosure recent vintage.
For the purposes of the table above, purposes.
cash is valued at its nominal value and marketable As with commercial real estate, the value of securities at their fair value.
real estate collateral included in the table above is The difference between the collateral value and generally determined through a combination of the value of partially collateralised lending disclosed professional and internal valuations and physical in the tables above cannot be directly compared to 146 any impairment allowances recognised in respect of effect of collateral on these impairment allowances, impaired loans, as the loans may be performing in is provided on page 190. accordance with their contractual terms.
Where loans are not performing in accordance with their Loans and advances to banks contractual terms, the recovery of cash flows may be The following table shows loans and advances to affected by other cash resources of the customer, or banks including off-balance sheet loan commitments other credit risk enhancements not quantified for the by level of collateral.
purposes of the tables above.
Loans and advances to banks are typically provided on page 107. unsecured.
Certain products such as reverse repos and stock borrowing are effectively collateralised Other credit risk exposures and have been included in the above as fully In addition to collateralised lending described above, collateralised.
The fully collateralised loans and other credit enhancements are employed and advances to banks for Europe in the table above methods used to mitigate credit risk arising from consist primarily of reverse repurchase agreements financial assets.
These are described in more detail and stock borrowing.
Derivatives Government, bank and other financial institution issued securities may benefit from additional credit The ISDA Master Agreement is our preferred enhancement, notably through government agreement for documenting derivatives activity.
It guarantees that reference these assets.
Details of provides the contractual framework within which government guarantees are included in Notes 15, 19 dealing activity across a full range of OTC products and 21 on the Financial Statements.
Corporate issued is conducted, and contractually binds both parties debt securities are primarily unsecured.
Debt to apply close-out netting across all outstanding securities issued by banks and financial institutions transactions covered by an agreement if either party include ABSs and similar instruments, which are defaults or another pre-agreed termination event supported by underlying pools of financial assets.
It is common, and our preferred practice, for Credit risk associated with ABSs is reduced through the parties to execute a Credit Support Annex the purchase of CDS protection.
Disclosure of the CSA in conjunction with the ISDA Master Groups holdings of ABSs and associated CDS Agreement.
Under a CSA, collateral is passed protection is provided on page 152. between the parties to mitigate the counterparty risk inherent in outstanding positions.
The majority of Trading assets include loans and advances held our CSAs are with financial institutional clients.
with trading intent, the majority of which consist of 147 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Collateral HSBC Holdings Securitisation exposures and other structured products reverse repos and stock borrowing which, by their We make repossessed properties available for nature, are collateralised.
Collateral accepted as sale in an orderly fashion, with the proceeds used security that the Group is permitted to sell or to reduce or repay the outstanding indebtedness.
If repledge under these arrangements is described excess funds arise after the debt has been repaid, in Note 37 on the Financial Statements.
Trading they are made available to repay other secured assets also include money market term placements lenders with lower priority or returned to the which are unsecured.
We do not generally occupy repossessed properties for our business use.
The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk includes financial guarantees and similar HSBC Holdings arrangements that it issues or enters into, and loan Audited commitments that it is irrevocably committed to.
Risk on an enterprise-wide basis in HSBC Holdings Depending on the terms of the arrangement, the bank is overseen by the HSBC Holdings Asset and may have recourse to additional credit mitigation in Liability Committee.
The major risks faced by the event that a guarantee is called upon or a loan HSBC Holdings are credit risk and market risk in commitment is drawn and subsequently defaults.
the form of interest rate risk and foreign exchange Further information about these arrangements is risk, of which the most significant is credit risk.
provided in Note 41 on the Financial Statements.
Credit risk in HSBC Holdings primarily arises Collateral and other credit enhancements from transactions with Group subsidiaries and from obtained guarantees issued in support of obligations assumed Audited by certain Group operations in the normal conduct of their business.
The carrying amount of assets obtained by taking possession of collateral held as security, or calling These risks are reviewed and managed within upon other credit enhancements, is as follows: regulatory and internal limits for exposures by our Carrying amount as at Global Risk function, which provides high-level 32 31 December centralised oversight and management of our credit 2011 2010 risks worldwide.
US$m US$m Nature of assets HSBC Holdings maximum exposure to credit Residential property 420 1,155 Commercial and industrial risk at 31 December 2011 is shown below.
501 1,261 No collateral or other credit enhancements were held by HSBC Holdings in respect of its transactions with For footnote, see page 185. subsidiaries.
The significant reduction in residential All of the derivative transactions are with HSBC properties was due to the suspension of foreclosure undertakings which are banking counterparties activities at the end of 2010 and during the first half 2010: 100%.
We also originate leveraged impaired 2010: 100%.
The credit ratings of the finance loans for the purpose of syndicating or financial investments held by HSBC Holdings are selling them down to generate trading profit or within the S&P ratings range of A to A- 2010: A to holding them to earn interest margin over their lives.
BBB Accounting policies Our accounting policies for the classification and valuation of Securitisation exposures and other financial instruments are in accordance with the requirements structured products of IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 39 Audited Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, as described in Note 2 on the Financial Statements, and the use of This section contains information about our exposure assumptions and estimates in respect of the valuation of to the following: financial instruments is described in Note 16 on the Financial Statements.
asset-backed securities ABSs, including mortgage-backed securities MBSs and Exposure in 2011 related collateralised debt obligations CDOs : Audited direct lending at fair value through profit or 2011 saw increased uncertainty and concerns around loss: sovereign credit risk, and a more pessimistic outlook monolines: for the US housing market and, as a result, there was credit derivative product companies: no reoccurrence of the price appreciation across the leveraged finance transactions: and range of ABS asset classes seen in 2010.
The level representations and warranties related to of net write-downs to the income statement mortgage sales and securitisation activities.
increased to US$0.3bn 2010: no net write-downs.
Within the above is included information on the However, unrealised losses in our available-for-sale GB&M legacy credit activities in respect of Solitaire portfolios reduced in the year from US$6.4bn to Funding Limited Solitaire, the securities US$5.1bn, mainly as a result of price appreciation on investment conduits SICs, the asset-backed assets issued by US government agency and securities trading portfolios and derivative sponsored enterprises and a reduction of the reserve transactions with monoline insurers.
Further through impairments taken to the income statement.
information in respect of Solitaire and the SICs is provided in Note 43 to the Financial Statements.
Within the following table are assets held in the GB&M legacy credit portfolio with a carrying Business model value of US$35.4bn 2010: US$47.1bn.
Unaudited A summary of the nature of HSBCs MBSs and other ABSs are held in Balance Sheet exposures is provided in the Appendix to Risk Management and as part of our investment portfolios on page 188. in order to earn net interest income and management fees.
Some are also held in the trading portfolio and hedged through credit derivative protection with the intention of earning the spread differential over the life of the instruments.
ABSs classified as available for sale SPEs which were established from the outset with the benefit of external investor first loss Our principal holdings of available-for-sale ABSs protection support, together with positions held are in GB&M through special purpose entities directly and by Solitaire, where we provide first loss protection of US$1.2bn through credit enhancement and a liquidity facility.
Securities investment conduits At each reporting date, we assess whether there Audited is any objective evidence of impairment in the value of the ABSs held by SPEs.
Impairment The total carrying amount of ABSs held through charges incurred on these assets are offset by a SPEs in the above table represents holdings in credit to the impairment line for the amount of the which significant first loss protection is provided loss allocated to capital note holders, subject to through capital notes issued by SICs, excluding the carrying amount of the capital notes being Solitaire.
sufficient to offset the loss.
During the year 150 impairment charges in one SPE, Mazarin, exceeded HSBC as shown in the table below.
In respect of the carrying value of the capital notes liability and the SICs, the capital notes held by third parties are a charge of US$26m 2010: nil was borne by expected to absorb the cash losses in the vehicles.
Conversely, The accounting policy for impairment and economic conditions which increase the rates of indicators of impairment is set out in Note 2 on the prepayment are generally associated with reduced Financial Statements.
default rates and decreased loss severities.
A summary of our impairment At 31 December 2011, the incurred and methodologies is provided in the Appendix projected impairment charges, measured in to Risk on page 188. accordance with accounting requirements, significantly exceeded the expected cash losses on Impairment and cash loss projections the securities.
Over the lives of the  sale ABSs the cumulative impairment charges will At each reporting date, management undertakes a converge towards the level of cash losses.
This exercise comprises a shift of respect of the SICs, in particular, the capital notes projections of future loss severities, default rates held by third parties are expected to absorb the cash and prepayment rates.
The results of the analysis at losses arising in the vehicles.
30 June 2011 indicated that further impairment charges of US$900m and expected cash losses of Analysis of exposures and significant US$400m could arise over the next two to three movements Audited years.
Sub-prime residential mortgage-related assets This exercise was re-performed at 31 December 2011 and the results remain The assets in the table below included US$2.4bn consistent with the June 2011 guidance.
2010: US$3.1bn relating to US-originated assets and US$1.0bn 2010: US$1.1bn relating to UK For the purposes of identifying impairment at non-conforming residential mortgage-related the reporting date, the future projected cash flows assets.
reflect the effect of loss events that have occurred at or prior to the reporting date.
For the purposes of At 31 December 2011, 25% US$0.9bn of our performing stress tests to estimate potential future sub-prime residential mortgage-related assets were impairment charges, the projected future cash flows rated AA or AAA 2010: 38% US$1.7bn.
Of the reflect additional assumptions about future loss non-high grade assets held of US$2.7bn 2010: events after the balance sheet date.
US$2.8bn, US$1.2bn 2010: US$1.5bn related to US-originated assets.
This analysis makes assumptions in respect of the future behaviour of loss severities, default There was a reduction in market prices for subrates and prepayment rates.
Movements in the prime assets during the course of 2011, particularly parameters are not independent of each other.
For in the latter stages of the year: this effect was example, increased default rates and increased loss coupled with principal paydowns.
The above table excludes leveraged finance transactions, which are shown separately on page 156.
Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Securitisation exposures and other structured products Liquidity and funding impairment of US$42m on assets was recognised Transactions with monoline insurers Audited in 2011 2010: US$48m as losses were incurred under current accounting impairment rules.
Our HSBCs exposure to derivative transactions expectation of cash losses on the underlying assets entered into directly with monolines did not increase from that at 31 December 2010.
Of Our principal exposure to monolines is through the above impairment, there were US$5m of writea number of OTC derivative transactions, mainly backs 2010: US$54m impairment in the SICs.
We entered into these CDSs primarily to purchase credit protection against securities held US Alt-A residential mortgage-related assets at the time within the trading portfolio.
During 2011, principal paydowns along with general During 2011, the notional value of derivative spread widening, particularly in the latter stages of contracts with monolines and our overall credit the year, contributed to a reduction in the carrying exposure to monolines decreased primarily as a values for Alt-A assets from the levels seen in 2010. number of transactions were commuted.
The Further impairments of US$687m 2010: US$884m table below sets out the fair value, essentially the were recorded as losses were incurred under the replacement cost, of the remaining derivative accounting rules described above.
Of this transactions at 31 December 2011, and hence the impairment, US$344m 2010: US$450m occurred amount at risk if the CDS protection purchased were in the SICs, of which US$318m 2010: US$450m to be wholly ineffective because, for example, the was borne by the capital note holders.
monoline insurer was unable to meet its obligations.
At 31 December 2011, 9% US$0.4bn of these In order to further analyse that risk, the value of assets were rated AA or AAA 2010: 9% protection purchased is shown subdivided between US$0.5bn.
those monolines that were rated by S&P at BBBor above at 31 December 2011, and those that were Commercial property mortgage-related assets below BBB BBB is the S&P cut-off for an investment grade classification.
The Credit Of our total of US$9.5bn 2010: US$10.8bn valuation adjustment column indicates the valuation of commercial property mortgage-related assets, adjustment taken against the net exposures, and US$4.9bn related to US-originated assets 2010: reflects our best estimate of the likely loss of US$5.2bn.
Spreads tightened on both US and nonvalue on purchased protection arising from the US commercial property mortgage-related assets deterioration in creditworthiness of the monolines.
Impairments of US$36m 2010: These valuation adjustments, which reflect a US$5m were recognised in 2011. measure of the irrecoverability of the protection purchased, have been charged to the income statement.
HSBCs exposure to derivative transactions entered into directly with monoline insurers Audited Net exposure Net exposure before credit after credit Notional valuation Credit valuation valuation 40 41 amount adjustment adjustment adjustment US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2011 Derivative transactions with monoline counterparties Monoline investment grade BBB or above............... 4,936 873 87 786 Monoline sub-investment grade below BBB............ 1,552 370 217 153 6,488 1,243 304 939 At 31 December 2010 Derivative transactions with monoline counterparties Monoline investment grade BBB or above............... 5,179 876 88 788 Monoline sub-investment grade below BBB............ 2,290 648 431 217 7,469 1,524 519 1,005 For footnotes, see page 185.
154 Market prices are generally not readily available of the monoline is reflected in market prices and, for CDSs, so they are valued on the basis of market therefore, in the carrying amount of these securities prices of the referenced securities.
For wrapped bonds held in our trading portfolio, the mark-to-market movement Our monoline credit valuation adjustment is reflected through the income statement.
For calculation utilises a number of approaches which wrapped bonds held in the AFS portfolio, the markdepend upon the internal credit rating of the to-market movement is reflected in equity unless monoline.
Our assignment of internal credit ratings there is objective evidence of impairment, in which is based upon detailed credit analysis, and may differ case the impairment loss is reflected in the income from external ratings.
The net effect of utilising the statement.
No wrapped bonds were included in the methodology adopted for highly-rated monolines reclassification of financial assets described in across all monolines would be a reduction in credit Note 18 on the Financial Statements.
valuation adjustment of US$76m 2010: US$94m.
The net effect of utilising a methodology based on HSBCs exposure to credit derivative product CDS spreads would be an increase in credit companies valuation adjustment of US$178m 2010: US$8m.
Credit derivative product companies CDPCs are independent companies that specialise in selling Credit valuation adjustments for monolines credit default protection on corporate exposures.
At For highly-rated monolines, the standard credit valuation adjustment methodology as described on page 350 applies, 31 December 2011, we had purchased from CDPCs with the exception that the future exposure profile is credit protection with a notional value of US$4.4bn deemed to be constant equal to the current market value 2010: US$4.9bn which had a fair value of over the weighted average life of the referenced security, and the credit valuation adjustment cannot fall below 10% US$0.4bn 2010: US$0.2bn, against which a credit of the mark-to-market exposure.
valuation adjustment a provision of US$0.1bn was In respect of monolines where default has either occurred held 2010: US$0.1bn.
At 31 December 2011, none or there is a strong possibility of default in the near term, of our exposure was to CDPCs with investment the adjustment is determined based on the estimated grade ratings 2010: nil.
probabilities of various potential scenarios, and the estimated recovery in each case.
For other monoline exposures, the credit valuation Leveraged finance transactions adjustment follows the methodology for highly-rated Audited monolines, adjusted to include the probability of a claim arising in respect of the referenced security, and applies Leveraged finance transactions include subimplied probabilities of default where the likelihood of a investment grade acquisition or event-driven claim is believed to be high.
The following table shows our exposure to leveraged finance transactions arising from HSBCs exposure to direct lending and primary transactions.
Our additional exposure to irrevocable commitments to lend to monoline leveraged finance loans through holdings of ABSs insurers from our trading and investment activities is shown in the table on page 152.
We had no liquidity facilities to monolines at 31 December 2011 2010: nil.
We held leveraged finance commitments of US$3.7bn at 31 December 2011 2010: US$5.1bn, HSBCs exposure to debt securities which benefit of which US$3.3bn 2010: US$4.6bn was funded.
from guarantees provided by monolines At 31 December 2011, our principal exposures Within both the trading and available-for-sale were to companies in two sectors: US$1.3bn to portfolios, we hold bonds that are wrapped with data processing 2010: US$2.8bn and US$1.9bn a credit enhancement from a monoline.
As the to communications and infrastructure 2010: bonds are traded explicitly with the benefit of this US$1.8bn.
enhancement, any deterioration in the credit profile 155 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Securitisation exposures and other structured products HSBCs exposure to leveraged finance transactions Audited At 31 December 2011 At 31 December 2010 Funded Unfunded Total Funded Unfunded Total 42 42 42 42 exposures exposures exposures exposures exposures exposures US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Europe 2,795 253 3,048 3,337 298 3,635 Rest of Asia-Pacific 17 22 39 North America........ 445 126 571 1,066 185 1,251 3,240 379 3,619 4,420 505 4,925 Held within: loans and receivables 3,120 328 3,448 4,199 393 4,592 fair value through profit or loss.... 120 51 171 221 112 333 For footnotes, see page 185.
Representations and warranties related to Participants in the US mortgage securitisation mortgage sales and securitisation activities market that purchased and repackaged whole loans Audited have been the subject of lawsuits and governmental and regulatory investigations and inquiries which We have been involved in various activities related have been directed at groups within the US mortgage to the sale and securitisation of residential mortgages market such as servicers, originators, underwriters, which are not recognised on our balance sheet.
trustees or sponsors of securitisations.
Further These activities include: information is provided in Note 44 on the Financial the purchase of US$24bn of third-party Statements.
originated mortgages by HSBC Bank USA and At 31 December 2011, a liability of US$237m the securitisation of these by HSBC Securities was recognised in respect of various representations USA Inc. HSI between 2005 and 2007: and warranties relating to the origination and sale by HSI acting as underwriter for third-party HSBC Bank USA of mortgage loans, primarily to issuance of private label MBSs with an original government sponsored entities 2010: US$262m.
issuance value of US$37bn, most of which were These relate to, among other things, the ownership of sub-prime: and the loans, the validity of the liens, the loan selection and origination process and compliance with the the origination and sale by HSBC Bank USA of origination criteria established by the agencies.
In mortgage loans, primarily to government the event of a breach of our representations and sponsored entities.
warranties, HSBC Bank USA may be obliged to In sales and securitisations of mortgage loans, repurchase the loans with identified defects or to various representations and warranties regarding the indemnify the buyers.
The liability is estimated loans may be made to purchasers of the mortgage based on the level of outstanding repurchase loans and MBSs.
In respect of the purchase and demands, the level of outstanding requests for loan securitisation of third party originated mortgages and files and estimated future demands in respect of the underwriting of third party MBSs, the obligation mortgages sold to date which are either two or to repurchase loans in the event of a breach of more payments delinquent or expected to become loan level representations and warranties resides delinquent at an estimated conversion rate.
predominantly with the organisation that originated Repurchase demands of US$113m were outstanding the loan.
156 Liquidity and funding Liquidity and funding in 2011 Audited Audited The liquidity position of the Group strengthened Liquidity and funding in 2011 157 in 2011, and we continued to enjoy strong inflows Contractual maturity of financial liabilities................... 158 of customer deposits and maintained good access The management of liquidity risk 159 to wholesale markets.
Despite a highly competitive environment in Asia, our customer accounts grew by 8% due to growth in deposits in Hong Kong dollars Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group does and offshore renminbi.
not have sufficient financial resources to meet its obligations as they fall due, or will Market conditions have to do so at an excessive cost.
The risk 2011 was another challenging year for banks in the arises from mismatches in the timing of cash wholesale funding markets.
quarter, the total volume of term debt issued by banks in 2011 was low by recent historical standards, with a particularly marked slow down in the second Our liquidity and funding risk management framework half of the year.
The objective of our liquidity framework is to allow us to withstand very severe liquidity stresses.
It is designed to be Developments in the eurozone sovereign debt adaptable to changing business models, markets and regulations.
crisis continued to dominate the markets.
In May We expect our operating entities to manage liquidity and 2011, Portugal became the third eurozone country to funding risk on a standalone basis employing a centrally seek financial support from the ECB and the IMF.
imposed framework and limit structure which is adapted to Conditions deteriorated markedly over the summer variations in business mix and underlying markets.
Our with sharp increases in CDS premia for eurozone operating entities are required to maintain strong liquidity positions and to manage the liquidity profiles of their assets, peripheral countries.
This prompted European liabilities and commitments with the objective of ensuring that authorities to propose a package of measures in their cash flows are balanced under various severe stress October including a near doubling of the capacity scenarios and that all their anticipated obligations can be met when due.
of the European Financial Stability Facility.
In December, with the crisis reaching systemic levels, the ECB injected liquidity into the European banking sector via an unprecedented 489bn There were no material changes to our policies and US$632bn 3-year Long-Term Refinancing practices for the management of liquidity and Operation LTRO, and committed to conduct a funding risks in 2011. similar operation in February 2012.
This intervention by the ECB had a positive effect on bank CDS levels, as well as on general funding conditions.
We A summary of our current policies and support the ECB in its efforts to stabilise the capital practices regarding liquidity and funding is provided in the Appendix to markets.
Given the lack of stigma in participating Risk on page 188. and the attractive pricing, and with the outlook for capital markets remaining uncertain, we considered it prudent for our Continental Europe operations to anticipate future funding requirements by participating in the LTRO, receiving 5.2bn US$6.7bn in total, mainly in France.
157 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Liquidity and funding Liquidity and funding in 2011 Contractual maturity of financial liabilities Effect on HSBCs liquidity and funding Contractual maturity of financial liabilities Audited position The balances in the table below will not agree We issue wholesale securities to supplement our directly with those in our consolidated balance sheet customer deposits and change the currency mix, as the table incorporates, on an undiscounted basis, maturity profile or location of our liabilities.
We all cash flows relating to principal and future coupon continued to have good access to debt capital payments except for trading liabilities and trading markets during 2011, with Group entities issuing derivatives.
In addition, loan and other creditUS$22bn of term debt securities in the public capital related commitments and financial guarantees and markets at competitive prices in a range of currencies, similar contracts are generally not recognised on maturities, obligations and markets.
Of this amount, our balance sheet.
Trading liabilities and trading over 90% was unsecured funding.
Our ability to derivatives are included in the On demand time access capital markets even in very challenging bucket, and not by contractual maturity, because conditions was best demonstrated by the successful trading liabilities are typically held for short periods issuance of US$1.65bn of 10 and 30 year unsecured of time.
We classify the undiscounted cash flows senior bonds by HSBC Holdings in November 2011. payable under hedging derivative liabilities In general, the prices of our debt securities have not according to their contractual maturities.
The been unduly affected by the market turmoil.
undiscounted cash flows potentially payable under Our European subsidiaries continued to financial guarantees and similar contracts are maintain a liquidity profile within our risk appetite classified on the basis of the earliest date they can despite the ongoing eurozone crisis.
158 Cash flows payable in respect of customer 31 December 2011 2010: 62%.
The distinction accounts are primarily contractually repayable on between core and non-core deposits generally means demand or at short notice.
However, in practice, that our measure of advances to core funding is more short-term deposit balances remain stable as inflows restrictive than that which can be inferred from the and outflows broadly match and a significant portion published financial statements.
Loans and advances of loan commitments expire without being drawn to customers in these principal banking entities were upon.
We therefore manage our balance sheet on overwhelmingly financed by reliable and stable both contractual and behaviouralised bases.
We would meet any unexpected operating entity determines the behaviouralisation net cash outflows by using our cash and balances at of its products within the guidelines set out in our central banks, selling or entering into repos of the liquidity framework and as approved by its Asset securities within our liquid asset buffers or accessing and Liability Committee.
additional funding sources such as the interbank market.
Collateralised lending markets could also Although on a contractual basis 86% of be accessed over the longer term.
our liabilities are due within one year, only approximately half of our behaviouralised liabilities Of particular note was the strong funding are expected to fall due within this one-year period.
position of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, as reflected in the advances to core The management of liquidity risk funding ratio in the table below, which allowed us to Audited take advantage of loan growth opportunities in Asia while still maintaining ratios well below the Groups Advances to core funding ratio average.
159 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Liquidity and funding Contractual maturity Encumbered assets Funding sources Contingent liquidity risk Stressed one month coverage ratio HSBC Finance funding Audited The stressed one month coverage ratios tabulated At 31 December 2011 2010 above are derived from projected cash flow scenario US$bn US$bn analyses described in the Appendix to Risk on Maximum amounts of unsecured term page 188, and express the stressed cash inflows as funding maturing in any rolling: 3 month period 5.1 5.1 a percentage of stressed cash outflows over a one 12 month period 9.7 10.8 month time horizon.
Group sites are required to Unused committed sources of 48 target a ratio of 100% or more.
secured funding 0.5 0.5 Committed backstop lines from non-Group entities in support of HSBC Finance CP programmes.. 4.0 4.3 As HSBC Finance is unable to accept standard For footnote, see page 185. retail customer deposits, it takes funding from the professional markets.
At 31 December 2011, Encumbered assets US$51bn 2010: US$65bn of HSBC Finances Audited liabilities were drawn from professional markets and Encumbered assets are assets which have been affiliates, utilising a range of products, maturities pledged or used as collateral or which legally we and currencies.
HSBC Finance uses a number may not be able to use to secure funding.
It remains of measures to monitor funding risk, including a strength that only a small percentage of our assets projected cash flow scenario analysis and caps are encumbered and that the majority of our assets placed on the amount of unsecured term funding that are available as security for all our creditors.
The can mature in any rolling three-month and rolling majority of the encumbrance arises due to our repo 12-month periods.
HSBC Finance also maintains activity within Europe and the US in GB&M, which access to committed sources of secured funding and is largely self-funding.
has in place committed backstop lines for short-term refinancing commercial paper CP programmes.
Our encumbered assets on an IFRSs basis are A CP programme is a short-term, unsecured funding disclosed in Note 37 on the Financial Statements.
tool used to manage day to day cash flow needs.
In Assets not included in Note 37 but which would agreement with the rating agencies, issuance under generally not be used to secure funding include this programme will not exceed 100% of committed assets backing insurance and investment contracts bank backstop lines.
see Balance sheet of insurance manufacturing on page 173 and Hong Kong government certificates The need for HSBC Finance to refinance of indebtedness which secure Hong Kong currency maturing term funding is largely mitigated by the notes in circulation, which are included on the face continued run-down of its balance sheet and the of the consolidated balance sheet.
Additionally, proposed sale of the Card and Retail Services properties with net book values of US$33m 2010: business, which should complete in the second US$31m are considered encumbered.
quarter of 2012 and is expected to generate additional funding of approximately US$12bn.
During 2011, the shelf registration statement under which HSBC Finance has historically issued longterm debt expired and we chose not to renew it.
160 Diversity of funding sources Funding usage Audited At 31 December 2011 2010 Our primary sources of funding are current accounts US$bn US$bn and savings deposits payable on demand or short Loans and advances to notice.
As part of our liquidity and funding risk customers 940.4 958.4 Loans and advances to banks... 181.0 208.3 management, we do not rely on securitisations, Financial investments held to covered bond issuance programmes or repurchase maturity... 21.2 19.5 agreements as an important source of funding.
1,142.6 1,186.2 Repurchase agreements entered into are generally short-term in nature maturing in 90 days or less.
Contingent liquidity risk We are a net cash provider to the repo market.
Audited Our sources and uses of funding, which provide Contingent liquidity risk is the risk associated with a consolidated view of how our balance sheet is the need to provide additional funds to clients.
The funded, should be read with consideration of our client-originated exposure relates to multi-seller risk management framework which requires our conduits, which were established to enable clients operating entities to manage liquidity and funding to access a flexible market-based source of finance risk on a standalone basis.
HSBC-managed asset exposures are above, the material difference between funding differentiated in that they relate to consolidated SICs sources and uses is an illustration of the strength which issue debt secured by ABSs see page 403. of our liquidity position.
Other conduit exposures relate to third-party sponsored conduits see page 405.
Single issuer Funding sources liquidity facilities are provided directly to clients At 31 December rather than via any form of conduit.
These facilities 2011 2010 are split by the addition of the five largest specific US$bn US$bn facilities and the single largest market sector.
161 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Liquidity and funding HSBC Holdings Market risk Market risk in 2011 Trading and non-trading portfolios HSBC Holdings principal and future coupon payments except Audited for trading derivatives.
During 2011, HSBC Holdings continued to have full In addition, loan and other credit-related access to debt capital markets at market rates and commitments and financial guarantees and similar issued US$5.3bn of senior debt 2010: nil.
The contracts are generally not recognised on the balance eligibility requirements for non-equity instruments sheet.
Trading derivatives are included in the On under Basel III rules have not been clearly defined in demand time bucket, and not by contractual the UK, so HSBC Holdings issued no capital maturity, because trading derivatives are typically instruments in 2011 2010: US$5.0bn.
held for short periods of time.
The undiscounted cash flows potentially payable under financial The balances in the following table do not agree guarantees and similar contracts are classified on directly with those in the balance sheet of HSBC the basis of the earliest date they can be called.
Funding Sensitivity of net interest income 166 and capital concerns relating to financial Defined benefit pension schemes 167 institutions also dominated in Europe.
All these Additional market risk measures applicable only to factors triggered high levels of volatility in the the parent company 167 financial markets.
In addition, the transition to CRD III at the end of 2011, with its increased Market risk is the risk that movements in capital requirements for certain market risk market factors, including foreign exchange exposures, also affected the environment in which rates and commodity prices, interest rates, market risk appetite was managed over the year.
In credit spreads and equity prices, will reduce response to these challenges, we managed down our income or the value of our portfolios.
our market risk exposures within the eurozone and in our securitisation books.
We proactively tested Exposure to market risk contingency plans intended to respond to potential Exposure to market risk is separated into two portfolios: adverse scenarios.
Trading portfolios include positions arising from marketmaking and position-taking and others designated as In 2011, our European Credit and Rates marked to market.
business reported significantly lower trading Non-trading portfolios include positions that primarily revenue as turmoil in eurozone sovereign debt arise from the interest rate management of our retail and commercial banking assets and liabilities, financial markets escalated, particularly in the second half of investments designated as available for sale and held to the year.
Increased risk aversion and limited client maturity, and exposures arising from our insurance activity, led to a significant widening of credit operations see page 165. spreads on certain eurozone sovereign and Monitoring and limiting market risk exposures corporate bonds, resulting in trading losses and an Our objective is to manage and control market risk exposures increase in days of negative revenue.
in order to optimise return on risk while maintaining a market profile consistent with our status as one of the worlds largest banking and financial services organisations.
Trading and non-trading portfolios We use a range of tools to monitor and limit market risk Audited exposures, including: The following table provides an overview of the sensitivity measures are used to monitor the market risk reporting of risks within this section: positions within each risk type: value at risk VAR is a technique that estimates the Portfolio potential losses that could occur on risk positions as a Trading Non-trading result of movements in market rates and prices over a Risk type specified time horizon and to a given level of confidence: Foreign exchange and and 54 commodity VAR VAR in recognition of VARs limitations we augment VAR with 55 Interest rate.... VAR VAR stress testing to evaluate the potential impact on portfolio Equity............ VAR Sensitivity values of more extreme, though plausible, events or 56 Credit spread. VAR VAR movements in a set of financial variables.
Examples of scenarios reflecting current market concerns are the US For footnotes, see page 185. treasuries downgrade and the potential effects of a sovereign debt default, including its wider contagion effects.
The major contributor to the trading and non-trading VAR for the Group is Global Markets.
Market risk arising in our insurance business is discussed in Risk management of insurance operations on page 171.
There were no material changes to our policies and practices for the management of market risk in 2011.
A summary of our current policies and practices regarding market risk is provided in the Appendix to Risk on page 188.
163 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Market risk Trading and non-trading portfolios Value at risk of the trading and non-trading exposures.
Further details are given in Exposures portfolios to countries in the eurozone on page 113.
Our Group VAR, both trading and non-trading, was We routinely validate the accuracy of our VAR models by back-testing the actual daily profit and Value at risk loss results, adjusted to remove non-modelled items Audited 57 such as fees and commissions, against the 2011 2010 US$m US$m corresponding VAR numbers.
In 2011, there was one loss exception For footnote, see page 185. at a Group level.
This is consistent with what is statistically expected from the model.
Group total VAR was lower at the end of 2011 The major contributor to Group trading and than at the end of 2010 despite an increase in non-trading VAR was GB&M.
Our Group daily volatility in the historical scenarios used in the VAR, both trading and non-trading, was as follows: VAR calculation.
The VAR for trading intent activity within Global reduced to US$325m 2010: US$264m.
Credit Markets at 31 December 2011 was US$118.3m spread VAR for available-for-sale debt securities 2010: US$80.8m.
The increase was mainly driven is included in the Group total VAR.
by the credit spread asset class, due to a rise in the At 31 December 2011, the capital note holders volatilities in the historical scenarios used in the would absorb the first US$2.3bn 2010: US$2.2bn VAR calculation.
of any losses incurred by the SICs before we incur any equity losses.
Credit spread risk Audited Equity securities classified as available for sale Credit spread risk also arises on credit derivative Fair value of equity securities transactions entered into by Global Banking in Audited order to manage the risk concentrations within our 2011 2010 corporate loan portfolio and so enhance capital US$bn US$bn efficiency.
At 31 December 2011, the credit VAR 63 Private equity holdings.............. 3.0 2.8 on these transactions was US$6.6m 2010: Funds invested for short-term US$12.3m.
The mark-to-market of these cash management.................... 0.2 0.5 transactions is reflected in the income statement.
Investment to facilitate ongoing 64 business 1.1 1.0 Other strategic investments......... 2.9 3.7 Gap risk 7.2 8.0 During 2011 gap risk continued to be managed down.
We did not incur any material gap loss in For footnotes, see page 185.
Potential new commitments are subject to risk Non-trading portfolios appraisal to ensure that industry and geographical Audited concentrations remain within acceptable levels for the portfolio.
Regular reviews are performed to Available-for-sale debt securities substantiate the valuation of the investments within At 31 December 2011, the sensitivity of equity the portfolio and investments held to facilitate capital to the effect of movements in credit spreads ongoing business, such as holdings in governmenton our available-for-sale debt securities, including sponsored enterprises and local stock exchanges.
the gross exposure for the SICs consolidated within The fair value of the constituents of equity our balance sheet, based on credit spread VAR, was securities classified as available for sale can US$389m 2010: US$299m.
This sensitivity is fluctuate considerably.
A 10% reduction in their calculated before taking into account losses which value at 31 December 2011 would have reduced our would have been absorbed by the capital note equity by US$0.7bn 2010: US$0.8bn.
Excluding the gross exposure for SICs the impairment incurred on available-for-sale equity consolidated in our balance sheet this exposure 165 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Market risk Structured FX Sensitivity of NII DBS Additional market risk measures securities, see Securitisation exposures and other interest income of an incremental 25 basis points structured products on page 149. parallel rise or fall in all yield curves worldwide at the beginning of each quarter during the 12 months Structural foreign exchange exposures from 1 January 2012.
Assuming no management Unaudited actions, a sequence of such rises would increase planned net interest income for 2012 by US$1,571m Our policies and procedures for managing structural 2011: US$882m, while a sequence of such falls foreign exchange exposures are described on would decrease planned net interest income by page 201.
These figures For details of structural foreign exchange incorporate the effect of any option features in the exposures see Note 36 on the Financial Statements.
Sensitivity of net interest income Unaudited The table below sets out the effect on our future net 65 Sensitivity of projected net interest income Unaudited Rest of Hong Kong Rest of US dollar Americas dollar Asia Sterling Euro bloc bloc bloc bloc bloc bloc Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Change in 2012 projected net interest income arising from a shift in yield curves of: 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter...... 209 62 263 232 729 76 1,571 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter...... 465 59 443 166 708 68 1,909 Change in 2011 projected net interest income arising from a shift in yield curves of: 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter...... 164 72 191 245 292 82 882 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter...... 550 68 280 143 546 62 1,525 For footnote, see page 185.
The interest rate sensitivities set out in the include the expense of internally funding trading table above are illustrative only and are based on assets, while related revenue is reported in Net simplified scenarios.
The limitations of this analysis trading income.
are discussed in the Appendix to Risk on page 188.
We monitor the sensitivity of reported reserves to interest rate movements on a monthly basis by The main drivers of the year-on-year changes in assessing the expected reduction in valuation of the sensitivity of the Groups net interest income to available-for-sale portfolios and cash flow hedges the change in rates shown in the table above were due to parallel movements of plus or minus 100 lower implied yield curves, the potential for wider basis points in all yield curves.
The table below margins in a rising interest rate scenario, and a describes the sensitivity of our reported reserves to reduction in the funding requirement of the HSBC these movements and the maximum and minimum Bank plc trading book.
The table shows only to the parent company Audited the potential sensitivity of reserves to valuation changes in available-for-sale portfolios and from The principal tools used in the management of cash flow hedges following the specified shifts in market risk are VAR for foreign exchange rate risk, yield curves.
These particular exposures form only and the projected sensitivity of HSBC Holdings net a part of our overall interest rate exposures.
The interest income to future changes in yield curves and accounting treatment under IFRSs of our remaining interest rate gap re-pricing tables for interest rate interest rate exposures, while economically largely risk.
offsetting the exposures shown in the above table, does not require revaluation movements to go to Foreign exchange risk reserves.
Total foreign exchange VAR arising within HSBC The year-on-year decrease in sensitivity of Holdings in 2011 was as follows: reserves is due to a decrease in government bonds held in Balance Sheet Management, which are HSBC Holdings foreign exchange VAR accounted for on an available-for-sale basis.
The foreign exchange risk largely arises from loans to subsidiaries of a capital nature that are not HSBCs defined benefit pension schemes denominated in the functional currency of either the Audited provider or the recipient and which are accounted 2011 2010 US$bn US$bn for as financial assets.
Changes in the carrying amount of these loans due to foreign exchange rate Liabilities present value.......... 35.0 32.6 differences are taken directly to HSBC Holdings % % income statement.
These loans, and the associated Assets: foreign exchange exposures, are eliminated on a Equities 15 20 Debt securities 73 66 Group consolidated basis.
Other including property......... 12 14 100 100 For details of our defined benefit schemes, see Note 7 on the Financial Statements, and for pension risk management, see page 184.
167 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Market risk Additional market risk measures Sensitivity of net interest income the beginning of each quarter during the 12 months Audited from 1 January 2012.
HSBC Holdings monitors net interest income Assuming no management actions, a sequence sensitivity over a 5-year time horizon reflecting of such rises would decrease planned net interest the longer-term perspective on interest rate risk income for the next five years by US$269m 2011: management appropriate to a financial services increase of US$155m, while a sequence of such holding company.
The table below sets out the effect falls would increase planned net interest income by on HSBC Holdings future net interest income over a US$248m 2011: decrease of US$155m.
These 5-year time horizon of incremental 25 basis point figures incorporate the effect of any option features parallel falls or rises in all yield curves worldwide at in the underlying exposures.
The interest rate sensitivities tabulated above interest income sensitivity for that period.
However, are illustrative only and are based on simplified the figures do not take into account the effect of scenarios.
The figures represent hypothetical actions that could be taken to mitigate this interest rate movements in net interest income based on our risk.
projected yield curve scenarios, HSBC Holdings current interest rate risk profile and assumed changes Interest rate repricing gap table to that profile during the next five years.
The main The interest rate risk on the fixed-rate securities driver of the change in the US dollar projected net issued by HSBC Holdings is not included within the interest income sensitivity was a change in the Group VAR but is managed on a repricing gap basis.
assumptions for projected capital funding.
Changes to The interest rate repricing gap table below analyses assumptions concerning the risk profile over the next the full term structure of interest rate mismatches five years can have a significant impact on the net within HSBC Holdings balance sheet.
Losses arising from several of the larger social media networks unauthorised activities, error, omission, in order to provide an official point of inefficiency, fraud, systems failure or contact for HSBC customers and external events all fall within the definition stakeholders: and of operational risk.
monitoring has been implemented in some HSBC has continued to enhance its operational risk entities to protect our brand identity and management framework including the use of the risk pro-active communication has been and control assessment process that provides implemented in some geographies targeted business areas and functions with a forward-looking at broadcasting to customers and media view of operational risks and an assessment of the organisations: effectiveness of controls, and a tracking mechanism level of change creating operational complexity: for action plans so that they can proactively manage Risk functions are engaged with business operational risks within acceptable levels.
management in business transformation There were no material changes to our policies initiatives to ensure robust internal controls are and procedures for the management of operational maintained, including through participation in risk in 2011. all relevant management committees: and information security: significant investment has A summary of our current policies and already been made in enhancing controls practices regarding operational risk is provided in the Appendix to Risk on including increased training to raise staff page 188. awareness of the requirements, enhanced controls around data access and heightened monitoring of information flows.
This area will Operational risk in 2011 continue to be a focus of ongoing initiatives to During 2011, our top and emerging risk analysis strengthen the control environment.
included a number of risks which were of an Other operational risks are also monitored and operational nature: managed through use of the operational risk challenges to achieving our strategy in a management framework including investments made downturn: businesses and geographical regions to further improve the resilience of our payments have prioritised strategy and annual operating infrastructure.
plans to reflect current economic conditions.
There were no material losses relating to fraud Performance against plan is monitored through a and security during the year.
number of means including the use of balanced scorecards and by performance reporting at all Further information on the nature of these risks relevant management committees: is provided in Top and emerging risks on page 99. internet crime and fraud: increased monitoring and additional controls including internet banking controls have been implemented to enhance our defences against external attack and to reduce the level of losses in these areas: 170 Risk management of insurance the products.
These arrangements earn us a operations commission.
Audited Our bancassurance business operates in all six HSBCs bancassurance model 171 of our geographical regions with over 30 legal Insurance risk in 2011............ 171 entities, the majority of which are subsidiaries of Balance sheet of insurance manufacturing banking legal entities, manufacturing insurance subsidiaries......................... 173 products.
Financial risks 175 The insurance contracts we sell primarily relate Present value of in-force long-term insurance business... 181 to core underlying banking activities, such as savings Economic assumptions 182 and investment products, and credit life products.
Non-economic assumptions 182 Our manufacturing business concentrates on The majority of the risk in our insurance personal lines, e. g. contracts written for individuals.
business derives from manufacturing This focus on the higher volume, lower individual activities and can be categorised as value personal lines contributes to diversifying risk.
insurance risk and financial risk.
Insurance risk is the risk, other than financial risk, of Insurance risk in 2011 loss transferred from the holder of the The principal risk we face is that, over time, the cost insurance contract to the issuer HSBC.
of acquiring and administering a contract, claims and Financial risks include market risk, credit benefits may exceed the aggregate amount of risk and liquidity risk.
premiums received and investment income.
The cost of claims and benefits can be influenced by many There were no material changes to our policies and factors, including mortality and morbidity practices for the management of insurance risk, experience, lapse and surrender rates and, if the including the risks relating to different life and nonpolicy has a savings element, the performance of the life products in 2011. assets held to support the liabilities.
A summary of our policies and practices In respect of financial risks, subsidiaries regarding insurance risk, and the main manufacturing products with guarantees are usually contracts we manufacture, is provided in exposed to falls in market interest rates and equity the Appendix to Risk on page 188. prices to the extent that the market exposure cannot HSBCs bancassurance model be managed by utilising any discretionary participation or bonus features DPF within We operate a bancassurance model which provides the policy.
insurance products for customers with whom we have a banking relationship.
Insurance products are This section provides disclosures on the sold through all global businesses, mainly utilising management of financial risks specific to insurance retail branches, the internet and phone centres.
operations, including credit risk, liquidity risk and RBWM customers attract the majority of sales market risk.
The assets of the insurance and comprise the majority of policyholders.
manufacturing subsidiaries are included within the consolidated Group credit risk disclosures.
The Many of these insurance products are consolidated Group liquidity and market risk manufactured by our subsidiaries.
Where we have management disclosures exclude insurance scale, this allows us to retain the risks, within our operations as these risks are managed within the appetite, and associated rewards with writing insurance entities using methodologies and processes insurance contracts as both the underwriting profit appropriate to these insurance activities, but remain and the commission paid by the manufacturer to the subject to oversight at Group level.
Risk bank distribution channel are kept within the Group.
management disclosures specific to the insurance Where we do not have the risk appetite or manufacturing subsidiaries are provided below.
operational scale to be effective, third parties are The following tables analyse our insurance risk engaged to manufacture insurance products for sale exposures by geographical region and by type of through our banking network.
Our most significant life insurance products are and unit-linked contracts issued in Latin America, investment contracts with DPF issued in France, Hong Kong and the UK.
Audited Balance sheet of insurance manufacturing subsidiaries Our motor business is written predominantly in Audited Argentina.
The UK motor book continued to run off and the business was sold in September 2011.
A principal tool we use to manage our exposure to insurance risk, in particular for life insurance Our accident and health and fire and other contracts, is asset and liability matching.
damage to property contracts are written in all regions but mainly in Hong Kong.
The tables below show the composition of assets and liabilities by contract and by geographical region Credit non-life insurance, which was historically and demonstrate that there were sufficient assets to originated in conjunction with the provision of loans, cover the liabilities to policyholders in each case at is concentrated in the US.
Financial risks contracts, which pay benefits to policyholders which Audited are determined by reference to the value of the investments supporting the policies, we typically The following table analyses the assets held in designate assets at fair value: for non-linked our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries at contracts, the classification of the assets is driven 31 December 2011 by type of contract, and provides by the nature of the underlying contract.
a view of the exposure to financial risk.
Approximately 65.2% of financial assets were back them.
For example, mismatches between asset invested in debt securities at 31 December 2011 and liability yields and maturities give rise to interest 2010: 65.1% with 22.9% 2010: 22.9% invested rate risk.
Long-term insurance or investment products In life linked insurance, premium income less may incorporate benefits that are guaranteed.
Where charges levied is invested in a portfolio of assets.
We mismatches exist as a result of current yields falling manage the financial risks of this product on behalf below guaranteed levels for a prolonged period the of the policyholders by holding appropriate assets in risk that shareholder capital is required to meet segregated funds or portfolios to which the liabilities liabilities to policyholders may increase.
These assets represented 23.2% of the below shows, in respect of each category of total financial assets of our insurance manufacturing guarantee, the total liabilities to policyholders subsidiaries at the end of 2011 2010: 23.9%.
established for guaranteed products manufactured by our insurance subsidiaries.
The table also shows the Market risk range of investment returns net of operating costs Audited on the assets supporting these products and the implied investment returns that would enable the Market risk arises when mismatches occur between business to meet the guarantees.
176 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview The following table illustrates the effects of assets and liabilities and the risk factors may be nonvarious interest rate, equity price, foreign exchange linear and, therefore, the results disclosed cannot be rate and credit spread scenarios on our profit for the extrapolated to measure sensitivities to different year and total equity of our insurance manufacturing levels of stress.
The sensitivities are stated before subsidiaries.
allowance for management actions which may mitigate the effect of changes in market rates, and Where appropriate, we include the impact of the for any factors such as policyholder behaviour that stress on the PVIF in the results of the sensitivity may change in response to changes in market risk.
A confidence level of 99%, consistent with Audited our Group VAR, is applied.
Credit spreads have generally widened from the levels observed at the Our exposure to credit risk products is included in end of 2010: however, the expected increase this the tables showing exposures to life and non-life would generally cause has been offset by a insurance risk on pages 172 and 173. refinement made to the calculation to better reflect Credit risk can give rise to losses through how the risk is shared with the policyholder.
default and can lead to volatility in our income Consequently, the sensitivity reported is consistent statement and balance sheet figures through with that seen in 2010. movements in credit spreads, principally on the US$44.4bn 2010: US$43.3bn non-linked bond Credit quality portfolio.
Audited As tabulated above, the sensitivity of the net The following table presents an analysis of treasury profit after tax of our insurance subsidiaries to the bills, other eligible bills and debt securities within effects of increases in credit spreads is similar to our insurance business by measures of credit quality.
The balance and related movement are small The five credit quality classifications are defined in because about 80% of the debt securities held by our the Appendix to Risk on page 188.
Only assets insurance subsidiaries are classified as either held supporting liabilities under non-linked insurance to maturity or available for sale, and consequently and investment contracts and shareholders funds any changes in the fair value of these financial are included in the table as financial risk on assets investments, absent impairment, would have no supporting linked liabilities is predominantly borne effect on the profit after tax.
We calculate the by the policyholder.
86.6% 2010: 90.5% of the sensitivity using simplified assumptions based on a assets included in the table are invested in one-day movement in credit spreads over a two-year investments rated as strong.
Our exposure to third parties risk we incur is assumed by reinsurers.
The split of under the reinsurance agreements described in the liabilities ceded to reinsurers and outstanding Appendix to Risk on page 188 is included in this reinsurance recoveries, analysed by credit quality, table.
Reinsurers share of liabilities under insurance contracts Audited Neither past due nor impaired Past due Subbut not Strong Good Satisfactory standard impaired Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2011 Linked insurance contracts 45 858 903 Non-linked insurance contracts 782 10 104 3 899 73 Total.... 827 868 104 3 1,802 Reinsurance debtors........... 18 2 9 1 12 42 179 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Insurance risk Liquidity risk PVIF Reinsurers share of liabilities under insurance contracts continued Neither past due nor impaired Past due Subbut not Strong Good Satisfactory standard impaired Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2010 Linked insurance contracts 44 716 760 Non-linked insurance contracts 997 11 76 12 9 1,105 73 Total.... 1,041 727 76 12 9 1,865 Reinsurance debtors........... 30 8 30 1 10 79 For footnote, see page 185.
Liquidity risk period of risk.
There is a greater spread of expected Audited maturities for the life business where, in a large proportion of cases, the liquidity risk is borne in The following tables show the expected conjunction with policyholders wholly owned by undiscounted cash flows for insurance contract the policyholder in the case of unit-linked business.
liabilities and the remaining contractual maturity of investment contract liabilities at 31 December 2011.
Present value of in-force long-term to future investment returns Changes in investment insurance business assumptions and the impact of actual investment Audited experience on future cash flows compared to those assumed at the start of the period Investment return Our life insurance business is accounted for using variances.
the embedded value approach which, inter alia, provides a comprehensive risk and valuation During 2011 the calculation of the PVIF asset framework.
The PVIF asset at 31 December 2011 was refined to allow greater comparability and was US$4.1bn 2010: US$3.4bn, representing the consistency across the Groups insurance operations.
present value of the shareholders interest in the This was achieved by incorporating explicit margins profits expected to emerge from the book of in-force and allowances for certain risks and uncertainties, policies at that date.
where implicit adjustments to the risk discount rate have been made in the past.
The PVIF calculation projects expected cash flows, adjusted for a variety of assumptions made The valuation now includes explicit risk by each insurance operation to reflect local market margins for non-economic risks in the projection conditions and managements judgement of future assumptions and explicit allowances for financial trends.
The main assumptions made relate to options and guarantees using stochastic methods.
economic and non-economic assumptions and Risk discount rates are now set on an active basis policyholder behaviour.
By definition, assumptions with reference to market risk free yields and have are subject to risk and uncertainty and can result in been reduced as a result of removing the implicit volatility in the results of the insurance business.
adjustments, as shown in the key assumptions table below.
It should be noted that these refinements will The key drivers of the movement in the value introduce greater volatility within reported results in of the PVIF asset are the expected cash flows from the future which is reflected in higher sensitivity new business adjusted for anticipated maturities impacts, including sensitivities to lapse, mortality and assumptions relating to policyholder behaviour and or morbidity.
Value of new business written during the year, the unwind of the discount rate less the reversal A one-off gain of US$243m is included in of expected cash flows for the period Expected Other adjustments in the table below which return, changes in non-economic operating represents the impact of these refinements on the assumptions such as mortality or lapse rates in-force book.
Change in operating assumptions, impacts The following table shows the movements arising from changes in projected future cash flows recorded during the year in respect of total equity associated with operating assumption experience and PVIF of insurance operations.
Key assumptions used in the computation of PVIF for main life insurance operations 2011 2010 UK Hong Kong France UK Hong Kong France % % % % % % 2.24 1.47 Risk free rate 2.77 3.46 3.10 3.15 2.74 8.00 Risk discount rate 5.95 7.00 11.00 8.00 3.45 3.00 Expense inflation. 2.00 3.76 3.00 2.00 Economic assumptions Sensitivity of PVIF to changes in economic Audited assumptions Audited The following table shows the effect on the PVIF of PVIF at 31 December reasonably possible changes in the main economic 2011 2010 assumption, risk-free rates, across all insurance US$m US$m manufacturing subsidiaries.
100 basis point shift in risk-free rate................. 128 231 Due to certain characteristics of the contracts, 100 basis point shift in the relationships may be non-linear and the results of risk-free rate................. 91 190 the sensitivity testing should not be extrapolated to higher levels of stress.
In calculating the scenario Non-economic assumptions Audited for 2010, the shift in the risk-free rate resulted in changes to investment returns and bonus rates.
We determine the policyholder liabilities for non-life During 2011, the scenario was updated and the shift manufacturers by reference to non-economic in risk-free rate also now includes changes to the risk assumptions including claims costs and expense discount rate as a consequence of the refinements to rates.
PVIF methodology as described above, which in turn Policyholder liabilities and PVIF for life results in a reduction to the overall stress impact.
manufacturers are determined by reference to nonThe sensitivities shown are before actions that could economic assumptions including mortality and or be taken by management to mitigate effects and morbidity, lapse rates and expense rates.
The table before resultant changes in policyholder behaviour.
below shows the sensitivity of profit for 2011 and total equity at 31 December 2011 to reasonably possible changes in these non-economic assumptions at that date across all our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries, with comparatives for 2010.
182 The cost of claims is a risk associated with nonSensitivity to lapse rates depends on the type life insurance business.
An increase in claims costs of contracts being written.
For insurance contracts, would have a negative effect on profit.
Our main claims are funded by premiums received and income exposures to this scenario are in Hong Kong, Latin earned on the investment portfolio supporting the America and Bermuda.
For a portfolio of term assurance, an since 2010 due to the non-renewal and transfer to increase in lapse rates typically has a negative effect third parties of certain contracts in our Irish business on profit due to the loss of future premium income as well as the disposal of the motor business in the on the lapsed policies.
France, Hong Kong and the UK during 2011.
UK are where we are most sensitive to a change in lapse rates.
Mortality and morbidity risk is typically associated with life insurance contracts.
The effect Expense rate risk is the exposure to a change in on profit of an increase in mortality or morbidity expense rates.
To the extent that increased expenses depends on the type of business being written.
Our cannot be passed on to policyholders, an increase in largest exposures to mortality and morbidity risk expense rates will have a negative impact on our exist in France, Hong Kong and the US.
In 2011, we made HSBC Values more Reputational risk explicit to ensure we meet the expectations of Unaudited society, customers, regulators and investors.
Those The safeguarding of our reputation is values are that we are dependable: open to different paramount.
It is the responsibility of all ideas and cultures: and connected to customers, members of staff who are supported by communities, regulators and investors.
a global risk management structure The Group acknowledges that it has not always underpinned by relevant policies and got this right in the past and that its conduct in practices, readily available guidance, and relation to the NHFA Limited, leading to the regular training.
imposition of a financial penalty, fell below the As discussed in the Group Chief Executives standards we set for ourselves and required by Statement, we are placing a fresh emphasis on values regulation.
We recognise that our reputation was at HSBC, so that our employees are empowered to damaged by this incident and we have committed 183 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Other material risks Pension risk Sustainability risk Footnotes to a robust process of review of past sales which, In 2006, HSBC and the trustee of the principal in appropriate cases, will lead to full and proper plan agreed to change the investment strategy in customer compensation.
We will take responsibility order to reduce the investment risk.
The target asset for all NHFA customers, including those from before allocations for this strategy at that time, at the last HSBC bought the company, which is beyond the year-end and as revised in 2011, demonstrating the requirements of the terms agreed with the FSA.
ongoing evolution of the strategy, are shown below.
The strategy is to hold the majority of assets in In addition, we have reviewed sales procedures bonds, with the remainder in a more diverse range applicable to potentially vulnerable categories of of investments, and includes a commitment to customers on a global basis and will apply a undertake a programme of swap arrangements consistent approach to such services to a global see Note 45 on the Financial Statements by which minimum and a robust standard, which fully respects the principal plan makes LIBOR-related interest the letter and spirit of all relevant regulatory payments in exchange for the receipt of cash flows requirements.
which are based on projected future benefit We continue to work to resolve previouslypayments to be made from the principal plan.
disclosed regulatory issues in the US relating to antimoney laundering AML and compliance controls The DBS principal plan asset allocation and foreclosure procedures in full co-operation with 2011 2010 2006 our relevant regulators.
We are committed to % % % maintaining robust AML and compliance controls Equities 15.5 15.5 15.0 in all our businesses.
Some are defined For footnote, see page 185. benefit plans, of which the largest is the HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme the Sustainability risk principal plan.
Unaudited There were no material changes to our policies and Assessing the environmental and social procedures for the management of pension risk in impacts of providing finance to our 2011. customers is integral to our overall risk management processes.
During 2011, the net liability under the Groups defined benefit pension plans reduced from There were no material changes to our policies and US$2.9bn to US$0.2bn.
This was principally due to procedures for the management of sustainability risk growth in the value of the principal plans assets in 2011. outstripping the comparable growth in liabilities.
A summary of our current policies and The principal plan holds a diversified portfolio practices regarding reputational risk, pension of investments to meet future cash flow liabilities risk and sustainability risk is provided in the arising from accrued benefits as they fall due to be Appendix to Risk on page 188. paid.
The trustee of the principal plan is required to produce a written Statement of Investment Principles which governs decision-making about how investments are made.
184 Footnotes to Risk Credit risk 1 Includes loan impairment charges relating to assets reclassified as held for sale.
2 2010 comparative data have not been separately presented as the amounts are insignificant.
3 The amount of the loan commitments reflects, where relevant, the expected level of take-up of pre-approved loan offers made by mailshots to personal customers.
In addition to those amounts, there is a further maximum possible exposure to credit risk of US$171bn 2010: US$220bn, reflecting the full take-up of such irrevocable loan commitments.
The take-up of such offers is generally at modest levels.
4 Residential mortgages include Hong Kong Government Home Ownership Scheme loans of US$3.3bn at 31 December 2011 2010: US$3.5bn.
Where disclosed, earlier comparatives were 2009: US$3.5bn: 2008: US$3.9bn: 2007: US$3.9bn.
5 Other personal loans and advances include second lien mortgages and other property-related lending.
6 These categories were formerly combined under a single heading, Commercial, industrial and international trade.
7 Other commercial loans and advances include advances in respect of agriculture, transport, energy and utilities.
8 During 2011 the Group adopted a more stringent treatment for the presentation of impaired loans for geographical regions with significant levels of forbearance.
As a result loans and advances have been classified as impaired that under the previous disclosure convention would otherwise have been classified as neither past due nor impaired or past due but not impaired.
The comparative balances for 2010 were restated to comply with the revised segmentation, restatement of comparatives prior to 2010 is impracticable see page 133, Impaired loans disclosure for further details.
9 The impairment allowances on loans and advances to banks in 2011 relate to the geographical regions, Europe and North America.
10 The impairment allowances on loans and advances to banks in 2010 relate to geographical regions, Europe, Middle East and North Africa, and North America.
11 Our available-for-sale holdings in sovereign and agency debt of Italy and Spain include debt held to support insurance contracts which provide discretionary profit participation to policyholders.
For such contracts, unrealised movements in liabilities are recognised in other comprehensive income, following the treatment of the unrealised movements on related available-for-sale assets.
To the extent that the movements are matched, no movement in the available-for-sale reserve is recognised.
For those available-for-sale debt instruments described above that are not held to support insurance contracts which provide discretionary profit participation to policyholders, the available-for-sale reserves at 31 December 2011 were insignificant.
12 Derivative assets net of collateral and derivative liabilities for which a legally enforceable right of offset exists.
13 Includes residential mortgages of HSBC Bank USA and HSBC Finance.
14 Comprising Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific, Middle East and North Africa, and Latin America.
15 HSBC Finance lending is shown on a management basis and includes loans transferred to HSBC USA Inc. which are managed by HSBC Finance.
16 Property acquired through foreclosure is initially recognised at the lower of the carrying amount of the loan or its fair value less estimated costs to sell Initial Foreclosed Property Carrying Amount.
The average loss on sale of foreclosed properties is calculated as cash proceeds less the Initial Foreclosed Properties Carrying Amount divided by the unpaid loan principal balance prior to writedown excluding any accrued finance income plus certain other ancillary disbursements that, by law, are reimbursable from the cash proceeds e. g. real estate tax advances and were incurred prior to our taking title to the property.
This ratio represents the portion of our total loss on foreclosed properties that occurred after we took title to the property.
The comparative data are restated previously divided by the Initial Foreclosed Property Carrying Amount.
17 The average total loss on foreclosed properties includes both the loss on sale of the foreclosed property as discussed in footnote 16 and the cumulative write-downs recognised on the loans up to the time we took title to the property.
This calculation of the average total loss on foreclosed properties uses the unpaid loan principal balance prior to write-down excluding any accrued finance income plus certain other ancillary disbursements that, by law, are reimbursable from the cash proceeds e. g. real estate tax advances and were incurred prior to our taking title to the property.
18 Percentages are expressed as a function of the relevant loans and receivables balance.
19 Impairment allowances are not reported for financial instruments whereby the carrying amount is reduced directly for impairment and not through the use of an allowance account.
20 Impairment is not measured for assets held in trading portfolios or designated at fair value as assets in such portfolios are managed according to movements in fair value, and the fair value movement is taken directly to the income statement.
Consequently, we report all such balances under Neither past due nor impaired.
21 Loans and advances to customers includes asset-backed securities that have been externally rated as strong 2011: US$3.5bn: 2010: US$4.1bn, good 2011: US$476m: 2010: US$627m, satisfactory 2011: US$428m: 2010: US$452m, sub-standard 2011: US$556m: 2010: US$669m and impaired 2011: US$229m: 2010: US$29m.
22 Included in this category are loans of US$2.9bn 2010: US$3.7bn that have been re-aged once and were less than 60 days past due at the point of re-age.
These loans are not classified as impaired following re-age due to the overall expectation that these customers will perform on the original contractual terms of their borrowing in the future.
23 Impaired loans and advances are those classified as CRR 9, CRR 10, EL 9 or EL 10, retail loans 90 days or more past due, unless individually they have been assessed as not impaired see page 128, Past due but not impaired gross financial instruments and renegotiated loans and advances meeting the criteria to be disclosed as impaired see page 133.
24 Collectively assessed loans and advances comprise homogeneous groups of loans that are not considered individually significant, and loans subject to individual assessment where no impairment has been identified on an individual basis, but on which a collective impairment allowance has been calculated to reflect losses which have been incurred but not yet identified.
25 Collectively assessed loans and advances not impaired are those classified as CRR1 to CRR8 and EL1 to EL8 but excluding retail loans 90 days past due and renegotiated loans and advances meeting the criteria to be disclosed as impaired.
26 Included within Exchange and other movements is US$1.6bn of impairment allowances reclassified to held for sale.
27 Net of repo transactions, settlement accounts and stock borrowings.
28 As a percentage of loans and advances to banks and loans and advances to customers, as applicable.
29 Includes movement in impairment allowances against banks.
30 See table below Net loan impairment charge to the income statement by geographical region.
185 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Footnotes 31 Collectively assessed impairment allowances are allocated to geographical segments based on the location of the office booking the allowances or provisions.
Consequently, the collectively assessed impairment allowances booked in Hong Kong may cover assets booked in branches located outside Hong Kong, principally in Rest of Asia-Pacific, as well as those booked in Hong Kong.
32 The table presents the carrying amount of collateral and other credit enhancements obtained which are held at the reporting date.
In previous years we presented the amount of collateral and other credit enhancements obtained during the year.
This resulted from a change to the disclosure requirements under IFRSs.
33 Carrying amount of the net principal exposure.
34 Total includes holdings of ABSs issued by The Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Freddie Mac and The Federal National Mortgage Association Fannie Mae.
35 Directly held includes assets held by Solitaire where we provide first loss protection and assets held directly by the Group.
36 Impairment charges allocated to capital note holders represent impairments where losses would be borne by external third-party investors in the structures.
37 The gross principal is the redemption amount on maturity or, in the case of an amortising instrument, the sum of the future redemption amounts through the residual life of the security.
38 A credit default swap CDS gross protection is the gross principal of the underlying instrument that is protected by CDSs.
39 Net principal exposure is the gross principal amount of assets that are not protected by CDSs.
It includes assets that benefit from monoline protection, except where this protection is purchased with a CDS.
40 Net exposure after legal netting and any other relevant credit mitigation prior to deduction of the credit valuation adjustment.
41 Cumulative fair value adjustment recorded against exposures to OTC derivative counterparties to reflect their creditworthiness.
42 Funded exposures represent the loan amount advanced to the customer, less any fair value write-downs, net of fees held on deposit.
Unfunded exposures represent the contractually committed loan facility amount not yet drawn down by the customer, less any fair value write-downs, net of fees held on deposit.
Liquidity and funding 43 As a result of the significant level of disposal groups held for sale at 31 December 2011, the financial liabilities of the disposal groups held for sale has been separately shown in the table.
For further details of the disposal groups held for sale refer to Note 27.
44 The most favourable metrics are a smaller advances to core funding ratio and a larger stressed one month coverage ratio.
45 Figures provided for HSBC Bank plc and The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation incorporate all overseas branches.
Subsidiaries of these entities are not included unless there is unrestricted transferability of liquidity between them and the parent.
46 Part of the improvement in the advances to core funding ratio and stressed one month coverage ratio for HSBC Bank USA is due to a change in its inherent liquidity risk categorisation during 2011.
The change in categorisation was due to an improvement in the overall liquidity risk in US banking sector and the strong liquidity profile of HSBC Bank USA.
If this change had not been made, the advances to core funding ratio for 2011 would have been as follows: year end, 96.8%: maximum, 99.7%: minimum, 86.4%: average, 93.5%.
The stressed one month coverage ratio would have been as follows: year end, 105.4%: maximum, 116.3%: minimum, 98.5%: average, 108.2%.
For further details of our inherent liquidity risk categorisation refer to the Appendix on page 188.
47 This comprises our other main banking subsidiaries and, as such, includes businesses spread across a range of locations, in many of which we may require a higher ratio of net liquid assets to customer liabilities to reflect local market conditions.
48 Unused committed sources of secured funding for which eligible assets were held.
49 Client-originated asset exposures relate to consolidated multi-seller conduits, primarily Regency and Bryant Park.
These vehicles provide funding to our customers by issuing debt secured by a diversified pool of customer-originated assets.
The 2010 comparative for HSBC Bank plc has been restated to include a US$0.6bn committed facility provided to Bryant Park.
In 2011 a committed line of US$3.3bn was provided to Bryant Park by HSBC Bank plc which has been reflected in these figures.
The reduction in contingent risk exposure in HSBC Bank USA in 2011 is primarily due to the transfer of the majority of the committed lines provided for Bryant Park LLC to HSBC Bank plc.
50 HSBC-managed asset exposures relate to consolidated securities investment conduits, primarily Solitaire and Mazarin see page 403.
These vehicles issue debt secured by ABSs which are managed by HSBC.
HSBC has a total contingent liquidity risk of US$22.1bn 2010: US$25.6bn of which Solitaire represents US$9.3bn already funded on-balance sheet as at 31 December 2011 2010: US$8.1bn leaving a net contingent exposure of US$12.8bn 2010: US$17.5bn.
As at 31 December 2011, US$6.2bn 2010: US$8.4bn of the net contingent liability is on the Commercial Paper issued by Mazarin and entirely held by HSBC.
51 Other conduit exposures relate to third-party sponsored conduits see page 405.
52 The undrawn balance for the five largest committed liquidity facilities provided to customers other than facilities to conduits.
53 The undrawn balance for the total of all committed liquidity facilities provided to the largest market sector, other than facilities to conduits.
Market risk 54 The structural foreign exchange risk is monitored using sensitivity analysis see page 166.
The reporting of commodity risk is consolidated with foreign exchange risk and is not applicable to non-trading portfolios.
55 The interest rate risk on the fixed-rate securities issued by HSBC Holdings is not included in the Group VAR.
The management of this risk is described on page 168.
56 Credit spread sensitivity is reported separately for insurance operations see page 177.
57 2010 VAR comparatives have been adjusted to include credit spread risk to allow for a like for like comparison.
In the Annual Report and Accounts 2010, we reported the following measures for Group VAR for 2010: at 31 December US$267m, average US$200m, minimum US$140m, and maximum US$286m.
58 The standard deviation measures the variation of daily revenues about the mean value of those revenues.
59 Revenues within the daily distribution graph include all revenues booked in Global Markets gross of brokerage fees, Balance Sheet Management, and the trading element of revenues booked in the GPB and RBWM businesses.
The effect of any month-end adjustments, not attributable to a specific daily market move, is spread evenly over the days in the month in question.
60 Trading intent portfolios include positions arising from market-making and position taking.
61 Portfolio diversification is the market risk dispersion effect of holding a portfolio containing different risk types.
It represents the reduction in unsystematic market risk that occurs when combining a number of different risk types, for example, interest rate, equity and foreign exchange, together in one portfolio.
It is measured as the difference between the sum of the VAR by individual risk type and the combined total VAR.
A negative number represents the benefit of portfolio diversification.
As the maximum and minimum occur on different days for different risk types, it is not meaningful to calculate a portfolio diversification benefit for these measures.
186 62 The total VAR is non-additive across risk types due to diversification effects.
63 Investments in private equity are primarily made through managed funds that are subject to limits on the amount of investment.
Potential new commitments are subject to risk appraisal to ensure that industry and geographical concentrations remain within acceptable levels for the portfolio as a whole.
Regular reviews are performed to substantiate the valuation of the investments within the portfolio.
64 Investments held to facilitate ongoing business include holdings in government-sponsored enterprises and local stock exchanges.
65 Instead of assuming that all interest rates move together, we group our interest rate exposures into currency blocs whose rates are considered likely to move together.
Risk management of insurance operations 66 HSBC has no insurance manufacturing subsidiaries in the Middle East and North Africa.
67 Insurance contracts and investment contracts with discretionary participation features DPF can give policyholders the contractual right to receive, as a supplement to their guaranteed benefits, additional benefits that may be a significant portion of the total contractual benefits, but whose amount and timing are determined by HSBC.
These additional benefits are contractually based on the performance of a specified pool of contracts or assets, or the profit of the company issuing the contracts.
68 Although investment contracts with DPF are financial investments, HSBC continues to account for them as insurance contracts as permitted by IFRS 4.
69 Net written insurance premiums represent gross written premiums less gross written premiums ceded to reinsurers.
70 Term assurance includes credit life insurance.
71 Other assets comprise shareholder assets and assets and liabilities classified as held for sale.
72 Present value of in-force long-term insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF.
73 Does not include associated insurance companies, Ping An, SABB Takaful Company and Bao Viet, or joint venture insurance companies, Hana Life and Canara HSBC Oriental Bank of Commerce Life Insurance Company Limited.
74 Comprise life linked insurance contracts and linked long-term investment contracts.
75 Comprise life non-linked insurance contracts and non-linked long-term investment contracts.
77 Comprise mainly loans and advances to banks, cash and intercompany balances with other non-insurance legal entities.
78 The table excludes contracts where the risk is 100% reinsured.
79 Shareholders funds comprise solvency and unencumbered assets.
80 In most cases, policyholders have the option to terminate their contracts at any time and receive the surrender values of their policies.
These may be significantly lower than the amounts shown.
81 Value of net new business during the year is the present value of the projected stream of profits from the business.
82 Experience variances include the effect of the difference between demographic, expense and persistency assumptions used in the previous PVIF calculation and actual experience observed during the year to the extent this impacts profits on future business.
Pension risk 83 In 2010 and 2011, alternative assets included ABSs, MBSs and infrastructure assets.
In 2006, alternative assets included loans and infrastructure assets.
187 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Appendix Risk policies and practices Managing risk Governance Credit risk Appendix to Risk Risk policies and practices This appendix describes the significant policies and practices employed by HSBC in managing our credit risk, liquidity and funding, market risk, insurance risk, operational risk, reputational risk, pension risk and sustainability risk.
Managing risk Unaudited HSBCs approach to risk is encapsulated within our risk appetite framework.
The risk appetite statement is approved by the Board, which is advised by the Group Risk Committee.
For further details of the activities of the Group Risk Committee see page 233.
The framework is maintained at Group, regional and global business levels, operating through governance bodies, processes and metrics designed to assist in risk management.
Risk appetite statements define, at various levels of the business, the qualitative and quantitative expressions of the risks which we are prepared to embrace in alignment with our strategy and business plans.
Quantitative metrics are assigned to five key categories: earnings, capital and liquidity, impairments and expected losses, risk category and diversification and scenario stress testing.
Measurement against the metrics serves to: guide underlying business activity, ensuring it is aligned to risk appetite statements: determine risk-adjusted remuneration: enable the key underlying assumptions to be monitored and, where necessary, adjusted through subsequent business planning cycles: and promptly identify business decisions needed to mitigate risk.
Risk governance Unaudited Our strong risk governance reflects the importance placed by the Board on shaping the Groups risk strategy and managing risks effectively.
It is supported by a clear policy framework of risk ownership, by the cascading from the GMB of balanced scorecards that align business and risk objectives, and by the accountability of all staff for identifying, assessing and managing risks within the scope of their assigned responsibilities.
This personal accountability, reinforced by the governance structure, experience and mandatory learning, helps to foster a disciplined and constructive culture of risk management and control throughout HSBC.
During the year we implemented a new operating model for the Global Risk function.
The new model has further embedded Compliance within Global Risk, established specific Chief Risk Officer risk roles for RBWM and CMB in alignment with other global businesses and broadens the responsibility of Global Security and Fraud Risk.
The new model is designed to enable the end-to-end management of risk in a consistent manner.
Scenario stress testing Unaudited We conduct a range of Group stress testing scenarios including, but not limited to, severe global economic downturn, country, sector and counterparty failures and a variety of projected major operational risk events.
The outcomes of the stress scenarios are used to assess the potential impact on demand for regulatory capital against its supply.
We also participate, where appropriate, in scenario analyses requested by regulatory bodies.
In addition to the suite of risk scenarios considered for the Group, each major HSBC subsidiary conducts regular macro-economic and event-driven scenario analyses specific to its region.
Stress testing is also used by the market risk discipline to evaluate the potential impact on portfolio values of events or movements in a set of financial variables.
188 Credit risk Credit risk management Audited The role of an independent credit control unit is fulfilled by Group Risk which is part of the Global Risk function.
Credit approval authorities are delegated by the Board to certain executive officers of HSBC Holdings plc.
Similar credit approval authorities are delegated by the boards of subsidiary companies to executive officers of the relevant subsidiaries.
In each major subsidiary, a Chief Risk Officer reports to the local Chief Executive Officer on creditrelated issues, while maintaining a direct functional reporting line to the Group Chief Risk Officer in Global Risk.
Details of the roles and responsibilities of the credit risk management function and the policies and procedures for managing credit risk are set out below.
The principal objectives of our credit risk management are: to maintain across HSBC a strong culture of responsible lending and a robust risk policy and control framework: to both partner and challenge our businesses in defining, implementing and continually re-evaluating our risk appetite under actual and scenario conditions: and to ensure there is independent, expert scrutiny of credit risks, their costs and their mitigation.
The high-level oversight and management of credit risk provided globally by the Credit Risk function in Global Risk to formulate Group credit policy.
Compliance, subject to approved dispensations, is mandatory for all operating companies which must develop local credit policies consistent with Group policies: to guide operating companies on our appetite for credit risk exposure to specified market sectors, activities and banking products and controlling exposures to certain higher-risk sectors: to undertake an independent review and objective assessment of risk.
Global Risk assesses all commercial non-bank credit facilities and exposures over designated limits, prior to the facilities being committed to customers or transactions being undertaken: to monitor the performance and management of portfolios across the Group: to control exposure to sovereign entities, banks and other financial institutions, as well as debt securities which are not held solely for the purpose of trading: to set Group policy on large credit exposures, ensuring that concentrations of exposure by counterparty, sector or geography do not become excessive in relation to our capital base, and remain within internal and regulatory limits: to control our cross-border exposures see page 190 : to maintain and develop our risk rating framework and systems.
The Group Chief Risk Officer chairs the Credit Risk Analytics Oversight Committee, which reports to the Risk Management Meeting and oversees risk rating model governance for both wholesale and retail business: to report on retail portfolio performance, high risk portfolios, risk concentrations, country limits and cross-border exposures, large impaired accounts, impairment allowances and stress testing results and recommendations to the Risk Management Meeting, the Group Risk Committee and the Board: and to act on behalf of HSBC Holdings as the primary interface, for credit-related issues, with the Bank of England, the FSA, local regulators, rating agencies, analysts and counterparts in major banks and non-bank financial institutions.
Credit quality Audited Our credit risk rating systems and processes differentiate exposures in order to highlight those with greater risk factors and higher potential severity of loss.
In the case of individually significant accounts, risk ratings are reviewed regularly and any amendments are implemented promptly.
Within our retail businesses, risk is assessed and managed using a wide range of risk and pricing models to generate portfolio data.
Our risk rating system facilitates the internal ratings-based IRB approach under Basel II adopted by the Group to support calculation of our minimum credit regulatory capital requirement.
For further details, see Credit quality of financial instruments on page 191.
Special attention is paid to problem exposures in order to accelerate remedial action.
Where appropriate, our operating companies use specialist units to provide customers with support in order to help them avoid default wherever possible.
Group and regional Credit Review and Risk Identification teams regularly review exposures and processes in order to provide an independent, rigorous assessment of credit risk across the HSBC Group, reinforce secondary risk management controls and share best practice.
Internal audit, as a tertiary control function, focuses on risks 189 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Appendix Risk policies and practices Credit risk with a global perspective and on the design and effectiveness of primary and secondary controls, carrying out oversight audits via sampling of global regional control frameworks, themed audits of key or emerging risks and project audits to assess major change initiatives.
Impairment assessment Audited It is our policy that each operating company in HSBC creates allowances for impaired loans promptly and consistently.
For details of our impairment policies on loans and advances and financial investments, see Notes 2 g and 2 j on the Financial Statements on pages 297 and 301, respectively.
Write-off of loans and advances For details of our policy on the write-off of loans and advances, see Note 2 g on the Financial Statements on page 297.
In HSBC Finance, the carrying amounts of residential mortgage and second lien loans in excess of net realisable value are written off at or before the time foreclosure is completed or settlement is reached with the borrower.
If there is no reasonable expectation of recovery, and foreclosure is pursued, the loan is normally written off no later than the end of the month in which the loan becomes 180 days contractually past due.
Unsecured personal facilities, including credit cards, are generally written off at between 150 and 210 days past due, the standard period being the end of the month in which the account becomes 180 days contractually delinquent.
Write-off periods may be extended, generally to no more than 360 days past due but in very exceptional circumstances exceeding that figure, in a few countries where local regulation or legislation constrain earlier writeoff, or where the realisation of collateral for secured real estate lending extends to this time.
In the event of bankruptcy or analogous proceedings, write-off may occur earlier than at the periods stated above.
Collections procedures may continue after write-off.
Cross-border exposures We assess the vulnerability of countries to foreign currency payment restrictions, including economic and political factors, when considering impairment allowances on cross-border exposures.
Impairment allowances are assessed in respect of all qualifying exposures within vulnerable countries unless these exposures and the inherent risks are: performing, trade-related and of less than one years maturity: mitigated by acceptable security cover which is, other than in exceptional cases, held outside the country concerned: in the form of securities held for trading purposes for which a liquid and active market exists, and which are measured at fair value daily: and performing facilities with a principal excluding security of US$1m or below and or with maturity dates shorter than three months.
Concentration of exposure Audited Concentrations of credit risk arise when a number of counterparties or exposures have comparable economic characteristics, or such counterparties are engaged in similar activities or operate in the same geographical areas or industry sectors, so that their collective ability to meet contractual obligations is uniformly affected by changes in economic, political or other conditions.
We use a number of controls and measures to minimise undue concentration of exposure in our portfolios across industry, country and global businesses.
These include portfolio and counterparty limits, approval and review controls, and stress testing.
Wrong-way risk is an aggravated form of concentration risk and arises when there is a strong correlation between the counterpartys probability of default and the mark-to-market value of the underlying transaction.
We use a range of procedures to monitor and control wrong-way risk, including requiring entities to obtain prior approval before undertaking wrong-way risk transactions outside pre-agreed guidelines.
190 Credit quality of financial instruments Audited The five credit quality classifications defined below each encompass a range of more granular, internal credit rating grades assigned to wholesale and retail lending business, as well as the external ratings attributed by external agencies to debt securities.
There is no direct correlation between the internal and external ratings at granular level, except to the extent each falls within a single quality classification.
Credit quality classification Unaudited Debt securities Wholesale lending and other bills and derivatives Retail lending External Internal Probability of Internal Expected 1 credit rating credit rating default % credit rating loss % Quality classification Strong A and above CRR1 to CRR2 0 0.169 EL1 to EL2 0 0.999 Good. BBB to BBB CRR3 0.170 0.740 EL3 1.000 4.999 Satisfactory.................. BB to B and unrated CRR4 to CRR5 0.741 4.914 EL4 to EL5 5.000 19.999 Sub-standard................ B and below CRR6 to CRR8 4.915 99.999 EL6 to EL8 20.000 99.999 2 Impaired
Impaired CRR9 to CRR10 100 EL9 to EL10 100 or defaulted 1 We observe the disclosure convention that, in addition to those classified as EL9 to EL10, retail accounts classified EL1 to EL8 that are delinquent by 90 days or more are considered impaired, unless individually they have been assessed as not impaired see page 128, Past due but not impaired gross financial instruments.
2 The EL percentage is derived through a combination of PD and LGD, and may exceed 100% in circumstances where the LGD is above 100% reflecting the cost of recoveries.
Quality classification definitions Strong: exposures demonstrate a strong capacity to meet financial commitments, with negligible or low probability of default and or low levels of expected loss.
Retail accounts operate within product parameters and only exceptionally show any period of delinquency.
Good: exposures require closer monitoring and demonstrate a good capacity to meet financial commitments, with low default risk.
Retail accounts typically show only short periods of delinquency, with any losses expected to be minimal following the adoption of recovery processes.
Satisfactory: exposures require closer monitoring and demonstrate an average to fair capacity to meet financial commitments, with moderate default risk.
Retail accounts typically show only short periods of delinquency, with any losses expected to be minor following the adoption of recovery processes.
Sub-standard: exposures require varying degrees of special attention and default risk is of greater concern.
Retail portfolio segments show longer delinquency periods of generally up to 90 days past due and or expected losses are higher due to a reduced ability to mitigate these through security realisation or other recovery processes.
Impaired: exposures have been assessed as impaired.
Wholesale exposures where the bank considers that either the customer is unlikely to pay its credit obligations in full, without recourse by the bank to the actions such as realising security if held, or the customer is past due more than 90 days on any material credit obligation.
Retail loans and advances greater than 90 days past due.
Renegotiated loans that have met the requirements to be disclosed as impaired and have not yet met the criteria to be returned to the unimpaired portfolio see page 192.
The customer risk rating CRR 10-grade scale above summarises a more granular underlying 23-grade scale of obligor probability of default PD.
All distinct HSBC customers are rated using the 10 or 23-grade scale, depending on the degree of sophistication of the Basel II approach adopted for the exposure.
The expected loss EL 10-grade scale for retail business summarises a more granular underlying EL scale for these customer segments: this combines obligor and facility product risk factors in a composite measure.
For debt securities and certain other financial instruments, external ratings have been aligned to the five quality classifications.
The ratings of Standard and Poors are cited, with those of other agencies being treated equivalently.
Debt securities with short-term issue ratings are reported against the long-term rating of the issuer of those securities.
If major rating agencies have different ratings for the same debt securities, a prudent rating selection is made in line with regulatory requirements.
191 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Appendix Risk policies and practices Credit risk Renegotiated loans and forbearance Audited A range of forbearance strategies are employed in order to improve the management of customer relationships, maximise collection opportunities and, if possible, avoid default, foreclosure or repossession.
They include extended payment terms, a reduction in interest or principal repayments, approved external debt management plans, debt consolidations, the deferral of foreclosures, and other forms of loan modifications and re-ageing.
Our policies and practices are based on criteria which enable local management to judge whether repayment is likely to continue.
These typically provide a customer with terms and conditions that are more favourable than those provided initially.
Loan forbearance is only granted in situations where the customer has showed a willingness to repay the borrowing and is expected to be able to meet the revised obligations.
For retail lending our credit risk management policy sets out restrictions on the number and frequency of renegotiations, the minimum period an account must have been opened before any renegotiation can be considered and the number of qualifying payments that must be received.
The application of this policy varies according to the nature of the market, the product and the management of customer relationships through the occurrence of exceptional events.
Credit quality classification of renegotiated loans Audited Under IFRSs, an entity is required to assess whether there is objective evidence that financial assets are impaired at the end of each reporting period.
A loan is impaired, and an impairment allowance is recognised, when there is objective evidence of a loss event that has an effect on the cash flows of the loan which can be reliably estimated.
When we grant a concession to a customer that we would not otherwise consider, as a result of their financial difficulty, this is objective evidence of impairment and impairment losses are measured accordingly.
A renegotiated loan is presented as impaired when: there has been a change in contractual cash flows as a result of a concession which the lender would otherwise not consider, and it is probable that without the concession, the borrower would be unable to meet contractual payment obligations in full.
This presentation applies unless the concession is insignificant and there are no other indicators of impairment.
The renegotiated loan will continue to be disclosed as impaired until there is sufficient evidence to demonstrate a significant reduction in the risk of non-payment of future cash flows, and there are no other indicators of impairment.
For loans that are assessed for impairment on a collective basis, the evidence typically comprises a history of payment performance against the original or revised terms, as appropriate to the circumstances.
For loans that are assessed for impairment on an individual basis, all available evidence is assessed on a case by case basis.
For retail lending the minimum period of payment performance required depends on the nature of loans in the portfolio, but is typically not less than six months.
Where portfolios have more significant levels of forbearance activity, such as that undertaken by HSBC Finance, the minimum repayment performance period required may be substantially more see further detail on HSBC Finance on page 131.
Payment performance periods are monitored to ensure they remain appropriate to the levels of recidivism observed within the portfolio.
These performance periods are in addition to the receipt of a minimum of two payments within a 60 day period which must be received for the customer to initially qualify for the renegotiation in the case of HSBC Finance, in certain circumstances, for example where debt has been restructured in bankruptcy proceedings, fewer or no qualifying payments may be required.
The qualifying payments are required in order to demonstrate that the renegotiated terms are sustainable for the borrower.
For corporate and commercial loans, which are individually assessed for impairment and where non-monthly payments are more commonly agreed, the history of payment performance will depend on the underlying structure of payments agreed as part of the restructure.
Renegotiated loans are classified as unimpaired where the renegotiation has resulted from significant concern about a borrowers ability to meet their contractual payment terms but the renegotiated terms are based on current market rates and contractual cash flows are expected to be collected in full following the renegotiation.
Unimpaired renegotiated loans also include previously impaired renegotiated loans that have demonstrated satisfactory 192 performance over a period of time or have been assessed based on all available evidence as having no remaining indicators of impairment.
Loans that have been identified as renegotiated retain this designation until maturity or derecognition.
When a loan is restructured as part of a forbearance strategy and the restructuring results in derecognition of the existing loan, such as in some debt consolidations, the new loan is disclosed as renegotiated.
Interest is recorded on renegotiated loans on the basis of new contractual terms following renegotiation.
Renegotiated loans and recognition of impairment allowances Audited For retail lending, renegotiated loans are segregated from other parts of the loan portfolio for collective impairment assessment to reflect the higher rates of losses often encountered in these segments.
When empirical evidence indicates an increased propensity to default and higher losses on such accounts, such as for re-aged loans in the US, the use of roll-rate methodology ensures these factors are taken into account when calculating impairment allowances by applying roll rates specifically calculated on the pool of loans subject to forbearance.
When the portfolio size is small or when information is insufficient or not reliable enough to adopt a roll-rate methodology, a basic formulaic approach based on historical loss rate experience is used.
As a result of our roll-rate methodology, we recognise collective impairment allowances on homogeneous groups of loans, including renegotiated loans, where there is historical evidence that there is a likelihood that loans in these groups will progress through the various stages of delinquency, and ultimately prove irrecoverable as a result of events occurring before the balance sheet date.
This treatment applies irrespective of whether or not those loans are presented as impaired in accordance with our impaired loans disclosure convention.
When we consider that there are additional risk factors inherent in the portfolios that may not be fully reflected in the statistical roll rates or historical experience, these risk factors are taken into account by adjusting the impairment allowances derived solely from statistical or historical experience.
For further details and examples of the risk factor adjustments see Critical accounting policies on page 38.
In the corporate and commercial sectors, renegotiated loans are typically assessed individually.
Credit risk ratings are intrinsic to the impairment assessment.
A distressed restructuring is classified as an impaired loan.
The individual impairment assessment takes into account the higher risk of the non-payment of future cash flows inherent in renegotiated loans.
Corporate and commercial forbearance Unaudited In the corporate and commercial sectors, forbearance activity is undertaken selectively where it has been identified that repayment difficulties against the original terms already have, or are very likely to, materialise.
These cases are treated as impaired loans where: a the customer is experiencing, or is very likely to experience, difficulty in meeting a payment obligation to the bank i. e. due to current credit distress : and b the bank is offering to the customer revised payment arrangements which constitute a concession i. e. it is offering terms it would not normally be prepared to offer.
These cases are described as distressed restructurings.
The agreement of a restructuring which meets the criteria above requires all loans, advances and counterparty exposures to the customer to be treated as impaired.
Against the background of this requirement, as a customer approaches the point that it becomes clear that a restructuring of this kind may be necessary, the exposures will typically be regarded as sub-standard to reflect the deteriorating credit risk profile, and will be graded as impaired when the restructure is proposed for approval.
For the purposes of determining whether changes to a customers agreement should be treated as a distressed restructuring the following types of modification are regarded as concessionary: a transfers from the customer to the bank of receivables from third parties, real estate, or other assets to satisfy fully or partially a debt: b issuance or other granting of an equity interest to the bank to satisfy fully or partially a debt unless the equity interest is granted pursuant to existing terms for converting the debt into an equity interest: and c modification of terms of a debt, such as one or a combination of any of the following: reduction absolute or contingent of the stated interest rate for the remaining original life of the debt: 193 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Appendix Risk policies and practices Credit risk extension of the maturity date or dates at a stated interest rate lower than the current market rate for new debt with similar risk: reduction absolute or contingent of the face amount or maturity amount of the debt: and reduction absolute or contingent of accrued interest.
Modifications of loans and advances which do not affect payment arrangements, such as restructuring of collateral or security arrangements, or waiver of rights under covenants within documentation, are not regarded as sufficient to indicate impairment.
By themselves, such changes do not necessarily indicate credit distress affecting payment capacity.
Typically, covenants are in place to give the bank rights of repricing or acceleration but they are frequently set at levels where payment capacity has yet to be affected.
They provide rights of action at earlier stages of credit deterioration.
In assessing whether payment-related forbearance is a satisfactory and sustainable strategy, the customers entire exposure and facilities will be reviewed and their ability to meet the terms of both the revised obligation and other credit facilities not amended in the renegotiation, is assessed.
Should this assessment identify that a renegotiation will not deal with a customers payment capacity issues satisfactorily, other special management options may be applied.
This process may identify the need to provide assistance to a customer specifically to restructure their business operations and activities so as to restore satisfactory payment capacity.
Modifications may be made on a temporary basis when time is needed for the customer to make arrangements for payment, when deterioration in payment capacity is expected to be acute but short lived, or when more time is needed to accommodate discussions regarding a more permanent accommodation with other bankers, for example in syndicated facilities where multilateral negotiation commonly features.
If a restructuring proceeds and the customer demonstrates satisfactory performance over a period of time, the case may be returned to a non-impaired grade CRR1-8 provided no other indicators of impairment remain.
Such a case cannot be returned to a non-impaired grade when a specific impairment reserve remains against any of the customers credit facilities.
The period of performance will vary depending on the frequency of payments to be made by the customer under the amended agreement, and the extent to which the customers financial position is considered to have improved.
Nature of HSBCs securitisation and other structured exposures Audited Mortgage-backed securities MBSs are securities that represent interests in groups of mortgages and provide investors with the right to receive cash from future mortgage payments interest and or principal.
An MBS which references mortgages with different risk profiles, is classified according to the highest risk class.
Collateralised debt obligations CDOs are securities backed by a pool of bonds, loans or other assets such as assetbacked securities ABSs.
CDOs may include exposure to sub-prime or Alt-A mortgage assets where these are part of the underlying assets or reference assets.
As there is often uncertainty surrounding the precise nature of the underlying collateral supporting CDOs, all CDOs supported by residential mortgage-related assets are classified as sub-prime.
Our holdings of ABSs and CDOs and direct lending positions, and the categories of mortgage collateral and lending activity, are described overleaf.
Our exposure to non-residential mortgage-related ABSs and direct lending includes securities with collateral relating to: commercial property mortgages: leveraged finance loans: student loans: and other assets, such as securities with other receivable-related collateral.
194 Categories of ABSs and CDOs Definition Classification Sub-prime Loans to customers who have limited credit histories, For US mortgages, a FICO score of 620 or less has modest incomes or high debt-to-income ratios or have primarily been used to determine whether a loan is subexperienced credit problems caused by occasional prime: for non-US mortgages, management judgement delinquencies, prior charge-offs, bankruptcy or other is used.
US Home Equity Lines A form of revolving credit facility provided to Holdings of HELoCs are classified as sub-prime.
of Credit HELoCs customers, which is supported in the majority of circumstances by a second lien or lower ranking charge over residential property.
US Alt-A Lower risk loans than sub-prime, but they share higher US credit scores and the completeness of risk characteristics than lending under fully conforming documentation held such as proof of income, are standard criteria.
considered when determining whether an Alt-A classification is appropriate.
Non sub-prime mortgages in the US are classified as Alt-A if they are not eligible for sale to the major US Government mortgage agencies or sponsored entities.
US Government agency Securities that are guaranteed by US Government Holdings of US Government agency and US and sponsored agencies such as the Government National Mortgage Government sponsored enterprises mortgage-related enterprises mortgageAssociation Ginnie Mae, or by US Government assets are classified as prime exposures.
related assets sponsored entities including the Federal National Mortgage Association Fannie Mae and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Freddie Mac.
UK non-conforming UK mortgages that do not meet normal lending criteria.
UK non-conforming mortgages are treated as submortgages Examples include mortgages where the expected level prime exposures.
of documentation is not provided such as income with self-certification, or where poor credit history increases risk and results in pricing at a higher than normal lending rate.
Other mortgages Residential mortgages, including prime mortgages, that Prime residential mortgage-related assets are included do not meet any of the classifications described above.
Impairment methodologies Audited For available-for-sale ABSs, to identify objective evidence of impairment, an industry standard valuation model is normally applied which uses data with reference to the underlying asset pools and models their projected future cash flows.
The estimated future cash flows of the securities are assessed at the specific financial asset level to determine whether any of them are unlikely to be recovered as a result of loss events occurring on or before the reporting date.
The principal assumptions and inputs to the models are typically the delinquency status of the underlying loans, the probability of delinquent loans progressing to default, the prepayment profiles of the underlying assets and the loss severity in the event of default.
However, the models utilise other variables relevant to specific classes of collateral to forecast future defaults and recovery rates.
Management uses externally available data and applies judgement when determining the appropriate assumptions in respect of these factors.
We use a modelling approach which incorporates historically observed progression rates to default, to determine if the decline in aggregate projected cash flows from the underlying collateral will lead to a shortfall in contractual cash flows.
In such cases the security is considered to be impaired.
In respect of CDOs, expected future cash flows for the underlying collateral are assessed to determine whether there is likely to be a shortfall in the contractual cash flows of the CDO.
When a security benefits from a contract provided by a monoline insurer that insures payments of principal and interest, the expected recovery on the contract is assessed in determining the total expected credit support available to the ABS.
195 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Appendix Risk policies and practices Liquidity and funding Liquidity and funding Audited The management of liquidity and funding is primarily undertaken locally in our operating entities in compliance with policies and limits set by the Risk Management Meeting.
These limits vary according to the depth and the liquidity of the markets in which the entities operate.
Our general policy is that each banking entity should manage its liquidity and funding risk on a standalone basis.
The objective of our liquidity and funding management framework is to ensure that all foreseeable funding commitments can be met when due, and that access to the wholesale markets is co-ordinated and cost-effective.
To this end, we maintain a diversified funding base comprising core retail and corporate customer deposits and institutional balances.
We augment this with wholesale funding and portfolios of highly liquid assets diversified by currency and maturity which are held to enable us to respond quickly and smoothly to unforeseen liquidity requirements.
We adapt our liquidity and funding risk management framework in response to changes in the mix of business that we undertake, and to changes in the nature of the markets in which we operate.
We also seek to continuously evolve and strengthen our liquidity and funding risk management framework.
We employ a number of measures to monitor liquidity risk.
We also manage our intra-day liquidity positions so that we are able to meet payment and settlement obligations on a timely basis.
Payment flows in real time gross settlement systems, expected peak payment flows and large time-critical payments are monitored during the day and the intra-day collateral position is managed so that there is liquidity available to meet payments.
Policies and procedures Audited It is our policy that each banking entity should manage its liquidity and funding risk on a standalone basis.
Exceptions are permitted for certain short-term treasury requirements and start-up operations or for branches which do not have access to local deposit markets.
These entities are funded from our largest banking operations and within clearly defined internal and regulatory guidelines and limits.
The limits place formal restrictions on the transfer of resources between our entities and reflect the broad range of currencies, markets and time zones within which we operate.
Elements of our liquidity and funding management process projecting cash flows by major currency under various stress scenarios and considering the level of liquid assets necessary in relation thereto: monitoring balance sheet liquidity and advances to core funding ratios against internal and regulatory requirements: maintaining a diverse range of funding sources with back-up facilities: managing the concentration and profile of debt maturities: managing contingent liquidity commitment exposures within pre-determined caps: maintaining debt financing plans: monitoring depositor concentration in order to avoid undue reliance on large individual depositors and ensure a satisfactory overall funding mix: and maintaining liquidity and funding contingency plans.
These plans identify early indicators of stress conditions and describe actions to be taken in the event of difficulties arising from systemic or other crises, while minimising adverse long-term implications for the business.
Primary sources of funding Audited Current accounts and savings deposits payable on demand or at short notice form a significant part of our funding, and we place considerable importance on maintaining their stability.
For deposits, stability depends upon preserving depositor confidence in our capital strength and liquidity, and on competitive and transparent pricing.
We also access professional markets in order to obtain funding for non-banking subsidiaries that do not accept deposits, to align asset and liability maturities and currencies and to maintain a presence in local money markets.
In aggregate, our banking entities are liquidity providers to the interbank market, placing significantly more funds with other banks than they borrow.
The main operating subsidiary that does not accept deposits is HSBC Finance, which is funded principally by taking term funding in the professional markets.
196 The management of liquidity risk Audited We use a number of principal measures to manage liquidity risk, as described below.
Inherent liquidity risk categorisation We categorise our operating entities into one of three categories to reflect our assessment of their inherent liquidity risk, considering political, economic and regulatory factors within the operating entities host country, and also factors specific to the entity itself, such as the local footprint, market share, balance sheet strength and control framework.
This assessment is used to determine the severity of the liquidity stress that we expect our operating entities to be able to withstand, as expressed in our principal liquidity risk metrics, being the stressed one month coverage ratio and the advances to core funding ratio.
Core deposits Our internal framework is based on our categorisation of customer deposits into core and non-core based on our expectation of the behaviour of these deposits during a liquidity stress.
This characterisation takes into account the inherent liquidity risk categorisation of the entity originating the deposit, the nature of the customer and the size and pricing of the deposit.
Deposits deemed to be core are considered to be a long-term source of funding and are assumed to not be withdrawn in the liquidity stress we use for our principal liquidity risk metrics.
Advances to core funding ratio We emphasise the importance of core customer deposits as a source of funds to finance lending to customers, and discourage reliance on short-term professional funding.
This is achieved by placing limits on banking entities which restrict their ability to increase loans and advances to customers without corresponding growth in core customer deposits or long-term debt funding: this measure is referred to as the advances to core funding ratio.
Advances to core funding ratio limits are set by the Risk Management Meeting for the major Group banking entities and monitored by Group Finance.
Limits for other Group banking entities are set by the relevant regional Asset and Liability Committee meeting.
The ratio describes current loans and advances to customers as a percentage of the total of core customer deposits and term funding with a remaining term to maturity in excess of one year.
Loans and advances to customers which are part of reverse repurchase arrangements, and where we receive securities which are deemed to be liquid, are excluded from the advances to core funding ratio.
Stressed one month coverage ratio The stressed one month coverage ratios are derived from projected cash flow scenario analyses, and express the stressed cash inflows as a percentage of stressed cash outflows over a one month time horizon.
Group sites are required to target a ratio of 100% or greater.
Projected cash flow scenario analysis We use a number of standard projected cash flow scenarios designed to model both Group-specific and market-wide liquidity crises in which the rate and timing of deposit withdrawals and drawdowns on committed lending facilities are varied, and the ability to access interbank funding and term debt markets and to generate funds from asset portfolios are restricted.
The scenarios are modelled by all Group banking entities and by HSBC Finance.
The appropriateness of the assumptions under each scenario is regularly reviewed.
In addition to our standard projected cash flow scenarios, individual entities are required to design their own scenarios to reflect specific local market conditions, products and funding bases.
Limits for cumulative net cash flows under stress scenarios are set for each banking entity and for HSBC Finance.
Both ratio and cash flow limits reflect the local market place, the diversity of funding sources available and the concentration risk from large depositors.
Compliance with entity level limits is monitored centrally by Group Finance and reported regularly to the Risk Management Meeting.
Liquidity behaviouralisation Liquidity behaviouralisation will be applied to reflect our conservative assessment of the expected period for which we are confident that we will have access to our liabilities, even under a severe liquidity stress scenario, and the 197 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Appendix Risk policies and practices Liquidity and funding Market risk expected period for which we must conservatively assume that we will need to fund our assets.
Behaviouralisation is applied when the contractual terms do not reflect the expected behaviour.
Liquidity behaviouralisation is reviewed, approved by the Asset and Liability Management Committee in compliance with policies set by the Risk Management Meeting.
A conservative approach to liquidity risk management will often mean an asymmetric approach to assets and liabilities, being an assumed shorter life for liabilities and a longer term funding requirement for assets.
Contingent liquidity risk Audited In the normal course of business, we provide customers with committed facilities, including committed backstop lines to conduit vehicles we sponsor and standby facilities to corporate customers.
These facilities increase our funding requirements when customers choose to raise drawdown levels above their normal utilisation rates.
The liquidity risk consequences of increased levels of drawdown are analysed in the form of projected cash flows under different stress scenarios.
The Risk Management Meeting also sets limits for non-cancellable contingent funding commitments for the major Group banking entities after due consideration of each entitys ability to fund them.
The limits are split according to the borrower, the liquidity of the underlying assets and the size of the committed line.
HSBC Holdings Audited HSBC Holdings primary sources of cash are dividends received from subsidiaries, interest on and repayment of intra-group loans and interest earned on its own liquid funds.
HSBC Holdings also raises ancillary funds in the debt capital markets through subordinated and senior debt issuance.
Cash is primarily used for the provision of capital to subsidiaries, interest payments to debt holders and dividend payments to shareholders.
HSBC Holdings is also subject to contingent liquidity risk by virtue of loan and other credit-related commitments and guarantees and similar contracts issued.
Such commitments and guarantees are only issued after due consideration of HSBC Holdings ability to finance the commitments and guarantees and the likelihood of the need arising.
HSBC Holdings actively manages the cash flows from its subsidiaries to optimise the amount of cash held at the holding company level.
The ability of subsidiaries to pay dividends or advance monies to HSBC Holdings depends on, among other things, their respective regulatory capital requirements, statutory reserves, and financial and operating performance.
The wide range of our activities means that HSBC Holdings is not dependent on a single source of profits to fund its dividend payments to shareholders.
Market risk Monitoring and limiting market risk exposures Audited The management of market risk is principally undertaken in Global Markets using risk limits approved by the GMB.
Limits are set for portfolios, products and risk types, with market liquidity being a primary factor in determining the level of limits set.
Group Risk, an independent unit within Group Head Office, is responsible for our market risk management policies and measurement techniques.
Each major operating entity has an independent market risk management and control function which is responsible for measuring market risk exposures in accordance with the policies defined by Group Risk, and monitoring and reporting these exposures against the prescribed limits on a daily basis.
Each operating entity is required to assess the market risks arising on each product in its business and to transfer them to either its local Global Markets unit for management, or to separate books managed under the supervision of the local ALCO.
Our aim is to ensure that all market risks are consolidated within operations that have the necessary skills, tools, management and governance to manage them professionally.
In certain cases where the market risks cannot be fully transferred, we use simulation modelling to identify the impact of varying scenarios on valuations and net interest income.
198 We employ a range of tools to monitor and limit market risk exposures.
These include sensitivity analysis, value at risk VAR and stress testing.
Sensitivity analysis Unaudited We use sensitivity measures to monitor the market risk positions within each risk type, for example, the present value of a basis point movement in interest rates for interest rate risk.
Sensitivity limits are set for portfolios, products and risk types, with the depth of the market being one of the principal factors in determining the level of limits set.
Value at risk Audited VAR is a technique that estimates the potential losses that could occur on risk positions as a result of movements in market rates and prices over a specified time horizon and to a given level of confidence.
The VAR models we use are based predominantly on historical simulation.
These models derive plausible future scenarios from past series of recorded market rates and prices, taking account of inter-relationships between different markets and rates such as interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
The models also incorporate the effect of option features on the underlying exposures.
Our historical simulation models assess potential market movements with reference to data from the past two years and calculate VAR to a 99% confidence level and for a one-day holding period.
We routinely validate the accuracy of our VAR models by back-testing the actual daily profit and loss results, adjusted to remove non-modelled items such as fees and commissions, against the corresponding VAR numbers.
Statistically, we would expect to see losses in excess of VAR only 1% of the time over a one-year period.
The actual number of excesses over this period can therefore be used to gauge how well the models are performing.
Although a valuable guide to risk, VAR should always be viewed in the context of its limitations.
For example: the use of historical data as a proxy for estimating future events may not encompass all potential events, particularly those which are extreme in nature: the use of a one-day holding period assumes that all positions can be liquidated or the risks offset in one day.
This may not fully reflect the market risk arising at times of severe illiquidity, when a one-day holding period may be insufficient to liquidate or hedge all positions fully: the use of a 99% confidence level, by definition, does not take into account losses that might occur beyond this level of confidence: VAR is calculated on the basis of exposures outstanding at the close of business and therefore does not necessarily reflect intra-day exposures: and VAR is unlikely to reflect loss potential on exposures that only arise under significant market moves.
Stress testing Audited In recognition of the limitations of VAR, we augment it with stress testing to evaluate the potential impact on portfolio values of more extreme, although plausible, events or movements in a set of financial variables.
The process is governed by the Stress Testing Review Group forum which, in conjunction with regional risk managers, determines the scenarios to be applied at portfolio and consolidated levels, as follows: sensitivity scenarios consider the impact of any single risk factor or set of factors that are unlikely to be captured within the VAR models, such as the break of a currency peg: technical scenarios consider the largest move in each risk factor without consideration of any underlying market correlation: hypothetical scenarios consider potential macro economic events, for example, a global flu pandemic: and historical scenarios incorporate historical observations of market movements during previous periods of stress which would not be captured within VAR.
199 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Appendix Risk policies and practices Market risk Stress testing results provide senior management with an assessment of the financial effect such events would have on our profit.
Trading portfolios Audited Our control of market risk in the trading portfolios is based on a policy of restricting individual operations to trading within a list of permissible instruments authorised for each site by Group Risk, of enforcing rigorous new product approval procedures, and of restricting trading in the more complex derivative products only to offices with appropriate levels of product expertise and robust control systems.
Credit spread risk The risk associated with movements in credit spreads is primarily managed through sensitivity limits, stress testing and VAR.
Credit spread risk also arises on credit derivative transactions entered into by Global Banking in order to manage the risk concentrations within the corporate loan portfolio and so enhance capital efficiency.
The mark-to-market of these transactions is reflected in the income statement.
Gap risk Even for transactions that are structured to render the risk to HSBC negligible under a wide range of market conditions or events, there exists a remote possibility that a gap event could lead to loss.
A gap event could arise from a significant change in market price with no accompanying trading opportunity, with the result that the threshold is breached beyond which the risk profile changes from no risk to full exposure to the underlying structure.
Such movements may occur, for example, when, in reaction to an adverse event or unexpected news announcement, the market for a specific investment becomes illiquid, making hedging impossible.
Given their characteristics, these transactions make little or no contribution to VAR or to traditional market risk sensitivity measures.
We capture their risks within our stress testing scenarios and monitor gap risk on an ongoing basis.
We regularly consider the probability of gap loss, and fair value adjustments are booked against this risk.
ABS MBS exposures The ABS MBS exposures within the trading portfolios are managed within sensitivity and VAR limits as described on page 199, and are included within the stress testing scenarios described above.
Non-trading portfolios Audited The principal objective of market risk management of non-trading portfolios is to optimise net interest income.
Interest rate risk in non-trading portfolios arises principally from mismatches between the future yield on assets and their funding cost, as a result of interest rate changes.
Analysis of this risk is complicated by having to make assumptions on embedded optionality within certain product areas such as the incidence of mortgage prepayments, and from behavioural assumptions regarding the economic duration of liabilities which are contractually repayable on demand such as current accounts.
Our control of market risk in the non-trading portfolios is based on transferring the risks to the books managed by Global Markets or the local ALCO.
The net exposure is typically managed through the use of interest rate swaps within agreed limits.
The VAR for these portfolios is included within the Group VAR.
Credit spread risk The risk associated with movements in credit spreads is primarily managed through sensitivity limits, stress testing, and VAR for those portfolios where VAR is calculated.
We have introduced credit spread as a separate risk type within our VAR models on a global basis.
The VAR shows the effect on income from a one-day movement in credit spreads over a two-year period, calculated to a 99% confidence interval.
200 Structural foreign exchange exposures Unaudited Structural foreign exchange exposures represent net investments in subsidiaries, branches and associates, the functional currencies of which are currencies other than the US dollar.
An entitys functional currency is that of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates.
Exchange differences on structural exposures are recognised in other comprehensive income.
We use the US dollar as our presentation currency in our consolidated financial statements because the US dollar and currencies linked to it form the major currency bloc in which we transact and fund our business.
Our consolidated balance sheet is, therefore, affected by exchange differences between the US dollar and all the non-US dollar functional currencies of underlying subsidiaries.
We hedge structural foreign exchange exposures only in limited circumstances.
Our structural foreign exchange exposures are managed with the primary objective of ensuring, where practical, that our consolidated capital ratios and the capital ratios of individual banking subsidiaries are largely protected from the effect of changes in exchange rates.
This is usually achieved by ensuring that, for each subsidiary bank, the ratio of structural exposures in a given currency to risk-weighted assets denominated in that currency is broadly equal to the capital ratio of the subsidiary in question.
We may also transact hedges where a currency in which we have structural exposures is considered to be significantly overvalued and it is possible in practice to transact a hedge.
Any hedging is undertaken using forward foreign exchange contracts which are accounted for under IFRSs as hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, or by financing with borrowings in the same currencies as the functional currencies involved.
Sensitivity of net interest income Unaudited A principal part of our management of market risk in non-trading portfolios is to monitor the sensitivity of projected net interest income under varying interest rate scenarios simulation modelling.
We aim, through our management of market risk in non-trading portfolios, to mitigate the effect of prospective interest rate movements which could reduce future net interest income, while balancing the cost of such hedging activities on the current net revenue stream.
For simulation modelling, entities use a combination of scenarios relevant to their local businesses and markets and standard scenarios which are required throughout HSBC.
The latter are consolidated to illustrate the combined pro forma effect on our consolidated portfolio valuations and net interest income.
Projected net interest income sensitivity figures represent the effect of the pro forma movements in net interest income based on the projected yield curve scenarios and the Groups current interest rate risk profile.
This effect, however, does not incorporate actions which would probably be taken by Global Markets or in the business units to mitigate the effect of interest rate risk.
In reality, Global Markets seeks proactively to change the interest rate risk profile to minimise losses and optimise net revenues.
The projections also assume that interest rates of all maturities move by the same amount although rates are not assumed to become negative in the falling rates scenario and, therefore, do not reflect the potential impact on net interest income of some rates changing while others remain unchanged.
In addition, the projections take account of the effect on net interest income of anticipated differences in changes between interbank interest rates and interest rates linked to other bases such as Central Bank rates or product rates over which the entity has discretion in terms of the timing and extent of rate changes.
The projections make other simplifying assumptions, including that all positions run to maturity.
Projecting the movement in net interest income from prospective changes in interest rates is a complex interaction of structural and managed exposures.
Our exposure to the effect of movements in interest rates on our net interest income arises in two main areas: core deposit franchises and Balance Sheet Management.
core deposit franchises are exposed to changes in the cost of deposits raised and spreads on wholesale funds.
The net interest income benefit of core deposits increases as interest rates rise and decreases as interest rates fall.
This risk is asymmetrical in a very low interest rate environment, however, as there is limited room to lower deposit pricing in the event of interest rate reductions: and residual interest rate risk is managed within Balance Sheet Management under our policy of transferring interest rate risk to it to be managed within defined limits and with flexibility as to the instruments used.
201 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Appendix Risk policies and practices Market risk Operational risk The sensitivity analysis reflects the fact that our deposit taking businesses generally benefit from rising rates which are partially offset by increased funding costs in Balance Sheet Management given our simplifying assumption of unchanged Balance Sheet Management positioning.
The benefit to deposit taking businesses of rising rates is also offset by the increased funding cost of trading assets, which is recorded in Net interest income and therefore captured in the sensitivity analysis, whereas the income from such assets is recorded in Net trading income.
Defined benefit pension schemes Audited Market risk arises within our defined benefit pension schemes to the extent that the obligations of the schemes are not fully matched by assets with determinable cash flows.
Pension scheme obligations fluctuate with changes in longterm interest rates, inflation, salary levels and the longevity of scheme members.
Pension scheme assets include equities and debt securities, the cash flows of which change as equity prices and interest rates vary.
There is a risk that market movements in equity prices and interest rates could result in asset values which, taken together with regular ongoing contributions, are insufficient over time to cover the level of projected obligations and these, in turn, could increase with a rise in inflation and members living longer.
Management, together with the trustees who act on behalf of the pension scheme beneficiaries, assess these risks using reports prepared by independent external actuaries, take action and, where appropriate, adjust investment strategies and contribution levels accordingly.
HSBC Holdings Audited As a financial services holding company, HSBC Holdings has limited market risk activity.
Its activities predominantly involve maintaining sufficient capital resources to support the Groups diverse activities: allocating these capital resources across our businesses: earning dividend and interest income on its investments in our businesses: providing dividend payments to HSBC Holdings equity shareholders and interest payments to providers of debt capital: and maintaining a supply of short-term cash resources.
It does not take proprietary trading positions.
The main market risks to which HSBC Holdings is exposed are interest rate risk and foreign currency risk.
Exposure to these risks arises from short-term cash balances, funding positions held, loans to subsidiaries, investments in longterm financial assets and financial liabilities including debt capital issued.
The objective of HSBC Holdings market risk management strategy is to reduce exposure to these risks and minimise volatility in economic income, cash flows and distributable reserves.
Market risk for HSBC Holdings is monitored by HSBC Holdings ALCO.
HSBC Holdings has entered into a number of cross-currency swaps to manage the market risk arising on certain long-term debt capital issues for which hedge accounting has not been applied.
Changes in the market values of these swaps are recognised directly in the income statement.
HSBC Holdings expects that these swaps will be held to final maturity with the accumulated changes in market value consequently trending to zero.
Certain loans to subsidiaries of a capital nature that are not denominated in the functional currency of either the provider or the recipient are accounted for as financial assets.
Changes in the carrying amount of these assets due to exchange differences are taken directly to the income statement.
These loans, and the associated foreign exchange exposures, are eliminated on a Group consolidated basis.
Operational risk Unaudited The objective of our operational risk management is to manage and control operational risk in a cost effective manner within targeted levels of operational risk consistent with our risk appetite, as defined by the GMB.
A formal governance structure provides oversight over the management of operational risk.
A Global Operational Risk and Control Committee, which reports to the Risk Management Meeting, meets at least quarterly to discuss key risk issues and review the effective implementation of our operational risk management framework.
In each of our subsidiaries, business managers are responsible for maintaining an acceptable level of internal control, commensurate with the scale and nature of operations.
They are responsible for identifying and assessing risks, designing controls and monitoring the effectiveness of these controls.
The operational risk management framework helps managers to fulfil these responsibilities by defining a standard risk assessment methodology and providing a tool for the systematic reporting of operational loss data.
A centralised database is used to record the results of the operational risk management process.
Operational risk self- 202 assessments are input and maintained by business units.
To ensure that operational risk losses are consistently reported and monitored at Group level, all Group companies are required to report individual losses when the net loss is expected to exceed US$10,000.
For further details, see the Capital and Risk Management Pillar 3 Disclosures as at 31 December 2011, page 46.
Legal risk Unaudited Each operating company is required to have processes and procedures in place to manage legal risk that conform to Group standards.
Legal risk falls within the definition of operational risk and includes: contractual risk, which is the risk that the rights and or obligations of an HSBC company within a contractual relationship are defective: dispute risk, which is made up of the risks that an HSBC company is subject to when it is involved in or managing a potential or actual dispute: legislative risk, which is the risk that an HSBC company fails to adhere to the laws of the jurisdictions in which it operates: and non-contractual rights risk, which is the risk that an HSBC companys assets are not properly owned or are infringed by others, or an HSBC company infringes another partys rights.
We have a global legal function to assist management in controlling legal risk.
The function provides legal advice and support.
The Group Legal department oversees the global legal function and is headed by a Group General Counsel.
There are legal departments in 58 of the countries in which we operate.
There are also regional legal functions in each of Europe, North America, Latin America, the Middle East and North Africa and Asia-Pacific headed by Regional General Counsels as well as General Counsel responsible for each of the global businesses.
Compliance risk Unaudited Compliance risk falls within the definition of operational risk.
All Group companies are required to observe the letter and spirit of all relevant laws, codes, rules, regulations and standards of good market practice.
These rules, regulations, other standards and Group policies include those relating to anti-money laundering, anti-bribery and corruption, counter terrorist financing and sanctions compliance.
The Group Compliance function supports line management in ensuring that there are adequate policies and procedures, and is responsible for maintaining adequate resources to mitigate compliance risk.
The Group Compliance department oversees the global compliance function and is headed by the Head of Group Compliance who reports to the Group Chief Risk Officer.
There are compliance teams in all of the countries where we operate and in all global business lines.
These compliance teams are principally overseen by Regional Compliance Officers located in Europe, North America, Latin America, the Middle East and North Africa and Asia-Pacific and each business line is supported by a Global Business Compliance Officer.
Group Compliance policies and procedures require the prompt identification and escalation to Group Compliance of all actual or suspected breaches of any law, rule, regulation, Group policy or other relevant requirement.
These escalation procedures are supplemented by a requirement for the submission of compliance certificates at the halfyear and year-end by all Group companies detailing any known breaches as above.
The contents of these escalation and certification processes are used for reporting to the Risk Management Meeting, the Group Risk Committee and the Board and disclosure in the Annual Report and Accounts and Interim Report, if appropriate.
Global security and fraud risk Unaudited Security and fraud risk issues are managed at Group level by Global Security and Fraud Risk.
This unit, which has responsibility for physical risk, fraud, information and contingency risk, and geopolitical risk and business intelligence is fully integrated within the central Group Risk function.
This enables management to identify and mitigate the permutations of these and other non-financial risks to its business lines across the jurisdictions in which we operate.
203 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Appendix Risk policies and practices Insurance risk Insurance risk Overview of insurance products Audited The main contracts we manufacture are listed below: Life insurance business life insurance contracts with discretionary participation features DPF : credit life insurance business: annuities: term assurance and critical illness policies: linked life insurance: investment contracts with DPF: unit-linked investment contracts: and other investment contracts including pension contracts written in Hong Kong.
Non-life insurance business Non-life insurance contracts include motor, fire and other damage to property, accident and health, repayment protection and commercial insurance.
Nature and extent of risks Audited The majority of the risks in our insurance business derive from manufacturing activities and can be categorised as insurance risk and financial risks.
The following sections describe how these risks are managed.
Financial risks include market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The assets of insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are included within the consolidated risk disclosures on pages 98 to 187, although separate disclosures in respect of insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are provided in the Risk management of insurance operations section.
The consolidated liquidity risk and market risk disclosures focus on banking entities and exclude insurance operations.
Disclosures specific to the insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are provided in the Risk management of insurance operations section on pages 171 to 183.
Operational risk is covered by the Groups overall operational risk management process.
Insurance manufacturers set their own control procedures in addition to complying with guidelines issued by the Group Insurance Head Office.
The control framework for monitoring risk includes the Group Insurance Risk Committee, which oversees the status of the significant risk categories in the insurance operations.
Five subcommittees of this Committee focus on products and pricing, market and liquidity risk, credit risk, operational risk and insurance risk, respectively.
Similar risk committees exist at regional or entity levels.
The Group Insurance Risk Committee monitors the risk profile of the insurance operations against a risk appetite for insurance business agreed by the GMB.
Any issues requiring escalation from the Group Insurance Risk Committee would be reported to the GMB via the Risk Management Meeting.
In addition, local ALCOs and Risk Management Committees monitor certain risk exposures, mainly for life business where the duration and cash flow matching of insurance assets and liabilities are reviewed.
All insurance products, whether manufactured internally or by a third party, are subjected to a product approval process.
Approval is provided by the Regional Insurance Head Office or Group Insurance Head Office depending on the type of product and its risk profile.
The approval process is formalised through the Product and Pricing Committee, which comprises the heads of the relevant risk functions within insurance.
Insurance risk Audited Insurance risk is the risk, other than financial risk, of loss transferred from the holder of the insurance contract to the issuer HSBC.
The principal risk we face in manufacturing insurance contracts is that, over time, the cost of acquiring and administering a contract, claims and benefits may exceed the aggregate amount of premiums received and investment income.
204 The cost of claims and benefits can be influenced by many factors, including mortality and morbidity experience, lapse and surrender rates and, if the policy has a savings element, the performance of the assets held to support the liabilities.
Life and non-life business insurance risks are controlled by high-level policies and procedures set centrally, taking into account where appropriate local market conditions and regulatory requirements.
Formal underwriting, reinsurance and claims-handling procedures designed to ensure compliance with regulations are applied, supplemented with stress testing.
As well as exercising underwriting controls, we use reinsurance as a means of mitigating exposure to insurance risk, in particular to aggregations of catastrophe risk.
When we manage our exposure to insurance risk through the use of third-party reinsurers, the associated revenue and manufacturing profit is ceded to them.
Although reinsurance provides a means of managing insurance risk, such contracts expose us to credit risk, the risk of default by the reinsurer.
The principal drivers of our insurance risk are described below.
The liabilities for long-term contracts are set by reference to a range of assumptions around these drivers.
These typically reflect the issuers own experiences.
The type and quantum of insurance risk arising from life insurance depends on the type of business, and varies considerably.
mortality and morbidity: the main contracts which generate exposure to these risks are term assurance, whole life products, critical illness and income protection contracts and annuities.
The risks are monitored on a regular basis, and are primarily mitigated by underwriting controls and reinsurance and by retaining the ability in certain cases to amend premiums in the light of experience: lapses and surrenders: the risks associated with this are generally mitigated by product design, the application of surrender charges and management actions, for example, managing the level of bonus payments to policyholders.
A detailed persistency analysis at a product level is carried out at least on an annual basis: and expense risk is mitigated by pricing, for example, retaining the ability in certain cases to amend premiums and or policyholder charges based on experience, and cost management discipline.
Economic assumptions, such as investment returns and interest rates, are usually based on observable market data.
Clearly, liabilities are affected by changes in assumptions see Sensitivity of HSBCs insurance subsidiaries to risk factors on page 177 and Sensitivity analysis on page 183.
The main risks associated with non-life business are: underwriting: the risk that premiums are not appropriate for the cover provided: and claims experience: the risk that claims exceed expectations.
We manage these risks through pricing for example, imposing restrictions and deductibles in the policy terms and conditions, product design, risk selection, claims handling, investment strategy and reinsurance policy.
The majority of our non-life insurance contracts are renewable annually, providing added flexibility to the underwriting terms and conditions.
Financial risks Audited Our insurance businesses are exposed to a range of financial risks, including market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
Market risk includes interest rate risk, equity risk and foreign exchange risk.
The nature and management of these risks is described below.
Manufacturing subsidiaries are exposed to financial risks when, for example, the proceeds from financial assets are not sufficient to fund the obligations arising from non-linked insurance and investment contracts.
In many jurisdictions, local regulatory requirements prescribe the type, quality and concentration of assets that these subsidiaries must maintain to meet insurance liabilities.
These requirements complement Group-wide policies.
205 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Appendix Risk policies and practices Insurance risk Market risk Audited Description of market risk The main features of products manufactured by our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries which generate market risk, and the market risk to which these features expose the subsidiaries, are discussed below.
Interest rate risk arises to the extent that yields on the assets are lower than the investment returns implied by the guarantees payable to policyholders by insurance manufacturing subsidiaries.
When the asset yields are below guaranteed yields, products may be discontinued.
A list of the different types of guarantees within our insurance contracts is outlined below.
Categories of guaranteed benefits annuities in payment: deferred immediate annuities: these consist of two phases the savings and investing phase and the retirement income phase: annual return: the annual return is guaranteed to be no lower than a specified rate.
This may be the return credited to the policyholder every year, or the average annual return credited to the policyholder over the life of the policy, which may occur on the maturity date or the surrender date of the contract: and capital: policyholders are guaranteed to receive no less than the premiums paid plus declared bonuses less expenses.
The proceeds from insurance and investment products with DPF are primarily invested in bonds with a proportion allocated to other asset classes in order to provide customers with the potential for enhanced returns.
Subsidiaries with portfolios of such products are exposed to the risk of falls in market prices which cannot be fully reflected in the discretionary bonuses.
An increase in market volatility could also result in an increase in the value of the guarantee to the policyholder.
Long-term insurance and investment products typically permit the policyholder to surrender the policy or let it lapse at any time.
When the surrender value is not linked to the value realised from the sale of the associated supporting assets, the subsidiary is exposed to market risk.
In particular, when customers seek to surrender their policies when asset values are falling, assets may have to be sold at a loss to fund redemptions.
A subsidiary holding a portfolio of long-term insurance and investment products, especially with DPF, may attempt to reduce exposure to its local market by investing in assets in countries other than that in which it is based.
These assets may be denominated in currencies other than the subsidiarys local currency.
It is often not cost effective for the subsidiary to hedge the foreign exchange exposure associated with these assets, and this exposes it to the risk that its local currency will strengthen against the currency of the related assets.
For unit-linked contracts, market risk is substantially borne by the policyholder, but market risk exposure typically remains as the market value of the linked assets influences the fees we earn for managing them.
Asset and liability matching It is not always possible to achieve a complete matching of asset and liability durations, partly because there is uncertainty over policyholder behaviour, which introduces uncertainty over the receipt of all future premiums and the timing of claims, and partly because the duration of liabilities may exceed the duration of the longest available dated fixed interest investments.
We use models to assess the effect of a range of future scenarios on the values of financial assets and associated liabilities, and ALCOs employ the outcomes in determining how the assets and liabilities should be matched.
The scenarios include stresses applied to factors which affect insurance risk such as mortality and lapse rates.
Of particular importance is matching the expected pattern of cash inflows with the benefits payable on the underlying contracts, which can extend for many years.
Our current portfolio of assets includes debt securities issued at a time when yields were higher than those observed in the current market.
As a result, yields on extant holdings of debt securities exceed those which may be obtained on current issues.
We reduced short-term bonus rates paid to policyholders on certain participating contracts to manage the immediate strain on the business.
Should interest rates and yield curves remain low for prolonged periods, further such steps may be needed.
206 How market risk is managed All our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries have market risk mandates which specify the investment instruments in which they are permitted to invest and the maximum quantum of market risk which they may retain.
They manage market risk by using some or all of the techniques listed below, depending on the nature of the contracts they write.
Techniques for managing market risk for products with DPF, adjusting bonus rates to manage the liabilities to policyholders.
The effect is that a significant portion of the market risk is borne by the policyholder: as far as possible, matching assets to liability cash flows: using derivatives, to a limited extent, to protect against adverse market movements or better match liability cash flows: for new products with investment guarantees, considering the cost when determining the level of premiums or the price structure: periodically reviewing products identified as higher risk, which contain investment guarantees and embedded optionality features linked to savings and investment products: including features designed to mitigate market risk in new products, such as charging surrender penalties to recoup losses incurred when policyholders surrender their policies: exiting, to the extent possible, investment portfolios whose risk is considered unacceptable: and repricing of premiums charged to policyholders.
In the product approval process, the risks embedded in new products are identified and assessed.
When, for example, options and guarantees are embedded in new products, the due diligence process ensures that complete and appropriate risk management procedures are in place.
For all but the simplest of guaranteed benefits the assessment is undertaken by Group Insurance Head Office.
Management reviews certain exposures more frequently when markets are more volatile to ensure that any matters arising are dealt with in a timely fashion.
How the exposure to market risk is measured Our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries monitor exposures against mandated limits regularly and report them to Group Insurance Head Office.
Exposures are aggregated and reported on a quarterly basis to senior risk management forums in the Group, including the Group Insurance Market and Liquidity Risk Committee, Group Insurance Risk Committee and the Group Stress Test Review Group.
Standard measures for quantifying market risks for interest rate risk, the sensitivities of the net present values of asset and expected liability cash flows, in total and by currency, to a one basis point parallel shift in the discount curves used to calculate the net present values: for equity price risk, the total market value of equity holdings and the market value of equity holdings by region and country: and for foreign exchange risk, the total net short foreign exchange position and the net foreign exchange positions by currency.
The standard measures are relatively straightforward to calculate and aggregate, but they have limitations.
The most significant one is that a parallel shift in yield curves of one basis point does not capture the non-linear relationships between the values of certain assets and liabilities and interest rates.
Non-linearity arises, for example, from investment guarantees and product features which enable policyholders to surrender their policies.
We bear the shortfall if the yields on investments held to support contracts with guaranteed benefits are less than the investment returns implied by the guaranteed benefits.
We recognise these limitations and augment our standard measures with stress tests which examine the effect of a range of market rate scenarios on the aggregate annual profits and total equity of our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries, after taking into consideration tax and accounting treatments where material and relevant.
The results of these tests are reported to Group Insurance Head Office and risk committees every quarter.
Credit risk Audited Description of credit risk We used to sell certain unit-linked life insurance contracts which were reinsured with a third-party counterparty, who also underwrote market return guarantees.
We are exposed to credit risk to the extent that the counterparty is unable to meet the terms of the guaranteed benefits.
The cost to us of market return guarantees increases when interest rates fall, equity markets fall or market volatility increases.
In addition, when determined by reference to a discounted cash 207 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Appendix Risk policies and practices Insurance risk Reputational risk Pension risk flow model in which the discount rate is based on current interest rates, guarantee costs increase in a falling interest rate environment.
The sale of these contracts ceased in 2008, reflecting our adjusted risk appetite.
How credit risk is managed Our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are responsible for the credit risk, quality and performance of their investment portfolios.
Our assessment of the creditworthiness of issuers and counterparties is based primarily upon internationally recognised credit ratings and other publicly available information.
Investment credit exposures are monitored against limits by our local insurance manufacturing subsidiaries, and are aggregated and reported to Group Credit Risk, the Group Insurance Credit Risk Meeting and the Group Insurance Risk Committee.
Stress testing is performed by Group Insurance Head Office on the investment credit exposures using credit spread sensitivities and default probabilities.
The stresses are reported to the Group Insurance Risk Committee.
We use a number of tools to manage and monitor credit risk.
These include an Early Warning Report and a watch list of investments with current credit concerns which are circulated fortnightly to senior management in Group Insurance Head Office and the Regional Chief Risk Officers to identify investments which may be at risk of future impairment.
Liquidity risk Audited Description of liquidity risk It is an inherent characteristic of almost all insurance contracts that there is uncertainty over the amount of claims liabilities that may arise and the timing of their settlement, and this creates liquidity risk.
There are three aspects to liquidity risk.
The first arises in normal market conditions and is referred to as funding liquidity risk: specifically, the capacity to raise sufficient cash when needed to meet payment obligations.
Secondly, market liquidity risk arises when the size of a particular holding may be so large that a sale cannot be completed around the market price.
Finally, standby liquidity risk refers to the capacity to meet payment terms in abnormal conditions.
How liquidity risk is managed Our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries primarily fund cash outflows arising from claim liabilities from the following sources of cash inflows: premiums from new business, policy renewals and recurring premium products: interest and dividends on investments and principal repayments of maturing debt investments: cash resources: and the sale of investments.
They manage liquidity risk by utilising some or all of the following techniques: matching cash inflows with expected cash outflows using specific cash flow projections or more general asset and liability matching techniques such as duration matching: maintaining sufficient cash resources: investing in good credit-quality investments with deep and liquid markets to the degree to which they exist: monitoring investment concentrations and restricting them where appropriate, for example, by debt issues or issuers: and establishing committed contingency borrowing facilities.
Each of these techniques contributes to mitigating the three types of liquidity risk described above.
Every quarter, our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are required to complete and submit liquidity risk reports to Group Insurance Head Office for collation and review by the Group Insurance Market and Liquidity Risk Meeting.
Liquidity risk is assessed in these reports by measuring changes in expected cumulative net cash flows under a 208 series of stress scenarios designed to determine the effect of reducing expected available liquidity and accelerating cash outflows.
This is achieved, for example, by assuming new business or renewals are lower, and surrenders or lapses are greater, than expected.
Reputational risk Unaudited We regularly review our policies and procedures for safeguarding against reputational and operational risks.
This is an evolutionary process which takes account of relevant developments, industry guidance and best practice.
We have always aspired to the highest standards of conduct and, as a matter of routine, take account of reputational risks to our business.
Reputational risks can arise from a wide variety of causes.
As a banking group, our good reputation depends not only upon the way in which we conduct our business, but also by the way in which clients, to whom we provide financial services, conduct themselves.
The training of Directors on appointment includes reputational matters.
Group functions with responsibility for activities that attract reputational risk are represented at the Group Reputational Risk Policy Committee GRRPC, which is chaired by the Group Chairman.
The primary role of the GRRPC is to consider areas and activities presenting significant reputational risk and, where appropriate, to make recommendations to the Risk Management Meeting and the GMB for policy or procedural changes to mitigate such risk.
Reputational Risk Committees have been established in each of the Groups geographical regions.
These committees are required to ensure that reputational risks are considered at a regional as well as Group level.
Minutes from the regional committees are tabled at GRRPC.
Standards on all major aspects of business are set for HSBC and for individual subsidiaries, businesses and functions.
Reputational risks, including environmental, social and governance ESG matters, are considered and assessed by the Board, the GMB, the Risk Management Meeting, subsidiary company boards, Board committees and senior management during the formulation of policy and the establishment of our standards.
These policies, which form an integral part of the internal control system see page 248, are communicated through manuals and statements of policy and are promulgated through internal communications and training.
The policies cover ESG issues and set out operational procedures in all areas of reputational risk, including money laundering deterrence, counter-terrorist financing, environmental impact, anti-corruption measures and employee relations.
The policy manuals address risk issues in detail and co-operation between Group departments and businesses is required to ensure a strong adherence to our risk management system and our sustainability practices.
Pension risk Unaudited We operate a number of pension plans throughout the world, as described in Note 7 on the Financial Statements.
Some of them are defined benefit plans, of which the largest is the HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme the principal plan.
In order to fund the benefits associated with these plans, sponsoring Group companies and, in some instances, employees make regular contributions in accordance with advice from actuaries and in consultation with the schemes trustees where relevant.
The defined benefit plans invest these contributions in a range of investments designed to meet their long-term liabilities.
The level of these contributions has a direct impact on HSBCs cash flow and would normally be set to ensure that there are sufficient funds to meet the cost of the accruing benefits for the future service of active members.
However, higher contributions will be required when plan assets are considered insufficient to cover the existing pension liabilities.
Contribution rates are typically revised annually or triennially, depending on the plan.
The agreed contributions to the principal plan are revised triennially.
A deficit in a defined benefit plan may arise from a number of factors, including investments delivering a return below that required to provide the projected plan benefits.
This could arise, for example, when there is a fall in the market value of equities, or when increases in long-term interest rates cause a fall in the value of fixed income securities held: the prevailing economic environment leading to corporate failures, thus triggering write-downs in asset values both equity and debt : a change in either interest rates or inflation which causes an increase in the value of the scheme liabilities: and scheme members living longer than expected known as longevity risk.
209 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Appendix Risk policies and practices Sustainability risk Capital Overview Movement in RWAs in 2011 A plans investment strategy is determined after taking into consideration the market risk inherent in the investments and its consequential impact on potential future contributions.
The long-term investment objectives of both HSBC and, where relevant and appropriate, the trustees are: to limit the risk of the assets failing to meet the liabilities of the plans over the long-term: and to maximise returns consistent with an acceptable level of risk so as to control the long-term costs of the defined benefit plans.
In pursuit of these long-term objectives, a benchmark is established for the allocation of the defined benefit plan assets between asset classes.
In addition, each permitted asset class has its own benchmarks, such as stock market or property valuation indices and, where relevant, desired levels of out-performance.
The benchmarks are reviewed at least triennially within 18 months of the date at which an actuarial valuation is made, or more frequently if required by local legislation or circumstances.
The process generally involves an extensive asset and liability review.
Ultimate responsibility for investment strategy rests with either the trustees or, in certain circumstances, a Management Committee.
The degree of independence of the trustees from HSBC varies in different jurisdictions.
For example, the principal plan, which accounts for approximately 70% of the obligations of our defined benefit pension plans, is overseen by a corporate trustee who regularly monitors the market risks inherent in the scheme.
Sustainability risk Unaudited Sustainability risks arise from the provision of financial services to companies or projects which run counter to the needs of sustainable development: in effect this risk arises when the environmental and social effects outweigh economic benefits.
Within Group Head Office, a separate function, Group Corporate Sustainability, is mandated to manage these risks globally working through local offices as appropriate.
Sustainability Risk Managers have regional or national responsibilities for advising on and managing environmental and social risks.
Group Corporate Sustainabilitys risk management responsibilities include: formulating sustainability risk policies.
This includes oversight of our sustainability risk standards, management of the Equator Principles for project finance lending, and sector-based sustainability policies covering those sectors with high environmental or social impacts forestry, freshwater infrastructure, chemicals, energy, mining and metals, and defence-related lending : undertaking an independent review of transactions where sustainability risks are assessed to be high, and supporting our operating companies to assess similar risks of a lower magnitude: building and implementing systems-based processes to ensure consistent application of policies, reduce the costs of sustainability risk reviews and capture management information to measure and report on the effect of our lending and investment activities on sustainable development: and providing training and capacity building within our operating companies to ensure sustainability risks are identified and mitigated consistently to either our own standards, international standards or local regulations, whichever is higher.
