available for 15 minutes before the Annual General Board of Directors Meeting and during the Meeting itself.
The purpose of HSBCs management structure, headed by the Board of Directors of HSBC Holdings Powers of the Board the Board and led by the Group Chairman, is to The Board is responsible for managing the business deliver sustainable value to our shareholders.
The of HSBC Holdings and, in doing so, may exercise its Board sets the strategy and risk appetite for the powers, subject to any relevant laws and regulations Group and approves capital and operating plans and to the Articles of Association.
In particular, the presented by management for the achievement of Board may exercise all the powers of the Company the strategic objectives it has set.
This ensures the to borrow money and to mortgage or charge all or efficient application of our resources for the any part of the undertaking, property or assets achievement of these objectives.
Implementation present or future of HSBC Holdings and may also of the strategy set by the Board is delegated to the exercise any of the powers conferred on it by the Group Management Board GMB which is led by Companies Act 2006 and or by shareholders.
The the Group Chief Executive.
Board is able to delegate and confer on certain Directors holding executive office any of its powers, Directors authorities and discretions including the power to HSBC Holdings has a unitary Board.
The authority sub-delegate for such time and on such terms as it of each Director is exercised in Board meetings thinks fit.
In addition, the Board may establish any where the Board acts collectively.
At 27 February local or divisional boards or agencies for managing 2012, the Board comprised the Group Chairman, the business of HSBC Holdings in any specified Group Chief Executive, two other executive locality and delegate and confer on any local or Directors and thirteen non-executive Directors.
Their divisional board, manager or agent so appointed any names and brief biographical particulars are listed on of its powers, authorities and discretions including pages 218 to 223.
The Group Chairman, Group the power to sub-delegate for such time and on such Chief Executive and two other executive Directors terms as it thinks fit.
The Board may also, by power are employees.
Non-executive Directors are not of attorney or otherwise, appoint any person or HSBC employees and do not participate in the daily persons to be the agent of HSBC Holdings and may business management of HSBC: they bring an delegate to any such person or persons any of its external perspective, constructively challenge and powers, authorities and discretions including the help develop proposals on strategy, scrutinise the power to sub-delegate for such time and on such performance of management in meeting agreed goals terms as it thinks fit.
and objectives, and monitor the risk profile and the The Board delegates the management and dayreporting of performance.
The non-executive to-day running of HSBC to the GMB but retains to Directors bring experience from a number of itself approval of certain matters including operating industries and business sectors, including the plans, risk appetite and performance targets, leadership of large complex multinational procedures for monitoring and controlling operations, enterprises.
the authority or the delegation of authority to approve credit, market risk limits, acquisitions, Terms of appointment disposals, investments, capital expenditure or The Board has determined the time commitment realisation or creation of a new venture, specified expected of non-executive Directors to be not less senior appointments and any substantial change in than 24 days per annum and not less than 30 days balance sheet management policy.
per annum in total for non-executive Directors The Directors who served during the year appointed to the Group Audit Committee, Group were S A Catz, L M L Cha appointed 1 March Risk Committee or Group Remuneration Committee 2011, V H C Cheng retired 27 May 2011, and for the Deputy Chairman and senior independent M K T Cheung, J D Coombe, R A Fairhead, non-executive Director.
D J Flint, A A Flockhart, S T Gulliver, J W J HughesLetters setting out the terms and conditions of Hallett, W S H Laidlaw, J R Lomax, I J Mackay, appointment of each of the non-executive Directors, G Morgan, N R N Murthy, Sir Simon Robertson, including the time commitment expected of each of J L Thornton and Sir Brian Williamson.
them, are available for inspection at 8 Canada HSBC Holdings was registered in Hong Kong Square, London E14 5HQ and will be made under part IX of the Companies Ordinance on 17 January 1991.
225 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board of Directors Directors Board meetings Key responsibilities Seven Board meetings and a two-day strategy Group Chairman D J Flint Appointed December 2010 meeting were held in 2011.
At least one Board meeting each year is held in a key strategic location Leads the Board and ensures its effectiveness.
During 2011, Board meetings were Develops relationships with governments, regulators and held in Hong Kong and Washington D. C. investors.
Leads the Groups interactions on matters of public policy and The table below shows each Directors regulatory reform with regard to the banking and financial attendance at meetings of the Board held while he or services industry.
No meetings of the Maintains corporate reputation and character.
Board were held at short notice in 2011.
Undertakes performance management of the Group Chief Executive.
Eleven meetings of committees of the Board Group Chief Executive S T Gulliver appointed to discharge specific business were held Appointed January 2011 during 2011.
These meetings are not shown in the Develops, and delivers performance against, business plans.
Develops Group strategy, in agreement with the Group During 2011, the non-executive Directors and Chairman, for recommendation to the Board.
the Group Chairman met three times without the As Chairman of the GMB, drives performance within strategic other executive Directors.
The non-executive goals and commercial objectives agreed by the Board.
Directors also met without the Group Chairman to appraise the Group Chairmans performance.
The Group Chief Executive has an office in London and in Hong Kong.
Ensures there is a clear division of responsibility between the 1 Appointed a Director on 1 March 2011 eligible to attend Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive.
2 Retired as a Director on 27 May 2011 eligible to attend Is available to shareholders should they have concerns which 4 Board Meetings.
contact through the normal channels cannot resolve or for 3 Took a temporary leave of absence due to illness.
which such contact would be inappropriate.
Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive 1 Appointed senior independent non-executive Director in 2007 and Deputy Chairman in December 2010.
The roles of Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separate and held by experienced fullBoard balance and independence of time Directors.
There is a clear division of Directors responsibilities at the head of the Company between The Board includes a strong presence of both the running of the Board and the executive executive and non-executive Directors and no responsibility for running HSBCs business.
The key individual or small group can dominate its decision responsibilities of the Group Chairman and the making.
The size of the Board is appropriate given Group Chief Executive are set out below.
the complexity and geographical spread of our business and the significant time demands placed on 226 the non-executive Directors, particularly those who of the committees since the previous Board meeting.
serve as members of Board committees.
The Board receives regular reports and presentations on strategy and developments in the global The Nomination Committee regularly reviews businesses and principal geographical areas.
Regular the structure, size and composition of the Board reports are also provided to the Board and Board including the skills, knowledge and experience committees on the Groups risk appetite profile, required of Directors necessary to address and top and emerging risks, risk management, credit challenge adequately key risks and issues that exposures and the Groups loan portfolio, asset confront, or may confront, the Board and makes and liability management, liquidity, litigation, recommendations to the Board with regard to any compliance and reputational issues.
The Nomination Committee maintains a supporting papers are distributed in advance of all forward-looking schedule of potential candidates as Board and committee meetings to allow time for Directors that takes into account the needs and appropriate review and to facilitate full discussion developments of the Groups businesses and the at the meetings.
All Directors have full and timely expected retirement dates of existing Directors.
access to all relevant information and may take The Board considers all of the non-executive independent professional advice if necessary at the Directors to be independent in character and Companys expense.
The Board has determined S A Catz, The Directors have free and open contact with L M L Cha, M K T Cheung, J D Coombe, management at all levels.
Group Managing Directors J Faber, R A Fairhead, J W J Hughes-Hallett, and Group General Managers meet informally with W S H Laidlaw, J P Lipsky, J R Lomax, G Morgan, Directors after Board meetings.
When attending N R N Murthy, Sir Simon Robertson, J L Thornton Board offsites and when travelling for other reasons, and Sir Brian Williamson to be independent.
The non-executive Directors are encouraged to take Board has determined L M L Cha to be independent.
opportunities to see business operations at first hand Her role as deputy chairman of, and former role as and to meet management.
corporate relations adviser to, The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, were considered not Non-executive Directors have an open invitation to be material.
When determining independence the to attend meetings of the GMB and the Risk Board considers that calculation of the length of Management Meeting to further enhance their service of a non-executive Director begins on the understanding and awareness of our businesses and date of his or her first election by shareholders as a the senior leadership team.
Given the complexity and geographical spread of our business, the Induction and ongoing development experience of previous service on a subsidiary Full, formal and tailored induction programmes, company board can be a considerable benefit and with particular emphasis on the systems of risk does not detract from a Directors independence.
In management and internal controls, are arranged for reaching its determination of each non-executive newly appointed Directors.
The programmes consist Directors independence the Board has concluded of a series of meetings with other Directors and that there are no relationships or circumstances senior executives to enable new Directors to which are likely to affect a Directors judgement and familiarise themselves with our strategy, risk any relationships or circumstances which could appetite, operations and internal controls.
Directors appear to do so were considered not to be material.
also receive comprehensive guidance on directors In accordance with the Rules Governing the duties and liabilities.
As part of the induction process Listing of Securities on the Stock Exchange of the Group Company Secretary will coordinate the Hong Kong Limited, each non-executive Director production of a development programme based determined by the Board to be independent has on the individual Directors needs.
Induction provided an annual confirmation of his or her programmes are also arranged for newly appointed independence to HSBC Holdings.
Directors are given opportunities to update Information and support and develop their skills and knowledge, through The Board regularly reviews reports on progress briefings by senior executives and externally run against financial objectives, business developments seminars throughout their directorship and while and investor and external relations.
The chairmen of serving on committees.
Focused in-house Board committees and the Group Chief Executive development programmes to enhance business report to each meeting of the Board on the activities awareness are arranged in conjunction with 227 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board of Directors Directors Corporate governance codes scheduled Board meetings.
Directors have access to Chairman has confirmed that all of the noninternal training and development resources.
executive Directors continue to perform effectively and to demonstrate commitment to their roles.
A personalised approach to training and development of Directors is applied.
Records of The non-executive Directors, led by the Deputy development activities are maintained by the Group Chairman and senior independent non-executive Company Secretary for annual review by the Group Director, are responsible for the evaluation of the Chairman with the Director concerned.
performance of the Group Chairman.
Performance evaluation Appointment, retirement and re-election of Directors In November 2011, Oliver Wyman was commissioned to facilitate and report on the review The Board may at any time appoint any person who of effectiveness of the Board, with particular focus is willing to act as a Director, either to fill a vacancy on it meeting investor expectations and priorities, or as an addition to the existing Board, but the total and to review progress made in the year since the number of Directors shall not exceed twenty-five.
previous review, which had focused on the Boards Any Director so appointed by the Board shall retire risk management and governance responsibilities.
at the Annual General Meeting following his or her Oliver Wymans report was prepared following appointment and shall be eligible for re-election but interviews with Directors and senior members of would not be taken into account in determining the management and a review of relevant documents.
number of Directors who are to retire by rotation at Factors assessed during Oliver Wymans review such meeting in accordance with the Articles of included the Boards performance in key priority Association.
The Board may appoint any Director to areas for investors including strategy, financial hold any employment or executive office and performance, risk, regulation, compensation, may revoke or terminate any such appointment.
Shareholders may, by ordinary resolution, appoint a person a Director or remove any Director before the The Oliver Wyman report concluded that expiration of his period of office.
On the the Board operates effectively with a number of recommendation of the Nomination Committee important strengths and that significant progress had and in compliance with provision B.
7.1 of the UK been made during 2011 to address recommendations Corporate Governance Code, the Board has decided made by Oliver Wyman in last years report.
The that all of the Directors should be subject to annual report identified some areas where effectiveness re-election by shareholders.
Accordingly, all of the could be enhanced.
Oliver Wyman has provided and Directors will retire at the forthcoming Annual continues to provide consultancy services to the General Meeting and, with the exception of Group.
G Morgan and Sir Brian Williamson who are to The report is used by the Board in its retire, offer themselves for re-election.
Each of the annual evaluation of its own performance and that of executive Directors is employed on a rolling contract its committees, and by the Group Chairman in his which requires 12 months notice to be given by review of the individual performance of Directors.
None of the non-executive Directors has The Board will monitor implementation of actions a service contract with HSBC.
arising from its 2011 performance evaluation.
All actions arising from the Boards 2010 performance Relations with shareholders evaluation have been implemented.
All Directors are encouraged to develop an It is the intention of the Board to continue to understanding of the views of major shareholders.
undertake an evaluation of its performance and that Non-executive Directors are invited to attend analyst of its committees and individual Directors annually, presentations and other meetings with institutional with external input to the process at least every third investors and their representative bodies.
also meet representatives of institutional shareholders annually to discuss corporate Formal evaluation of the individual performance governance matters.
of each Director is undertaken annually by the Group Chairman using the findings of the performance All executive Directors and certain other senior evaluation process undertaken by the Board.
During executives hold regular meetings with institutional this evaluation, the Group Chairman discusses the investors.
The Board receives a regular investor contribution of the Director and the time spent by relations activity report which provides feedback them in performing their responsibilities.
The Group from meetings with institutional shareholders and 228 brokers, analysts forecasts, information from information.
This confirmation is given pursuant to research reports and share price performance data.
section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 and should Twice each year the Board also receives a report be interpreted in accordance therewith and subject to from one of our corporate brokers on market views the provisions thereof.
None of the Directors had, during the year or at On several occasions during 2011, nonthe end of the year, a material interest, directly or executive Directors, including the senior indirectly, in any contract of significance with any independent non-executive Director, met or HSBC company.
corresponded with institutional investors and their representatives to discuss governance, remuneration Corporate governance codes and sustainability.
In particular there was extensive We are committed to high standards of corporate consultation on the structure of the Group governance.
We have complied throughout the year Performance Share Plan, the long-term incentive with the applicable code provisions of The UK plan introduced in May 2011, under which awards Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial are made to executive Directors and senior Reporting Council and the Code on Corporate executives.
Governance Practices in Appendix 14 to the Rules As senior independent non-executive Director, Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock Sir Simon Robertson is available to shareholders Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, save that the should they have concerns which contact through the Group Risk Committee all the members of which normal channels of Group Chairman, Group Chief are independent non-executive Directors, which was Executive, Group Finance Director or other established in accordance with the recommendations executives cannot resolve or for which such contact of the Report on Governance in UK banks and other would be inappropriate.
He may be contacted financial industry entities, is responsible for the through the Group Company Secretary at 8 Canada oversight of internal controls other than internal Square, London E14 5HQ.
controls over financial reporting and risk management systems Code on Corporate Conflicts of interest, indemnification of Governance Practices provision C. 3.3 paragraphs f, Directors, relevant audit information and g and h. If there were no Group Risk Committee, contracts of significance these matters would be the responsibility of the Group Audit Committee.
The UK Corporate The Board has authority to approve Directors Governance Code is available at www.
uk and conflicts and potential conflicts of interest and the Code on Corporate Governance Practices is has adopted a policy and procedures for the available at www.
determination of terms of authorisation for such situations.
The Boards powers to authorise conflicts The Board has adopted a code of conduct for are operating effectively and the procedures are transactions in HSBC Group securities by Directors.
A review of situational conflicts The code of conduct complies with The Model Code which have been authorised from time to time and in the Listing Rules of the FSA and with The Model the terms of those authorisations is undertaken by the Code for Securities Transactions by Directors of Board annually.
Listed Issuers Hong Kong Model Code set out in the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The Our Articles of Association provide that Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, save that Directors are entitled to be indemnified out of the The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited has assets of HSBC Holdings against claims from third granted certain waivers from strict compliance with parties in respect of certain liabilities.
Such the Hong Kong Model Code.
The waivers granted indemnity provisions have been in place during the by The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited financial year but have not been utilised by the primarily take into account accepted practices in the Directors.
UK, particularly in respect of employee share plans.
Each person who is a Director at the date of Following a specific enquiry, each Director has approval of this report confirms that so far as he or confirmed he or she has complied with the code of she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of conduct for transactions in HSBC Group securities which the auditor is unaware and the Director has throughout the year.
taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditor is aware of that 229 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview
