HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board committees Group Management Board Group Audit Committee Board committees Board Group Corporate Group Audit Group Risk Nomination Remuneration Sustainability Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Non-executive Non-executive Non-executive Responsible for Responsible for Group responsibility for responsibility for responsibility leading the advising the Board, Management oversight of, and oversight of, and for setting the process for Board committees of Board advice to the advice to the Board overarching appointments and the Board and Board on, matters on, high level principles, for identifying and executive relating to financial risk-related parameters and nominating, for management on Executive reporting.
matters and risk governance approval by the corporate sustainmanagement governance.
framework of Board, candidates ability polices, committee which the Groups for appointment to including environis responsible for remuneration the Board.
mental, social and management and policy and the ethical issues.
day-to-day running remuneration of of HSBC under the senior executives.
direct authority of the Board.
The Board has established a number of committees The GMB is a key element of our management consisting of Directors, Group Managing Directors reporting and control structure such that all of our and, in the case of the Corporate Sustainability line operations are accountable either to a member of Committee, co-opted non-director members.
The the GMB or directly to the Group Chief Executive, key roles of the principal committees are described who in turn reports to the Group Chairman.
The Chairman of each non-executive Board Board has set objectives and measures for the GMB.
committee reports to each meeting of the Board These align senior executives objectives and on the activities of the committee since the previous measures with the strategy and operating plans Board meeting.
The terms of reference of the non-executive The Group Chief Executive who is Chairman Board committees are available at of the GMB reports to each meeting of the Board on www.
Each nonthe activities of the GMB.
executive Board committee reviews its terms of Regular Risk Management Meetings, chaired by reference annually.
the Group Chief Risk Officer, are held to review the Appointments of Directors to each nonpolicy and guidelines for the management of risk executive Board committee are made for periods of within the Group.
Further information on the Risk up to three years, extendable by no more than two Management Meeting can be found on page 234. additional three-year periods.
Group Audit Committee Group Management Board 1 2 Members Meetings attended Members S T Gulliver Chairman, A A Flockhart and J D Coombe Chairman 7 I J Mackay, who are executive Directors, and M K T Cheung 7 A Almeida, S Assaf, R E T Bennett, A M Keir, 3 R A Fairhead 3 S A Levey, M M Moses, S P OSullivan, J R Lomax 6 B Robertson, P A Thurston and P T S Wong, all of whom are Group Managing Directors.
Meetings held in 2011 7 1 All members are independent non-executive Directors.
The GMB meets frequently and exercises the 2 During the year two meetings were held at short notice.
powers, authorities and discretions of the Board in so 3 Took a temporary leave of absence due to illness.
far as they concern the management and day-to-day running of HSBC Holdings.
Matters reserved for The Group Audit Committee GAC has nonapproval by the Board are described on page 225. executive responsibility for oversight of and advice 230 KEY ROLE to the Board on matters relating to financial and have recent and relevant financial experience for reporting.
the purposes of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Board has determined that M K T Cheung, The governance structure for the oversight of J D Coombe, R A Fairhead and J R Lomax are financial reporting is set out below.
Similar independent according to SEC criteria and may be governance arrangements are in place in major regarded as audit committee financial experts for the operating subsidiaries.
purposes of section 407 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Governance Authority Membership Responsibilities Board Executive and nonResponsible for financial statements executive Directors Appoints senior financial officers Delegates authorities in relation to financial matters GAC Independent non-executive Monitors the integrity of financial statements Directors Oversees the internal control systems over financial reporting, including reviewing their effectiveness Monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit function Reviews the Companys financial and accounting policies and practices Advises the Board on appointment of the external auditor and is responsible for oversight and remuneration of the external auditor Subsidiary board Independent non-executive Provide certification to the GAC or intermediate audit committee on financial statements and committees directors and other internal controls over financial reporting of relevant subsidiaries responsible for independent members oversight of financial reporting Committees activities Committee had regular discussions with the external auditor and the Group Head of Internal The GAC undertook the following activities in the Audit, with an opportunity at each meeting for discharge of its responsibilities: discussions to take place without management Internal controls over financial reporting.
The Committee satisfied itself that the system of Effectiveness of the internal audit function.
internal control and compliance over financial The Committee satisfied itself that the internal reporting was effective through regular reports audit function was effective and adequately from the Group Finance Director, the Group resourced through regular meetings held with, Chief Accounting Officer, and the Group Head and reports provided by, the Group Head of of Internal Audit.
The Committee reviewed Internal Audit on internal audit issues, including minutes of the Group Risk Committee GRC the adequacy and effectiveness of resources.
and executive committee meetings including the The Committee reviewed an annual report on GMB, Risk Management Meetings and the the activities of the internal audit function and Disclosure Committee.
The Committee planned activities for the following year.
undertook an annual review of the effectiveness of HSBCs system of internal control over Legal and regulatory environment.
HSBCs internal control Committee received regular updates on the system is described on page 240.
The application of changes in law, regulation, Committee also reviewed the adequacy of accounting policies and practices and regulatory resources, qualifications and experience of staff developments, including reports on Basel III, in the finance function.
Reports were submitted the recommendations of the Independent to the Committee on internal control matters in Commission on Banking, regulation of Global relation to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The Group Systematically Important Financial Institutions, Finance Director, the Group Chief Risk Officer, and the Dodd-Frank Act.
Regular reports were the Group Head of Internal Audit, the Group received on litigation.
The Committee received Chief Accounting Officer and other senior reports on meetings with the FSA as part of the executives attended Committee meetings.
The FSAs close and continuous supervisory regime.
231 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board committees Group Audit Committee Group Risk Committee External auditor.
The Committee provided Terms of reference and effectiveness of the oversight of the external auditor through regular Committee.
The Committee undertook a meetings with the external auditor, including review of its terms of reference and of its own meetings without management present.
Changes were made to the terms were received on the external auditors strategy of reference to minimise the overlap of in relation to the audit of financial statements responsibilities between the GAC and the GRC.
and the progress of the audit.
The Committee In addition to the scheduled Committee has approved policies on the provision of nonmeetings, the Chairman met regularly with the audit services by the external auditor and its Group Finance Director, the Group Chief affiliates and on the employment by HSBC of Accounting Officer, the Group Chief Risk Officer, former employees of the external auditor or the Group Head of Internal Audit, other senior its affiliates.
The Committee reviewed the executives and the external auditor.
independence and objectivity of the external auditor through meetings with the external Terms of reference and subsidiary company auditor, annual reports on employment of audit oversight former employees of the external auditor and its affiliates and quarterly reports on provision of Since May 2011, the GACs responsibility for nonnon-audit services.
The external auditor executive oversight of internal controls has been provided written confirmation of its limited to oversight of internal controls over independence under industry standards.
The financial reporting, as a consequence of changes Committee approved the remuneration and made to the terms of reference of the GRC and the terms of engagement of, and recommended to GAC to minimise the overlap between the the Board the re-appointment of, the external committees.
To ensure consistency of scope and approach by Financial reporting.
The Committee advised subsidiary company audit committees, the GAC has the Board on meeting its external financial established core terms of reference to guide reporting obligations through a review of subsidiary companies when adopting terms of financial statements, interim reports and interim reference for their audit committees.
The management statements prior to approval by the Committees endorsement is required for any Board.
The Committee endorsed for inclusion in proposed material changes to subsidiary audit the financial statements the going concern committee terms of reference and for appointments statement and the statement of compliance with to such committees.
the provisions of the Rules Governing the A forum for the chairmen of our principal Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of subsidiary committees with responsibility for nonHong Kong Limited and the UK Corporate executive oversight of financial reporting and riskGovernance Code.
The Committee received related matters is held to facilitate a consistent reports on proposed changes to the Groups approach to the way in which these subsidiary disclosures in the financial statements and the committees operate.
The last forum was held in adequacy of procedures to identify transactions November 2010 and the next will be held in June and matters requiring disclosure under certain 2012. accounting standards.
A review of accounting policies and practices, including approval of the Arrangements relating to the external critical accounting policies, was undertaken.
auditor The Committee considered accounting provisioning for, and disclosure of, certain The Committee has recommended to the Board that litigation and regulatory matters with external KPMG Audit Plc be reappointed as auditor at the legal counsel providing a status update on these forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Committee reviewed minutes of An analysis of the remuneration paid in respect the Disclosure Committee.
A presentation was of audit and non-audit services provided by KPMG received from the Global Head of Tax on Audit Plc and its affiliates KPMG for each of the current tax issues.
The disclosure of the results past three years is disclosed in Note 8 on the of the European Banking Authority EBA Financial Statements.
EU-wide stress testing programme was considered.
Reports were received on economic The Board has approved, on the hedges which do not meet the requirements of recommendation of the Committee, a policy for hedge accounting.
the employment by HSBC of former employees 232 1 Members Meetings attended of KPMG and an annual report is received by the 2 Committee on such former employees who are R A Fairhead Chairman 4 3 employed and the number in senior positions.
This J D Coombe 6 J W J Hughes-Hallett 5 report enables the Committee to consider whether J R Lomax 5 there has been any impairment, or appearance of Meetings held in 2011 6 impairment, of the external auditors judgement or independence in respect of the audit.
1 All members are independent non-executive Directors.
2 Took a temporary leave of absence due to illness.
Resumed The policies for the pre-approval of specific the role of Chairman in January 2012. services that may be provided by the principal 3 Chaired all meetings in 2011 as acting Chairman.
auditor are kept under review by the Committee and amended as necessary to meet the dual objectives of John Trueman, a non-executive director of ensuring that we benefit in a cost effective manner HSBC Bank plc and Chairman of its risk and audit from the cumulative knowledge and experience of committees, has been invited by the GRC to attend our auditor, while also ensuring that our external its meetings.
His experience of risk-related matters auditor maintains the necessary degree of in the financial services industry is valued by the independence and objectivity.
policies apply to all services where any HSBC company pays for the service, or is a beneficiary Governance or addressee of the service, and has selected or All of HSBCs activities involve, to varying degrees, influenced the choice of KPMG.
All services the measurement, evaluation, acceptance and provided by KPMG during 2011 were pre-approved management of risk or combinations of risks.
The by the Committee or were entered into under preBoard, advised by the Committee, requires and approval policies established by the Committee.
encourages a strong risk governance culture which The pre-approved services relate to regulatory shapes the Groups attitude to risk.
The Board and reviews, agreed-upon procedures reports, other types the Committee oversee the maintenance and of attestation reports, the provision of advice and development of a strong risk management other non-audit services allowed under SEC framework by the continual monitoring of the risk independence rules.
The services fall into the environment and top and emerging risks facing the categories of audit services, audit-related services, Group, and mitigating actions planned and taken.
tax services and other services.
The Committee monitors the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal controls Group Risk Committee other than controls over financial reporting, which The GRC is responsible for advising the Board on are monitored by the GAC.
high-level risk-related matters and risk governance The governance structure for the management and for non-executive oversight of risk management of risk at HSBC is set out below.
Similar governance and internal controls other than over financial arrangements are in place in major operating reporting.
233 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board committees Group Risk Committee Authority Membership Responsibilities Board Executive and non-executive Approves risk appetite, strategy and performance targets Directors for the Group Approves appointment of senior risk officers Delegates authority for risk management GRC Independent non-executive Directors Advises the Board on: risk appetite and alignment with strategy alignment of remuneration with risk appetite through the Group Remuneration Committee risks associated with proposed strategic acquisitions and disposals Reviews the effectiveness of the Groups systems of risk management and internal controls other than over financial reporting Oversees the maintenance and development of a supportive culture in relation to the management of risk Risk Management Meeting Group Chief Risk Officer Formulates high-level Group risk policy Group Chief Executive Exercises delegated risk management authority Group Finance Director Oversees implementation of risk appetite and controls Senior management Monitors all categories of risk and determines appropriate mitigating action Global Risk Management Board Group Chief Risk Officer Supports the Risk Management Meeting and the Group Chief Risk Officer in providing strategic direction for the Chief Risk Officers of HSBCs global Global Risk function, sets priorities and oversees their businesses and regions execution Heads of risk areas within the Global Oversees consistent approach to accountability for, and Risk Function mitigation of, risk across the Global Risk function Subsidiary board committees Independent non-executive directors Provides certification to the GRC or intermediate risk responsible for risk-related matters and other independent members committee on risk-related matters and internal controls other than over financial reporting of relevant subsidiaries Risk reporting and monitoring presentations from the Group Head of Compliance, Group Head of Internal Audit and other business, The GRC regularly monitors: function and risk heads.
the Groups risk appetite and risk profile against key performance risk indicators, as set out in the Risk appetite Groups Risk Appetite Statement, on a GroupRisk appetite is a key component of our management wide, global business and regional basis: of risk.
The Board, advised by the GRC, approves the top and emerging risks facing the Group: the Groups risk appetite, which describes the types and and levels of risk that the Group is prepared to accept in executing our strategy and which is set out the risk profiles for separate categories of risk in the Groups Risk Appetite Statement.
Embedding within the Groups business identified in the the Risk Appetite Statement and the related Groups Risk Appetite Statement, on a Groupmonitoring and reporting framework across the wide, global business and regional basis: Group has continued to be an area of significant and reviews the mitigating actions proposed by focus in 2011 with initiatives undertaken to establish management.
and develop: Reports on these items are presented at each Risk Appetite Statements for regions and global meeting of the Committee.
Regular reports from the businesses, which are aligned with Group Risk Management Meeting, which is the executive strategy and the Groups risk appetite: and body responsible for overseeing risk, are also reporting of risk appetite profile against the key presented.
performance risk indicators set out in those Risk In carrying out its responsibilities the Appetite Statements to the Risk Management Committee is closely supported by the Group Chief Meeting and to the GRC.
The Committee also receives regular 234 Our risk appetite framework is underpinned by These core characteristics are applied to define the following core characteristics: the Risk Appetite Statements on a Group-wide, global business and regional level.
The relevant Risk appetite: core characteristics strategic and operational objectives, within which we Strong balance sheet expect businesses and regions to operate, are Strong brand expressed quantitatively across the following Healthy capital position dimensions: Conservative liquidity management Risk must be commensurate with sustainable returns Robust Group structure of separate legal entities The global businesses should produce sustainable long-term earnings growth Risk diversification Strategic and operational objectives Earnings 1.
Generate sustainable economic profit commensurate with the risks taken Capital and liquidity 2.
Maintain capital in excess of regulatory and internal Economic Capital requirements 3.
Maintain a strong tier 1 ratio comprising a high proportion of core tier 1 4.
Maintain a well diversified funding structure with a particular focus on advances to core funding ratios 5.
Off-balance sheet vehicles should not be material in size relative to the total balance sheet Impairments and 6.
Manage impairments and expected losses within the Groups tolerance expected losses Risk category and 7.
Manage all risk categories within the risk appetite diversification 8.
Harness benefits from business diversification to generate non-volatile and sustainable earnings 9.
Compete for business with international customers where market connectivity is critical: businesses with local customers where we have local scale, and products where global scale is critical to effectiveness Scenario and stress 10.
Use robust and appropriate scenario stress testing to assess the potential impact on the Groups capital testing adequacy and strategic plans Top and emerging risks The GRC discusses top and emerging risks with management at each of its meetings.
Current top and Identifying and monitoring top and emerging risks is emerging risks, which are summarised below, are integral to our approach to risk management.
We viewed as falling under three broad categories: define a top risk as being a current, emerged risk macro-economic and geopolitical: macro-prudential, which has arisen across any of our risk categories, regulatory and legal risks to our business model: and regions or global businesses and has the potential to risks related to our business operations, governance have a material impact on our financial results or our and internal control systems.
reputation and the sustainability of our long-term business model, and which may form and crystallise Further details of top and emerging risks within a one year horizon.
We consider an emerging identified through our risk management processes risk to be one which has large uncertain outcomes are set out on page 99. which may form and crystallise beyond a one year horizon and, if it were to crystallise, could have a material effect on our long-term strategy.
235 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board committees Group Risk Committee Top and emerging risks Categories Macro-economic and geopolitical risk Eurozone risk of sovereign default Eurozone member departing from the currency union Increased geopolitical risk in certain regions Macro-prudential, regulatory and legal risks to our Regulatory developments affecting our business model and Group business model profitability Regulatory investigations and requirements relating to conduct of business and financial crime negatively affecting our results and brand Dispute risk Risks related to our business operations, governance and Challenges to achieving our strategy in a downturn internal control systems Internet crime and fraud Social media risk Level of change creating operational complexity and heightened operational risk Information security risk Stress testing Internal Audit has conducted a review of stress testing within the Group including model Our stress testing and scenario analysis programme development, validation and use, and the is central to the monitoring of top and emerging methodology, governance and management of risks.
It highlights the vulnerabilities of our business enterprise-wide stress testing.
The development of and capital plans to the adverse effects of extreme HSBCs stress testing and scenario testing analysis but plausible events.
programme will continue to be an area of focus for The outcome of the testing and analysis is also the Committee.
used to assess the potential impact of the relevant scenarios on the demand for regulatory capital Committee activities compared with its supply.
The GRC undertook the following key activities in Management develops action plans to mitigate the discharge of its responsibilities: risks identified.
The extent to which those action Oversight of executive risk management.
plans are implemented depends on managements Regular reports and presentations were received evaluation of the risks and their potential from the Group Chief Risk Officer including at consequences, taking into account HSBCs risk each meeting a presentation of a risk map, appetite.
which provided detailed analysis, on a GroupFurther information on scenario stress testing is wide, global business and regional basis, of risk set out on page 188. profiles for categories of risk identified in the Group Risk Appetite Statement, and of a top and Stress tests and scenario tests fall into three emerging risks report which summarised main classifications: regulatory scenarios: Groupproposed mitigating actions for identified risks.
wide business scenarios: and specific business or The Committee reviewed minutes of the GAC, exposure scenarios.
Group Remuneration Committee and executive During the year, the GRC reviewed the outcome committee meetings including the GMB, the of Group-wide stress tests and scenario analysis Risk Management Meeting and the Group undertaken in accordance with the requirements of Reputational Risk Policy Committee.
Reports the FSA, the EBA and the IMF involving analysis of were received from the Group General Counsel capital levels and requirements in various stress on forward-looking legal risks, the Group Head scenarios.
We satisfied the required thresholds in of Compliance on forward-looking compliance each of these tests.
The GRC also considered the risks and from the Group Remuneration outcome of stress tests undertaken on specific Committee and Head of Group Performance and business risks and exposures, including exposure to Reward.
Updates were received on the on-going eurozone counterparties and sovereigns and to the investigations by US regulatory and law residential mortgage business in Hong Kong, and the enforcement authorities and US dispute risk, and implementation of action plans to mitigate risks compliance matters in the US.
Finance Director and the Group Chief Accounting Officer regularly attended meetings 236 of the Committee and other senior financial, presentations on the procedure for determining risk, internal audit, legal and compliance individual variable pay awards including the executives attended as appropriate.
risk assessment process for identifying matters for which risk-related adjustments may be made Stress testing.
The Committee reviewed the to individual and team awards.
The process by outcome of stress tests as referred to in the which an individuals adherence to HSBC section headed Stress Testing on page 236.
Values and the Groups risk-related policies and Review of effectiveness of internal controls.
procedures is taken into account in performance A series of presentations were made, and reports assessment and determination of variable pay submitted by, the Group Chief Risk Officer and was also presented to the Committee.
The other business and function heads to the Committee considered the framework to be Committee on the risk control framework in used by the Group Remuneration Committee their respective business or function.
Reports in exercising its discretion in delivering from the Group Head of Internal Audit on the performance awards for the 2011 performance internal audit process and weaknesses identified year and the proposed design of the performance in internal controls other than over financial scorecard for the 2012 performance year.
The reporting were presented to the Committee, as Committee provided advice and feedback on well as reports from the external auditor and risk-related matters to the Group Remuneration regulators relating to the internal control system.
The Committee undertook an annual review Top and emerging risks.
In monitoring top and process of HSBCs system of internal controls, emerging risks the Committee received regular other than over financial reporting.
HSBCs reports from the Group Chief Risk Officer internal control system is described on and the Group Head of Compliance as well page 240.
The Committee had regular as other members of senior management on discussions at meetings with the external auditor risks identified and developments in the Groups and the Group Head of Internal Audit, with business, including the changing regulatory opportunities at each meeting for discussions to environment and global market risk such as the take place without management present.
implications of the eurozone crisis and the Risk appetite.
The Group Risk Appetite impact of the tightening of liquidity in the Statement for 2011 was recommended to the money markets.
The Committee reviewed Board for approval following consideration of minutes of executive committee meetings the alignment of risk appetite and Group including meetings of the GMB, the Risk strategy.
The Committee undertook regular Management Meeting and Group Reputational reviews of the Groups risk profile against the Risk Policy Committee.
key performance indicators set out in the Risk Acquisitions.
The Committee received reports Appetite Statement and considered the need for and presentations on risk issues relating to any adjustment to the risk appetite.
Reports and proposed strategic acquisitions and advised presentations were received from the Group the Board appropriately.
The Group Head of Chief Risk Officer, including on liquidity and Mergers and Acquisitions and other members capital management and the results of HSBCs of senior management involved in the proposed stress testing and scenario analysis programme.
acquisitions attended meetings of the Committee Alignment of remuneration with risk as appropriate.
Presentations and reports were Terms of reference and Committee received on remuneration-related proposals to effectiveness.
The Committee undertook a assist the Committee in giving advice to the review of its terms of reference and of its own Group Remuneration Committee on the effectiveness.
Changes were made to the alignment of remuneration with risk appetite.
Committees terms of reference to minimise the The GRC considered risk-related issues to be overlap of responsibilities between the GRC taken into account by the Group Remuneration and the GAC.
Committee, including when determining the total variable pay funding pool for the 2011 In addition to the scheduled Committee performance year.
The funding methodology, meetings, the Chairman met regularly with the including the proposed ratio between variable Group Chief Risk Officer, the Group Head of pay funding, dividends and capital retained, was Internal Audit, the Group Finance Director, other also considered.
The Committee received senior executives and the external auditor.
237 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board committees Group Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Corporate Sustainability Committee Professional external advice on US compliance Nomination Committee matters has been provided by Promontory Financial 1 Members Meetings attended Group, US financial consultants.
2 Sir Simon Robertson Chairman 4 3 D J Flint 4 Terms of reference and subsidiary company 4 R A Fairhead 3 risk oversight J W J Hughes-Hallett 4 Sir Brian Williamson 4 Since May 2011, the GRC has been responsible for Meetings held in 2011 4 non-executive oversight of risk management and internal controls, other than internal controls over 1 Since 2 December 2011, all members are independent nonfinancial reporting, as a consequence of changes executive Directors.
made to the terms of reference of the GRC and the 2 Appointed Chairman 2 December 2011.
3 Retired as Chairman and a member of the Committee on GAC to minimise the overlap between the 2 December 2011. committees.
4 Took a temporary leave of absence due to illness.
To ensure consistency of scope and approach On 2 December 2011, Sir Simon Robertson was by subsidiary company committees, the GRC appointed Chairman of the Nomination Committee has established core terms of reference to guide in succession to D J Flint who stepped down from subsidiary companies when adopting terms of the Nomination Committee.
D J Flint has been reference for their non-executive risk committees invited to continue to attend meetings of the or audit committees if those committees are also Committee.
The Committees endorsement is required for any proposed material Committee activities changes to subsidiary risk committee terms of reference and for appointments to such committees.
The Committee undertook the following key activities in the discharge of its responsibilities: A forum for the chairmen of our principal subsidiary committees with responsibility for nonAppointments of new Director: The executive oversight of financial reporting and riskCommittee oversaw the process for the related matters is held to facilitate a consistent appointment of L M L Cha as a Director.
approach to the way in which these subsidiary L M L Cha has been deputy chairman of The committees operate.
The last forum was held in Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation November 2010 and the next will be held in June since 2 March 2007 and was therefore well 2012. known to members of the Board prior to her appointment as a Director.
Neither external Group Remuneration Committee consultants nor advertising were considered 1 2 Members Meetings attended necessary in relation to this appointment.
J L Thornton Chairman 8 Board appointment process.
The Committee J D Coombe 9 leads the process for Board appointments, W S H Laidlaw 9 G Morgan 8 with the support of external consultants as appropriate, and has satisfied itself that Meetings held in 2011 9 appropriate plans are in place for orderly 1 All members are independent non-executive Directors.
succession to the Board reflecting an 2 During the year two meetings were held at short notice.
appropriate balance of skills and experience on the Board.
The Group Remuneration Committee is responsible for approving remuneration policy.
As part of its Forward planning.
The Committee maintains role, it considers the terms of bonus plans, share a forward-looking schedule of potential plans, other long-term incentive plans and the candidates for appointment to the Board that individual remuneration packages of executive takes into account the needs and development Directors and other senior Group employees, of the Groups businesses and the expected including all in positions of significant influence retirement dates of current Directors.
and those having an impact on our risk profile and in Size, structure and composition.
The doing so takes into account the pay and conditions Committee monitored the size, structure and across the Group.
No directors are involved in composition of the Board through consideration deciding their own remuneration.
of the skills, knowledge and experience required The Directors Remuneration Report is set out of the Board and the skills, knowledge and on pages 256 to 274.
238 experience of the current Directors.
The Board, committees of the Board and executive Committee considered the re-election of management on such matters.
Directors at the Annual General Meeting and on HSBC has a Corporate Sustainability the recommendation of the Committee, the department within Group Head Office and in each Board has decided that all Directors should be of our major regions and countries of operation.
subject to re-election by shareholders in 2012.
At an operational level, implementation of our Gender diversity.
The Committee reviewed sustainability policies is managed primarily by Lord Davies of Abersochs report Women on Group Corporate Sustainability, Group Human Boards and amendments to the UK Corporate Resources and Global Risk.
The benefits of diversity HSBC reports on progress in developing and continue to influence succession planning and implementing our sustainability strategy annually are a key criteria in the instructions to external in the HSBC Sustainability Report, which is search consultants.
independently verified and prepared using the Global Terms of reference and Committee Reporting Initiative.
The Committee undertook a verified the Groups commitment to carbon review of its terms of reference and amendments neutrality and adherence to the Equator Principles.
were made to make explicit reference to the The HSBC Sustainability Report 2011 will be issued need to have regard to the benefits of diversity on 25 May 2012 and will be available at when identifying suitable candidates for www.
The effectiveness of the Committee was reviewed as part of the Corporate sustainability Boards performance evaluation.
At HSBC, we recognise that environmental, social Before recommending an appointment to the and economic issues can affect the Groups longBoard, the Committee evaluates the balance of skills, term success as a business.
For us, corporate knowledge and experience of the Board and, in light sustainability means achieving sustainable profit of this, and taking into account the needs of the growth so that we can continue to reward Groups businesses, identifies the role and shareholders and employees, build long-lasting capabilities required for a particular appointment.
relationships with customers and suppliers, pay taxes Candidates are considered on merit against this and duties in those countries where we operate, and criteria.
Care is taken to ensure that appointees invest in communities for future growth.
have enough time to devote to us.
Prospective Our continuing financial success depends, in Directors are asked to identify any significant other part, on our ability to identify and address certain commitments and confirm they have sufficient time factors which present risks or opportunities for the to discharge what is expected of them.
These can affect our reputation, drive employee engagement, help manage the risks of Corporate Sustainability Committee lending, leverage savings through eco-efficiency and Members Meetings attended secure new revenue streams.
They generally fall into one or more of the four broad areas discussed below.
N R N Murthy Chairman 4 1 L M L Cha 3 2 V H C Cheng 1 Business finance 3 G V I Davis 4 3 Lord May 3 We aim to build long-term customer relationships 3 Dame Mary Marsh 4 around the world through the provision of a consistent and high-quality service and customer Meetings held in 2011 4 experience.
We use the benefits of our scale, 1 Appointed a member on 3 May 2011.
Eligible to attend financial strength, geographical reach and strong 3 meetings.
brand value to achieve this.
2 Retired as a Director on 27 May 2011.
We aim to take advantage of the opportunities 3 Non-Director members of the Committee.
and manage the risks presented by emerging global trends by developing sustainable business models to Sustainability governance address them.
We understand that the world is The Corporate Sustainability Committee is changing: in 2011 the worlds population was responsible for overseeing the Groups Corporate estimated to have passed seven billion people, Sustainability policies principally environmental, compared to approximately three billion just social and ethical matters and for advising the 239 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview
