Geographical regions businesses, and our strong balance sheet generating a resilient stream of earnings.
The geographical regions share responsibility for executing the strategies set by the global businesses.
Based on these long-term trends and our They represent the Group to clients, regulators, competitive position, our strategy has two parts: employee groups and other stakeholders, allocate Network of businesses connecting the world capital, manage risk appetite, liquidity and funding HSBC is ideally positioned to capture the by legal entity and are accountable for profit and loss growing international financial flows.
Our performance in line with the global business plans.
franchise puts us in a privileged position to Within the geographical regions, the Group is serve corporate clients as they grow from small structured as a network of regional banks and locally enterprises into large and international incorporated regulated banking entities.
Each bank is corporates, and personal clients as they become separately capitalised in accordance with applicable more affluent.
Access to local retail funding and prudential reporting requirements and maintains a our international product capabilities allows us capital buffer consistent with the Groups appetite to offer distinctive solutions to these clients in a for risk in its country or region.
Each bank manages profitable manner.
its own funding and liquidity within parameters set Wealth management and retail with local scale centrally, and is required to consider its risk appetite, we will leverage our position in faster-growing consistent with the Groups risk appetite for the markets to capture social mobility and wealth relevant country or region.
creation through our Wealth Management and Private Banking businesses.
We will only invest Global functions in retail businesses in markets where we can Our global functions are Communications, Company achieve profitable scale.
Secretaries, Corporate Sustainability, Finance, Implementing this strategy relies on actions Human Resources, Internal Audit, Legal, Marketing, across three areas: Risk including Compliance and Strategy and Planning.
They establish and manage all policies, Capital deployment five filters we are processes and delivery platforms relevant to their improving the way we deploy capital as part of activities, are fully accountable for their costs our efforts to achieve our targeted return on globally and are responsible for managing their equity of between 12% and 15% over the headcount.
We have introduced a strategic and financial framework assessing each of our Strategic direction businesses on a set of five strategic evaluation criteria, namely international connectivity, Our strategy is aligned to two long-term trends: economic development, profitability, cost efficiency and liquidity.
The results of this Financial flows the world economy is review determine whether we invest in, turn becoming ever-more connected.
Growth in around, continue with or exit businesses.
world trade and cross-border capital flows continues to outstrip growth of gross domestic Cost efficiency four programmes we have product.
Financial flows between countries and launched four programmes which we believe regions are highly concentrated.
Over the next will achieve sustainable savings of between decade we expect 35 markets to represent 90% US$2.5bn and US$3.5bn by the end of 2013, of world trade growth and a similar degree of resulting in a leaner and more values-driven concentration in cross-border capital flows.
These are: i implement consistent business models, ii re-engineer operational Economic development by 2050, we expect processes, iii streamline IT, and iv economies currently deemed emerging to have re-engineer global functions.
Sustainable cost increased five-fold in size, benefiting from savings are intended to facilitate self-funded demographics and urbanisation, and they will be growth in key markets and investment in new larger than the developed world.
By then, we products, processes and technology, and provide expect 19 of the 30 largest economies will be a buffer against regulatory and inflationary markets that are currently described as emerging.
HSBC is one of the few truly international Growth we continue to position ourselves for banks and our advantages lie in our network of growth.
We are increasing our relevance in fastmarkets relevant for international financial flows, growing markets and in wealth management, our access and exposure to high growth markets and 11 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview
