Top and emerging risks A detailed account of these risks is provided on page 99.
Further comments on expected risks and We classify certain risks as top or emerging.
We uncertainties are made throughout the Annual Report define a top risk as being a current, emerged risk and Accounts 2011, particularly in the section on which has arisen across any of our risk categories, Risk, pages 98 to 210. regions or global businesses and has the potential to have a material impact on our financial results or our Risk appetite reputation and the sustainability of our long-term business model, and which may form and crystallise Risk appetite is a key component of our management within a one year horizon.
We consider an emerging of risk and describes the types and level of risk we risk to be one which has large uncertain outcomes are prepared to accept in delivering our strategy.
It is which may form and crystallise beyond a one year discussed further on page 234. horizon and, if it were to crystallise, could have a Our risk appetite may be revised in response to material effect on our long term strategy.
the top and emerging risks we have identified.
Our approach to identifying and monitoring top and emerging risks is informed by the risk factors.
HSBC Values All of our activities involve, to varying degrees, The role of HSBC Values in daily operating practice the measurement, evaluation, acceptance and is significant in the context of the financial services management of risk or combinations of risks which sector and the wider economy, particularly in the we assess on a Group-wide basis.
Top and emerging light of developments and changes in regulatory risks fall under the following three broad categories: policy, investor confidence and societys view of the role of banks.
We expect our executives and macro-economic and geopolitical risk: employees to act with courageous integrity in the macro-prudential, regulatory and legal risks to execution of their duties by being: our business model: risks related to our business operations, dependable and doing the right thing: governance and internal control systems.
open to different ideas and cultures: and connected with our customers, communities, During 2011 our senior management paid regulators and each other.
particular attention to a number of top and emerging risks which are summarised below: We continue to enhance our values-led culture by embedding HSBC Values into how we conduct Macro-economic and geopolitical risk our business and through the personal sponsorship Eurozone risk of sovereign defaults of the Group Chief Executive and senior executives.
Eurozone member departing from the currency union These initiatives will continue in 2012 and beyond.
Increased geopolitical risk in certain regions Macro-prudential, regulatory and legal risks to our Key performance indicators business model Regulatory developments affecting our business model and The Board of Directors and the GMB monitor HSBCs Group profitability progress against its strategic objectives.
Progress is Regulatory investigations and requirements relating to assessed by comparison with our strategy, our operating conduct of business and financial crime negatively affecting plan and our historical performance using both financial our results and brand and non-financial measures.
Dispute risk Risks related to our business operations, governance and Following a review of our high-level key internal control systems performance indicators KPIs and reflecting the Challenges to achieving our strategy in a downturn increased focus on the quality of the capital base, the Internet crime and fraud GMB decided to adopt a core tier 1 capital ratio instead Social media risk of a tier 1 capital ratio as the primary indicator of the Level of change creating operational complexity and strength of our capital base and its ability to support the heightened operational risk growth of the business and meet regulatory requirements.
Information security risk The GMB remains focused on improving our capital deployment to support the achievement of our medium All of the above risks are regarded as top risks term target for return on equity of between 12 and 15%, with the exception of social media risk which is an utilising the five filter analysis across the portfolio of emerging risk.
We will continue to evaluate our businesses in 2012 using this methodology.
13 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Overview continued KPIs Strategy Capital deployment improving the way we deploy capital Return on average ordinary 8 9 Core tier 1 capital Advances to core funding ratio 3 shareholders equity 10.5 15.9 10.1 2009 2010 2011 9.4 8.1 10.9 9.5 7.0 5.1 4.7 HBEU HBAP HBUS Other HBEU HBAP HBUS Other '07 '08 '09 '10 '11 '07 '08 '09 '10 '11 entities entities Measure: percentage profit attributable Measure: core tier 1 capital comprising Measure: loans and advances to customers to shareholders divided by average shareholders equity and related nonas a percentage of the total of core ordinary shareholders equity.
controlling interests less regulatory customer deposits and term funding with a deductions and adjustments.
remaining term to maturity in excess of one year.
Target: to maintain a return in the medium Target: to maintain a strong capital base to Target: to maintain an advances to core term of between 12% and 15%.
support the development of the business funding ratio below limits set for each and meet regulatory capital requirements at entity.
Outcome: return on average ordinary Outcome: the decrease in core tier 1 Outcome: the strong funding position of shareholders equity was below the target capital to 10.1% reflected an increase in HBAP has allowed us to take advantage of range, but 1.4 percentage points higher RWAs due to a growth in lending loan growth opportunities during the year, than 2010. balances, including those held for sale and while reduced lending in the US resulted an increase in the RWAs of our mainland in further strengthening of our funding China associates, as well as the position.
Strategy Cost efficiency a lean and values-driven organisation Cost efficiency Employee engagement 2011: underlying cost efficiency 61% HSBC Actual 60.1 Financial Services Average 57.5 Global Best in Class 55.2 77 75 74 52 72 72 71 69 49.4 68 67 67 65 64 63 63 60 '07 '08 '09 '10 '11 '07 '08 '09 '10 '11 Measure: percentage total operating expenses divided by net Measure: percentage measure of employees emotional and operating income before loan impairment and other credit risk rational attachment to HSBC, a combination of advocacy, provisions.
Target: to be between 48% and 52%, a range within which Target: to achieve a 72% global rating in 2011, with progressive business is expected to remain to accommodate both returns to improvement to best in class.
shareholders and the need for continued investment in support of future business growth.
Outcome: on a reported and underlying basis the ratio was Outcome: Employee engagement behind global best in class.
outside the target range, in part due to notable items including Improvement in 2011 despite a challenging environment.
restructuring costs, customer redress programmes and a bank levy introduced by the UK government, but also due to an increase in staff costs reflecting wage inflation in key markets and higher average FTEs.
14 Key Performance Indicators Key Performance Indicators 105.0 103.0 99.8 55.5 70.3 75.0 101.0 98.3 85.7 85.9 89.1 86.4 Key Performance Indicators Key Performance Indicators Growth continue to position ourselves for growth Strategy Risk-adjusted revenue growth Basic earnings Dividends per ordinary per ordinary share share growth 2011: underlying growth 2% 37 1.4 11 14 6 13 11 0.9 0.7 0.4 0.3 29 8 47 30 '07 '08 '09 '10 '11 '07 '08 '09 '10 '11 '07 '08 '09 '10 '11 Measure: percentage increase in reported Measure: US$ level of basic earnings Measure: percentage increase in net operating income after loan impairment generated per ordinary share.
dividends per share since last year, based and other credit risk charges since last on dividends paid in respect of the year to year.
Target: to deliver consistent growth in risk Target: to deliver consistent growth in Target: to deliver sustained dividend per adjusted revenues.
Outcome: reported risk-adjusted revenue Outcome: Earnings per share EPS Outcome: dividends per share increased increased primarily due to favourable increased in 2011 reflecting significant by 14%.
movements on the fair value of own debt favourable movements on the fair value of due to credit spreads and on an underlying own debt due to credit spreads which basis due to lower loan impairment resulted in an increase in reported profits.
Customer recommendation Brand value Target HSBC RBWM CMB 1st 1st p pllace ace US US$ $28.5b 28.5bn n 79% 75% 75% 1s 1st t pl pla ac ce e 3r 3rd p d pllac ace e US US$27.6b $27.6bn n US US$27.4 $27.4b bn n 35% 1st 1st p pllace ace US US$ $25.4b 25.4bn n 2011 2011 20 2009 09 201 2010 0 2011 2011 2012 2012 Measure: we measure our customer satisfaction through an Measure: in 2011, we moved our brand measure to the Brand independent market research survey of retail banking and business Finance valuation method as reported in The Banker Magazine.
banking customers in selected countries, using a specific metric Our previous measure only gave us a score derived from a survey of customer recommendation the CRI to score performance.
of our personal and small business customers.
The Brand Finance We benchmark our performance against key competitors in each methodology gives us a more complete measure of the strength of market and set targets for performance based on our peer group the brand and its impact across all business lines and customer of banks.
It is a wholly independent measure and is publicly reported.
Target: the Group target is for 75% of all the selected markets Target: a top 3 position in the banking peer group.
based on their weighted revenue to meet their CRI targets.
Outcome: CMB Business Banking exceeded its target.
RBWM Outcome: HSBCs brand value in 2009 followed a sharp drop in experienced a challenging environment in many of its large retail industry brand values in 2008 9 which coincided with the markets, with strong local competition and negative reaction to financial crisis.
The subsequent increase reflected a general rise some strategic portfolio management activity, and only met its in values, with HSBCs brand remaining one of the strongest in target in 35% of the markets by weighted revenue.
It got to within the sector.
2 percentage points of its target in a further 44% of markets.
See page 46 for further details.
RBWM had a strong fourth quarter, with 77% of the markets meeting target and it finished the year ranked first in five of the six markets surveyed in Asia.
Reconciliation of reported and Underlying performance underlying profit before tax The following tables compare our underlying performance in 2011 and 2010 with reported profits In addition to results reported on an IFRSs basis, we in those years.
Equivalent tables are provided for measure our performance internally on a like-for-like each of HSBCs global businesses and geographical basis by eliminating the effects of foreign currency segments in the Form 20-F filed with the SEC, translation differences, acquisitions and disposals which is available on www.
of subsidiaries and businesses, and fair value movements on own debt attributable to credit spread The foreign currency translation differences where the net result of such movements will be zero reflect the relative weakening of the US dollar upon maturity of the debt: all of which distort yearagainst most major currencies during 2011. on-year comparisons.
We refer to this as our The following acquisitions and disposals underlying performance.
affected both comparisons: Reported results include the effects of the above the gain of US$62m on reclassification of Bao items.
They are excluded when monitoring progress Viet Holdings Bao Viet from an availableagainst operating plans and past results because for-sale asset to an associate in January 2010: management believes that the underlying basis more accurately reflects operating performance.
the gain of US$66m on sale of our stake in Wells Fargo HSBC Trade Bank in March 2010: Constant currency Constant currency comparatives for 2010 referred to in the the gain of US$107m on disposal of HSBC commentaries are computed by retranslating into US dollars Insurance Brokers Limited in April 2010: for non-US dollar branches, subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates: the dilution gains which arose on our holding in the income statements for 2010 at the average rates of Ping An Insurance Group Company of China, exchange for 2011: and Limited Ping An following the issue of share the balance sheet at 31 December 2010 at the prevailing capital to third parties in May 2010 and June rates of exchange on 31 December 2011.
2011 of US$188m and US$181m, respectively: No adjustment has been made to the exchange rates used to translate foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities the loss of US$42m on the sale of our into the functional currencies of any HSBC branches, subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates.
When reference is investment in British Arab Commercial Bank made to constant currency in tables or commentaries, plc in October 2010: comparative data reported in the functional currencies of HSBCs operations have been translated at the appropriate the gain of US$74m on the deconsolidation of exchange rates applied in the current period on the basis private equity funds following the management described above.
buy-out of Headland Capital Partners Ltd formerly known as HSBC Private Equity Asia Ltd in November 2010: the gain on the sale of Eversholt Rail Group in December 2010 US$255m : 16 the gain of US$83m on the sale of HSBC Afore control and fully consolidated SDB in July S. A. fide C. V. HSBC Afore in August 2011: 2011: and a loss of US$48m being our share of the loss the dilution gain of US$27m in December 2011 recorded by Ping An on remeasurement of its as a result of the merger between HSBC Saudi previously held equity interest in Shenzen Arabia Limited and SABB Securities Limited.
Additional information is available on the HSBC website www.
Reported profit before tax of US$21.9bn in 2011 a negative movement of US$63m in 2010.
On an was US$2.8bn higher than in 2010, primarily due to underlying basis, profit before tax was 6% lower than US$3.9bn of favourable fair value movements on in 2010 due to increased operating expenses which were own debt attributable to credit spreads compared with 18 partly offset by lower loan impairment charges and other decline in loan impairment charges was in RBWM credit risk provisions.
in North America, reflecting lower balances in our consumer finance portfolios and lower lending The results of the Group continued to be balances and improved credit quality in Card and adversely affected by the losses in the US consumer Retail Services.
There was also a notable decline in finance business, which were US$2.4bn in 2011 and loan impairment charges in Europe, due to successful US$2.2bn in 2010.
We have agreed to sell the initiatives taken to mitigate risk within RBWM profitable US Card and Retail Services portfolio, which resulted in a reduction in delinquency rates in with the remainder of the loss-making US consumer personal lending in the UK.
Loan impairment charges finance business being run down.
We expect the and other credit risk provisions fell in the Middle sales of this business to have a significant impact on East in GB&M due to the non-recurrence of both revenue and profitability in North America for restructuring activity for a small number of large the foreseeable future.
In Latin America, loan impairment The difference between reported and underlying charges and other credit risk provisions increased as a results is explained on page 16.
Except where stated result of strong lending growth in RBWM and CMB, otherwise, the commentaries in the Financial along with a rise in delinquency rates in Brazil during Summary are on an underlying basis and references the second half of 2011. to HSBC Finance Corporation HSBC Finance and Operating expenses were higher than in 2010, HSBC Bank USA N. A. HSBC Bank USA are on reflecting an increase in notable items and higher a management basis, rather than a legal entity basis.
staff costs in faster-growing regions.
Notable items Net operating income before loan impairment included restructuring costs of US$1.1bn, a bank charges and other credit risk provisions revenue levy introduced by the UK government of US$570m, was broadly in line with 2010, due to the adverse higher provisions relating to customer redress effect on GB&M revenue in Europe of the turmoil in programmes of US$898m and US mortgage the eurozone sovereign debt market and a decline in servicing costs of US$257m.
The restructuring costs lending balances in RBWM in North America being were incurred as a result of actions taken following offset by revenue growth in faster-growing regions.
the review of our capital deployment and operational The eurozone turmoil resulted in lower trading effectiveness.
This led to a reduction of more than income from our Credit and Rates businesses as 7,600 FTEs during the second half of 2011 and problems escalated, particularly in the second half of sustainable savings of US$0.9bn.
Our GB&M performance was also affected by items were partially offset by a credit of US$587m lower revenues in Balance Sheet Management, as resulting from a change in the inflation measure used higher yielding positions matured and interest rates to calculate the defined benefit obligation of the remained low, and in our legacy credit portfolio HSBC Bank plc HSBC Bank UK defined benefit see page 23.
In North America, we continued plan for deferred pensions.
to reposition our business and we remained focused Income from associates increased, mainly driven on managing down our run-off portfolios.
As a by strong results in our mainland China associates.
consequence, revenue fell, reflecting declining The contribution from Bank of Communications Co. customer loan balances in the run-off portfolios Limited BoCom rose due to loan growth, wider and in the Card and Retail Services businesses.
deposit spreads and higher fee income.
Our share of These factors were broadly offset by increased profits from Industrial Bank Co. Limited Industrial net interest income in CMB as a result of strong Bank rose due to strong growth in customer lending balance sheet growth in 2010 which continued into and an increase in fee-based revenue.
2011, albeit at a slower pace during the latter part of The reported profit after tax was US$3.8bn or the year.
Revenue also benefited from balance sheet 26% higher, due to the increase in taxable profits, growth in RBWM in Rest of Asia-Pacific and Latin primarily from movements on the fair value of own America.
There were also strong performances in debt and a lower tax expense.
This reflected the over half of our business lines in GB&M, including inclusion in 2011 of a deferred tax benefit now Global Banking, Foreign Exchange and Equities, eligible to be recognised in respect of foreign tax particularly in the faster growing regions of Rest of credits.
In addition, the tax charge in 2010 included Asia-Pacific and Latin America.
US$1.2bn attributable to a taxable gain from an Loan impairment charges and other credit risk internal reorganisation in North America.
As a result provisions were considerably lower than in 2010, of these factors, the effective tax rate for 2011 was with decreases across all regions except Latin 18% compared with 25.5% in 2010.
Net interest income was US$40.7bn, 3% higher than average interest-earning balances was largely offset in 2010.
On an underlying basis, net interest income by a decline in spreads.
was broadly in line with the previous year, as the Average loans and advances to customers grew benefit to income from continued strong growth in strongly in 2011, reflecting targeted lending growth during 2010 and the first half of 2011 in CMB and 20 GB&M, as well as strong mortgage lending growth significant increase in average customer account in our RBWM businesses in the UK, Hong Kong and balances in Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific and Rest of Asia-Pacific throughout both years.
During Europe as a result of targeted deposit campaigns.
the year, we announced the sale of 195 non-strategic The cost of funds also rose as a result of base rate branches and our Cards and Retail Services business increases, notably in mainland China, India and in the US, and reclassified the related loans and Brazil, and competitive pricing to attract and retain advances to customers to other assets held for sale, deposits in many markets.
reported within Other interest-earning assets.
This, The increase in interest expense on deposits together with the continued decline in the consumer by banks was driven by a rise in the cost of funds in finance portfolios in run-off, partly offset the rise in Europe, reflecting the maturity of derivatives used to average lending balances in other regions.
hedge interest rate risk and their replacement at The benefit to interest income of the strong lower prevailing interest rates.
customer lending volume growth was offset in part The interest expense on own debt designated at by a reduction in gross yields from loans and fair value also rose, reflecting the volume of new advances to customers.
This reflected the transfer of issuances during the year.
Although the average balances to assets held for sale, including higher balance of debt securities in issue declined due to yielding unsecured lending, the continued decline maturities not being replaced in North America and within the US consumer finance portfolios and the Europe, the related interest expense increased as a repositioning of RBWM towards higher quality result of a general widening of credit spreads in the secured lending, particularly mortgages, together financial sector.
with intense competition in certain markets.
Net interest income includes the expense of Interest income from short-term funds and loans internally funding trading assets, while related and advances to banks also increased, attributable to revenue is reported in Net trading income.
The higher average balances with central banks.
This internal cost of funding these assets rose due to the reflected higher deposit requirements by central increase in average trading assets during the year.
In banks in certain markets, together with the placement reporting our global business results, this cost is of excess liquidity in Asia with central banks.
included within Net trading income.
Interest income from short-term funds and loans and advances to banks, as well as financial investments, The decrease in the net interest spread compared also benefited from higher yields as interest rates with 2010 was attributable to lower yields on loans rose, particularly in mainland China, India and and advances to customers as we continued to target Brazil.
higher quality assets, coupled with a rising cost of funds on customer accounts.
Our net interest margin Interest income from other interest earning also fell, but by a lesser amount, due to the benefit assets rose as a result of the reclassification of assets from net free funds.
This benefit rose as a result of held for sale and the related income.
the increase in the Groups cost of funds, coupled The rise in interest income was largely offset with higher third party funding of our trading book, by higher interest expense.
This was driven by a in line with the growth of trading assets.
Reported results in 2010 included revenue higher transaction volumes, notably in Hong Kong, from Eversholt Rail Group and HSBC Insurance reflecting increased product offerings, competitive Brokers Ltd.
These items are excluded from our pricing and successful sales activity as clients sought underlying results which declined by 3%.
This was to maximise returns in the low interest rate mainly due to increased fee expenses in North environment.
However, broking income was lower, America and the impact of discontinuing certain primarily in Hong Kong due to increased competition business operations.
in the territory during the second half of the year.
Fee expenses increased in North America, Remittances and trade-related fee income reflecting higher revenue-share payments to our increased, notably in the Rest of Asia-Pacific region, credit card partners as improved portfolio due to higher trade and transaction volumes as we performance resulted in increased cash flows.
Fee targeted asset growth and trade activity in the region, expenses also rose in Latin America, reflecting supported by marketing activities, customer increased transaction volumes, and in Europe, acquisition and a rise in transactions from existing notably in GB&M, which benefited from higher customers.
recoveries from the securities investment conduits in The negligible income from Taxpayer Financial 2010.
Services in the US during 2011 resulted from the Card-related income was higher, led by growth decision to exit the business.
in Hong Kong due to higher transaction volumes, We expect the sale of the Card and Retail driven by increased retail spending and customer Services business to have a significant impact on promotions, and in Europe due to increased both fee income related to cards and insurance, and interchange commissions from higher volumes and fee expenses.
Reported net trading income was US$6.5bn, 10% Our Foreign Exchange business benefited from lower than in 2010.
On an underlying basis, net increased activity from both Global Banking and trading income declined by 15%, driven by CMB customers, particularly in Hong Kong, Rest significantly lower net income from trading activities of Asia-Pacific, North America and Latin America, in GB&M as turmoil in eurozone sovereign debt coupled with an improved trading environment markets escalated, particularly in the second half compared with 2010.
The latter reflected market of 2011.
Increased risk aversion and limited client volatility caused by geopolitical tensions, ongoing activity led to a significant widening of spreads on eurozone sovereign debt concerns and interventions certain eurozone sovereign and corporate bonds, by central banks.
Equities revenues also rose as resulting in trading losses in our European Credit and investment in platforms improved our competitive Rates businesses.
positioning and helped capture increased client flows, notably in the first half of the year in Europe Net trading income also declined from our and Hong Kong.
legacy credit portfolio, a separately identifiable, discretely managed business comprising Solitaire In addition to the decline in net income from Funding Limited, the securities investment conduits, trading activities in GB&M, we reported adverse fair the asset-backed securities trading portfolios and value movements on derivatives relating to certain credit correlation portfolios, derivative transactions legacy provident funds in Hong Kong as long-term entered into directly with monoline insurers, and investment returns fell.
This was offset in part by a certain other structured credit transactions.
This reduction in the loss provisions for mortgage loan reflected the non-recurrence of the price appreciation repurchase obligations associated with loans during the previous year and lower holdings as a previously sold in RBWM in North America, which result of maturities and disposals aimed at reducing decreased by US$341m to US$92m.
capital consumption, coupled with the nonThere were adverse fair value movements on recurrence of an US$89m gain from a 2010 legal non-qualifying hedges.
These are derivatives settlement relating to certain loans previously entered into as part of a documented interest rate purchased for resale from a third party.
management strategy for which hedge accounting In addition, lower favourable foreign exchange was not, or could not be, applied.
They are movements were reported on trading assets held as principally cross-currency and interest rate swaps economic hedges of foreign currency debt designated used to economically hedge fixed rate debt issued at fair value.
These offset lower adverse foreign by HSBC Holdings and floating rate debt issued by exchange movements on the foreign currency debt HSBC Finance.
The size and direction of the changes which are reported in Net expense from financial in fair value of non-qualifying hedges that are instruments designated at fair value.
recognised in the income statement can be volatile from year to year, but do not alter the cash flows Notwithstanding the difficult trading conditions, expected as part of the documented interest rate there were strong performances across other parts management strategy for both the instruments and of GB&M.
Rates trading revenues in Hong Kong, the underlying economically hedged assets and North America and Latin America remained resilient liabilities.
The adverse fair value movement on nonas client flows increased.
Fair value gains on qualifying hedges in North America was higher in structured liabilities also increased, mainly in Rates, 2011 as long-term US interest rates declined to a as credit spreads widened more significantly than in greater extent than in 2010.
This was partly offset by 2010, resulting in a gain of US$458m compared with lower adverse fair value movements on these US$23m in 2010.
23 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Financial summary Group performance instruments in Europe.
Net interest income earned on trading activities rose by 23%, driven by an increase in average Ineffectiveness in the hedging of  and higher yields on our trading portfolio.
sale investment portfolios resulted in adverse This was partly offset by higher interest expense on movements on fair value hedges.
This was due to trading liabilities reflecting an increase in funding growth in the underlying investment portfolio in requirements in line with the growth in average Europe as a result of new purchases and a more trading assets.
The cost of internally funding these pronounced decline in yield curves in North America assets also rose, but this interest expense is reported than in 2010. within Net interest income.
The accounting policies for the designation of of the documented interest rate management strategy.
financial instruments at fair value and the treatment As a consequence, fair value movements arising of the associated income and expenses are described from changes in our own credit spread on long-term in Notes 2i and 2b on the Financial Statements, debt and other fair value movements on the debt and respectively.
related derivatives are not regarded internally as part of managed performance and are therefore not The majority of the financial liabilities designated allocated to customer groups, but are reported in at fair value relate to certain fixed-rate long-term Other.
Credit spread movements on own debt are debt issues whose rate profile has been changed to excluded from underlying results, and related fair floating through interest rate swaps as part of a value movements are not included in the calculation documented interest rate management strategy.
movement in fair value of these long-term debt issues includes the effect of our credit spread We reported net income from financial changes and any ineffectiveness in the economic instruments designated at fair value of US$3.4bn relationship between the related swaps and own debt.
This As credit spreads widen or narrow, accounting included the credit spread-related movements in the profits or losses, respectively, are booked.
The size fair value of our own long-term debt, on which we and direction of the changes in the credit spread on reported favourable fair value movements of our debt and ineffectiveness, which are recognised in US$3.9bn in 2011 and adverse movements of the income statement, can be volatile from year to US$63m in 2010.
These favourable fair value year, but do not alter the cash flows envisaged as part movements arose in 2011 as credit spreads widened, 24 in comparison with smaller favourable fair value movement in liabilities to customers, reflecting the movements in North America and adverse fair value extent to which unit-linked policyholders, in movements in Europe, both in 2010. particular, participate in the investment performance of the associated asset portfolio.
Where these relate On an underlying basis, which excludes credit to assets held to back investment contracts, the spread-related movements in the fair value of our corresponding movement in liabilities to customers is own long-term debt, the equivalent figures were net also recorded under Net income from financial expense of US$494m in 2011 and net income of instruments designated at fair value.
Net expense arising from contrast to gains or losses related to assets held to financial assets held to meet liabilities under back insurance contracts or investment contracts with insurance and investment contracts reflected net DPF, where the corresponding movement in investment losses in 2011 as a result of adverse liabilities to customers is recorded under Net movements in equity markets, primarily in Europe insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities and Hong Kong, compared with net investment gains to policyholders.
This predominantly affected the value of assets held to support unitWithin net income from financial instruments linked contracts in the UK and Hong Kong, designated at fair value were lower adverse foreign insurance contracts with discretionary participation exchange movements than in 2010 on foreign features DPF in Hong Kong, and investment currency debt designated at fair value issued as part contracts with DPF in France.
of our overall funding strategy, with an offset from trading assets held as economic hedges reported in The investment gains or losses arising from Net trading income.
On an securities rose, due to write downs of our equity underlying basis, excluding an accounting gain of investments in real estate companies, reflecting a US$62m arising from the reclassification of Bao Viet decline in property values in 2011. as an associate in 2010, they declined by 4%.
Net gains from the disposal of available-for-sale The reduction was principally driven by lower debt securities increased in Europe and North net gains from the disposal of available-for-sale America following sales of government bonds and equity securities, as deterioration in market mortgage-backed securities by Balance Sheet confidence resulted in fewer disposal opportunities Management as part of normal portfolio management and lower gains from the sale of private equity activities.
However, this was offset in part by lower investments, notably in Europe.
We also recognised a net gains in Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific on gain on disposal in 2010 of an equity investment in a the disposal of government debt securities in 2011.
Singaporean property company which did not recur.
This was partly offset by a gain on sale of shares in a Mexican listed company.
25 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Financial summary Group performance Net earned insurance premiums 2011 2010 2009 US$m US$m US$m Gross insurance premium income 13,338 11,609 10,991 Reinsurance premiums................. 466 463 520 Net earned insurance premiums... 12,872 11,146 10,471 Net earned insurance premiums which relate to In Latin America, net earned premiums also insurance and investment contracts with DPF grew strongly due to a rise in contributions from increased by 15% on a reported basis and by 13% on unit-linked, life and credit protection products an underlying basis, primarily driven by strong sales in Brazil, reflecting investment in the distribution in the Hong Kong life insurance business and also in network.
This was supported by higher premiums Latin America.
This reflected the strategic focus of from the motor insurance business in Argentina as a the Group on wealth management, of which result of volume growth and repricing initiatives.
In Europe, net earned premiums decreased In Hong Kong, sales of deferred annuities, unitresulting from the non-renewal and transfer to third linked products and a universal life product targeted parties of certain contracts in our Irish business as at high net worth individuals all rose, coupled with well as the continued run-off and subsequent disposal higher levels of renewals from a larger in-force book of the motor business in the UK during 2011. of business due to an increased demand for wealth This was partly offset by premium growth in products.
Sales of a universal life insurance product both France, on investment contracts with DPF as a targeted at high net worth individuals were also result of targeted sales campaigns aimed at high-net higher in Rest of Asia-Pacific, notably in Singapore, worth clients, and the UK, on unit-linked products driven by successful sales initiatives.
due to increased distribution channels.
2011 included a gain of US$181m arising from a On an underlying basis, excluding the items dilution of our holding in Ping An following its referred to above, other operating income decreased issue of share capital to a third party and a gain of by US$71m compared with 2010.
Lower losses on US$83m from the sale of HSBC Afore, our Mexican assets held for sale driven by the non-recurrence of pension administration business.
We also reported a the US$207m loss on the sale of the US vehicle dilution gain of US$27m as a result of the reduction finance servicing operation in 2010 and associated in our holding in HSBC Saudi Arabia Limited loan portfolio were more than offset by the nonfollowing its merger with SABB Securities Limited.
recurrence of gains of US$250m on the sale and Income in 2010 included a gain of US$188m leaseback of our Paris and New York headquarters in following the dilution of our holding in Ping An 2010, which exceeded gains recorded in 2011 on the along with gains from the sale of HSBC Insurance sale of buildings including US$61m from the sale Brokers US$107m, the Wells Fargo HSBC Trade and leaseback of branches in Mexico.
Bank US$66m, Eversholt Rail Group US$255m and HSBC Private Equity Asia Ltd US$74m, Favourable net movements in the present value partly offset by a loss of US$42m on the disposal of of in-force PVIF long-term insurance business 26 compared with 2010 were driven by a one-off gain of products, notably in Hong Kong and Singapore.
US$243m recognised upon the refinement of the Largely offsetting this was a net decrease from calculation of the PVIF asset to bring greater experience and assumption updates and a higher comparability and consistency across our insurance unwind of cash flows from the growing in-force operations, and strong sales of life insurance book.
Net insurance claims incurred and movement in with DPF are reported in Net income from financial liabilities to policyholders decreased by 5% on a instruments designated at fair value.
reported basis and by 7% on an underlying basis, Further declines in the movement in liabilities to driven by investment losses on insurance assets, policyholders resulted from the non-renewal and notably in Europe and Hong Kong.
transfer to third parties of certain contracts in our In France, the UK and Hong Kong we Irish businesses as well as the continued run-off and experienced a reduction in the movement in subsequent sale of the motor business in the UK liabilities to policyholders resulting from a fall in during 2011. fair value of the assets held to support policyholder Reductions in the movement in liabilities to funds, particularly in relation to unit-linked insurance policyholders were partly offset by additional contracts and investment and insurance contracts liabilities established for new business premiums with DPF, as a result of equity market falls.
written, notably in Hong Kong, Brazil, France, the The gains or losses experienced on the financial UK and Singapore, which are consistent with assets designated at fair value held to support increases in net earned premiums.
advances to customers net of reverse repos and 27 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Financial summary Group performance settlement accounts compared with 2.2% at In CMB, loan impairment charges and other 31 December 2010. credit risk provisions in North America declined in both Canada and the US reflecting improved credit In 2011, loan impairment charges and other quality, and in Canada this was also due to lower credit risk provisions declined in all regions except lending balances.
These declines were partly offset Latin America and Hong Kong.
The reduction was by a loan impairment charge on a commercial real most significant in our consumer finance portfolios estate lending exposure.
in HSBC Finance in North America, which contributed 66% of the reduction, reflecting lower The reduction in loan impairment charges and lending balances in the run-off portfolio along with a other credit risk provisions in North America was reduction in lending balances and lower delinquency partly offset by an increase in GB&M, reflecting rates as our Card and Retail Services customers lower releases of collective loan impairment focused on repayments.
In Latin America, principally allowances compared with 2010.
In addition, 2011 Brazil, and also in Hong Kong, collective loan included a loan impairment charge associated with a impairment allowances rose as we grew our lending corporate lending relationship.
book on the back of strong economic growth and Loan impairment charges and other credit risk increased customer demand.
provisions in Europe fell by 20% to US$2.5bn, During 2011, we reported US$631m of notably in the UK.
The reduction was mainly in our impairments related to available-for-sale debt RBWM business where loan impairment charges securities, compared with US$472m in 2010.
In declined by 53% to US$596m despite the difficult 2011, we recognised a charge of US$212m to write economic climate and continued pressures on down to market value available-for-sale Greek households finances.
Delinquency rates declined sovereign debt now judged to be impaired following across both the secured and unsecured lending the deterioration in Greeces fiscal position.
This was portfolios, reflecting improvement in portfolio partly offset as losses arising in underlying collateral quality and the continued low interest rate pools generated lower charges on asset-backed environment as well as successful actions taken to securities.
mitigate credit risk and proactive account management.
In CMB, loan impairment charges and In our US run-off portfolios, loan impairment other credit risk provisions were 7% lower, mainly in charges of US$5.0bn were 14% lower than in 2010. the UK.
This was partly offset by an increase in The decline was mainly in our Consumer and individually assessed loan impairment charges in Mortgage Lending CML portfolio, driven by the Greece as economic conditions worsened.
reduction in customer lending balances, in part offset by higher loan impairment allowances reflecting a In GB&M in Europe, loan impairment charges rise in the estimated cost to obtain collateral as well and other credit risk provisions increased by 8% as as delays in the timing of expected cash flows, both we recorded an impairment of US$145m to write the result of the industry-wide delays in foreclosure down to market value available-for-sale Greek processing.
sovereign debt now judged to be impaired following the deterioration in Greeces fiscal position.
Further In the third quarter of 2011, loan impairment information on our exposures to countries in the charges in the CML portfolio increased markedly as eurozone is provided in Areas of special interest delinquency worsened compared with the first half of wholesale lending on page 112.
In addition, we increased our loan impairment allowances to reflect a rise in the expected cost to In the Middle East and North Africa, loan obtain and realise collateral following delays in impairment charges and other credit risk provisions foreclosure processing.
Despite a decline in loan fell by 53% to US$293m, primarily due to a marked impairment charges in the fourth quarter, these decline in loan impairment charges and other credit factors contributed significantly to a rise in the risk provisions in our GB&M business.
This Groups loan impairment charges in the second half reflected the non-recurrence of individually assessed of 2011 compared with the first half of the year.
loan impairment charges recorded in the first half of 2010 related to restructuring activity for a small In Card and Retail Services, loan impairment number of large corporate customers in the United charges fell by 26% to US$1.6bn reflecting lower Arab Emirates UAE.
In RBWM, loan impairment lending balances and improved delinquency rates as charges declined by 45%, due to significantly customer repayment rates remained strong during improved delinquency rates reflecting a repositioning 2011. of the loan book towards higher quality lending as 28 we continued to manage down unsecured lending, a significant individually assessed loan impairment together with impaired collections practices.
charge related to a commercial customer.
The increase in Brazil was partly offset by a 28% decline In Rest of Asia-Pacific, loan impairment charges in loan impairment charges and other credit risk and other credit risk provisions declined by 42% provisions in Mexico.
This was mainly in our to US$267m, driven by reductions in India and RBWM business due to lower balances in our credit Singapore.
The marked decline in India reflected card portfolio as certain higher risk portfolios were an improvement in delinquency, particularly in the run-down and both credit quality and collections unsecured portfolios as lending balances were improved.
In GB&M, loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions declined by 58%, In Hong Kong, loan impairment charges and mainly in Singapore, due to a reduction in other credit risk provisions increased by 36% to individually assessed loan impairment charges.
In CMB, higher loan impairment charges included a specific impairment charge related to a In Latin America, loan impairment charges single customer, as well as higher collectively increased by 17% to US$1.9bn.
In Brazil, loan assessed charges reflecting growth in lending impairment charges and other credit risk provisions balances.
In GPB, loan impairment charges and other rose by 43% to US$1.4bn due to a rise in collective credit risk provisions also increased, reflecting an loan impairment allowances in both RBWM and impairment of available-for-sale Greek sovereign CMB following the strong growth in our customer debt.
lending balances and a rise in delinquency rates in the second half of 2011.
On an underlying basis, costs the table above and a rise in staff costs, primarily in increased by 8% compared with 2010, driven by a faster growing regions.
Notable items included 29 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Financial summary Group performance restructuring costs, provisions relating to customer During 2011, we began a Group-wide review of redress programmes in the UK, including a charge in our organisational effectiveness.
We achieved respect of the possible mis-selling of Payment US$0.9bn of sustainable savings in 2011, Protection Insurance PPI in previous years, the approximately one third of our objective of UK bank levy and a new provision for US mortgage US$2.5bn to US$3.5bn over three years.
We started foreclosure and servicing costs.
These were partially implementing consistent business models in RBWM offset by a credit resulting from a change in the and CMB and undertook a detailed review of inflation measure used to calculate the defined our head offices.
In addition, we began the rebenefit obligation in the UK for deferred pensions engineering of our global functions, we commenced and the non-recurrence of the 2010 payroll and bonus the streamlining of our IT function including the taxes in the UK and France.
consolidation of some data centres and other services, and we re-engineered a number of Salaries and wages rose, primarily driven by customer-facing and back-office processes leading to wage inflation in Rest of Asia-Pacific and Hong a more efficient use of our corporate real estate.
Kong and union-agreed salary increases in Latin America.
This resulted in a net reduction of staff numbers of more than 7,600 during the second half of 2011 The growth in business volumes, primarily in despite continuing to recruit selectively in our target Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific and Latin America, growth areas.
was supported by a small rise in average staff numbers expressed as FTEs which grew marginally The savings achieved by delivering on these in 2011.
Staff costs also rose due to higher programmes enabled the funding of investment in amortisation charges for previous years restricted strategic initiatives, including the development of and performance share awards and an acceleration in Prime Services and equity market capabilities and the expense recognition for deferred bonus awards of the expansion of the Rates and Foreign Exchange US$163m, in line with regulatory and best practice e-commerce platforms in Europe, and the recruitment guidance see page 327.
Otherwise, performanceof additional front office staff in selected markets.
related costs were lower than in 2010, primarily in Costs increased due to a rise in compliance costs GB&M where net operating income declined.
in GB&M and litigation expenses in RBWM, both During the year, we incurred US$1.1bn of predominantly in the US.
However, marketing costs restructuring costs including US$542m which were fell in North America and Latin America as staff related and US$325m of impairment of certain discretionary costs were tightly controlled.
software projects now deferred or cancelled.
The contribution from ventures was US$3.3bn, an increase of 30% Industrial Bank rose as a result of continued growth compared with 2010.
On an underlying basis, which in customer lending, higher fee income and a fall in excludes the re-measurement loss relating to Ping loan impairment charges.
Ans acquisition of Shenzhen Development Bank, Profits from Saudi British Bank increased, the share of profits from associates increased by driven by a decline in loan impairment charges as the 27%.
This was driven mainly by higher contributions credit environment improved in Saudi Arabia and from our mainland China associates.
Our share of profits from BoCom rose, driven Higher profits from Ping An resulted from by strong loan growth, wider spreads following strong growth in sales in the insurance business and benchmark interest rate rises by the Peoples Bank of higher income from the banking business following China and effective re-pricing.
The lower tax charge reflected gain from an internal reorganisation in our North the benefit of a deferred tax credit of US$0.9bn now American operations.
The resulting reported eligible to be recognised in respect of foreign tax effective tax rate for 2011 was 18% compared credits in the US.
In addition, the tax charge in with 25.5% in 2010.
A more detailed consolidated balance sheet is contained in the Financial Statements on page 281.
32 Movement in 2011 currencies following the global monetary response to continued economic weakness, including Total reported assets were US$2.6 trillion, 4% quantitative easing measures.
The notional value of higher than at 31 December 2010.
Excluding the contracts outstanding also increased, reflecting a effect of currency movements, total assets increased higher number of open interest rate and foreign by 6%.
exchange transactions than a year ago.
The increase Strong growth in deposits across most regions in the fair value of derivative assets was partly offset enabled us to support our customers borrowing by higher netting, which rose in line with the requirements, leading to significantly higher term increase in fair values.
lending and mortgage balances in Hong Kong, Rest Loans and advances to banks declined by 11%, of Asia-Pacific and the UK.
Our strong liquidity as funds from maturing term loans and reverse repo position and risk preference also led to a rise in balances, notably in Europe, were redeployed to balances at central banks.
In addition, the fair value Cash and balances at central banks.
This was offset of derivative contracts increased markedly, as the in part by higher central bank lending in Rest of deteriorating economic outlook resulted in a decline Asia-Pacific, reflecting strong deposit growth in the in yield curves in major currencies during the latter region.
This growth was offset in part by a reduction in net trading assets as we took action to Loans and advances to customers were broadly manage our balance sheet more effectively, which in line with 2010.
Following the announcement of resulted in year-end balances being lower than the agreements for the sale of 195 non-strategic US average for the year.
branches and our Cards and Retail Services business, we reclassified the related loans and advances to The following commentary is based on a Assets held for sale, which, for the purpose of this comparison with the balance sheet at 31 December commentary, is reported within Other assets see 2010 as shown on page 35. page 86.
We also reclassified loans and advances relating to the planned disposals of non-strategic Assets banking operations in Central America, the RBWM Cash and balances at central banks rose by 129%.
business in Thailand and our private banking The increasingly prominent role played by western business in Japan to Assets held for sale.
central banks in the functioning of the money Excluding the above reclassifications, loans and markets as well as our own risk preference as the advances to customers increased by US$30bn eurozone crisis deepened resulted in a larger portion compared with 2010, although the pace of growth of our excess liquidity being held with central banks slowed in the second half of 2011.
This reflected in Europe and in North America.
The redeployment targeted loan growth in our CMB and GB&M of funds from maturities and sales of financial businesses in Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific as investments and strong growth in deposits also the economic environment improved and trade flows contributed to the rise.
increased, together with growth as a result of lending Trading assets decreased by 13%.
Economic campaigns in CMB in the UK and Latin America.
uncertainty led to a decline in market activity.
As a Residential mortgage balances also rose significantly result, we reduced our holdings of government and in the UK, Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific due highly-rated corporate debt securities and equity to a strong sales focus and competitive pricing, positions, notably in Europe, and did not replace reflecting the successful implementation of our maturities in our reverse repo book.
This was partly strategy to reposition RBWM towards higher quality offset by higher cash collateral posted with external secured lending.
This growth was offset in part by a counterparties as the fair value of derivative reduction in reverse repo balances in Europe and liabilities rose.
North America, as a result of lower market activity.
Financial assets designated at fair value Financial investments were broadly in line with declined by 14% as a result of improved netting of 2010, as Balance Sheet Management continued to assets and the associated non-recourse liabilities.
hold large portfolios of highly liquid assets.
In North There was a corresponding reduction in Financial America, financial investments rose due to the liabilities designated at fair value.
purchases of government and government agency debt securities.
This was partly offset by a reduction Derivative assets increased by 35%, due to a in Europe, where a portion of the proceeds from significant rise in the fair value of interest rate sales and maturities of financial investments were contracts in Europe.
This was driven by the placed at central banks.
downward movements of yield curves in major 33 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Financial summary Balance sheet Other assets, which, for the purpose of this associated assets led to a further reduction in commentary, includes assets held for sale, increased Financial liabilities designated at fair value, with a by 34%, reflecting the reclassification of assets of corresponding decrease in Financial assets disposal groups, most notably the loans and designated at fair value.
advances to customers associated with the nonDerivative businesses are managed within strategic US branches and our Cards and Retail market risk limits and, as a consequence, the Services business.
increase in the value of Derivative liabilities broadly matched that of Derivative assets.
Liabilities Debt securities in issue declined by 9%, Deposits by banks rose by 4% due to higher reflecting the non-replacement of maturing securities placements by other financial institutions with in both North America and Europe as a result of HSBC, primarily in Rest of Asia-Pacific and North lower funding requirements relating to the continued America.
This was partly offset by a reduction in reduction in consumer lending balances and the repo balances as a result of lower market activity.
decline in trading assets, respectively.
This was Customer accounts increased by 4% in highly offset in part by new issuances in Latin America and competitive markets.
This was driven by customer Rest of Asia-Pacific to support balance sheet growth.
acquisition, coupled with targeted deposit gathering Liabilities under insurance contracts grew by campaigns to support growth in lending, most 7%, driven by reserves established for new business notably in Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific and in premiums written, notably in Hong Kong, Brazil, Europe.
This was partly offset by the reclassification France, the UK and Singapore.
This was partly offset of deposits of businesses, principally the US by the effect of a fall in equity markets, which branches, to liabilities held-for-sale.
Repo balances resulted in a decline in the fair value of assets held to in Europe also declined, reflecting lower market support unit-linked and investment and insurance activity levels, particularly during the latter part of contracts with DPF and also in the related liabilities the year.
to policyholders, together with reductions due to the Trading liabilities fell by 11%.
Net short bond non-renewal and transfer to third parties of certain and equity positions decreased in line with the contracts in our Irish businesses and the sale of the reduction in holdings of debt and equity securities, motor insurance business in the UK during 2011. which fell as a result of lower market activity.
Repo Other liabilities, which, for the purpose of this balances also declined, reflecting lower funding commentary, includes liabilities of disposal groups, requirements as trading assets fell.
These declines increased by 24% as a result of the reclassification of were offset in part by a rise in cash collateral posted liabilities of businesses held for sale.
by external counterparties in line with the increase in the fair value of derivative contracts, notably in Equity Europe.
Total shareholders equity increased by 9%, driven Financial liabilities designated at fair value by profits generated during the year.
In addition, the were broadly in line with 2010.
Debt issuances by negative balance on the available-for-sale reserve HSBC entities in Europe were partly offset by declined from US$4.1bn at 31 December 2010 to maturities not being replaced in North America as US$3.4bn at 31 December 2011, reflecting an funding requirements reduced in line with the improvement in the market value of assets.
decline in the consumer finance portfolios in run-off.
In 2011, the effect of acquisitions was not material.
36 Economic profit loss unchanged from 2010.
The following commentary is on a reported basis.
Our internal performance measures include The return on invested capital increased by economic profit loss, a calculation which compares 1.5 percentage points to 10.2%, which was the return on financial capital invested in HSBC by 0.8 percentage points lower than our benchmark cost our shareholders with the cost of that capital.
Our economic loss was US$1.3bn, price our cost of capital internally and the difference US$2.0bn less than the loss at 31 December 2010, between that cost and the post-tax profit attributable reflecting an increase in profit attributable to to ordinary shareholders represents the amount of shareholders.
This was predominantly driven by a economic profit loss generated.
In order to significant increase in the fair value of own debt and concentrate on external factors rather than a lower tax charge.
measurement bases, we emphasise the trend in economic profit loss ahead of absolute amounts.
The increase in average invested capital reflected higher retained earnings and an increase in Our long-term cost of capital is reviewed average foreign exchange reserves, primarily due to annually and is 11% for 2011: this remains the effect of euro and sterling exchange rate movements on our underlying assets.
Reconciliation of RoRWA measures We also present underlying RoRWA adjusted for the effect of legacy credit in GB&M the legacy In addition to measuring return on average risk credit portfolio is described on page 23 and the US weighted assets RoRWA we measure our consumer finance business the Cards and Retail performance internally using underlying RoRWA, Services business along with the run-off portfolio which is underlying profit before tax as a percentage disclosed on page 88 : together, the legacy of average risk weighted assets RWAs adjusted businesses.
This excludes the results and RWAs for the effects of foreign currency translation related to operations which are not regarded as differences.
Underlying RoRWA adjusts contributing to the longer-term performance of the performance for certain items which distort year-onGroup.
year performance as explained on page 16.
2011 2010 Pre-tax Average Pre-tax Average return RWAs RoRWA return RWAs RoRWA US$m US$bn % US$m US$bn % Reported 21,872 1,154 1.9 19,037 1,098 1.7 Underlying 17,696 1,154 1.5 18,925 1,108 1.7 Legacy businesses 2,847 222 1.3 1,871 215 0.9 Legacy credit in GB&M 436 33 1.3 226 23 1.0 US consumer finance business.................... 2,411 189 1.3 2,097 192 1.1 Underlying excluding legacy businesses...... 20,543 932 2.2 20,796 893 2.3 37 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Financial summary Critical accounting policies Critical accounting policies The methods involve the use of statistically Audited assessed historical information which is supplemented with significant management Introduction judgement to assess whether current economic and The results of HSBC are sensitive to the accounting credit conditions are such that the actual level of policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie the inherent losses is likely to be greater or less than preparation of our consolidated financial statements.
that suggested by historical experience.
In normal The significant accounting policies are described in circumstances, historical experience provides the Note 2 on the Financial Statements.
most objective and relevant information from which to assess inherent loss within each portfolio.
When preparing the financial statements, it is Sometimes, however, it provides less relevant the Directors responsibility under UK company law information about the inherent loss in a given to select suitable accounting policies and to make portfolio at the balance sheet date, for example, judgements and estimates that are reasonable and when there have been changes in economic, prudent.
The accounting policies that are deemed regulatory or behavioural conditions which result in critical to our results and financial position, in terms the most recent trends in portfolio risk factors being of the materiality of the items to which the policies not fully reflected in the statistical models.
In these are applied and the high degree of judgement circumstances, the risk factors are taken into account involved, including the use of assumptions and by adjusting the impairment allowances derived estimation, are discussed below.
solely from historical loss experience.
Impairment of loans and advances Risk factors include loan portfolio growth, product mix, unemployment rates, bankruptcy trends, Our accounting policy for losses arising from the geographical concentrations, loan product features, impairment of customer loans and advances is economic conditions such as national and local described in Note 2g on the Financial Statements.
trends in housing markets, the level of interest rates, Loan impairment allowances represent portfolio seasoning, account management policies managements best estimate of losses incurred and practices, changes in laws and regulations, and in the loan portfolios at the balance sheet date.
other influences on customer payment patterns.
Management is required to exercise judgement Different factors are applied in different regions in making assumptions and estimates when and countries to reflect local economic conditions, calculating loan impairment allowances on both laws and regulations.
The methodology and the individually and collectively assessed loans and assumptions used in calculating impairment losses advances.
Of the Groups total loans and advances are reviewed regularly in the light of differences to customers before impairment allowances of between loss estimates and actual loss experience.
US$958bn 2010: US$978bn, US$17bn or 2% For example, roll rates, loss rates and the expected 2010: US$16bn: 2% were individually assessed timing of future recoveries are regularly for impairment, and US$941bn or 98% 2010: benchmarked against actual outcomes to ensure US$962bn: 98% were collectively assessed for they remain appropriate.
Under certain specified conditions, the Group The most significant judgemental area is the provides forbearance to borrowers experiencing calculation of collective impairment allowances.
The financial difficulties by agreeing to modify the geographical area with most exposure subject to this contractual payment terms of loans in order to judgement is North America.
Collective impairment improve the management of customer relationships, allowances in North America were US$7bn, maximise collection opportunities and, if possible, representing 62% 2010: US$9bn: 64% of the total avoid default or repossession.
Where forbearance collectively assessed loan impairment allowance.
activities are significant, higher levels of judgement and estimation uncertainty are involved in The methods used to calculate collective determining the effects of loan forbearance on loan impairment allowances on homogeneous groups impairment allowances.
Forbearance activities take of loans and advances that are not considered place in both retail and wholesale loan portfolios, but individually significant are disclosed in Note 2g the Groups largest concentration is in the US, in on the Financial Statements.
They are subject to HSBC Finances CML portfolio.
A detailed review estimation uncertainty, in part because it is not of the CML portfolio was carried out during 2011 to practicable to identify losses on an individual loan improve the risk differentiation in the segmentation basis because of the large number of individually of the portfolio.
The review involved extensive insignificant loans in the portfolio.
38 statistical analysis of actual default experience in the the rates used to discount future expected cash portfolio.
Amongst other improvements, this review flows are based on the costs of capital assigned resulted in changes to further differentiate the credit to individual CGUs and can have a significant characteristics of forbearance cases, including those effect on their valuation.
The cost of capital which return to performing status following percentage is generally derived from a Capital forbearance.
As part of this review, the application Asset Pricing Model, which incorporates inputs of the Group accounting policies for the reflecting a number of financial and economic determination of impairment allowances for the variables, including the risk-free interest rate in CML portfolio was considered, in particular the country concerned and a premium for the regarding the effect of the large proportion of inherent risk of the business being evaluated.
renegotiated loans in this portfolio.
The consequent These variables are subject to fluctuations in changes did not result in a material change to external market rates and economic conditions impairment allowances recorded by HSBC Finance beyond our control and are consequently subject under IFRSs.
Further information regarding to uncertainty and require the exercise of forbearance activities is disclosed on page 129. significant judgement.
The exercise of judgement requires the use of A decline in a CGUs expected cash flows assumptions which are highly subjective and very and or an increase in its cost of capital reduces the sensitive to the risk factors, in particular to changes CGUs estimated recoverable amount.
If this is in economic and credit conditions across a large lower than the carrying value of the CGU, a charge number of geographical areas.
Many of the factors for impairment of goodwill is recognised in our have a high degree of interdependency and there is income statement for the year.
no single factor to which our loan impairment The accuracy of forecast cash flows is subject allowances as a whole are sensitive.
They are to a high degree of uncertainty in volatile market particularly sensitive to general economic and credit conditions.
In such market conditions, management conditions in North America, however.
For example, retests goodwill for impairment more frequently than a 10% increase in impairment allowances on annually to ensure that the assumptions on which the collectively assessed loans and advances in North cash flow forecasts are based continue to reflect America would increase loan impairment allowances current market conditions and managements best by US$0.7bn at 31 December 2011 2010: US$0.9bn.
estimate of future business prospects.
It is possible that the outcomes within the next During 2011, no impairment of goodwill was financial year could differ from the assumptions identified 2010: nil.
In addition to the annual built into the models, resulting in a material impairment test which was performed as at 1 July adjustment to the carrying amount of loans and 2011, management reviewed the current and expected advances.
performance of the CGUs as at 31 December 2011 and determined that there was no indication of Goodwill impairment potential impairment of the goodwill allocated to Our accounting policy for goodwill is described in them, except for the GB&M Europe CGU, which Note 2p on the Financial Statements.
Note 24 on the experienced significantly reduced profitability in the Financial Statements lists our cash generating units second half of 2011.
The reduced forecast CGUs by geographical region and global profitability resulted in a reduction in the recoverable business.
HSBCs total goodwill amounted to amount of the CGU when compared to its carrying US$21bn at 31 December 2011 2010: US$22bn.
Consequently, the results of the goodwill impairment testing for this CGU are more sensitive to The review of goodwill impairment reflects key assumptions used.
Management retested the managements best estimate of the following factors: goodwill for this CGU and concluded that there was the future cash flows of the CGUs are sensitive no impairment.
to the cash flows projected for the periods for Note 24 on the Financial Statements includes which detailed forecasts are available and to details of the CGUs with significant balances of assumptions regarding the long-term pattern goodwill, states the key assumptions used to assess of sustainable cash flows thereafter.
Forecasts the goodwill in each of those CGUs for impairment are compared with actual performance and and provides a discussion of the sensitivity of the verifiable economic data, but they necessarily carrying value of goodwill to changes in key and appropriately reflect managements view assumptions.
of future business prospects at the time of the assessment: and 39 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Financial summary Critical accounting policies Valuation of financial instruments there is some market data available on which to base a determination of fair value, for example historical Our accounting policy for determining the fair value data, and the fair values of most financial of financial instruments is described in Note 2d on instruments are based on some market observable the Financial Statements.
inputs even when unobservable inputs are The best evidence of fair value is a quoted price significant.
in an actively traded market.
In the event that the The value of financial assets and liabilities market for a financial instrument is not active, a measured at fair value using a valuation technique valuation technique is used.
The majority of was US$665bn 2010: US$599bn and US$569bn valuation techniques employ only observable 2010: US$499bn, respectively or 61% 2010: 56% market data and so the reliability of the fair value of total financial assets and 82% 2010: 77% of measurement is high.
However, certain financial total financial liabilities measured at fair value.
instruments are valued on the basis of valuation techniques that feature one or more significant Disclosures of the types and amounts of market inputs that are unobservable.
Valuation adjustments made in determining the fair value of techniques that rely to a greater extent on financial instruments measured at fair value using unobservable inputs require a higher level of valuation techniques, and a sensitivity analysis of management judgement to calculate a fair value fair values for financial instruments with significant than those based wholly on observable inputs.
unobservable inputs to reasonably possible alternative assumptions, can be found in Note 16 on Valuation techniques used to calculate fair the Financial Statements.
Given the uncertainty and values are discussed in Note 16 on the Financial subjective nature of valuing financial instruments at Statements.
The main assumptions and estimates fair value, it is possible that the outcomes in the next which management consider when applying a model financial year could differ from the assumptions with valuation techniques are: used, and this could result in a material adjustment the likelihood and expected timing of future cash to the carrying amount of financial instruments flows on the instrument.
These cash flows are measured at fair value.
estimated based on the terms of the instrument, and judgement may be required when the ability Impairment of available-for-sale financial of the counterparty to service the instrument in assets accordance with the contractual terms is in Our accounting policy for impairment of availabledoubt.
Future cash flows may be sensitive to for-sale financial assets is described in Note 2j on changes in market rates: the Financial Statements.
selecting an appropriate discount rate for At 31 December 2011, our total available-forthe instrument.
The determination of this rate sale financial assets amounted to US$379bn 2010: is based on an assessment of what a market US$381bn, of which US$372bn or 98% 2010: participant would regard as the appropriate US$373bn: 98% were debt securities.
The spread of the rate for the instrument over the available-for-sale fair value reserve relating to appropriate risk-free rate: and debt securities amounted to a deficit of US$4.9bn judgement to determine what model to use to 2010: deficit of US$6.2bn.
A deficit in the calculate fair value in areas where the choice of available-for-sale fair value reserve occurs on debt valuation model is particularly subjective, for securities when the fair value of a relevant security example, when valuing complex derivative is less than its acquisition cost net of any principal products.
repayments and amortisation after deducting any impairment losses recognised.
When applying a model with unobservable inputs, estimates are made to reflect uncertainties Management is required to exercise judgement in fair values resulting from a lack of market data in determining whether there is objective evidence inputs, for example, as a result of illiquidity in that an impairment loss has occurred.
For these instruments, the fair value impairment has been identified, the amount of measurement is less reliable.
Inputs into valuations impairment loss is measured with reference to based on unobservable data are inherently uncertain the fair value of the asset.
More information on because there is little or no current market data assumptions and estimates requiring management available from which to determine the level at which judgement relating to the determination of fair an arms length transaction would occur under values of financial instruments is provided above normal business conditions.
However, in most cases in Valuation of financial instruments.
40 Deciding whether an available-for-sale debt of existing taxable temporary differences and security is impaired requires objective evidence of ongoing tax planning strategies.
both the occurrence of a loss event and a related The most significant judgements concern the US change in estimated future cash flows.
The degree deferred tax asset, given the recent history of losses of judgement involved is less when cash flows in our US operations.
The net US deferred tax asset are readily determinable, but increases when amounted to US$5.2bn or 68% 2010: US$4bn: estimating future cash flows requires consideration 58% of deferred tax assets recognised on the of a number of variables, some of which may be Groups balance sheet.
unobservable in current market conditions.
Recognition of the US deferred tax asset is There is no single factor to which the Groups based on the evidence available about conditions charge for impairment of available-for-sale debt at the balance sheet date, and requires significant securities is particularly sensitive, because of the judgements to be made regarding projections of loan various types of securities we hold, the range of impairment charges and the timing of recovery in geographical areas in which those securities are held, the US economy.
These judgements take into and the wide range of factors which can affect the consideration the effect of both positive and negative occurrence of loss events and the cash flows of evidence, including historical financial performance, securities, including different types of collateral.
projections of future taxable income, future The most significant judgements concern more reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, complex instruments, such as asset-backed securities tax planning strategies and the availability of loss ABSs, where it is necessary to consider factors carrybacks.
such as the estimated future cash flows on Projections of future taxable income in the underlying pools of collateral including prepayment US are based on business plans, future capital speeds, the extent and depth of market price declines requirements and ongoing tax planning strategies.
and changes in credit ratings.
The review of These projections include assumptions about future estimated future cash flows on underlying collateral house prices, US economic conditions including is subject to uncertainties when the assessment is unemployment levels and their impact on loan based on historical information on pools of assets, impairment charges, and capital support from HSBC and judgement is required to determine whether Holdings.
These forecasts are consistent with historical performance remains representative of the assumption that it is probable that the results current economic and credit conditions.
of future operations will generate sufficient taxable Further details of the nature and extent of our income to support the deferred tax assets.
In exposures to ABSs classified as available-for-sale managements judgement, recent market conditions, and a more detailed description of the assumptions which have resulted in losses being incurred in the and estimates used in assessing these securities for US, will create significant downward pressure and impairment, together with a discussion of those volatility regarding the profit or loss before tax in assets which are most sensitive to possible future the next few years.
To reflect this, the assessment of impairment, are provided in Securitisation recoverability of the deferred tax assets in the US exposures and other structured products on significantly discounts any future expected taxable page 149. income and relies to a greater extent on capital support to the US operations from HSBC Holdings, It is possible that outcomes in the next financial including tax planning strategies implemented in year could be different from those modelled when relation to such support.
seeking to identify impairment on available-for-sale debt securities.
In this event, impairment may be The most significant tax planning strategy is the identified in available-for-sale debt securities which retention of capital in our US operations to ensure had previously been determined not to be impaired, the realisation of the deferred tax assets.
potentially resulting in the recognition of material Management expects that, with this strategy, the US impairment losses in the next financial year.
operations will generate sufficient future profits to support the recognition of the deferred tax assets.
If Deferred tax assets HSBC Holdings were to decide not to provide this ongoing support, the full recovery of the deferred tax Our accounting policy for the recognition of deferred asset may no longer be probable and could result in a tax assets is described in Note 2 s on the Financial significant reduction of the deferred tax asset which Statements.
The recognition of a deferred tax asset would be recognised as a charge in the income relies on an assessment of the probability and statement.
sufficiency of future taxable profits, future reversals 41 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Financial summary Critical accounting policies Global businesses Summary These strategies remain unaffected by the inquiries.
As a result, it is often not practicable to proposed sale of the Groups US credit card and quantify a range of possible outcomes for individual private label credit card business and 195 nonmatters.
It is not practicable to meaningfully quantify strategic branches.
The incremental capital generated ranges of potential outcomes in aggregate for these as a result of these disposals will reduce the capital types of provisions because of the diverse nature and support required from HSBC Holdings, but capital circumstances of such matters and the wide range of support from HSBC Holdings will continue to be uncertainties involved.
For a detailed description of relied on to the extent necessary to support the the nature of uncertainties and assumptions and the recoverability of our deferred tax assets.
effect on the amount and timing of possible cash outflows on material matters, see Note 44, Legal Provisions for liabilities proceedings and regulatory matters on the Financial Statements.
The accounting policy for provision for liabilities is described in Note 2w on the Financial Statements.
Provisions for customer remediation also require Note 33 on the Financial Statements discloses the significant levels of estimation and judgement.
The major categories of provisions recognised.
The amounts of provisions recognised depend on a closing balance of provisions amounted to US$3.3bn number of different assumptions, for example, the 2010: US$2.1bn, of which US$1.5bn 2010: number of customer complaints expected to be US$1.0bn relates to legal proceedings and received, the response rates from customers who are regulatory matters and US$1.1bn 2010: US$0.4bn contacted as part of customer outreach activities, the relates to customer remediation.
uphold rate for complaints and the amounts payable in respect of compensation and costs of conducting Provisions are liabilities of uncertain timing or reviews.
These assumptions are revised over time as amount, and are recognised when there is a present additional information becomes available.
obligation as a result of a past event, the outflow of economic benefit is probable and the outflow can In view of the inherent uncertainties and the be estimated reliably.
Judgement is involved in high level of subjectivity involved in the recognition determining whether an obligation exists, and in and measurement of provisions, it is possible that the estimating the probability, timing and amount of any outcomes in the next financial year could differ from outflows.
Professional expert advice is taken on those on which managements estimates are based, litigation provisions, taxation provisions, property resulting in a material change in the amounts of provisions including onerous contracts and similar provisions recognised, and outflows of economic liabilities.
benefits which are materially different to those estimated by management for the purposes of the Provisions for legal proceedings and regulatory 2011 financial statements.
matters typically require a higher degree of judgement than other types of provisions.
When Basis of preparation cases are at an early stage, accounting judgements Unaudited can be difficult because of the high degree of The results of global businesses and geographical regions are uncertainty associated with determining whether a presented in accordance with the accounting policies used in present obligation exists as a result of a past event, the preparation of HSBCs consolidated financial statements.
estimating the probability of outflows and making Our operations are closely integrated and, accordingly, estimates of the amount of any outflows that may the presentation of global business data includes internal allocations of certain items of income and expense.
As matters progress through various stages of allocations include the costs of certain support services and development, management together with legal global functions, to the extent that these can be meaningfully advisers evaluate on an ongoing basis whether attributed to operational business lines.
While such allocations have been made on a systematic and consistent basis, they provisions should be recognised, and the estimated necessarily involve a degree of subjectivity.
amounts of any such provisions, revising previous Where relevant, income and expense amounts presented judgements and estimates as appropriate.
At more include the results of inter-segment funding as well as interadvanced stages, it is typically possible to make company and inter-business line transactions.
All such judgements and estimates around a better defined set transactions are undertaken on arms length terms.
of possible outcomes, however such judgements can The expense of the UK bank levy is included in the be very difficult and the amount of any provision can Europe geographical region as HSBC regards the levy as a cost be very sensitive to the assumptions used.
There of being headquartered in the UK.
For the purposes of the segmentation by global business, the cost of the levy is could be a wide range of possible outcomes for any included in Other.
The presentation of both years activity on a number of bases, including by has been adjusted accordingly.
geographical region and by global business, as The commentaries below present global presented on page 59. businesses followed by geographical regions.
RBWM was previously known as Personal Performance is discussed in this order because Financial Services PFS.
With effect from certain strategic themes, business initiatives and 1 March 2011, our Global Asset Management trends affect more than one geographical region.
business was moved from GB&M to RBWM.
All commentaries are on an underlying basis see This resulted in reallocations between the two of page 16 unless stated otherwise.
43 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview
