Capital clearly defined in the UK.
We therefore chose not to issue any such capital securities during 2011.
Movement in risk-weighted assets in 2011 Unaudited Capital management Unaudited RWAs increased by US$106bn or 10% in 2011.
Our approach to capital management is driven by our strategic Exchange rate differences caused a net reduction in and organisational requirements, taking into account the regulatory, economic and commercial environment in which RWAs of around US$9bn in the year, reflecting the we operate.
It is our objective to maintain a strong capital base strengthening of the US dollar against a range of to support the development of our business and to meet currencies, mainly in the faster-growing markets, regulatory capital requirements at all times.
To achieve this, partly offset by the effect of the strengthening of our policy is to hold capital in a range of different forms and from diverse sources.
the renminbi against the US dollar.
The remaining increase in RWAs of US$115bn arose mainly in Capital measurement and allocation credit risk and market risk.
Unaudited The FSA supervises HSBC on a consolidated basis and RWAs increased by approximately US$50bn therefore receives information on the capital adequacy of, and as a result of the introduction of Basel 2.5, net of sets capital requirements for, the Group as a whole.
Individual banking subsidiaries are directly regulated by their local mitigating actions undertaken by management.
Of banking supervisors, who set and monitor their capital this increase, around US$40bn was in market risk of adequacy requirements.
We calculate capital at a Group level which the largest component was stressed VAR.
using the Basel II framework of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision as implemented by the FSA.
Higher risk weights on re-securitisations increased credit risk RWAs by around US$10bn, primarily impacting the GB&M legacy portfolios.
A summary of our policies and practices regarding capital management, measurement The increase in credit risk RWAs reflected and allocation is provided in the Appendix to growth in our global businesses.
In the Rest of AsiaCapital on page 215.
Pacific, trade finance and lending balances in our CMB business grew as we captured inbound and Capital overview outbound trade flows and as demand for credit In 2011, there were no material changes to our increased.
RWAs were also affected by increases in capital policies except to reflect the introduction loan balances in our mainland China associates.
In of the Capital Requirement Directive CRD III Latin America a favourable economic environment regulations in the EU, commonly known as drove growth in trade-related lending, increasing Basel 2.5, which increased the capital requirements RWAs in CMB and GB&M.
In Europe, our CMB for market risk and re-securitisations, with effect business experienced growth in corporate lending in from 31 December 2011. the UK and Continental Europe.
In our RBWM business, the increase in Capital ratios Unaudited mortgage origination in Hong Kong and the UK had 2011 2010 only a marginal impact on RWAs, due to the low % % risk weight applicable to the residential mortgages.
This was Total capital ratio 14.1 15.2 partially offset by the slow pace of recovery of the Core tier 1 target range............... 9.510.5 US economy and deterioration in the US housing market, resulting in increased average risk weights Eligibility requirements for non-equity applicable to those portfolios.
Our strategy of instruments under Basel III rules have not been running down legacy RWAs continued in 2011 as 211 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Capital Movement in tier 1 capital in 2011 Future developments we announced the sale of the Card and Retail in the first half of 2012 subject to regulatory Services business, which is expected to be completed approval.
Any additional countercyclical capital buffer We complied with the FSAs capital adequacy requirements will also be phased in, starting in 2016 requirements throughout 2011 and 2010.
Internal to a maximum level of 2.5% effective on 1 January capital generation contributed US$8.7bn to core tier 2019, although individual jurisdictions may choose 1 capital, being profits attributable to shareholders to implement larger countercyclical capital buffers.
of the parent company after regulatory adjustment The leverage ratio will be subject to a supervisory for own credit spread, and net dividends.
Foreign monitoring period, which commenced on 1 January currency translation differences decreased core tier 2011, and a parallel run period which will run from 1 capital by US$2.7bn due to the strengthening of 1 January 2013 until 1 January 2017.
calibration of the leverage ratio will be carried out in the first half of 2017 with a view to migrating to Future developments a pillar 1 requirement from 1 January 2018.
Unaudited In addition to the criteria detailed in the Basel The regulation and supervision of financial III proposals, the Basel Committee issued further institutions continues to undergo significant change minimum requirements in January 2011 to ensure in response to the global financial crisis.
In that all classes of capital instruments fully absorb December 2010, the Basel Committee issued two losses at the point of non-viability before taxpayers documents: A global regulatory framework for are exposed to loss.
Instruments issued on or after more resilient banks and banking systems and 1 January 2013 may only be included in regulatory International framework for liquidity risk capital if the new requirements are met.
The capital measurement, standards and monitoring, which treatment of securities issued prior to this date will together are commonly referred to as Basel III.
In be phased out over a 10-year period commencing on June 2011, the Basel Committee issued a revision to 1 January 2013. the former document setting out the finalised capital treatment for counterparty credit risk in bilateral In July 2011, the European Commission trades.
published proposals for a new Regulation and Directive, known collectively as CRD IV, to give The Basel III rules set out the minimum effect to the Basel III framework in the EU.
The common equity tier 1 requirement of 4.5% and majority of the Basel III proposals are in the additional capital conservation buffer requirement of 212 Regulation, removing national discretion, with the the required regulatory common equity tier 1 ratio exception of countercyclical and capital conservation for a G-SIB may ultimately lie in the range of 8% to buffers which are in the Directive.
The Regulation additionally sets out provisions Potential common equity tier 1 requirements from to harmonise regulatory and financial reporting in 1 January 2019 the EU.
In December 2011, the EBA published a Unaudited consultative document proposing measures to Minimum common equity tier 1 4.5% Capital conservation buffer 2.5% specify uniform formats, frequencies and dates Countercyclical capital buffer 0 2.5% of prudential reporting to the regulator.
The new G-SIB buffer 1 2.5% requirements are due to take effect as of 1 January 2013.
Against the backdrop of eurozone instability, on The CRD IV measures are subject to agreement a temporary basis, the EBA recommends banks aim by the European Parliament, the Council and EU to reach a 9% core tier 1 ratio by the end of June member states.
We will continue to review our target core tier 1 ratio of 9.5% to 10.5% as the applicable regulatory In parallel with the Basel III proposals, the capital requirements evolve over the period to Basel Committee issued a consultative document in 1 January 2019.
July 2011, Global systemically important banks: assessment methodology and the additional loss Impact of Basel III absorbency requirement.
In November 2011, they Unaudited published their rules and the Financial Stability In order to provide some insight into the possible Board FSB issued the initial list of global effects of the Basel III rules on HSBC, we have systematically important banks G-SIBs.
This estimated the Groups pro forma common equity list, which includes HSBC alongside twenty-eight tier 1 ratio on the basis of our interpretation of those other major banks globally, will be re-assessed rules applied to our position at 31 December 2011. periodically through annual re-scoring of the individual banks and triennial review of the The Basel III changes will be progressively methodology.
The increased capital requirements which come into effect on 1 January 2013 are estimated to The rules set out an indicator-based approach to result in a common equity tier 1 ratio which is G-SIBs assessment employing five broad categories: 100bps lower than the current core tier 1 ratio.
size, interconnectedness, lack of substitutability, Management actions, primarily the run-off of legacy cross-jurisdictional activity and complexity.
The positions including the US CML portfolio and the designated G-SIBs will be required to hold minimum sale of the US Card and Retail Services portfolio, additional common equity Tier 1 capital of between coupled with active management of the correlation 1% and 2.5%, depending on their relative systemic trading portfolio, the market risk capital requirement importance indicated by their assessed score.
A and the counterparty capital risk requirement, will further 1% charge may be applied to any bank mitigate this by 110bps, more than offsetting the which fails to make progress, or even regresses, in effect of these Basel III changes before taking performance within the assessment categories.
The account of any future retained earnings.
requirements, initially for those banks identified in November 2014 as G-SIBs, will be phased in In addition to the impact on common equity from 1 January 2016, becoming fully effective on tier 1 capital, tier 1 capital and tier 2 capital will also 1 January 2019.
National regulators have discretion be affected by the derecognition of non-qualifying to introduce higher thresholds than these minima.
These changes will be phased in over 10 years from 1 January 2013, and will further The above forms part of a broad mandate of the reduce the tier 1 ratio by an estimated 10bps, and the FSB to reduce the moral hazard of G-SIBs.
A further total capital ratio by an estimated 50bps in 2013, exercise of this mandate was the FSBs own direct excluding new issues of qualifying capital consultation of October 2011.
introducing, over 2012-14, enhanced reporting by G-SIBs to the Basel Committee centrally.
The changes to capital deductions and regulatory adjustments including deferred tax assets, material In September 2011, the ICB recommended holdings, excess expected losses and unrealised measures on capital requirements for UK banking losses on available-for-sale portfolios will be phased groups.
For further details on these proposals see in over a five-year period starting on 1 January 2014. page 101.
2 Mainly comprises unrealised losses on available-for-sale debt securities within special purpose entities which are excluded from the regulatory consolidation.
3 Under FSA rules, unrealised gains losses on debt securities net of tax must be excluded from capital resources.
4 Under FSA rules, any defined benefit asset is derecognised and a defined benefit liability may be substituted with the additional funding that will be paid into the relevant schemes over the following five year period.
5 Mainly comprise investments in insurance entities.
6 Under FSA rules, collective impairment allowances on loan portfolios on the standardised approach are included in tier 2 capital.
214 Appendix to Capital Capital management and capital measurement and allocation Capital management Audited Our policy on capital management is underpinned by a capital management framework, which enables us to manage our capital in a consistent manner.
The framework, which is approved by the GMB annually, incorporates a number of different capital measures including market capitalisation, invested capital, economic capital and regulatory capital.
Capital measures market capitalisation is the stock market value of the company: invested capital is the equity capital invested in HSBC by our shareholders, adjusted for certain reserves and goodwill previously amortised or written off: economic capital is the internally calculated capital requirement which we deem necessary to support the risks to which we are exposed: and regulatory capital is the capital which we are required to hold in accordance with the rules established by the FSA for the consolidated Group and by our local regulators for individual Group companies.
The following risks managed through the capital management framework have been identified as material: credit, market, operational, interest rate risk in the banking book, pension fund, insurance and residual risks.
We incorporate stress testing in the capital management framework, because it is important in understanding the sensitivities of the core assumptions in our capital plans to the adverse effect of extreme but plausible events.
Stress testing allows us to formulate our response, including risk mitigation actions, in advance of conditions starting to exhibit the stress scenarios identified.
The actual market stresses which occurred throughout the financial system during recent years have been used to inform our capital planning process and further develop the stress scenarios we employ.
In addition to our internal stress tests, others are carried out, both at the request of regulators and by the regulators themselves using their prescribed assumptions.
We take into account the results of all such regulatory stress testing when undertaking our internal capital management assessment.
The responsibility for global capital allocation principles and decisions rests with the GMB.
Through our structured internal governance processes, we maintain discipline over our investment and capital allocation decisions and seek to ensure that returns on investment are adequate after taking account of capital costs.
Our strategy is to allocate capital to businesses on the basis of their economic profit generation, regulatory and economic capital requirements.
Our capital management process is articulated in the annual Group capital plan which is approved by the Board.
The plan is drawn up with the objective of maintaining both an appropriate amount of capital and an optimal mix between the different components of capital.
HSBC Holdings and its major subsidiaries raise non-equity tier 1 capital and subordinated debt in accordance with our guidelines on market and investor concentration, cost, market conditions, timing, capital composition and maturity profile.
Each of our subsidiaries manages its own capital to support its planned business growth and meet its local regulatory requirements within the context of the approved annual Group capital plan.
In accordance with our capital management framework, capital generated by subsidiaries in excess of planned requirements is returned to HSBC Holdings, normally by way of dividends.
HSBC Holdings is the primary provider of equity capital to its subsidiaries and also provides non-equity capital to subsidiaries where necessary.
These investments are substantially funded by HSBC Holdings own capital issuance and profit retention.
As part of its capital management process, HSBC Holdings seeks to maintain a prudent balance between the composition of its capital and that of its investment in subsidiaries.
Capital measurement and allocation Unaudited Our policy and practice in capital measurement and allocation at Group level is underpinned by the Basel II framework.
However, local regulators are at different stages of implementation and local reporting may still be on a Basel I basis, notably in the US.
In most jurisdictions, non-banking financial subsidiaries are also subject to the supervision and capital requirements of local regulatory authorities.
215 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Capital Appendix to Capital Capital measurement and allocation Regulatory and accounting consolidations The basis of consolidation for financial accounting purposes is described on page 292 and differs from that used for regulatory purposes.
Investments in banking associates are equity accounted in the financial accounting consolidation, whereas their exposures are proportionally consolidated for regulatory purposes.
Subsidiaries and associates engaged in insurance and non-financial activities are excluded from the regulatory consolidation and are deducted from regulatory capital.
The regulatory consolidation does not include SPEs where significant risk has been transferred to third parties.
Exposures to these SPEs are risk-weighted as securitisation positions for regulatory purposes.
Basel II is structured around three pillars: minimum capital requirements, supervisory review process and market discipline.
The CRD implemented Basel II in the EU and the FSA then gave effect to the CRD by including the latters requirements in its own rulebooks.
Regulatory capital Our capital is divided into two tiers: tier 1 capital is divided into core tier 1 and other tier 1 capital.
Core tier 1 capital comprises shareholders equity and related non-controlling interests.
The book values of goodwill and intangible assets are deducted from core tier 1 capital and other regulatory adjustments are made for items reflected in shareholders equity which are treated differently for the purposes of capital adequacy.
Qualifying capital instruments such as non-cumulative perpetual preference shares and hybrid capital securities are included in other tier 1 capital: and tier 2 capital comprises qualifying subordinated loan capital, related non-controlling interests, allowable collective impairment allowances and unrealised gains arising on the fair valuation of equity instruments held as available for sale.
Tier 2 capital also includes reserves arising from the revaluation of properties.
To ensure the overall quality of the capital base, the FSAs rules set limits on the amount of hybrid capital instruments that can be included in tier 1 capital relative to core tier 1 capital, and also limits overall tier 2 capital to no more than tier 1 capital.
Pillar 1 capital requirements Pillar 1 covers the capital resources requirements for credit risk, market risk and operational risk.
Credit risk includes counterparty credit risk and securitisation requirements.
These requirements are expressed in terms of RWAs.
Credit risk capital requirements Basel II applies three approaches of increasing sophistication to the calculation of pillar 1 credit risk capital requirements.
The most basic level, the standardised approach, requires banks to use external credit ratings to determine the risk weightings applied to rated counterparties and group other counterparties into broad categories and apply standardised risk weightings to these categories.
The next level, the internal ratings-based IRB foundation approach, allows banks to calculate their credit risk capital requirements on the basis of their internal assessment of the probability that a counterparty will default PD, but subjects their quantified estimates of exposure at default EAD and loss given default LGD to standard supervisory parameters.
Finally, the IRB advanced approach allows banks to use their own internal assessment in determining PD and quantifying EAD and LGD.
The capital resources requirement, which is intended to cover unexpected losses, is derived from a formula specified in the regulatory rules, which incorporates PD, LGD, EAD and other variables such as maturity and correlation.
Expected losses under the IRB approaches are calculated by multiplying PD by EAD and LGD.
Expected losses are deducted from capital to the extent that they exceed total accounting impairment allowances.
For credit risk we have adopted the IRB advanced approach for the majority of our business, with the remainder on either IRB foundation or standardised approaches.
Under our Basel II rollout plans, a number of our Group companies and portfolios are in transition to advanced IRB approaches.
At end of 2011, portfolios in much of Europe, Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific and North America were on advanced IRB approaches.
Others remain on the standardised or foundation approaches under Basel II, pending definition of local regulations or model approval, or under exemptions from IRB treatment.
Counterparty credit risk Counterparty credit risk arises for OTC derivatives and securities financing transactions.
It is calculated in both the trading and non-trading books and is the risk that the counterparty to a transaction may default before 216 completing the satisfactory settlement of the transaction.
Three approaches to calculating counterparty credit risk and determining exposure values are defined by Basel II: standardised, mark-to-market and internal model method.
These exposure values are used to determine capital requirements under one of the credit risk approaches: standardised, IRB foundation and IRB advanced.
We use the mark-to-market and internal model method approaches for counterparty credit risk.
Our longer-term aim is to migrate more positions from the mark-to-market to the internal model method approach.
Securitisation Securitisation positions are held in both the trading and non-trading book.
For non-trading book securitisation positions, Basel II specifies two methods for calculating credit risk requirements, these being the standardised and IRB approaches.
Both approaches rely on the mapping of rating agency credit ratings to risk weights, which range between 7% and 1,250%.
Positions that would otherwise be weighted at 1,250% are deducted from capital.
Within the IRB approach, we use the Ratings Based Method for the majority of our non-trading book securitisation positions, and the Internal Assessment Approach for unrated liquidity facilities and programmewide enhancements for asset-backed securitisations.
Following the implementation of Basel 2.5, the majority of securitisation positions in the trading book are treated for capital purposes as if they are held in the non-trading book under the standardised or IRB approaches.
Other traded securitisation positions, known as correlation trading, are treated under an internal model approach approved by the FSA.
Market risk capital requirement The market risk capital requirement is measured using internal market risk models where approved by the FSA, or the FSAs standard rules.
Following the implementation of Basel 2.5, our internal market risk models comprise VAR, stressed VAR, incremental risk charge and correlation trading under the comprehensive risk measure.
Operational risk capital requirement Basel II includes a capital requirement for operational risk, again utilising three levels of sophistication.
The capital required under the basic indicator approach is a simple percentage of gross revenues, whereas under the standardised approach it is one of three different percentages of gross revenues allocated to each of eight defined business lines.
Both these approaches use an average of the last three financial years revenues.
Finally, the advanced measurement approach uses banks own statistical analysis and modelling of operational risk data to determine capital requirements.
We have adopted the standardised approach in determining our operational risk capital requirements.
Pillar 2 capital requirements We conduct an Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP to determine a forward looking assessment of HSBCs capital requirements given its business strategy, risk profile, risk appetite and capital plan.
This process incorporates the risk management processes and governance of the firm.
A range of stress tests are applied to our base capital plan.
These coupled with our economic capital framework and other risk management practices are used to assess HSBCs internal capital adequacy requirements.
The ICAAP is examined by the FSA as part of the FSAs Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process, which occurs periodically to enable the FSA to define the Individual Capital Guidance or minimum capital requirements for HSBC.
Pillar 3 disclosure requirements Pillar 3 of Basel II is related to market discipline and aims to make firms more transparent by requiring them to publish specific, prescribed details of their risks, capital and risk management under the Basel II framework.
Our Pillar 3 disclosures for the year ended 31 December 2011 are published as a separate document on the Group Investor Relations website.
217 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview
