Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Our business model Our business model is designed to deliver sustainable growth in earnings.
It is consumer-led and science-based.
How our business works Building sustainable value Consumers Science-based R&D Our success depends on really understanding the different profiles For over 50 years, we have had an extensive scientific research and preferences of our consumers.
We invest in gathering programme.
More recently, we have been focusing research on comprehensive insights into smokers preferences and buying modified cigarettes and low-toxicant smokeless tobacco products.
This drives our marketing and allows us to promote We are committed to helping develop the scientific and regulatory our products to adult tobacco consumers in ways that satisfy framework we need to deliver a varied portfolio of products in the their preferences, while responding to stakeholder expectations future, including alternative regulatory-approved nicotine products, about how we should market our products.
to meet the evolving needs of adult smokers.
Sourcing Brands We have a significant interest in tobacco growing and we work directly We have a successful brand marketing strategy based on innovation, with around 70 per cent of the farmers who supply our leaf.
We responsibility and consumer choice.
We recognise that our business manage our whole supply chain responsibly and work with our starts with our consumers and our brand portfolio is designed to suppliers to create a shared understanding of our social, environmental meet key consumer needs, especially in our strategic consumer and economic impacts.
This enables us and our suppliers to segments.
Our four Global Drive Brands Dunhill, Kent, Lucky Strike manage risks better, while ensuring that we are agile and flexible, and Pall Mall and our other international brands account for more so that we can use our resources as effectively as possible.
than 50 per cent of our total cigarette volumes.
Production Innovative products Manufacturing tobacco products is a large-scale operation and we We make significant investment in our brands and the development have factories all over the world.
We work to ensure that our costs of superior, differentiated products to drive growth.
Our product and are globally competitive and that we use our resources as effectively packaging innovations, such as Convertibles and Reloc, vary across as possible.
Our companies have closed or downsized some factories our brands, brand variants and markets and our approach enables and consolidated production elsewhere in recent years.
These our companies to adapt their offers flexibly to local preferences.
changes enable us to rationalise our machinery and technology Our focus when designing these innovations is on relevance to establish a more cost-effective operational base for the future.
to the consumer and potential speed to market.
Worldwide presence Our people Our international reach and well-developed distribution channels We employ more than 56,000 people worldwide from securing are critical enablers of our growth strategy, allowing us to roll out our leaf supply through production and distribution to our efforts innovations on a global scale.
We continuously review our route to develop reduced-risk products.
Our workforce is strongly to market to ensure we remain competitive.
This includes our multi-cultural and we have a devolved structure, with each local relationships with wholesalers, distributors and logistics providers, company having responsibility for its operations.
We value our as well as our direct to store sales operation, which is often the most employees talents and diverse perspectives and recognise their effective way of serving retailers and building business partnerships.
critical role in achieving the goals we set for our business.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 11
