Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Regional review continued Western Europe Share of Group revenue 23% 2010: 25% Adjusted profit from operations m 1,228 2010: 1,103 Mark Cobben Market share in Spain was up strongly, Director, Western Europe driven by Pall Mall and Lucky Strike.
Industry volumes were lower as a result of the tough economic conditions, unemployment and an excise-driven Profit in Western Europe increased by price increase at the end of 2010.
125 million to 1,228 million, mainly as a Profit was impacted by a price war in the result of strong performances in Germany, middle of the year and lower volumes.
Switzerland, Italy, France and Romania, partially offset by declines in Spain, the Profit in Switzerland grew strongly as Netherlands and Greece.
At constant rates a result of reduced costs and increased of exchange, profit increased by 101 pricing.
Volumes were lower but million or 9 per cent.
Regional volumes market share grew through the were marginally lower at 135 billion as a performance of Kent and Pall Mall.
result of declines in Germany, Switzerland, Volumes and profit in Belgium and the Italy, Greece and Spain, partially offset by Netherlands were lower but market an increase in Romania.
Profit was maintained in Denmark where share increased in Belgium with Pall Mall industry volumes were adversely affected and Lucky Strike performing well.
In Italy, volumes and market share were by the impact of two significant exciseslightly lower although the Global Drive In Romania, excellent increases in profit and driven price increases.
Market share was Brands performed well.
Good profit volumes were achieved as the industry recovering by the year end.
In Sweden, growth was the result of the improved benefited from the significant reduction in profit improved as a result of lower costs, product mix, price increases and lower the level of illicit trade following the strong improved pricing and volumes.
Market costs, partially offset by the effect of the action taken by the Government.
Market share was also higher.
share was higher, led by Dunhill, Kent and Vogue.
Profit increased in Germany as a result of higher pricing and lower costs.
The In Poland, despite an industry volume higher organic market share was driven decline, profit, volumes and market share by excellent performances by Pall Mall increased with the growth of Viceroy and and Lucky Strike although volumes Vogue.
Market share in Greece was decreased.
higher and Peter Stuyvesant achieved leadership in the low-priced segment.
In France, volumes were higher and market The partial absorption of excise increases share increased which, together with by the industry over the last two years improved pricing and lower product costs, contributed to a drop in profit.
In the led to an increase in profit.
Lucky Strike and United Kingdom, Pall Mall performed Vogue performed well.
well, resulting in market share growth, which, coupled with price increases, cost management and higher volumes, led to higher profit.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 30
