Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Americas Share of Group revenue 23% 2010: 24% Adjusted profit from operations m 1,441 2010: 1,382 Jack Bowles In Mexico, industry volumes declined Director, Americas sharply as a result of excise-led price increases at the beginning of 2011, as well as increased purchases by the trade during December 2010 in anticipation Profit rose by 59 million to 1,441 of the price increase.
Market share was million, mainly attributable to a strong marginally down on last year, while performance from Brazil, Venezuela and profit was higher, benefiting from Mexico and an improved product mix increased pricing and lower costs.
At constant rates of In Argentina, market share was lower exchange, profit rose by 58 million despite the growth of Lucky Strike or 4 per cent.
Volumes were down and the successful launch of Dunhill.
4 per cent at 143 billion, mainly as a Marketing investment was higher result of decreases in Mexico, Brazil, with the launch of new brands and Chile and Venezuela.
competitors pricing activities, impacting In Brazil, strong profit growth was driven profitability.
Lucky Strike performed well by an improved product mix and higher in Chile, and the very strong market share pricing.
Market share and volumes were was maintained.
Volumes were lower, slightly lower due to the growth of local following the steep excise-driven price duty evaded product.
However, volume, increases, adversely impacting profit.
share in the premium segment and share Profit in Venezuela grew strongly as a compared to international competitors result of higher pricing, partially offset continued to grow as a result of the by increased costs and lower volumes, solid performances of Lucky Strike, although market share rose.
were down due to industry declines Industry volumes were lower in Canada as and growth in illicit product.
The Group a result of increased illicit trade, with acquired Protabaco, the second largest aggressive price competition in the lowcigarette company in Colombia, on priced segment fuelling down-trading.
Protabaco and British These factors adversely impacted volumes, American Tobacco Colombia are market share and profit, although du operating from January 2012 as one Maurier and Vogue maintained their entity with a market share of almost share in the premium segment and 50 per cent.
John Player Standard remained the number one brand in Canada.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 29
