Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Other statutory and regulatory information Nicola Snook Secretary Further details of the total amounts of dividends paid in 2011 Companies Act 2006 with 2010 comparatives are given in note 8 on the accounts.
The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to set out in this report the development and performance of the business of Share capital the Group during the financial year ended 31 December 2011, As at 31 December 2011, the Company had an allotted and fully including an analysis of the position of the Group at the end of paid share capital of 2,025,986,670 ordinary shares of 25p each the financial year, and a description of the principal risks and with an aggregate nominal value of 506 million including uncertainties facing the Group.
treasury shares and shares owned by the employee share trusts.
Principal activities Purchase of own shares British American Tobacco p. l. c. is a holding company which The Board reinstated its on-market share buy-back programme owns, directly or indirectly, investments in the numerous following the Companys Preliminary Announcement on companies constituting the British American Tobacco Group of 24 February 2011and under the authority granted by shareholders companies.
The principal subsidiaries and associates are listed in 2010.
At the 2011 Annual General Meeting, the Company on the principal subsidiary and associate undertakings pages.
was given authority to purchase up to 199,400,000 of its ordinary All subsidiary undertakings are involved in activities directly or shares.
The minimum price that may be paid for such shares is indirectly related to the manufacture, distribution or sale of 25p and the maximum price is an amount equal to 105 per cent tobacco and nicotine products.
of the average of the middle market prices shown in the quotation for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Group results and dividends Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding The Group results are addressed fully in the financial statements the day on which the ordinary share is contracted to be purchased.
and in the Directors report: business review.
The Board recommends to shareholders a final dividend of 88.4p per ordinary share of During the year ended 31 December 2011, the Company made 25p for the year ended 31 December 2011.
If approved by on-market repurchases totalling 28,037,708 of its own ordinary shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on shares, representing 1.4 per cent of the issued share capital 26 April 2012, the dividend will be payable on 3 May 2012 to excluding treasury shares as at 31 December 2011 and at a shareholders registered on either the UK main register or the value of 750 million, excluding transaction costs.
In accordance South African branch register on 9 March 2012, the record with the Companys policy, all of these repurchased shares are date.
The ex-dividend trading dates are 5 March 2012 on the JSE held as treasury shares and as at 31 December 2011 the number Limited JSE and 7 March 2012 on the London Stock Exchange of treasury shares was 56,997,762.
While treasury shares are LSE.
As the Group reports in sterling, dividends are declared held no dividends are paid on them and they have no voting and payable in sterling except for shareholders on the branch rights.
Treasury shares may be resold at a later date.
register in South Africa whose dividends are payable in rand.
The present authority for the Company to purchase its own A rate of exchange of :R 12.19960 as at 21 February 2012 shares will expire at the 2012 Annual General Meeting where the closing rate for that date as quoted on Bloomberg, results it is proposed that the Companys authority to purchase its in an equivalent final dividend of 1,078.44464 SA cents per own shares is renewed.
This will enable the share buy-back ordinary share.
programme to continue for a further year.
In the opinion of the Directors, the exercise of this authority is likely to result in an From the commencement of trading on 23 February 2012 increase in the Companys earnings per share and will be in the the date of the preliminary announcement to 9 March 2012 interests of its shareholders generally.
Details of the applicable inclusive, no removal requests between the UK main register resolution and explanatory notes are contained in the Notice and the South African branch register in either direction are of Annual General Meeting which is sent to all shareholders permitted.
Further, from the close of business on 2 March 2012 and is also published on www.
until the close of business on 9 March 2012 inclusive, no transfers between the UK main register and the South Significant agreements change of control African branch register are permitted and no shares may The following significant agreements contain certain termination be dematerialised or rematerialised between 5 March 2012 and other rights for our counterparties upon a change of and 9 March 2012, both days inclusive.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 101 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Other statutory and regulatory information continued On 7 August 2007, British American Tobacco Mexico, S. A. fide C. V. Articles of Association as borrower and the Company, B.
A. T. International Finance p. l. c. The following description summarises certain provisions of and B.
A. T. Capital Corporation as guarantors entered into a term the Companys current Articles of Association as adopted by credit facility arrangement with Barclays Capital as mandated special resolution at the Annual General Meeting on 28 April lead arranger, HSBC Bank plc as agent and certain financial 2010, applicable English law and the Companies Act 2006 institutions as lenders pursuant to which the lenders agreed to the Companies Act.
This summary is qualified in its entirety make available to the borrower US$690 million to refinance existing by reference to the Companies Act and the Companys Articles facilities and for general corporate purposes the Facility.
Pursuant of Association, a copy of which is available on www.
com to the Facility, should the borrower cease to be a direct or indirect Share capital subsidiary of the Company, the borrower shall immediately repay All of the Companys ordinary shares are fully paid and, any outstanding amounts.
Where there is a change of control accordingly, no further contribution of capital may be in respect of the Company, the lenders can require all required by the Company from the holders of such shares.
amounts outstanding under the Facility to be repaid.
Objects and purposes On 10 July 2009, British American Tobacco Ttn Mamulleri The Company is incorporated under the name of British American Sanayi five Ticaret Anonim Sirketi as borrower, the Company Tobacco p. l. c. and is registered in England and Wales under and B.
A. T. International Finance p. l. c. as guarantors entered registered number 3407696.
Under the Companies Act 2006, into a term credit facility agreement with Barclays Bank PLC the Companys objects are unrestricted.
as agent and certain financial institutions as lenders pursuant to which the lenders agreed to make available to the borrower Directors: appointment and retirement 700 million to refinance existing facilities and for general The Companys Articles of Association provide for a Board of corporate purposes the Facility.
In December 2010, the Directors, consisting unless otherwise determined by ordinary borrower prepaid 250 million of the outstanding amount.
resolution of the shareholders of not fewer than five Directors, Pursuant to the Facility, should the borrower cease to be a not subject to any maximum, who shall manage the business direct or indirect subsidiary of the Company, the borrower shall of the Company.
immediately repay any outstanding advances.
Where there is a The Directors and the Company by ordinary resolution may change of control in respect of the Company, the lenders can appoint a person who is willing to act as a Director, either to fill require all amounts outstanding under the Facility to be repaid.
a vacancy or as an additional Director.
A Director appointed by On 25 November 2010, the Company, B.
A. T. International Finance the Directors shall retire at the next Annual General Meeting p. l. c. and British American Tobacco Holdings The Netherlands B. V. and will put himself herself forward to be reappointed by the as borrowers and, in the case of the Company, as a borrower and shareholders.
Such a Director shall not be taken into account in guarantor entered into a revolving credit facility agreement with determining the number or identity of the Directors to retire by HSBC Bank plc as agent and certain financial institutions as rotation at that next Annual General Meeting.
lenders pursuant to which the lenders agreed to make available At each Annual General Meeting, all Directors shall retire from to the borrowers 2 billion for general corporate purposes the office by rotation who: 1 held office at the time of each of the Facility.
Pursuant to the Facility, should a borrower other than two preceding Annual General Meetings and who did not retire the Company cease to be a direct or indirect subsidiary of the at either of them: and 2 if the number of Directors retiring in Company, such borrower shall immediately repay any outstanding 1 above is less than one-third of the Directors who are subject advances made to it.
Where there is a change of control in respect to retirement by rotation or, if their number is not three or a of the Company, the lenders can require all amounts outstanding multiple of three, is less than the number which is nearest to under the Facility to be repaid.
but does not exceed one-third of the Directors, such additional Details of the change of control provisions contained in the number of Directors as shall, together with the Directors retiring Companys Long-Term Incentive Plans are given in the under 1 above, equal one-third of the Directors or, if their remuneration report.
number is not three or a multiple of three, the number which is nearest to but does not exceed one-third of the Directors.
Contractual arrangements Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act and the Articles Individual operating companies in the Group have contractual and of Association, the Directors to retire at an Annual General other arrangements with many third parties in support of the Meeting under 2 above will be those who have been in office Groups business activities including those covering input materials the longest since their appointment or last reappointment.
filter tow, tobacco leaf and wrapping materials, logistics and distribution and information technology.
Such contracts and Notwithstanding these provisions contained in the Articles of arrangements may be deemed to be essential to one or more Association, the Company is not restricted to the number of operating companies but there are no contracts or arrangements Directors who may retire and seek re-election each year.
The considered to be essential to the operation and understanding of Articles of Association merely set a minimum number of Directors the business or the Group as a whole.
who must be subject to retirement by rotation each year.
As a British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 102 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information result, since the introduction of the provision of UK Corporate 4. any proposal concerning the purchase of Directors and Governance Code in 2011 that all Directors of FTSE 350 officers liability insurance: companies should be subject to annual re-election by 5. any proposal concerning his being, or intending to become, shareholders, all of the Directors of the Company will be subject a participant in the underwriting or sub-underwriting of an to either election i. e. those Directors appointed by the Board of offer of any such shares, debentures or other securities for Directors during the year or re-election at the forthcoming subscription, purchase or exchange: Annual General Meeting to be held on 26 April 2012.
6. any arrangements which relate in any way to a retirement A Director who retires at an Annual General Meeting and is benefits scheme or any arrangement for the benefit of the not reappointed shall retain office until the meeting elects employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries including someone in his place or, if it does not do so, until the but without being limited to an employees share scheme, conclusion of the meeting.
which does not accord to any Director any privilege or In addition to any power of removal under the Companies Act, the advantage not generally accorded to the employees and or Company may, by special resolution, remove a Director before the former employees to whom the arrangement relates: and expiration of his period of office and, subject to the Articles of 7. any transaction or arrangement with any other company, being Association, may by ordinary resolution, appoint another person a company in which the Director is interested only as an officer, who is willing to act as a Director, and is permitted by law to do so, creditor or shareholder, provided that he is not the holder of or to be a Director instead of him.
A person so appointed shall be beneficially interested in one per cent or more of the equity subject to retirement as if he had become a Director on the day on share capital of that company or of any other company which the Director in whose place he is appointed was last through which his interest is derived and not entitled to appointed or reappointed a Director.
exercise one per cent or more of the voting rights available to Fees for Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman shall be members of the relevant company disregarding, for the determined by the Directors but shall not exceed in aggregate purposes of this proviso: i any shares held by a Director as an annual sum of 2,500,000, unless determined otherwise by bare or custodian trustee and in which he has no beneficial ordinary resolution of the shareholders.
The remuneration of the interest: ii any shares comprised in an authorised unit trust Executive Directors is determined by the Remuneration Committee scheme in which the Director is interested only as a unit holder: which is comprised of independent Non-Executive Directors.
and iii any shares of that class held as treasury shares.
Directors: meetings and voting The Company may by ordinary resolution suspend or relax to The quorum for meetings of Directors is two Directors.
The any extent, either generally or in respect of any particular matter, Directors may delegate any of their powers which are conferred any provision of the Articles prohibiting a Director from voting upon them under the Articles of Association to such person or at a meeting of the Directors or of a committee of the Directors.
committee as they consider appropriate.
Directors: borrowing powers The Articles of Association place a general prohibition on a Without prejudice to their general powers, the Directors may Director voting at a meeting of the Directors on any resolution exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money and concerning a matter in which he has an interest other than by to mortgage or charge its undertaking, property, assets present virtue of his interest in shares in the Company.
However, in the and future and uncalled capital or any part thereof, and subject to absence of some other interest not indicated below, a Director is the provisions of the Articles of Association to issue debentures, entitled to vote and to be counted in a quorum for the purpose of debenture stock and other securities whether outright or as any vote relating to a resolution concerning the following matters: security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of any third party.
1. the giving to him of a guarantee, security or indemnity in respect of money lent to, or an obligation incurred by him Directors: interests for the benefit of, the Company or any of its subsidiaries: Provided that the Director has disclosed to the other Directors the nature and extent of any material interest of his, a Director, 2. the giving to a third party of a guarantee, security or notwithstanding his office: indemnity in respect of an obligation of the Company or any of its subsidiaries for which the Director has assumed 1. may be a party to, or otherwise interested in, any transaction responsibility in whole or part and whether alone or jointly or arrangement with the Company or in which the Company with others under a guarantee or indemnity or by the is otherwise interested: giving of security: 2. may be a Director or other officer of, or employed by or may 3. the giving to him of any other indemnity which is on be a party to, or otherwise interested in, any transaction or substantially the same terms as indemnities given, or to be arrangement with anybody corporate promoted by the given, to all of the other Directors and or to the funding by Company or in which the Company is otherwise interested: the Company of his expenditure on defending proceedings 3. shall not, by reason of his office, be accountable to the of the doing by the Company of anything to enable him to Company for any benefit which he derives from any such avoid incurring such expenditure where all other Directors office or employment or from any such transaction or have been given, or are to be given, substantially the arrangement or from any interest in any such body corporate: same arrangements: British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 103 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Other statutory and regulatory information continued 4. shall not infringe his duty to avoid a situation in which he conflict of interest arising out of such office, employment or has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or position may be dealt with, either before or at the time that may possibly conflict, with the interests of the Company as such a conflict of interest arises, provided that the authorisation a result of any such office or employment or from any such is only effective if: transaction or arrangement or from any interest in any such 1. any requirement as to the quorum at the meeting at which body corporate: the matter is considered is met without counting the 5. shall not be required to disclose to the Company, or use in Director in question or any other interested Director: and performing his duties as a Director of the Company, any 2. the matter was agreed to without their voting or would confidential information relating to such office or employment have been agreed to if their votes had not been counted.
if to make such a disclosure or use would result in a breach of duty or obligation of confidence owed by him in relation If a matter, or office, employment or position, has been to or in connection with that office or employment: authorised by the Directors then subject to such terms and conditions, if any, as the Directors may think fit to impose from 6. may absent himself from discussions and exclude himself time to time, and subject always to their right to vary or from information, which will or may relate to that office, terminate such authorisation or the permissions set out below : employment, transaction, arrangement or interest: and 1. the Director shall not be required to disclose any confidential 7. no such transaction or arrangement will be liable to be information relating to such matter, or such office, avoided because of any such interest or benefit.
employment or position, to the Company if to make such For the purposes of the Articles, a general notice given to the a disclosure would result in a breach of a duty or obligation Directors that he is to be regarded as having an interest of the of confidence owed by him in relation to or in connection nature and extent specified in the notice in any transaction or with that matter, or that office, employment or position: arrangement in which a specified person or class of persons 2. the Director may absent himself from discussions, whether is interested is deemed to be a disclosure that the Director in meetings of the Directors or otherwise, and exclude has an interest in any such transaction of the nature and himself from information which will or may relate to extent so specified.
that matter, or that office, employment or position: and An interest of which a Director has no knowledge and of which 3. a Director shall not, by reason of his office as a Director it is unreasonable to expect him to have knowledge is not of the Company, be accountable to the Company for treated as an interest: an interest which consists of a Director any benefit which he derives from any such matter, being a Director or other officer of, or employed by any or from any such office, employment or position.
subsidiary of the Company is not deemed to be a material interest: a Director need not disclose an interest if it cannot be Dividend rights reasonably regarded as likely to give rise to a conflict of interest: Holders of the Companys ordinary shares may, by ordinary and a Director need not disclose an interest if, or to the extent resolution, declare dividends but may not declare dividends that, the other Directors are already aware of it.
in excess of the amount recommended by the Directors.
The Directors may also pay interim dividends if it appears that such A Director will no longer be regarded as having an interest in dividends are justified by the profits available for distribution.
a transaction by virtue of a person connected to the Director No dividend shall be paid otherwise than out of profits available having a relevant interest.
However, the Director and the as specified under the provisions of the Companies Act.
Company must still take a view each time a matter is being considered as to whether the interests of the Directors connected The Directors may, with the sanction of an ordinary resolution persons mean that a Director should be treated as interested of the shareholders, offer any holders of ordinary shares the in a transaction.
right to elect to receive ordinary shares credited as fully paid instead of cash in respect of the whole or part of all such The Directors may subject to such terms and conditions, if any, dividends as may be specified by the resolution.
Any general as they may think fit to impose from time to time, and subject meeting declaring a dividend may, upon the recommendation always to their right to vary or terminate such authorisation of the Directors, direct payment or satisfaction of such dividend authorise, to the fullest extent permitted by law: to be wholly or partly by the distribution of specific assets.
1. any matter which would otherwise result in a Director Where difficulty arises in regard to distribution, the Directors infringing his duty to avoid a situation in which he has, or may ignore fractions or issue fractional certificates, fix the can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or value for distribution of any assets and may determine that possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Company cash shall be paid to any shareholder in order to adjust the and which may reasonably be regarded as likely to give rise rights of such members.
to a conflict of interest including a conflict of interest and Any dividend which has been unclaimed for 12 years from the duty or conflict of duties : date when it became due for payment shall, if the Directors so 2. a Director to accept or continue in any office, employment resolve, be forfeited and shall cease to be owed by the Company.
or position in addition to his office as a Director of the Company and may authorise the manner in which a British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 104 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information The Company can cease sending dividend warrants and Matters are transacted at general meetings of the Company by cheques by post or otherwise if these have been returned proposing and passing of two kinds of resolutions: undelivered to, or left uncashed by, the shareholder on at least 1. ordinary resolutions, which can include resolutions for the two consecutive occasions, or, if following one such occasion, appointment, reappointment and removal of Directors, the reasonable enquiries have failed to establish the members new receiving of the Annual Report, the declaration of final address.
No dividend shall bear interest against the Company, dividends, the appointment and reappointment of the unless provided by the rights attached to the share.
external auditor, the authority for the Company to purchase The Directors may elect to make payments of dividends to its own shares and the grant of authority to allot shares: and shareholders by bank or electronic transfer only.
Amounts due 2. special resolutions, which can include resolutions amending to shareholders who provide no, or invalid, account details may the Companys Articles of Association and resolutions relating be held in an account in the Companys name until such to certain matters concerning a winding-up of the Company.
The Company shall not be a trustee of any such monies, shall be deemed to have An ordinary resolution requires the affirmative vote of a simple discharged its payment obligations by paying the relevant majority of the votes cast at a meeting at which there is a monies into such account and interest will not accrue for quorum in order to be passed.
Special resolutions require the shareholders on any such monies pending payment to affirmative vote of not less than three-quarters of the votes cast such persons.
at a meeting at which there is a quorum in order to be passed.
The necessary quorum for a meeting of the Company is a Voting rights minimum of two shareholders present in person or by proxy or Voting at any general meeting of shareholders is by a show of by a duly authorised representative s of a corporation which is hands unless a poll is demanded.
On a show of hands, every a shareholder and entitled to vote.
shareholder who is present in person at a general meeting When convening a meeting the Company may specify a time has one vote regardless of the number of shares held by not more than 48 hours before the time of the meeting excluding the shareholder.
any part of a day that is not a working day by which a person Every proxy appointed by a shareholder and present at a general must be entered on the register of members in order to have meeting has one vote, except that if the proxy has been duly the right to attend or vote at the meeting.
appointed by more than one shareholder entitled to vote on the resolution and is instructed by one or more of those shareholders Winding-up to vote for the resolution and by one or more others to vote If the Company is wound up, the liquidator may, with the against it, or is instructed by one or more of those shareholders sanction of a special resolution and any other sanction required to vote in one way and is given discretion as to how to vote by by law, subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, divide one or more others and wishes to use that discretion to vote among the shareholders the whole or any part of the assets of in the other way he has one vote for and one vote against the Company, and may, for that purpose, value any assets and the resolution.
determine how the division is to take place as between the shareholders or different classes of shareholders.
Alternatively, On a poll, every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy with the same sanction, the liquidator may vest the whole or has one vote for every share held by the shareholder.
A shareholder any part of the assets in trustees upon trusts for the benefit of or his duly appointed proxy entitled to more than one vote the shareholders, but no shareholder will be compelled to need not use all his votes or cast all the votes he uses in the accept any asset upon which there is a liability.
A poll may be demanded by any of the following: Transfer of shares 1. the Chairman of the meeting: Shares may be transferred by an instrument of transfer in 2. the Directors: any usual form or in any other form which the Directors may approve and shall be executed by or on behalf of the transferor 3. not less than five shareholders having the right to vote at the and, where the share is not fully paid, by or on behalf of the meeting: transferee.
The Directors can, in their absolute discretion, refuse 4. a shareholder or shareholders representing not less than to register the transfer of a share in certificated form which is one-tenth of the total voting rights of all shareholders not fully paid, provided that such a refusal would not prevent having the right to vote at the meeting excluding any dealings in shares in certificated form which are not fully paid voting rights attached to treasury shares : or from taking place on a proper basis.
The Directors may also refuse to register a transfer of a share in certificated form 5. a shareholder or shareholders holding shares which confer a whether fully paid or not unless the instrument of transfer: right to vote on the resolution at the meeting being shares on which an aggregate sum has been paid up equal to not 1. is lodged, duly stamped, and is deposited at the registered less than one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all shares office of the Company or such other place as the Directors conferring that right excluding any voting rights attached may appoint and is accompanied by a certificate for the to treasury shares.
shares to which it relates and such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 105 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Other statutory and regulatory information continued 2. is in respect of only one class of share: and under Part 6 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and Rule 5 of the Disclosure Rules and the Transparency Rules made 3. is in favour of not more than four transferees.
by the Financial Services Authority imposes a statutory obligation In the case of uncertificated shares, transfers shall be registered on a person to notify the Company and the Financial Services only in accordance with the terms of the Uncertificated Securities Authority of the percentage of the voting rights in the Company Regulations 2001 so that Directors may refuse to register a he directly or indirectly holds or controls, or has rights over, through his direct or indirect holding of certain financial transfer which would require shares to be held jointly by more than four persons.
instruments, if the percentage of those voting rights: If the Directors refuse to register a transfer of shares, they must 1. reaches, exceeds or falls below 3 per cent and or any give the transferee notice of this refusal as soon as practicable subsequent whole percentage figure as a result of an and in any event within two months of the instrument of acquisition or disposal of shares or financial instruments: or transfer being lodged with the Company.
No fees may be 2. reaches, exceeds or falls below any such threshold as a charged for the registration of a transfer of shares.
result of any change in the number of voting rights attached to shares in the Company.
Pre-emptive rights and new issues of shares While holders of ordinary shares have no pre-emptive rights The Disclosure Rules and the Transparency Rules set out in under the Articles of Association, the ability of the Directors to detail the circumstances in which an obligation of disclosure cause the Company to issue shares, securities convertible into will arise, as well as certain exemptions from those obligations shares or rights to shares, otherwise than pursuant to an for specified persons.
employee share scheme, is restricted.
Under the Companies Act, Under Section 793 of the Companies Act, the Company may, by the Directors of a company are, with certain exceptions, unable notice in writing, require a person that the Company knows or to allot any equity securities without express authorisation, has reasonable cause to believe is or was during the three years which may be contained in a companys Articles of Association preceding the date of notice interested in the Companys shares, or given by its shareholders in general meeting, but which in to indicate whether or not that is the case and, if that person either event cannot last for more than five years.
Under the does or did hold an interest in the Companys shares, to provide Companies Act, a company may also not allot shares for cash certain information as set out in that Act.
The Disclosure Rules otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme and the Transparency Rules further deal with the disclosure by without first making an offer to existing shareholders to allot persons of interests in shares or debentures of the companies of such shares to them on the same or more favourable terms which they are Directors and certain associated companies.
in proportion to their respective shareholdings, unless this requirement is waived by a special resolution of the The City Code on Takeovers and Mergers also imposes strict shareholders.
disclosure requirements with regard to dealings in the securities of an offeror or offeree company on all parties to a takeover Alteration of share capital and also on their respective associates during the course of The Company may, from time to time, by ordinary resolution: an offer period.
1. consolidate and divide all or any of its shares into shares General meetings and notices of a larger amount than its existing shares: An Annual General Meeting and all other general meetings of 2. sub-divide any of its shares into shares of smaller amount the Company must be called by at least 21 clear days written than its existing shares: and notice.
However, the Companies Act allows for this period of notice for meetings other than Annual General Meetings to be 3. determine that, as between the shares resulting from such reduced to 14 clear days notice provided that two conditions a sub-division, any of them may have any preference or are met: 1 a company must allow shareholders to make proxy advantage as compared with the others.
appointments via a website such as that hosted by its share Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act: registrars : and 2 shareholders must pass a special resolution at the Annual General Meeting every year approving that 1. the Company may reduce its share capital, its capital shortening of the notice period to 14 days.
A special resolution redemption reserve and any share premium account in any enabling the Company to hold general meetings other than way: and Annual General Meetings on 14 days notice will be proposed 2. the Company may purchase its own shares, including at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 26 April 2012. redeemable shares, and may hold such shares as treasury Subject to the resolution being passed, the approval of the shares or cancel them.
shortening of the notice period will be effective until the Companys next AGM, when it is intended that the approval be Disclosure of interests in the Companys shares renewed.
The shorter notice period would not be used as a There are no provisions in the Articles of Association whereby matter of routine.
Rather the Directors will consider on a casepersons acquiring, holding or disposing of a certain percentage by-case basis whether the use of the flexibility offered by the of the Companys shares are required to make disclosure of their shorter notice period is merited, taking into account the ownership percentage, although there are such requirements circumstances, including whether the business of the meeting is under statute and regulation.
The basic disclosure requirement British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 106 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information time sensitive, and is thought to be to the advantage of Non-UK operating subsidiaries are responsible for agreeing shareholders as a whole.
Further, the shorter notice period terms and conditions for their business transactions when orders would not be used unless both of the conditions as stated for goods and services are placed, ensuring that suppliers are aware above are met.
of the terms of payment and including the relevant terms in contracts where appropriate.
These arrangements are adhered Variation of rights to provided that suppliers meet their contractual commitments.
If the capital of the Company is divided into different classes Creditor days have not been calculated for the Company as it is of shares, the rights attached to any class of shares may only an investment holding Company and had no trade creditors at be varied, either in such a manner as provided by those rights 31 December 2011. or in the absence of any provision, with the consent in writing of three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that Intra-Group pricing class or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a The prices agreed between Group companies for Intra-Group separate meeting of holders of such shares.
At any separate sales of materials, manufactured goods, charges for royalties, meeting, the necessary quorum is two persons together holding services and fees are based on the normal commercial practices or representing by proxy at least one-third in nominal amount which would apply between independent businesses.
of the issued shares of the class but at an adjourned meeting shall be any one person holding shares of the class or his proxy.
On behalf of the Board Unless otherwise expressly provided by the rights attached to any shares, those rights shall be deemed to be varied by the Nicola Snook reduction of the capital paid up on those shares and by the Secretary creation or issue of further shares ranking in priority for payment 22 February 2012 of a dividend or in respect of capital or which confer on the British American Tobacco p. l. c. holders voting rights more favourable than those conferred by the first-mentioned shares, but shall not otherwise be deemed Registered in England and Wales No.
3407696 to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them or subsequent to them.
Repurchase of shares Subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, the Company may purchase its own shares in accordance with the Companies Act.
Any shares which have been bought back may be held as treasury shares or, if not so held, must be cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase, thereby reducing the amount of the Companys issued share capital.
There is no longer a requirement for public companies to have specific authorisations in their articles of association to undertake these actions.
Creditor payment policy Given the international nature of the Groups operations, there is not a global standard code for the Group in respect of payments to suppliers.
In the UK, the operating subsidiaries have signed up to the Better Payment Practice Code under which each company undertakes to: 1 seek agreement on payment terms with its suppliers at the outset of each transaction: 2 explain its payment procedures to its suppliers: 3 pay bills in accordance with the agreed terms and all legal requirements: and 4 inform suppliers without delay when contesting an invoice and settle disputes quickly.
Details of the Code are available on the website, www.
co. uk British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 107
