Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Global market overview Value of the global tobacco market continues to grow The four biggest international tobacco Global marketplace companies British American Tobacco, Global tobacco market The global tobacco market is valued at Imperial Tobacco, Japan Tobacco and around 450 billion and the industry Philip Morris International account for produces around 5.5 trillion cigarettes a some 45 per cent of the global market, year.
While cigarette sales in developed x Estimated value or around three-quarters of the market countries continue to decline slightly year outside China.
of 450 billion on year, overall global market declines are showing signs of moderating.
Recent Tobacco companies face an increasingly x Cigarettes account for trends indicate that individual smokers competitive marketplace but the overall will consume fewer cigarettes each and value of the global market continues to around 95 per cent smaller percentages of populations will grow.
This value is expected to exceed smoke.
However, sustained volume of the total market 500 billion by 2015, despite tighter growth is widely predicted in emerging regulation, global economic uncertainty markets, driven by population growth x Around 5.5 trillion and high unemployment levels in and increasing disposable income.
Consumers cigarettes produced worldwide are increasingly looking for The biggest single tobacco market is and expecting real value, meaning that each year China, where the industry is state-owned, quality and innovation will both play a with some 350 million smokers who growing role in delivering market share.
x Overall cigarette account for more than 40 per cent of the global total consumed.
volumes excluding China declined by British American Tobacco cigarette volume by region around 2 per cent 1 in 2011 but the overall market value 1 Asia-Pacic 27% 2 Americas 20% continues to grow 3 Western Europe 19% 4 EEMEA 34% x Up to 12 per cent of 2 global volume is illicit 4 fake, smuggled or 3 local tax-evaded British American Tobaccos total cigarette volume for 2011 was 705 billion.
Our estimated share of the global market was 13 per cent.
The breakdown by region was: Asia-Pacific 191 billion: Americas 143 billion: Western Europe 135 billion: and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa 236 billion.
For more information see our regional review on page 26.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 08 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Increasing regulation Illicit trade Much of the tobacco regulation being Cigarettes are among the most proposed and introduced around the commonly traded products on the world is driven by the World Health black market due to high profit margins, Organisations Framework Convention the relative ease of production and on Tobacco Control FCTC protocol.
movement, along with low detection However, most of these measures are not rates and penalties.
It is a widespread based on strong evidence that they are problem that is made worse by likely to reduce smoking.
Indeed, small regulatory policies in some countries.
declines in legitimate companies tobacco Estimates suggest that up to 660 billion volumes in recent years have been largely illegal cigarettes are smoked every year.
offset by the increase in illicit trade.
This has a negative impact on consumers, Deloitte report Extreme regulation often has unintended retailers, governments and tobacco consequences.
For consumers, counterfeit to introduce plain packaging for tobacco In 2011, British American Tobacco cigarettes mean no quality controls and commissioned a report by Deloitte to products in Australia could damage no health warnings, while smuggled examine the intended and unintended the livelihoods of small retailers and genuine products may carry health impacts of packaging regulation.
The make criminals lives easier.
Counterfeit warnings that do not meet local products could become easier to produce report assessed 27 countries covering government regulations.
a period of 14 years and is one of the and non-compliant branded illicit As illegal cigarette sales are effectively most comprehensive independent products could become more attractive unregulated, criminals also have no studies on tobacco packaging to consumers.
Other measures, such as qualms with providing anyone with their retail display bans and sudden increases regulation to date.
in excise rates, can distort competition We commissioned the report in the among tobacco companies and, in some It is estimated that governments absence of any comprehensive global cases, may result in consumers switching worldwide are losing up to US$40 billion studies on the impacts of tobacco to cheaper illicit products.
a year in excise and other taxes.
Tackling packaging and we hope governments this illegal trade effectively requires will study it and find it a useful Overall, demand for tobacco products cooperation between the industry, contribution to the debate.
tends to remain fairly stable in the face of regulators and enforcement authorities, price rises.
Further marketing restrictions, The report revealed that neither backed up by the establishment of combined with existing brand loyalty, increasing the size of health warnings appropriate tax policies, strong mean that major changes to the on packs nor introducing graphic regulation and effective enforcement.
competitive landscape in the tobacco images had directly reduced tobacco industry are unlikely for some time.
It also recognised that the plainer the pack, the easier it is to counterfeit.
Illegal cigarettes whos You can read the report at paying the price?
com deloitte British American Tobacco produced a short film in 2011 called This is the man and made it available on its corporate website and via YouTube.
The film illustrates how the black market in tobacco products is increasingly dominated by organised crime.
Law enforcers say some gangs are also behind people trafficking, prostitution, gun and drug crime.
You can view the film at They may even have terrorist links.
com theman Some regulatory policies could see an increase in illicit trade, so this or at film asks: Illegal cigarettes whos www.
com WelcomeToBat paying the price?
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 09
