Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Regional review Asia-Pacific Share of Group revenue 28% 2010: 25% Adjusted profit from operations m 1,539 2010: 1,332 David Fell In Japan, industry volumes were down Director, Asia-Pacific sharply following a significant excise increase in October 2010.
However, as a result of the disruption to domestic production following the tragic events in Profit was up 207 million to 1,539 million March 2011, the Group delivered an exceptionally strong growth in profit and as a result of strong performances in volumes for the year, with underlying Japan, Bangladesh and Taiwan and market share higher.
favourable exchange rates in Australia, Japan and New Zealand.
At constant In Vietnam, volumes and market share rates of exchange, profit increased by grew but profit was adversely impacted 148 million or 11 per cent.
Volumes by high inflation and an exchange rate at 191 billion were up 2 per cent, with devaluation, partially offset by higher increases in Japan, Pakistan and Indonesia pricing and cost saving initiatives.
partially offset by lower volumes in South Profit in South Korea was impacted Korea, Australia and New Zealand.
Profit grew in Indonesia following higher by competitor pricing and significant volumes, price increases and synergies In Australia, the steep excise increase marketing investment, following a price resulting from the integration of the during 2010 impacted industry volumes.
increase by the Groups business at the business units during 2010 which were Profit was up as a result of cost saving end of April 2011, the first in the industry partially offset by higher clove prices and initiatives, favourable exchange movements in over six years.
Lower volumes also led marketing investment.
Market share was and higher pricing, partially offset by to a reduction in market share.
marginally lower as the growth of the additional costs associated with the mild kretek brands was more than offset In Taiwan, significant profit growth was campaign against plain packaging.
by the rationalisation of the brand portfolio.
driven by higher volumes and improved Market share was slightly lower although industry pricing.
Good performances by Pall Mall performed well.
In New Zealand, volumes decreased following an ad-hoc Dunhill and Pall Mall achieved higher market share.
Profit was lower as pricing and favourable Volume growth in Pakistan led to a exchange rate movements were more strong increase in market share as Pall than offset by lower volumes.
Mall performed well, more than doubling its volumes.
Profit was stable, adversely Market share grew in Malaysia, driven by impacted by higher special excise duties, the strong performances of Dunhill and high inflation and severe price competition Peter Stuyvesant, although total industry in the low-priced segment.
In Bangladesh, volumes were lower following the exciseboth market share and volumes grew due led price increases in 2010.
Profit was to the strong performance of Benson & higher, mainly as a result of exchange Hedges.
Profit increased as a result of rate movements.
higher volumes, price increases and tight control of costs.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 28
