Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Board of Directors Richard Burrows 66 Sir Nicholas Scheele 68 Nicandro Durante 55 Chairman Senior Independent Chief Executive Non-Executive Director Irish British US Brazilian Italian Nationality Chairman since November 2009: Senior Independent Non-Executive Chief Executive since 1 March 2011.
Position Non-Executive Director NED since Director since 2008: Non-Executive September 2009: and Chairman Director NED since 2005: and member of the Nominations Committee.
of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
NED and member of the Remuneration Chairman of The Cambridge-MIT No external appointments.
Key appointments Committee of Rentokil Initial: a Institute, Key Safety Systems, Inc. USA Supervisory Board Member at and Global Metalsa SA fide CV Mexico Carlsberg: and member of The and a Director of Grupo Proeza Mexico.
Chief Executive of Irish Distillers: Co-Chief President and Chief Operating Officer of COO from 2008: Regional Director for Skills and experience Executive of Pernod Ricard: Governor Ford Motor Company: knighted in 2001 Africa and Middle East and member of of the Bank of Ireland: Fellow of the for services to British exports: and the Management Board from 2006: Institute of Chartered Accountants Chancellor of Warwick University senior general management roles in of Ireland.
Brazil including President of Souza Cruz and in the UK and Hong Kong: has wide experience in senior international finance and management roles within the Group.
Holds a degree in finance, economics and business administration.
Ben Stevens 52 John Daly 55 Karen fide Segundo 65 Finance Director and Chief Operating Officer Non-Executive Director Chief Information Officer British Irish Dutch Nationality Finance Director since 2008: additionally Chief Operating Officer since Non-Executive Director NED since Position Chief Information Officer since 2010.
2007: Chair of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee: and member of the Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
Non-Executive Director of Reynolds NED and member of Audit & Risk, Key appointments American Inc.
Nomination, Remuneration and Safety & Sustainability Committees of Lonmin plc: Supervisory Board Member at E. ON AG: and Member of the Board of Pyry Oyj.
Senior Group finance and general Marketing Director, P. J. Carroll & Senior executive roles before retiring as Skills and experience management roles: Head of Merger Company Ireland : senior management CEO Shell International Renewables and Integration following the merger with roles in Europe and the Far East: and President Shell Hydrogen in 2005.
Holds Rothmans: Chairman and Managing Area Director Middle East & North Africa.
a Masters degree in Law from Leiden Director of the Pakistan Tobacco Company Appointed to the Management Board as University, an MBA from Michigan State and British American Tobacco Russia: Regional Director for Asia-Pacific October University and is a Council Member of appointed to the Management Board in 2004.
Holds a Diploma in Marketing and the Anglo Netherlands Society.
2001 as Development Director becoming an International MBA.
in Economics from Manchester University and an MBA from Manchester Business School.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 48 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Ann Godbehere 56 Robert Lerwill 60 Christine Morin-Postel 65 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Canadian British British French Non-Executive Director NED since Non-Executive Director NED since Non-Executive Director NED since 3 October 2011: Member of the 2005: Chairman of the Audit Committee: 2007: member of the Nominations Corporate Social Responsibility, and member of the Nominations and and Remuneration Committees.
Nominations and Remuneration Remuneration Committees.
NED, member of the Nominations Chairman of Synergy Health plc and NED of Royal Dutch Shell PLC and EXOR Committee and Chair of the Audit Chairman of its Nomination Committee S. p. A. Italy.
Committee of Rio Tinto plc: member of and member of its Remuneration the Audit and Corporate Responsibility Committee: and NED and Chairman Committees and Chair of the HR and of the Audit Committee of Transcom Compensation Committee of UBS AG: Worldwide S. A. NED and Chair of the Audit Committee of Prudential plc: NED of Ariel Holdings Ltd, Atrium Underwriting Group Ltd and Atrium Underwriters Ltd. Chief Financial Officer of Swiss Re Group: Chartered Accountant: a Director of Chief Executive of Socit Gnrale fide Chief Financial Officer of Northern Rock Cable & Wireless plc and WPP Group Belgique, Executive Vice-President and during the initial phase of its public PLC: and Chief Executive of Aegis member of the Executive Committee ownership: and Fellow of the Certified Group plc until 2008. of Suez and Chairman and CEO of General Accountants of Canada.
Crdisuez S. A. : studied political sciences and graduated from the Institut fide Contrle Gestion.
Dr Gerard Murphy 56 Kieran Poynter 61 Anthony Ruys 64 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Irish British Dutch Non-Executive Director NED since 2009 Non-Executive Director NED since Non-Executive Director NED since and member of the Corporate Social 2010: and member of the Corporate 2006: Chairman of the Remuneration Responsibility, Nominations and Social Responsibility, Nominations Committee and member of the Audit Remuneration Committees.
Member and Chairman of the Executive NED and Chairman of the Audit Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Committee of The Blackstone Group Committee of International Consolidated NV Luchthaven Schiphol NL : member International Partners LLP: NED of the Airlines Group S. A. : NED and member of of the Supervisory Boards of the British Venture Capital and Private Equity the Remuneration, Audit, Risk & Rijksmuseum and JANIVO Holdings Association Ltd: member of the Compliance and Nomination BV NL : and NED of the Groups Management Committee of Merlin Committees of F&C Asset Management Indian associate, ITC Limited.
Entertainments Group Ltd: and member PLC: Chairman and NED of Nomura of the Supervisory Board of Jack Wolfskin International PLC: and NED of The Royal Ausrstung fr Draussen GmbH & Co.
Automobile Club Ltd. Chief Executive Officer of Kingfisher plc, Chartered Accountant: Chairman and Marketing Director and Chairman of Carlton Communications plc, Exel plc, Senior Partner of  various Unilever subsidiaries: member Greencore Group plc: senior operating until 2008: served on the Presidents of Executive Board, Vice Chairman and roles at Diageo plc.
Holds a BSc and PhD Committee of the Confederation of Chairman of Heineken.
Holds a degree in food technology from University British Industry and as member of an in Commercial Law from University of College Cork and an MBS in Marketing advisory committee for the Chancellor Utrecht and a Masters degree from from University College Dublin.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 49
