Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Appointments to the Board Richard Burrows Chairman Nominations Committee Summary Terms of Reference Current members The Nominations Committee is responsible for: Richard Burrows Chairman x reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Main Karen fide Segundo Board and Management Board to ensure that both boards Ann Godbehere have an appropriate balance of skills, expertise, knowledge Robert Lerwill and in the case of the Main Board independence: Christine Morin-Postel Dr Gerry Murphy x reviewing the succession plans for the Executive Directors Kieran Poynter and members of the Management Board: Anthony Ruys x ensuring that the procedure for appointing new Directors Sir Nicholas Scheele is rigorous and transparent and that appointments are made on merit against objective criteria and with Attendance at meetings in 2011 due regard for the benefits of diversity, including Meetings gender diversity: Meetings eligible Name attended to attend x making recommendations to the Board on suitable Richard Burrows 44 candidates for appointment as Main Board Directors or as members of the Management Board: and Sir Nicholas Scheele 34 Karen fide Segundo 44 x assessing the time needed to fulfil the roles of Chairman, 1 Senior Independent Director and Non-Executive Director, Ann Godbehere 11 and ensuring that Non-Executive Directors undertake that Robert Lerwill 44 they will have sufficient time to fulfil their duties.
2 Dr Ana Maria Llopis 22 The Committees terms of reference were reviewed in December Christine Morin-Postel 44 2010 and minor updates were made with effect from 1 January Dr Gerry Murphy 44 2011.
The full terms of reference are available on www.
Kieran Poynter 44 The Nominations Committee is responsible for identifying Anthony Ruys 44 candidates to fill vacancies on the Board.
This process includes Notes: an evaluation of the skills and experience to be looked for in those candidates to ensure continuing Board balance.
Ann Godbehere became a member with effect from 24 October 2011. selection process will generally involve interviews with a 2.
Dr Ana Maria Llopis ceased to be a member of the Committee following selection of candidates, using the services of external search her retirement as a Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of the firms specialising in board level recruitment to identify and Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2011. shortlist appropriate candidates.
This process was followed for Sir Nicholas Scheele was unable to attend one meeting of the Nominations the recruitment of Ann Godbehere, who was shortlisted by an Committee due to a long-standing prior engagement.
external consultancy and interviewed by the Chairman and The Chief Executive and Management Board member responsible for Human Executive Directors and by members of the Nominations Resources regularly attend meetings by invitation but are not members.
Committee, which then recommended her appointment to the Board.
The Committee and the Board specifically considered her other commitments and satisfied themselves that she was able to devote sufficient time to her role as a Non-Executive Director of the Company.
Further non-executive appointments remain under active consideration.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 71 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Appointments to the Board continued x The steps being taken to search for further potential Key activities of the Nominations non-executive appointments.
Committee in 2011 x Changes in the composition of the Management The Nominations Committee held four meetings during Board, including: 2011, two of which were scheduled and two of which were convened to address Main Board and Management Board - the appointment of Giovanni Giordano in the role of succession issues.
The specific items considered by the Group HR Director with effect from 1 June 2011: Committee included: - the exchange of roles between Mark Cobben and Jack Bowles, with the appointment of Mark Cobben x The role specification for the appointment of additional as Regional Director, Western Europe and of Jack Non-Executive Directors including, in particular, the Bowles as Regional Director, Americas: skills required effectively to influence and provide - the appointment to the Management Board of constructive challenge.
Kingsley Wheaton as Deputy Group Corporate & x Revised standard terms of appointment for NonRegulatory Affairs Director with effect from 1 January Executive Directors, updated to reflect the provisions 2012, to replace Michael Prideaux on his forthcoming of the UK Corporate Governance Code and to specify retirement in June 2012: and the expected time commitment for the induction - the creation of two new roles on the Management process see the section on information and Board, namely Group Scientific Director and Business professional development.
Development Director, and the appointment of Dr David OReilly and Naresh Sethi respectively in these x The recruitment of Ann Godbehere and her appointment roles with effect from 1 January 2012. to the Board as a Non-Executive Director, with the assistance of an external recruitment consultancy, x An overview of succession planning for the Executive and the continuing search for a candidate with Directors and members of the Management Board.
During 2011, the Committee also considered a report prepared Directors interests and indemnities by the Company Secretary on its effectiveness, as assessed Further details of Directors contracts and letters of appointment, during the evaluation of the Board in 2010, including a remuneration and emoluments, and their interests in the shares review of its membership, frequency of meeting and of the Company including interests in share options and regular terms of business.
deferred shares as at 31 December 2011 are given in the remuneration report.
No Director had any material interest Terms of appointment to the Board in a contract of significance other than a service contract The Executive Directors have rolling contracts of one year.
The with the Company or any subsidiary company during the year.
Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts with the Company but instead have letters of appointment.
Since 2010, The Company has arranged appropriate insurance to provide all Non-Executive Directors have terms of appointment of one cover in the event of legal action against its Directors and also year only which are considered for renewal around the time of provides indemnities to its Directors in accordance with the the Companys Annual General Meeting when, in accordance Companys Articles of Association and to the maximum extent with the UK Corporate Governance Code, each Director is permitted by law.
As at the date of this report, such indemnities subject to election or re-election by the shareholders see are in force covering any costs, charges, expenses or liabilities below.
Details of the Companys policy on Executive Directors which they may incur in or about the execution of their duties service contracts and the terms of appointment for Nonto the Company or to any entity which is an associated Executive Directors are set out in the remuneration report.
company as defined in Section 256 of the Companies Act 2006, or as a result of duties performed by the Directors on The Board continues to take in to account the need for it behalf of the Company or any such associated company.
progressively to refresh its membership over time.
NonExecutive Directors will normally be expected to serve for six years.
They may be invited to serve for longer, but service beyond nine years is unlikely.
Any additional service beyond six years will be subject to particularly rigorous review.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 72 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Board diversity Annual General Meeting 2012 The Board recognises the benefits of diversity in its widest The Company will be submitting all eligible Directors for resense, both at Board level and throughout all levels within the election or, in the case of Ann Godbehere, election for the first organisation.
Diversity takes many forms: gender is one aspect, time at this years Annual General Meeting on 26 April 2012. but other important attributes to consider will include, for Chairman example, nationality and background.
Richard Burrows For a number of years, the Company has benefited from the Executive Directors presence on its Board of female Non-Executive Directors.
Nicandro Durante Chief Executive During its search for additional Non-Executive Directors in Ben Stevens Finance Director and Chief Information Officer 2011, culminating in the appointment of Ann Godbehere, the John Daly Chief Operating Officer Company made clear to its external search consultancies that male-only shortlists of candidates would not be accepted.
Non-Executive Directors The current level of female representation on the Board stands Karen fide Segundo at 25 per cent, the 2015 aspirational target level of female Ann Godbehere representation on Boards for FTSE 100 companies, as set out Robert Lerwill in the report by Lord Davies entitled Women on Boards.
The Christine Morin-Postel Company hopes to at least maintain, and possibly to increase, Gerry Murphy this level of representation when refreshing and renewing Board Kieran Poynter membership over the coming years.
However, such aspirations Anthony Ruys will always be subject to the overriding need to ensure that Sir Nicholas Scheele appointments are made on merit and having regard to an The Companys Articles of Association provide that any Director appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence who has been appointed by the Board since the last Annual and knowledge required on the Board.
The Board will General Meeting is required to retire from the Board at the next continue to take into account diversity, in all its forms, Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, may offer himself when making appointments.
Accordingly, Ann Godbehere will Lord Daviess report also examines gender diversity at management retire and offer herself for reappointment in accordance with levels below the Board.
Whilst the Company has a number of these provisions.
initiatives to improve gender diversity at senior management Non-Executive Directors who serve for a total of more than six levels, the Board recognises that these will take time to be years are subject to a particularly rigorous review.
This was reflected in the numbers of senior women in the Group.
The done in 2011 in the case of Robert Lerwill and Sir Nicholas recently appointed Group HR Director will be taking this Scheele, both of whom have served in excess of six years, and forward in 2012.
Anthony Ruys, who will have served in excess of six years at the The Board will continue to review and report further on the time of the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
Companys approach to diversity and related ambitions, The Chairmans letter accompanying the Notice for this years particularly in the context of any developing guidance in Annual General Meeting confirms that the performance of this area.
the Directors being proposed for re-election continues to be effective and that they continue to demonstrate commitment to their roles as Non-Executive Directors, including commitment of the necessary time for Board and Committee meetings and other duties.
Biographical details of the Directors are also provided.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 73
