Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Audit and accountability Robert Lerwill Chairman, Audit Committee Audit Committee Summary Terms of Reference Current members The Audit Committee is responsible for: Robert Lerwill Chairman x monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements Anthony Ruys and any formal announcements relating to the Companys Sir Nicholas Scheele performance, reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained in them before their submission to Attendance at meetings in 2011 the Board for approval: Meetings x keeping under review the consistency of the accounting Meetings eligible policies applied across the Group: Name attended to attend Robert Lerwill 5 5 x reviewing the effectiveness of the accounting, internal 1 control and business risk systems of the Company and its Christine Morin-Postel 5 5 subsidiaries: Anthony Ruys 5 5 x reviewing and, when appropriate, making Sir Nicholas Scheele 4 5 recommendations to the Board on business risks, internal Notes: controls and compliance: 1.
Christine Morin-Postel stood down from the Committee with effect from x monitoring compliance with the Companys Standards of 21 February 2012. Business Conduct: Sir Nicholas Scheele was unable to attend one meeting of the Audit x monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Committee due to a long-standing prior engagement.
Companys internal audit function: and The Chief Operating Officer and the Finance Director attend all meetings of x monitoring and reviewing the performance of the the Committee but are not members and other Directors attend by invitation.
The Committees meetings are also regularly attended by the Head of Audit Companys external auditors, keeping under review their and Business Risk, the General Counsel to the Company and a representative independence and objectivity, making recommendations of the external auditors.
as to their reappointment or, where appropriate, making Robert Lerwill has recent and relevant financial experience.
recommendations for change, and approving their terms of engagement and the level of audit fees payable to them.
As a matter of best practice, the Committee meets alone with the external auditors at the end of every meeting and also meets separately with the The Committees terms of reference were reviewed in December Group Head of Audit and Business Risk at the end of every meeting.
2010 and minor updates were made with effect from 1 January 2011.
The full terms of reference are available on www.
The Audit Committee is authorised by the Board to review any activity within the business.
It is authorised to seek any information it requires from, and require the attendance at any of its meetings of, any Director or member of management, and all employees are expected to cooperate with any request made by the Committee.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to obtain, at the Companys expense, outside legal or other independent professional advice and secure the attendance of outsiders with relevant experience and expertise if it considers this necessary.
The Chairman of the Committee reports to the subsequent meeting of the Board on the Committees work and the Board receives a copy of the minutes of each meeting.
The papers considered by the Committee are available to any Director www.
com boardcommittees who is not a member, should they wish to receive them.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 62 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information x Risks arising in connection with litigation involving Key activities of the Audit Committee Group companies, in particular in the Canadian in 2011 recoupment claims and the Fox River matter in the The Audit Committee held five meetings during 2011, at which US see the statement on contingent liabilities at it considered the following standing items of business: note 30 in the notes on the accounts.
x The Groups 2010 results and its 2011 half-yearly results In addition, the Committee considered a number of other and interim management statements.
specific matters, including the following: x Periodic reports from the Groups regional audit and CSR x The Committee agreed the inclusion of recommended committees and corporate audit committee.
impairments as adjusting items in the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December x Periodic reports from the Group Head of Audit and 2010 and an additional impairment in the financial Business Risk on international audits and the management statements for the year under review, in both cases responses and action plans being put in place to address arising from the material underperformance against any concerns raised.
expectation of the consolidated business in Turkey x The 2012 Internal Audit Plan.
following the acquisition of Tekel.
This was consequential upon excise shocks leading to increased illicit trade and x A report from the Head of Group Security including lower volumes and profitability than anticipated.
consideration of security risks and frauds and losses arising during the preceding year.
x It considered developments in relation to Groups exposure to clean-up costs for pollution in the lower x Compliance with the Groups Standards of Business Fox River, Wisconsin and agreed the inclusion of a Conduct and records management procedures.
provision in this regard in the financial statements for x An annual review of the external auditors independence.
the year under review see notes 3 h and 30 in the notes on the accounts.
The Committee also carried out its twice yearly review of the Group risk register and considered the following risk topics x It noted a revised internal audit methodology, updated in detail: to reflect best practice, and considered the steps being undertaken by internal audit to support the programmes x Risks arising in relation to how major projects and established to develop the Groups revised Operating programmes are managed within the Group, considered a Model and single IT operating system.
significant area of potential risk given the importance of implementation of the revised Operating Model and single x It noted the response submitted by the Committee IT operating system in delivering future costs savings.
Chairman to the Call for Evidence in the Inquiry led by Lord Sharman on going concern and liquidity risk.
x Risks arising in connection with the restructuring of the Groups global IT function.
x It reviewed and recommended to the Board an updated policy on auditor independence, intended to formalise x Risks and opportunities for savings and efficiencies arising the Groups arrangements for ensuring auditor in relation to the Groups procurement activities and its independence and objectivity.
procurement joint venture with Annheuser-Busch InBev Agrega, including the various approaches employed to manage third party suppliers.
x Key risks to the Groups pension schemes, including asset underperformance, increased longevity and pension regulation, and the strategies in place to mitigate these risks.
During 2011, the Committee considered a report prepared by Financial reporting the Company Secretary on the effectiveness of the Committee The Board is satisfied that it has met its obligation to present a as assessed during the evaluation of the Board in 2010, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys including a review of its standard agenda items.
Consequent position and prospects in the Directors report and financial upon this, it agreed that it would consider, on an annual basis, statements and in periodic reports, reports to regulators and the Groups pensions arrangements, both in terms of funding price-sensitive announcements.
A summary of the Directors and investment strategies, and requested regular reports on the responsibilities for the financial statements and their statement implementation of the programmes established to develop the concerning relevant audit information is included at the end of Groups revised Operating Model and to implement a single IT this corporate governance section.
operating system throughout the Group.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 63 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Audit and accountability continued The basic principle of the policy is that the Groups external Business model auditors may be engaged to provide services only in cases The business review includes an explanation of the basis on where those services do not impair their independence and which the Group generates value and preserves it over the objectivity, and provided that the total annual fees for non-audit long term and its strategy for delivering its objectives.
services do not exceed the sum of annual fees for audit and Going concern audit-related services.
In particular, the external auditor may not The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely be engaged to provide services in circumstances where the to affect its future development, performance and position provision of such services would: are set out in the performance and strategy section and the x create a mutual or conflicting interest between any Group regional review.
The financial position of the Group, its cash company and the external auditor: flows, liquidity position, facilities and borrowing position are described in the financial review.
The key group risk factors x place the external auditor in the position of auditing its include an analysis of financial risk and the Groups approach to own work: financial risk management and notes 21 and 24 in the notes on x result in the external auditor acting as a manager or the accounts provide further detail on the Groups borrowings employee of any Group company: or and management of financial risks.
x place the external auditor in the position of advocate for The Group has at the date of the report, sufficient existing any Group company.
financing available for its estimated requirements for the next 12 months.
This, together with its proven ability to generate Subject to the above, the external auditor is permitted to cash from trading activities, the performance of the Groups provide certain tax and other non-audit services.
The Global Drive Brands, its leading market positions in a number Committee recognises that using the external auditors to of countries and its broad geographical spread, as well as provide such services can often bring significant benefits to the numerous contracts with established customers and suppliers Group as a result of their detailed knowledge of its business.
across different geographic areas and industries, provides the However, a tender process is required for permitted categories Directors with the confidence that the Group is well placed to of tax and other non-audit services where the anticipated spend manage its business risks successfully in the context of current is above specified thresholds, unless a waiver from this financial conditions and the general outlook in the global requirement is agreed by the Group Finance Director and economy.
notified to the Audit Committee.
After reviewing the Groups annual budget, plans and financing The policy requires the submission to the Audit Committee, arrangements, the Directors consider that the Group has typically prior to the year end, of a work plan identifying the adequate resources to continue operating for the foreseeable total fees for all audit-related services, tax services and other future and that it is therefore appropriate to continue to adopt non-audit services which it is anticipated will be undertaken by the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report.
the external auditor in the following year.
Specific itemisation is required for tax services and other non-audit services in excess External auditors of the tender thresholds referred to above.
Updated work plans  LLP have been the Companys must then be submitted to the Audit Committee at the mid-year auditors since it listed on the London Stock Exchange in and year end.
In this way, the Audit Committee has full visibility September 1998.
The Audit Committee considers that the of the Group spend on non-audit services throughout the year, relationship with the auditors is working well and remains enabling it to discharge its responsibility for keeping such fees satisfied with their effectiveness.
Accordingly, it has not under review and ensuring that neither their level nor their considered it necessary to require the firm to tender for the nature risk impairing the external auditors independence audit work.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the and objectivity.
A breakdown of audit, audit-related and Companys choice of external auditor.
The external auditors are non-audit fees paid to  in 2011 is required to rotate the audit partners responsible for the Group provided in note 3 d in the notes on the accounts and is audit at least every five years and those responsible for the summarised as follows: subsidiary audits at least every seven years.
The current lead audit partner has been in position for two years.
Auditor independence The Audit Committee has an established policy aimed at safeguarding and supporting the independence and objectivity of the Groups external auditors.
Following the publication by the Financial Reporting Council of additional guidance in this area in 2010 in its revised Guidance on Audit Committees, the Audit Committee took the opportunity during 2011 to review and update this policy.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 64 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Services provided by  firms Political contributions and associates The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing donations 2011 2010 made for political purposes throughout the Group.
No donation m m was made in 2011 to any political party registered in the UK Audit services 9.7 9.7 under the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
Subsidiaries of the Company in Australia and Jamaica made Audit-related services 0.2 0.2 contributions to non-EU political parties in their respective Total audit and auditcountries of incorporation totalling 209,104 2010: 114,245. related services 9.9 9.9 Standards of Business Conduct The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring compliance Tax advisory services 3.8 5.6 with the Companys Standards of Business Conduct, which Tax compliance 1.3 1.0 underpin the Groups commitment to good corporate behaviour.
The Standards of Business Conduct require all staff Services relating to information to act with high standards of business integrity, comply with all technology 0.2 2.1 applicable laws and regulations and ensure that business Other non-audit services 0.4 0.5 standards are never compromised for the sake of results.
They Total non-audit services 5.7 9.2 were updated with effect from 1 September 2011 in order to ensure that they remain at the forefront of best business In 2011 non-audit fees paid to  practice and to ensure alignment with the provisions of the amounted to 57.6 per cent of the audit and audit-related UK Bribery Act 2010, which came into effect on 1 July 2011, fees paid to them 2010: 92.9 per cent.
Annual assessment Every Group company and every employee worldwide is The Audit Committee assesses annually the qualification, expected to live up to the Standards of Business Conduct and expertise and resources, and independence of the Groups guidance on them is provided across the Group, including external auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process.
through training and awareness programmes.
All Group The Committees assessment is informed by an external audit companies have adopted the Group Standards or local policies satisfaction survey completed by members of senior embodying them.
They are applicable to all employees, management, which it reviews in detail.
In 2011, it also had including senior management, and to the Board Directors.
the benefit of the outcome of an assessment by the external Senior managers in the Group must report on annual auditors internal review group of the audit team, involving compliance with the Standards with regard to all employees in in-depth interviews with the Companys senior managers.
The the company or department for which they are responsible.
resulting report was presented to the Committee by a member Information on compliance with the Standards is gathered of the review team, allowing the Committee to ask further at a global level and reported to the regional audit and CSR questions with regard to the quality of the audit.
In addition, committees and to the Audit Committee.
The CSR Committee the Head of Internal Audit, the Company Secretary and the also reviews any Group reputation-related issues arising from Committee Chair all meet with the external auditors to discuss non-compliance with the Standards.
the progress of the audit and any significant issues are The Standards of Business Conduct are available on included on the Audit Committees agenda for consideration www.
The Audit Committee has completed its assessment of the Confidential reporting procedures external auditors for the financial period under review.
It has The Standards of Business Conduct also set out the Groups satisfied itself as to their qualification, expertise and resources whistleblowing policy, which enables staff, in confidence, to and remains confident that their objectivity and independence raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial and are not in any way impaired by reason of the non-audit services other matters and to do so without fear of reprisal, provided which they provide to the Group.
The Committee recognises that such concerns are not raised in bad faith.
The policy is that certain projects on which they are engaged will necessarily supplemented by local procedures throughout the Group and span a number of years and that once appointed they will at the Groups London headquarters, which provide staff with continue to provide those services for the length of the project.
additional guidance and enable them to report matters in a A number of current projects, particularly those relating to the language with which they are comfortable.
The Audit restructuring of the Groups global IT function and the development Committee receives quarterly reports on whistleblowing of a single IT operating system, fall within this category.
It remains satisfied that the policy and the procedures in place incorporate arrangements for the proportionate and The Committee has recommended to the Board, for approval by independent investigation of matters raised and for the shareholders, the reappointment of  as appropriate follow-up action.
Resolutions will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 26 April 2012 to reappoint  as the Companys auditors and to authorise the Directors to agree their remuneration for the 2012 audit.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 65 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Audit and accountability continued Risk management and internal control processes Risk management and internal control Risk registers, based on a standardised methodology, are used The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent at Group, regional, area and individual market level to identify, of the significant risks that the Group is willing to take to assess and monitor the key risks both financial and nonachieve its strategic objectives and for maintaining sound risk financial faced by the business at each level.
Information on management and internal control systems.
With the support of prevailing trends, for example whether a risk is considered to be the Audit Committee, it carries out a review of the effectiveness increasing or decreasing over time, is provided in relation to of the Groups risk management and internal control systems each risk and all identified risks are assessed at three levels annually, covering all material controls including financial, high medium low by reference to their impact and likelihood.
operational and compliance controls and risk management Mitigation plans are required to be in place to manage the risks systems, and reports to shareholders that it has done so.
During identified and the risk registers and mitigation plans are 2011, the Board reviewed the Groups risk profile, taking into reviewed on a regular basis.
Regional and above-market risk account the implications of natural disasters, such as in Japan registers are reviewed regularly by the relevant regional audit and Australia, and political upheaval, in particular in the Middle and CSR committee or the corporate audit committee, East and the Eurozone.
Overview At Group level, specific responsibility for managing each The Company maintains its system of risk management and identified risk is allocated to a member of the Management internal control with a view to safeguarding shareholders Board.
The Group risk register is reviewed regularly by a investment and the Companys assets.
It is designed to identify, committee of senior managers chaired by the Finance Director evaluate and manage risks that may impede the achievement of and twice yearly by the Corporate Committee.
In addition, it is the Companys business objectives rather than to eliminate reviewed annually by the Board and twice yearly by the Audit these risks and can therefore provide only reasonable, not Committee.
The Board and each such Committee reviews absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
A changes in the status of identified risks, assessing the impact description of the key risk factors that may affect the Groups of changes in impact and likelihood, and the Audit Committee business is provided in the business review.
also spends time focusing on selected key risks in detail.
The main features of the risk management processes and system Group companies and other business units are required at least of internal control operated within the Group, which have been annually to complete a checklist of the key controls which they in place throughout the year under review and remain in place are expected to have in place, called Control Navigator.
Its to date, are described below.
They do not cover the Groups purpose is to enable them to self-assess their internal control associate undertakings.
environment, assist them in identifying any controls which may Audit and CSR committee framework require strengthening and support them in implementing and The Groups audit and CSR committee framework underpins monitoring action plans to address control weaknesses.
The the Boards Audit and CSR Committees.
It provides a flexible Control Navigator checklist is reviewed annually to ensure that channel for the structured flow of information throughout the it remains relevant to the business and covers all applicable key organisation, with committees at various levels covering key controls.
In addition, at each year end, Group companies and individual markets, areas and the Groups regions, each referring other business units are required to: matters to the next level as appropriate.
This framework ensures x review their system of internal control, confirm whether it that significant financial, social, environmental and reputational remains effective and report on any material weaknesses risks faced by the Company and its subsidiaries are appropriately and the action being taken to address them: and managed and that any failings or weaknesses are identified so that remedial action may be taken where necessary.
x review and confirm compliance with the Standards of Business Conduct and identify any material instances of The Groups regional audit and CSR committees which are all non-compliance or conflicts of interest identified.
chaired by an Executive Director focus on risks and the control environment within each region and are in turn supported by The results of these reviews are reported to the relevant regional area and or individual market audit and CSR committees.
The audit and CSR committee or to the corporate audit committee corporate audit committee focuses on the risks and the control and, where appropriate, to the Boards Audit Committee to environment within the Groups operations which do not fall ensure that appropriate remedial action has been, or will be, within the regional committees remit, for example head office taken where necessary.
central functions, global programmes and above-region The Groups internal audit function provides advice and projects.
It comprises members of the Management Board guidance to the Groups businesses on best practice in risk and is chaired by the Chief Executive.
It is also responsible for The relevant external and internal auditors regularly attend carrying out audit checks on Group companies and other meetings of these committees and have private audiences with business units, and does so against an audit plan presented members of the committees after every meeting.
In addition, annually to the Audit Committee, which focuses in particular central, regional and individual market management, along on higher risk areas of the Groups business.
with internal audit, supports the Board in its role of ensuring a sound control environment.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 66 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Financial reporting controls The Group has in place a series of policies, practices and controls in relation to the financial reporting and consolidation process, which are designed to address key financial reporting risks, including risks arising from changes in the business or accounting standards.
The Group Manual of Accounting Policies and Procedures sets out the Group accounting policies, its treatment of transactions and its internal reporting requirements.
The internal reporting of financial information for the purpose of preparing the Groups financial statements quarterly, half-yearly and at the year end is signed-off by the heads of finance responsible for the Groups markets and business units.
In addition, the heads of finance responsible for the Groups markets and all senior managers are required to confirm annually that all information relevant to the Group audit has been provided to the Directors and that reasonable steps have been taken to ensure full disclosure in response to requests for information from the external auditors.
The effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting controls is assessed through self-certification as part of the Control Navigator exercise described above and evaluation by internal audit in the context of the annual audit plan.
The integrity of the Groups public financial reporting is further supported by a number of processes and steps to provide assurance over the completeness and accuracy of the content, including: x review by the Chairman, Executive Directors and members of the Management Board: x review and recommendation by the Audit Committee: and x review and approval by the Board.
Review The Turnbull Guidance the Guidance sets out best practice on internal control for UK-listed companies to assist them in assessing the application of the Codes Principles and compliance with the Codes Provisions with regard to risk management and internal control.
The current version of the Guidance applies to listed companies for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2006.
The processes described above, and the reports that they give rise to, enable the Board and the Audit Committee to monitor the risk management and internal control framework on a continuing basis throughout the year and to review its effectiveness at the year end.
The Board, with advice from its Audit Committee, has completed its annual review of the effectiveness of the system of risk management and internal control for the period since 1 January 2011.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified and the Board is satisfied that, where specific areas for improvement have been identified, processes are in place to ensure that the necessary remedial action is taken and that progress is monitored.
The Board is satisfied that the system of risk management and internal control is in accordance with the Guidance.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 67
