Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Strategic review Our strategy in action Our consistent strategy for delivering our vision is based on growth, funded by productivity and delivered by a winning organisation that acts responsibly at all times.
Growth We continued to achieve sustainable, consumer-relevant innovations, particularly profitable growth in 2011, driven by a capsules.
Since 2005, the GDB share of better deployment of innovations and an our global volumes has increased from emphasis on improving the execution of 18 per cent to 32 per cent.
Kent performed very strongly in 2011 Our Global Drive Brands GDBs and across all regions.
Global volume grew other international brands continued by 10 per cent to a record 67 billion to contribute strongly to our business cigarettes.
This robust performance has performance.
Our balanced portfolio, been achieved through share gains in Lucky Strike delivered global volume deployed across a wide range of markets many key markets such as Russia, Ukraine growth of 14 per cent in 2011 - a and segments and driven by innovation, and other eastern European markets.
Kent significant acceleration and a record continues to provide a successful formula also grew in Japan, Chile and Romania, as for the brand.
The results were evenly for growth.
well as the Middle East and Vietnam.
balanced between organic growth of In October we completed our acquisition of Kent Convertibles, the innovative range the existing product range and new Productora Tabacalera fide Colombia, S. A. S. of capsule products launched in nine innovations.
The continued global rollProtabaco for an enterprise value of markets in 2010, was rolled out to a out of Click & Roll following its launch US$461 million, subject to final agreement.
Convertibles in 2010 more than doubled its annual Colombia is Latin Americas fourth largest have played a key role in generating volume, with record market share in cigarette market and the acquisition volume growth and reinforcing Kents Brazil, Argentina, France and Chile.
elevates our subsidiary companys market status as a leader in innovation.
In 2011, Lucky Strike also added a new share to almost 50 per cent.
Packaging improvements implemented dimension to the brand with the launch across our core range strengthened the of an all-natural offer.
This has achieved Strong growth driven brand and resulted in share gains and segment leadership in Germany within by GDBs Kent Nanotek continued to be the fastest one year, and is re-energising the brands Overall GDB volume grew by 9 per cent growing range in the Kent portfolio.
growth in its largest markets.
in 2011, driven by the expansion of GDBs into new markets and the roll-out of British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 12 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Dunhill, our most prestigious brand, our retail customers.
This includes delivered strong organic growth in 2011 engagement in the prevention of We sold over 9 billion across most of our strategic markets, youth smoking and illicit trade.
However, capsule cigarettes in Our people overall volume performance was To successfully support our brands and 2011, mainly through negatively affected by share loss in South innovations in a fast-paced and rapidly Korea due to competitive pricing.
Overall, Kent Convertibles, changing environment, a new ambitious Dunhill volume including South Korea programme to train and develop our Kool Boost, Lucky increased slightly in 2011, following people has been piloted and is being 18 per cent growth in 2010.
Excluding Strike Click & Roll rolled out globally.
The programme South Korea growth was 8 per cent.
provides our people with a competitive and Dunhill Switch.
Dunhill has driven premium innovation edge and ensures we continue to meet growth through Fine Cut Reloc, Capsule the demands of retailers and consumers.
Strong growth Route to market markets in 2011 included Brazil, the Gulf Our route to market is critical and allows Cooperation Council GCC, Malaysia, us to roll out innovations faster on a Romania, Taiwan, Nigeria, Indonesia, global scale as well as to fully meet Egypt and Serbia.
consumer demand at the point of sale.
Pall Mall, our biggest value-for-money Where appropriate, we believe that brand, delivered volume growth of direct to store sales DSS are an effective 11 per cent in 2011.
This was driven way of serving retailers and building mainly by significant share growth in sustainable business partnerships.
DSS Pakistan, as well as growth in Germany gives us visibility and control over the where Pall Mall is the number one Adult sales and distribution process, allowing Smokers Under 30 ASU30 brand us access to both the market and Canada, Chile and Serbia.
It also provides a direct commercial link to our most Local and international strategic retail accounts.
Half of our brands perform well global volume is sold to retailers through Our other international brands include our own distribution capability in key Vogue, Viceroy, Rothmans, Kool, Peter markets including Canada, Brazil, Stuyvesant, Benson & Hedges, State South Korea, Australia, Russia, Express 555 and John Player Gold Leaf.
Reloc is Dunhills exclusive range of Romania, South Africa and Nigeria.
packs that deliver the best tobacco at In 2011 our international brands had In other markets, we work with third optimal freshness.
good successes, such as Kool in Japan parties to ensure our products are and Viceroy in Poland.
Rothmans, our effectively sold and delivered to retailers.
eighth largest brand, broke the 20 billion cigarette mark in 2011 with a strong Customer management performance in Egypt.
Building partnerships with retailers is a Our international brands, including key part of our trade marketing activities.
our GDBs, accounted for 53 per cent We work closely with our retail partners of Group volume in 2011. to provide support and ensure that at all times they can profitably meet the Key local brands with high consumer expectations of adult smokers with loyalty such as Yava in Russia and Derby regards to availability, pricing and brand and Free in Brazil continue to play an quality.
This includes the development of important role in our brand strategy, as effective trading terms, which are a key they help us maintain a broad portfolio.
Trade marketing and In 2011, we further developed joint distribution programmes with our global retail Our Trade Marketing & Distribution partners in order to better reach adult TM&D teams are responsible for the smokers in key channels such as global selling and delivery of our products to travel retail and convenience.
retail outlets, the presence of our brands at the point of sale and the development of mutually beneficial partnerships with British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 13 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Strategic review continued Global Drive Brands 2011 Lucky Strike Pall Mall Kent Dunhill Cigarettes sold Cigarettes sold Cigarettes sold Cigarettes sold billion billion billion billion 30 81 67 48 2010: 26 2010: 73 2010: 61 2010: 48 Volume growth Volume growth Volume growth Volume growth 14% 11% 10% 0% 2010: 2% 2010: 8% 2010: -1% 2010: 18% Number of markets Number of markets Number of markets Number of markets 60 110 75 120 2010: 60 2010: 100 2010: 70 2010: 120 Other international brand volume Global Drive Brand volume billion billion 161 2007 2007 141 2008 187 2008 143 195 147 2009 2009 2010 208 2010 150 226 146 2011 2011 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 14 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Productivity Productivity continues to be an important As a result, in 2011 we were able to part of our strategy, providing the continue to optimise our manufacturing capabilities and resources we need to footprint.
Over the last 10 years we have support investment in our brands to reduced the number of cigarette factories grow share in our key markets.
In 2011, we stopped manufacturing at Our globally-integrated supply chain is Operating margin Cirebon in Indonesia and announced the % evolving as efficiency and effectiveness future closure of our Bremen factory in improves, and we are focused on making Germany and the downsizing of others.
our operations flexible, agile and truly 2009 31.4 consumer-centric.
A supply chain with Consolidation of factories around the 2010 33.5 the scale we enjoy must also be capable Group continues to be undertaken 2011 35.8 of responding rapidly to changes and responsibly and with care for affected have the ability to roll out innovative employees and local communities.
Our key factories now generally Business continuity serve multiple portfolios and markets, This is a key aspect of our Group strategy Managing risk and having in place managed through our above-market and we will continue to leverage our contingency sourcing plans continue planning capability.
supply chain to further support the to be a key part of our philosophy.
The growth of the business.
This has also allowed us to roll out strength of our above-market operating innovations faster and implement machine model was again tested in 2011 with Productivity savings technology standards improving our the unfortunate events in Japan, but we Cost management is a focus across the sourcing flexibility, contingency planning successfully satisfied consumer demand.
business, as is improving our marketing and capital effectiveness.
Procurement joint venture This includes reducing unnecessary complexity to save costs, and utilising Our procurement joint venture with other our cash and assets more effectively.
multi-national companies continues to exceed expectations as it leverages scale Productivity savings from the supply and builds expertise in indirect spend.
chain, including indirect material We expect further benefits as we expand procurement and overhead savings, its geographic reach and include helped improve our operating margin new categories.
We are confident that we can continue to deliver Leaf supply chain efficiencies for the foreseeable future and Our leaf supply chain is the most hit growth in operating margin of 50-100 vertically integrated in the industry basis points per annum.
and continues to provide a competitive advantage.
Through our proven expertise Optimising resource in leaf we are in a strong position to allocation address new consumer needs and the Our integrated supply chain continues effects of product-based regulation.
Innovations were Our leaf footprint ensures sustainability successfully rolled out in a number of of supply and guarantees access to quality markets across the globe, with notable sources of leaf: it also gives us the ability successes such as Convertibles.
to manage short-term variations in Transparency of demand and supply at a pricing driven by external commodity global level through sales and operations pricing pressures.
planning continues to improve results.
Engagement, system and process improvements are delivering better and faster decision making and resource allocation.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 15 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Strategic review continued Winning organisation We can only maintain a strong workforce We continue to support the career development of our female managers, if we nurture and develop our people.
with the aim of increasing the We value our employees diverse proportion of women in senior perspectives and encourage them management roles.
This includes to perform to their best.
drawing up development plans for our Training and development senior women and monitoring progress against them, assigning mentors and A range of training programmes was Employees by region encouraging recruitment consultancies rolled out to all of our companies in 2011 to draw up gender-balanced candidate when we launched a new online training shortlists when we recruit externally.
This provides 1 Asia-Pacic 15,351 our people with access to a suite of 2 Americas 16,661 Employee engagement e-learning applications and gives our 3 Western Europe 12,138 British American Tobacco is committed to companies a clearer view of the training 4 EEMEA 12,115 employee engagement throughout the and capability gaps in their operations.
business and this includes acting on areas 1 identified as needing improvement in our Recruitment employee survey.
Ensuring clear succession plans are in 4 place for every senior role remains our Employees are kept well informed of the long-term objective.
We continue to strategy, performance and objectives of build robust succession plans at all levels the Group through communication 2 and aim to recruit individuals who will cascades at key points in the year, which help strengthen our core capabilities involve video broadcasts from the Chief 3 and our culture.
Executive, face-to-face presentations and Q&A discussions.
Global, regional and Diversity and equality local intranets, web-based meetings and We are dedicated to providing equal presentations, and electronic employee opportunities to each employee.
We do magazines also provide important 56,265 not discriminate when making decisions information, while feedback is encouraged on hiring, promotion or retirement on Number of people we employ through open forums and Q&A sessions.
the grounds of race, colour, gender, age, around the globe social class, religion, smoking habits, Our Sharesave Scheme, our Partnership Share Scheme and our Share Reward sexual orientation, politics or disability subject to the inherent requirements Scheme are open to all UK employees.
of the role to be performed.
Employee opinion survey We are committed to providing training Our Your Voice employee opinion and development for people with survey is conducted every two years and disabilities, tailored where appropriate.
benchmarks our performance against a If a British American Tobacco employee comparator group of Fast Moving becomes disabled while in our Consumer Goods FMCG companies.
employment, we will do our best to Our most recent survey was conducted retain them and make appropriate in 2010, with 90 per cent of employees adjustments and provisions.
Our focus on diversity includes having In all 11 categories, employee opinion greater representation across our senior of British American Tobacco was more management from both genders and positive than the benchmark for businesses across different geographic regions.
We either maintained or improved on our 2008 scores in eight of the 11 categories.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 16 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Responsibility Responsibility is integral to everything we We believe tobacco product regulation do and is especially important to a business should be underpinned by sound such as ours where our products pose real scientific evidence and developed risks to health.
Our determination to act through transparent and accountable responsibly spans the whole business, from consultation with all relevant our commitment to addressing the issues of stakeholders.
As such, in 2011 our Chief child labour and working with farmers, to Scientific Officer sat on the expert panel looking at how we can help to reduce the of a workshop held by the US Food and harm from our products and lessen our Drug Administration on developing 166m scientific standards for the evaluation environmental impact.
Group R&D expenditure of modified risk tobacco products.
in 2011 Our Business Principles and our Standards of Business Conduct set out what we Research & development require of our companies and our Our Group Research & Development employees in terms of responsible R&D activities are concentrated on Our companies adherence to IMS is corporate behaviour and personal integrity.
monitored through self-assessments and our harm reduction efforts but also internal company audits.
We have now encompass the exploration of new We also support regulation that introduced additional IMS-specific audits in products and innovative technologies.
maintains a balance between consumer Group R&D also provides guidance selected markets.
In 2011, 21 incidents of preferences and the interests of society, non-adherence were identified, but we on the use of ingredients to ensure while also enabling our business to believe these to be isolated incidents and our products comply with national continue to compete commercially.
actions have been taken to address them.
legislative requirements and our Harm reduction own Group standards.
In Indonesia, we are engaging with As a manufacturer of tobacco products the Indonesian Government on Our principal R&D facilities are located in we have a responsibility to pursue ways in implementing stricter regulations to Southampton and Cambridge in the UK which we might help to reduce the health ensure a level playing field and hope and at Cachoeirinha in Brazil.
For more information investment in Group R&D, including to bring about an industry consensus.
on our approach to harm reduction, see Marketing Futures and Nicoventures, page 19. was 166 million, compared to In 2011, we made progress in our work on 164 million in 2010. developing laboratory models of disease Responsible marketing and we also set up a new research group, We apply a consistently responsible Predictive and Experimental Toxicology.
approach to marketing across the Group This group is focused on developing the by requiring our companies to follow our science that will enable us to evaluate International Marketing Standards IMS which smoke toxicants are the most wherever local law is less stringent.
Our significant in the development of IMS state that our marketing should be various smoking-related diseases.
targeted at adult tobacco consumers We made good progress this year in and not undermine their understanding increasing our understanding of how of the health risks.
and where smoke particles are deposited in the respiratory system.
We have also reinvigorated our biotechnology research.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 17 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Strategic review continued Environmental performance Biodiversity Work environment We monitor and reduce our direct impact Our Group Biodiversity Statement We are committed to providing a on the environment by making our states our aim to embed biodiversity safe working environment for all our operations more efficient.
We also address conservation across our business.
employees and contractors, and have our indirect effects by choosing suppliers Since 2001, we have worked with three a Group goal of zero accidents.
with strong environmental credentials and NGOs in the British American Tobacco There were 37 serious injuries in encouraging our existing suppliers to Biodiversity Partnership: Fauna & Flora 2011, involving 18 employees and 19 improve their environmental performance.
International, the Tropical Biology contractors in 21 countries.
Seven were Association and Earthwatch Institute.
We have set targets for our key fatalities one employee and six The Partnership seeks to address some environmental issues, including energy contractors, compared to four in 2010 of the challenging issues surrounding consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, three employees and one contractor.
the conservation and management of water use and waste and we met these in Four were the result of assaults, two biodiversity within agricultural landscapes 2011 see page 25. were from falls from heights and one and the ecosystems on which we depend.
was the result of a road traffic accident.
In 2011, we began work to develop new We greatly regret this loss of life and External recognition targets for our energy, water and waste have made changes to try to make sure We have built a strong reputation for measures, as well as five-year milestones accidents like these do not happen again.
sustainability and are recognised as to monitor progress towards our 2030 leaders in our industry.
and 2050 carbon dioxide equivalent We monitor our Lost Workday Case CO e targets.
Incident Rate LWCIR, along with the 2 In 2011, we were included in both the number of serious injuries and fatalities Dow Jones Sustainability World Index Agronomy support for both employees and contractors.
DJSI World and the Dow Jones We have around 1,000 leaf managers The Groups LWCIR in 2011 was 0.26, Sustainability Europe Index DJSI Europe and technicians worldwide who provide a decrease from the 2010 rate of 0.27. and we also received a gold rating in the agronomy support to all our directly Our total number of lost workday cases 2011 Business in the Community contracted tobacco farmers.
They also also decreased, from 212 in 2010 to Corporate Responsibility Index.
engage with farming communities in all 204 in 2011. of our tobacco growing locations.
Our Corporate social In 2011, we implemented our plan to global agronomy centre is at the heart investment reduce vehicle-related injuries in our of this engagement.
Our corporate social investment CSI Trade Marketing & Distribution teams.
Working with our contracted farmers in activities include a range of community Already, we have seen positive results, this way helps make their farms viable and charitable projects, centred on with an 18 per cent reduction in the and efficient, which protects the security empowerment giving people training, teams vehicle-related lost workday cases and quality of our tobacco leaf supply.
education and opportunities to help and a reduction in fatalities compared to Our agronomy support covers all areas them develop, civic life activities that 2010.
Group-wide vehicle-related of agricultural practice, not just tobacco aim to enrich public and community life accidents decreased by nearly 19 per cent farming, so it also helps farmers improve and sustainable agriculture and environment compared to 2010.
Following targeted the quality and yields of food crops, contributions to local agriculture.
initiatives to address manual handling making them more self-sufficient.
accidents, lost workday cases in this area Our global CSI expenditure in 2011 was reduced by 53 per cent for the Group.
13.7 million 2010: 15.4 million as Tackling child labour defined by the statutory reporting criteria Child labour is an important human rights for charitable donations.
issue for any industry with an agricultural supply chain and the tobacco industry is no exception.
We have had a Group-wide Child Labour Policy since 2000, and it is a key element of our Social Responsibility in Tobacco Production SRTP programme.
We were also one of the founding members of the Eliminating Child Labour in Tobacco Growing ECLT Foundation in 2001.
We continue to play an active role in the ECLT Foundation along with others in the industry, trades unions and the International Labour Organisation.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 18 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Our sustainability goals Sustainable business practice is at the heart of the Groups responsibility strategy.
By addressing our social, environmental and economic impacts, we build value for the business, for our shareholders and for other stakeholders.
Our sustainability agenda comprises five goals covering harm reduction, marketplace, environment, supply chain and people and culture.
You can read about all our long-term goals and our work in 2011 in these areas in our Sustainability Report 2011 online at www.
Included on the following pages is a brief summary of how we are trying to meet our sustainability goals and achieve a sustainable future through: x working towards reducing the risks from our products: x supporting regulation based on sound evidence: x marketing our products responsibly: x promoting sustainable agriculture: x investing in our people: and x working with others.
com sustainability Harm reduction Our long-term harm reduction goal: 27 Scientific papers submitted for We will strive to bring commercially viable, consumer publication in peer-reviewed acceptable reduced-risk products to market.
journals in 2011 The greatest negative impacts from our business are the real How we are preparing for the future and serious health risks of tobacco products.
So developing x Identifying which smoke toxicants pose the greatest health reduced-risk products for those adults who use tobacco is risks and inventing new technologies to reduce them.
There are many challenges in this: the science is complex: collaboration is needed between scientists, tobacco x Developing a framework of scientific tests to evaluate the companies and regulators: products need to meet consumer likely health impacts of potentially reduced-risk products.
expectations: and we need a regulatory framework that x Engaging with regulators, scientists and the public health supports tobacco harm reduction.
We are committed to community to develop the frameworks needed meeting these challenges.
We are working on three broad product categories: x Nicoventures is exploring the development of and reduced-toxicant combustible tobacco products: commercialisation of regulatory-approved nicotine products.
low-toxicant smokeless tobacco products: and alternative regulatory-approved nicotine products.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 19 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Strategic review continued Marketplace Our long-term marketplace goal: 73% Of our companies run youth We will take a lead in upholding high standards smoking prevention programmes of corporate conduct within our marketplace.
Our aim is to grow our market share but we do this responsibly How we are preparing for the future through innovative products and packaging.
We believe that x Sharing objective evidence to help contribute to the policy regulation should be shaped in collaboration with all stakeholders, debate on regulation, as well as supporting regulation for including the tobacco industry.
With our industry experience the development and sale of reduced-risk products.
and expertise, we can be part of developing regulatory solutions.
x Updating and strengthening adherence to our International The illegal tobacco trade is a widespread problem, made worse Marketing Standards.
by ill-considered regulatory policies and particularly by large and sudden increases in excise tax that destabilise the market.
x Collaborating with governments and enforcement The perpetrators of this trade are criminals, often gangs that authorities to help address the illegal tobacco trade and also traffic drugs, arms and people, and may have ties to working with our competitors to develop new technologies terrorist organisations.
to stop the unauthorised sale, re-sale or smuggling of tobacco products.
Environment Our long-term environment goal: -7.5% Energy use per million cigarettes We will actively address the impacts of our business equivalent compared to 2010 on the natural environment.
Addressing the immediate impacts of our business on the How we are preparing for the future environment as well as the likely future pressures involves risk x Using risk assessments and stakeholder dialogue to guide assessments, performance management and investment in our approach to climate change.
Environmental problems cannot be solved by one company acting alone.
They also need flexibility x Developing strategies to reduce our impacts, focusing what works in one part of the world might not in another.
on water, energy and biodiversity.
The success of our business now and in the future depends on x Using biodiversity risk and opportunity assessments to biodiversity.
Biodiversity provides resources like clean water, guide our approach to sustainable agriculture.
Business can have a negative impact x Working with external stakeholders on areas of common on biodiversity, as species and communities also depend on interest, such as the members of our Biodiversity Partnership.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 20 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Supply chain Our long-term supply chain goal: 443,480 Tonnes of tobacco leaf purchased We will work for positive social, environmental by our companies in 2011 and economic impacts in our supply chain.
Our supply chain sustainability strategy covers our own planning, How we are preparing for the future manufacturing, logistics and trade marketing operations, but x Protecting the long-term security of our tobacco leaf the most significant part of it relates to tobacco growing.
This is supply by encouraging sustainable agriculture, involving where our greatest environmental impact is but where we have multi-stakeholder partnerships.
influence, rather than direct control.
x Working to help build an objective evidence base on the We believe effective regulation in this area must cover all impact of tobacco growing compared to other crops.
We also believe we have an important part to play in developing sustainable agriculture x Listening to our Supply Chain Sustainability Stakeholder solutions, thanks to our experience and our relationships Panels guidance and challenge on our supply chain with over 140,000 contracted farmers in 19 countries.
x Reducing the environmental impact of our own operations and encouraging our suppliers to reduce theirs.
x Using our supply chain programmes and partnership projects with suppliers and third parties to protect the human rights of our suppliers, contracted farmers and local communities.
People and culture Our long-term people and culture goal: 64 Nationalities represented by We will work to ensure we have the right people people working at our global and culture to meet our goals.
headquarters in the UK To achieve the goals we set for our business we need a strong How we are preparing for the future workforce from securing our supply of tobacco leaf to developing x Continuing to build robust succession plans.
We can only strengthen our culture and build competitive advantage if we continue to focus on driving x Establishing clear principles and simple, effective tools high performance, encourage greater productivity and build to manage performance.
on the excellence of our talent.
x Embracing the diversity of our workforce to encourage Diversity helps us to understand our stakeholders and to meet creativity and innovation.
It takes many forms: gender is one aspect, but it is x Improving our approach to the health, wellbeing and also important to consider nationality and background.
We have safety of our people.
a number of initiatives to improve gender diversity at senior management levels and we are committed to improving the x Streamlining our global practices and eliminating duplication.
representation of all nationalities among our senior leaders at x Strengthening our core capabilities, our values and our culture.
our headquarters and in our companies worldwide.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 21
