Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa EEMEA Share of Group revenue 26% 2010: 26% Adjusted profit from operations m 1,311 2010: 1,167 Andrew Gray Lucky Strike was launched, partially Director, Eastern Europe, offsetting the volume losses of tail brands.
Profit reduced despite the Middle East and Africa improved product mix and significant savings initiatives.
In the GCC markets, volumes and market Profit in the region increased by share increased and profit grew strongly, 144 million to 1,311 million.
This was mainly due to Dunhills excellent principally due to stable volumes and performance in all the markets.
In Egypt, price increases, partly offset by the adverse volumes and market share continued to impact of exchange rate movements.
grow strongly despite the political At constant rates of exchange, profit instability and a significant excise increase increased by 195 million or 17 per cent.
Profit was impacted by the Volumes at 236 billion were marginally absorption by manufacturers of some of higher than last year with the increases in the excise increases of 2010 and 2011.
Egypt, GCC and Nigeria partially offset by Rothmans expanded its leadership position the decline in Turkey.
In Russia, market share grew, driven by In Nigeria, volumes were up and market Kent, supported by Dunhill, Pall Mall and share continued to grow.
Total volumes were in line with posted impressive rises with Dunhill, last year.
Strong profit growth was the Benson & Hedges and Rothmans the main result of price increases, an improved contributors.
The improved product mix product mix and lower costs.
and higher volumes led to a strong increase Market share in Ukraine was higher as in profit.
Growth in market share was volumes increased in a declining total primarily driven by marketing investment.
market, resulting in an increase in profit.
Improved government control saw a Volumes, profit and market share reduction in illicit trade.
improved in Kazakhstan due to the In South Africa, market share strengthened strong performance of Pall Mall.
due to the good performance of the In Turkey, the 2010 excise-driven portfolio.
There was a significant increase contraction of the market continued in the incidence of illicit trade and downwith the government announcing an trading to the low-priced segment.
As a unexpected excise rise in October 2011, result, profit was in line with last year.
with a further increase from January The Group continued its investment in 2013.
This, coupled with an increase in new markets, with the launch of Dunhill in illicit trade, resulted in a steep drop in Morocco after an import and distribution volumes.
Market share declined as a licence was approved, while it continued result of competitor pricing activities.
to build the business in Algeria.
Kent and Pall Mall grew strongly and British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 31
