30 Business review continued Profit for the year Tax The Groups effective tax rate, excluding acquisition and disposal costs, Year ended Year ended exceptional items and discontinued operations is 26% 2010 32% which 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 represents maintenance of the underlying rate of 32% less a reduction of m m 6% in respect of settling enquires with tax authorities.
Profit before tax from A tax credit of 32 million 2010 20 million has been recognised in the continuing operations 350 335 consolidated income statement column entitled acquisition and disposal Acquisition and disposal costs 94 62 costs to reflect the impact of deferred tax on amortising intangible assets.
The overall objective continues to be to plan and manage the tax affairs Exceptional items 23 26 of the Group efficiently while complying with local tax regulations.
Profit before tax from The Groups tax charge is affected by the varying tax rates in different continuing operations statutory 233 247 jurisdictions applied to taxable profits: the mix of those profits: and the rules Tax 50 83 impacting deductibility of certain costs.
The Group continues to take a prudent approach to the management of its tax affairs and provisions are Profit from continuing operations 183 164 set to cover tax exposures.
We expect the Groups effective tax rate, excluding acquisition and disposal costs, exceptional items and discontinued The Group reports a solid performance with profit after tax, acquisition and operations to be 31% for the financial year ending 31 March 2012. disposal costs and exceptional items of 183 million from continuing operations.
Earnings and earnings per share EPS We believe that the most appropriate EPS measurement ratio for the Group Acquisition and disposal costs is adjusted basic EPS as this measure better reflects the Groups underlying For the year commencing 1 April 2010, the Group has redefined the cash earnings.
Adjusted basic EPS from continuing operations excludes the column previously entitled amortisation and impairment of intangibles impact of the performance of acquisition and disposal costs, exceptional arising on consolidation having considered the impact of the adoption of items note 5 and discontinued operations note 25.
The calculation of EPS IFRS3 revised Business Combinations to the consolidated income is set out in note 2 to the financial statements.
Details can be found in the basis of preparation of the financial statements on page 71.
Adjusted basic EPS from continuing operations increased by 13% to 39.9p.
The Groups basic EPS from continuing operations increased from The Group saw amortisation of intangibles increase by 22 million over the 25.5p to 28.1p and total basic EPS, including discontinued operations, prior year related to the acquisition of TriOptima.
increased from 18.0p to 28.7p primarily as a result of a tax credit Exceptional items and discontinued operations recognised in the financial year.
The Groups policy is to separately disclose items in its income statement as exceptional which are non-recurring and, in terms of both size and nature, material.
The Group has recognised an exceptional pre-tax charge in its continuing business of 23 million in respect of the recoverability of the loans made to a number of associates active in non-core agency voice markets 20 million and an adjustment to the 2010 SEC settlement-related costs 3 million.
A post-tax credit of 4 million relating to a reversal of a prior year exceptional charge, disclosed as discontinued in 2010 11, was recognised as an exceptional item relating to the decision to close the European and Asia Pacific full service agency cash equities businesses in 2009 10.
Profit before tax, acquisition and disposal costs and exceptional items.
