Business Review: delivering our Strategy delIveRInG ouR StRAteGY ContInue HIGH levelS oF 4ClIent SeRvICe coMMITMENT To TrEATING cuSToMErS FAIrLY coMPETITIvE AND TrANSPArENT PrIcING cLIENT SuPPorT AND EDucATIoN client money bank accounts.
The FSA has recently tightened At IG Group, we are very proud of our excellent reputation for We offer transparent prices that are competitively low, while We provide extensive educational resources for client money rules and this has not had a significant effect client service and customer support, and we believe that these maintaining our trademark quality of service and trade clients, including: upon the Group as we were already operating in accordance high standards are a key differentiator between us and our execution.
We offer spreads starting from just one pip on with best practice in this area.
IG Markets Nearest competitor Industry average competitors.
As part of our dedication to our clients, we are the major currency pairs, while our commission rates start at A n introductory education programme promoting fully committed to the FSAs Treating customers Fairly TcF 0.1% for uK equities.
responsible trading NET ProMoTEr ScorE initiative and have developed a scorecard of 25 measures to A wide r ange of client seminars and webinars, available Independent research company Investment Trends has monitor how we treat our clients.
To provide our clients with better prices and greater liquidity, online and in person measured customer satisfaction among spread betting and we source prices from Europes top Multilateral Trading Daily r esearch bulletins on major financial markets, cFD trading clients via the Net Promoter Score NPS method.
central to the Groups TcF policy is the quality of our order Facilities MTFs chi-x, Turquoise and BATS as well as from including equities, commodities and forex researchers asked clients if they would recommend their execution.
We offer near-instantaneous execution, with the major European exchanges, such as the London Stock Liv e news feeds from reuters provider to a friend or colleague.
The study found that 27 around 99% of client orders accepted automatically.
We never Exchange and Euronext.
This enables us to offer the narrowest A c omprehensive online help portal IG Index currently has the highest NPS of all uK spread betting 1 re-quote prices and, within our set margin of tolerance, we market spreads derived from the best bid and offer prices regular technical analysis and in-depth research from companies, while IG Markets has the leading NPS among 1 2 3 will accept orders even if the market moves.
our innovative available in the underlying market.
both our in-house team and third party sources cFD providers in the uK, Australia and Singapore.
Price Improvement technology enables customers to receive 14 a better price if one becomes available as a trade is executed.
cLIENT MoNEY ProTEcTIoN The Net Promoter Score NPS is calculated by asking respondents: IG Group adopts a best-practice approach to client money How likely are you to recommend this company to a friend or protection.
We follow the client asset rules set by the uKs colleague?
Respondents reply on a 0-10 scale, with the final NPS Financial Services Authority FSA and similar rules of other calculated as the percentage of promoters those answering 9 or regulators in whose jur -5 isdiction we operate.
In the uK, Europe, 10 minus the percentage of detractors those answering 0 to 6. uS and Asia Pacific we segregate all retail clients funds into 1 Investment Trends: 2010 UK Financial Spread Betting & CFD Trading Report -10 0 10 20 30 November 2010 2 Investment Trends: 2011 Australia CFD Report July 2011 3 Investment Trends: 2010 Singapore FX & CFD Report September 2010 KPI highlight Net Promoter Score uK spread betting uK cFD trading IG Index Nearest competitor Industry average IG Markets Nearest competitor Industry average 27 22 8 14 -15 -5 -20 -10 0 10 20 30 -10 0 10 20 30 Weighted by primary market share 16 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 17 IG Index Nearest competitor Industry average 22 8 -15 -20 -10 0 10 20 30 Business Review: our Business Model ouR BuSIneSS Model Our businesses provide a platform that harnesses demand for retail financial derivatives trading.
The recruitment and retention of clients is supported by our range of products, advanced technology, competitive pricing, customer service, financial strength and business expertise.
Our system of controls to monitor and manage risk ensures we generate high-quality earnings through each of our revenue sources.
cLIENTS over 49,000 clients recruited in 2011 financial year OUR BUSINESSES COMMERCIAL MODEL over 130,000 clients trading in 2011 financial year 14 international sales offices online presence in over 130 countries QuALITY oF EArNINGS rISK MANAGEMENT 370 business partners to extend global reach risk averse model: our hedging ensures profit is S cale of operations promotes natural hedging made whether markets go up or down, as long opportunities: client positions often balance each as clients are trading other out No loss-mak ing days since May 2008 IG Gr oups liquidity enables funding of large hedging positions with brokers when necessary rEvENuE SourcES clients provide margin up-front and are closed out A n initial spread or commission for each trade of positions if margin is significantly eroded client funding charges to reflect leveraged trading real-time mark-to-market trading platform calculates A dditional charges for Guaranteed Stops client profit and loss continuously, to mitigate I nterest on cash balances excessive losses revenue is earned across multiple asset classes TEcHNoLoGY & cLIENT BuSINESS FINANcIAL PrIcING FocuS ExPErTISE STrENGTH Award-winning trading 24 7 customer service M arket leader for 37 years FTSE 250 company platform comprehensive education Multi-award-winning regulatory capital F ocus on mobile technology and support company surplus competitive pricing Treating customers Fairly recognised as a top Facilitates IT investment including Price TcF initiative ensures employer with highand product excellence Improvement technology continued quality service quality employees Forex Indices Shares Commodities Binaries Options Interest Rates Bonds ETFs Sectors For detailed practical examples of a spread bet and a cFD trade, please see the Investors resources section, pages 134-137.
18 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 19 Business Review: Chief executives Review CHIeF exeCutIveS RevIeW Through the year we have extended our share in some of our largest markets and have taken a number of steps to further strengthen our competitive position.
We remain committed to investing in our technology and we enter the coming year well positioned to build on our high levels of client service and to maintain and build on our market-leading position across our geographical markets.
European contribution to Group revenue In the last year we have taken a number of major steps primary accounts, while our nearest competitor has 20%.
revenue for the nine months since acquisition was 2.75 to further improve our competitive positioning.
We have our European businesses grew revenue by 21%, made up of million.
revenue from our white label with Ideal cFDs was relocated our London head office and data centre, made 33% growth in active clients and a 9% fall in revenue per client.
previously included within revenue from the uK office and important advances in our technology offering, achieved Germany was the fastest growing of our European offices with amounted to 1.8 million in the prior year and 0.5 million in 18% market share gains in some of our largest markets and revenue growth of 54%.
An 11% increase in revenue per client the first quarter of the 2011 financial year.
In the few weeks since contributed to this growth.
Market research indicates that we the year-end we have shut our Sport business and have are the second largest cFD provider in Germany, and that we In May 2011 we opened an office in Amsterdam.
The Growth in active clients excluding Japan restructured responsibilities within the senior management are gaining market share rapidly.
Europe now contributes over Netherlands has an active online trading culture, which team.
All of these are important developments which will help 18% of Group revenue and is likely to become an increasingly we believe is currently poorly serviced by opaquely-priced us to continue to maintain and build on the Groups leading material contributor to Group revenue and revenue growth exchange-traded derivative products.
We regard this as a 13.5% market position.
I discuss each of them below.
good indicator that there will be strong demand for our cFD products, which have completely transparent pricing.
It is 1 revenue growth this year was 7%, which is much lower than our Japanese business operates in an extremely challenging only a few weeks since our Dutch office opened, but we are Percentage of clients using mobile devices I believe the Group is capable of in a more normal economic competitive and regulatory environment and made up only encouraged by its early performance.
underlying growth in client numbers 7% of revenue for the year.
The imposition of leverage limits on was stronger than revenue growth in virtually every market forex in August 2010 and on equity indices in January 2011 had We continue to explore opportunities to expand 30% in which we operate.
For the Group as a whole the number a significant impact, and as a result revenue was 14% lower than further geographically.
of clients trading in the year was 11% higher than in the in the previous year.
There remains a further leverage restriction previous year, and excluding Japan it was 13% higher.
In the to come on forex in August 2011, but there are some signs that THE uS first half of the year we faced a headwind of falling volatility the Japanese regulators may revisit the appropriateness of the our uS exchange, Nadex, has seen encouraging growth in and a backdrop of poor economic conditions in many of the current regime.
Furthermore, a new tax regime under which volumes of clients coming to it direct.
We continue to view countries in which we operate, and these factors undoubtedly our products will be treated in the same way as exchange-listed brokers as our main route to market, and the technological had an adverse effect on revenue per client.
In our third instruments will come into force on 1 January 2012.
I am hopeful process of getting our first such broker live has been quarter we saw a slight improvement in revenue per client for that we might, in due course, see Japanese regulation begin frustratingly slow, but PFGBEST have, within the last few days, the Group as a whole.
revenue per client was down 3% in the to move in a direction which provides improved consumer begun to promote Nadex products both to their existing clients final quarter of the year, but this was largely due to a single protection while at the same time better suiting our existing and to the wider uS retail market.
They are at the final stages of weak month in April when dull markets were combined with business model.
During the year we re-branded our Japanese testing the technology by offering our products to their clients an extended uK holiday period.
We achieved our best monthly business as IG Markets Securities.
within their demo platform and expect to go fully live shortly.
revenue on record in March 2011.
It is much too early to assess the scale of opportunity which As previously announced, during the year we wrote off PFGBEST represents.
Having successfully completed the first PErForMANcE oF our MAIN BuSINESS uNITS the entire goodwill and other intangibles relating to our integration of a broker to Nadex we would expect that future our uK financial business, which represents 52% of revenue, Japanese business a non-cash cost of 143 million.
This integrations will be somewhat easier.
We are in discussions achieved revenue growth of 3%.
This was made up of 8% has no impact on the Groups cash flow, regulatory capital or with other brokers, but it is unlikely that these will commit to growth in active clients, offset by a 5% fall in revenue per client.
the necessary work until we have more evidence of the level of This fall in revenue per client was weighted towards the first uptake from PFGBEST clients.
I continue to believe that there half of the year, and in the third quarter revenue per client rose INTErNATIoNAL ExPANSIoN coNTINuES is a significant opportunity for us in the uS which will come to slightly when compared to the same quarter a year before, In September 2010 we acquired the client list and business fruition over the next few years.
suggesting that our clients were becoming accustomed to of our South African white label partner, Ideal cFDs.
We now lower levels of market volatility.
The final quarter of the year trade in South Africa under the IG Markets brand.
The owner During the year we closed IG Markets Inc, our uS forex broker, was impacted by a poor April.
of Ideal cFDs initially had a 20% minority interest in our South which was generating negligible revenue, to enable us to African subsidiary, but by mutual agreement we exercised concentrate exclusively on Nadex.
our Australian business, which represents 15% of revenue, our option over half of that interest during April 2011, for 1.2 achieved revenue growth of 4%.
This was made up of 11% million, and they now have a 10% interest.
We anticipate that growth in active clients offset by a 6% fall in revenue per client.
we will acquire this remaining 10% interest in January 2013 revenue per client recovered well in the final quarter of the based on a multiple of profits generated in the period from year and was at its highest level for the year in May.
recent acquisition until November 2012. our South African offices in market research indicates that we have extended our market Johannesburg and Durban are now fully integrated into the lead over the last year, and that we now have a 34% share of Group and are showing initial signs of encouraging growth.
1 Revenue throughout the Chief Executives Review refers to net trading revenue, which is trading revenue excluding interest on segregated client funds and is net of introducing broker commissions.
20 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 21 Business Review: Chief executives Review CHIeF exeCutIveS RevIeW continued ExTrABET betting business and have progressively rolled it out across all HIGH LEvELS oF cLIENT SErvIcE regulatory and cultural differences.
A key aspect of this is During the year we ran an extensive sales process to sell our of our businesses worldwide.
our cFD iPhone app gives clients our substantial investment in technology enables us to offer that Peter Hetherington, our chief operating officer, has Sport business, extrabet, as a going concern.
We were unable the ability to have Direct Market Access to an aggregate order unrivalled quality of pricing and execution to our clients.
We taken charge of all of our sales offices, ensuring that they all to find a buyer on acceptable terms and as a result we decided book formed from the primary stock exchange and the main have been progressively improving the level of automation operate in a standardised way and maximise revenue through prior to the year-end to sell extrabets client list.
This sale, to alternative execution venues, a combination of features which of our dealing and in May 99.93% of internet deals were concentrating on client on-boarding, retention and value.
Spreadex Limited, was completed during June.
We have now we believe to be unique.
During the year we also released a automatically processed, with no human intervention and no closed our Sport business, but are in discussions with a number Blackberry app and since the year-end we have released an re-quotes.
At peak load in that month we were processing 347 The other significant change at Board level is that Andrew of potential purchasers of our pricing engine software.
We have been pleased with the initial client orders per second.
MacKay has assumed the newly-formed role of Director of take-up, and usage of these apps is steadily increasing.
We believe that there are a number of The decision to close extrabet will allow us to focus exclusively month almost 14% of all client-initiated deals were done using We also remain the only spread betting or cFD provider to potentially significant opportunities for both geographic and on our much larger and more profitable Financial business, as mobile devices: around 30% of our active clients use mobile offer Price Improvement, whereby we pass on a better price to product expansion which will help to drive our future growth, well as greatly improve our IT maintenance windows with the devices to place some of their trades: and over 10% of account our client if it becomes available while the client order is being which Andrew will be focusing on in the coming months.
removal of a business which was busiest during the weekends.
applications are made using mobile devices.
In addition, unlike some of our competitors, we will to invest heavily in ongoing development of our mobile never fill a client order at a worse price than that requested by currENT TrADING AND ouTLooK We have incurred approximately 2.5 million of cash costs offering, which we believe will become increasingly important.
We are also the only spread betting or cFD provider The new financial year has started well, with revenue from relating to the closure of extrabet, principally redundancy and We are currently developing an app for Windows Phone 7 to source prices from and route execution for equities into our financial business higher than in June 2010, despite property-related costs.
In addition we have written off the devices and for tablets, including the iPad.
Multilateral Trading Facilities, allowing our clients to benefit substantially lower levels of market volatility.
goodwill associated with our Sport business of 5.25 million, a from greater liquidity and narrower market spreads as a result.
non-cash cost which has no impact on the Groups cash flow, over the last two years we have been building our own charts our ongoing investment in technology and our commitment regulatory capital or dividend capacity.
package, to reduce our dependency on a third-party charting MANAGEMENT cHANGES to fair, transparent execution continue to drive market share package provider.
This should produce cost savings for us chris Hill joined us as cFo in April.
He brings extensive gains in a number of our key markets, leaving us well placed for INvESTMENT IN TEcHNoLoGY over the longer term, and our clients will also benefit from a experience of managing international businesses and is a future profitable growth.
We continue to invest heavily in technology, which we see much closer integration between dealing and charts.
The first valuable addition to our senior management.
as a key competitive differentiator and driver of long-term stage of this development has gone live in some of the smaller profitable growth.
During the year, in conjunction with the countries in which we operate and will be progressively rolled over the last few weeks I have made a number of changes relocation of our head office, we built and equipped a new out worldwide in the coming months.
We have capitalised to responsibilities within my senior management team.
We spent a total of almost 5.0 million during a total of 2.5 million of development costs relating to this The aim of these changes is to ensure that we are taking a the year on hardware and a further 5.0 million on software project over the last two financial years, which we will now consistent approach in each of our offices worldwide where Tim Howkins, chief Executive licences, the majority of which was for a three-year enterprise start to amortise over a three-year period.
it is appropriate to do so, while being sensitive to local 19 July 2011 licence for customer relationship Management software.
However, our largest IT investment is in our people.
We now have approximately 350 staff within our IT department, representing over a third of our global workforce.
The total employment costs for this IT team exceeded 23.5 million in the year, compared to 18.7 million the year before.
our IT department covers both ongoing support of existing software and channels and the development of new features and distribution channels.
over the last year we have made significant advances in two areas: mobile and charts.
We have almost 40 people working on our mobile platforms, a level of investment which few of our competitors can match.
We released our first iPhone app a year ago for our uK spread 22 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 23 Business Review: operating and Financial Review opeRAtInG And FInAnCIAl RevIeW This section reviews the Groups operating performance and financial results for the year.
our STrATEGY AND our BuSINESS rEGuLATorY ENvIroNMENT believe that the MiFID review will pose a threat to our D uring the year, the decision was taken to close IG Groups overall business strategy is set out earlier in the our products have several key features which make them uK and European businesses but we are monitoring the IG Markets Inc, our retail forex business in the uS, in order Business review, along with our plan to deliver that strategy higher risk from a retail clients perspective: our products are situation carefully.
to concentrate on Nadex, our exchange business.
This has and the Groups business model.
The key business risks arising not listed on any exchange apart from Nadex products and resulted in our surrendering IG Markets Incs regulatory from our strategy, as well as their mitigation, are explained are not assignable or tradable with any other third party: T he Australian Securities and Investments commission membership with the National Futures Association.
Similarly, following this operating and Financial review.
they are derivatives: and they are leveraged.
consequently we ASIc has undertaken a large amount of policy work in our the decision was taken to close extrabet, our sport betting require regulatory authorisation to conduct our business in industry over the past year.
We expect a number of changes and casino business.
This will result in our surrendering Additionally a worked example of a cFD trade and a spread bet jurisdictions where we operate.
There are a large number of to come into effect in the coming year as a result of this, extrabet Limiteds FSA and Gambling commission are provided in the Investor resources and other Information rules that attach to our various regulatory authorisations, and including regulatory capital changes, disclosure changes authorisations.
This has had the effect of reducing the section that follows the Group Financial Statements.
compliance with these rules is fundamental to the business.
We have engaged with ASIc Groups regulatory complexity and therefore reducing We therefore invest significant resources to ensure that we thoroughly on these issues and we do not expect that these our operational and regulatory risk.
coMPETITIvE ENvIroNMENT comply with both the letter and the spirit of regulations that changes will have a substantial impact on our business.
IG Group has established leading positions in many of the govern our global business.
We operate in a dynamic financial services industry and we markets in which it operates.
We are the market leader in the D uring the year, the Monetary Authority of Singapore MAS experience constant regulatory change and development.
uK and in Australia, where we extended our lead this year.
Since the financial crisis, we have seen the pace of regulatory brought in guidance encouraging firms to undertake client We work closely with our regulators to ensure both that we We are number two in Germany, but are taking market share change quicken and the level of regulatory intervention suitability assessments during the account application operate to the highest regulatory standards and that we can from our competition.
There are currently a number of different policy process to determine whether their services are suitable for adapt to regulatory change, however, we can provide no initiatives and proposals being discussed that may impact or each individual client.
We have implemented MAS guidance certainty that potential regulatory changes will not have We have often been the first entrant in new countries, and we have already impacted our sector, as described below: within our own Singapore business: the impact of doing so an adverse impact on our business.
embrace competition as it serves to expand the overall market has not been material.
by increasing awareness of the cFD product.
The FSA recently issued a discussion paper containing rESourcES AvAILABLE To THE GrouP several policy proposals about the extent to which it should our Japanese business operates in an increasingly difficult The Group has a strong, debt-free balance sheet and a history We have continued to deliver growth through all stages of be permitted to intervene in product design where there is regulatory environment, with progressive leverage limits of profitability, enabling continued investment in each of the economic cycle, achieving strong financial performance evidence that such intervention is required in order to prevent being introduced on trading in forex, equity indices, our key brands, growth in our international reach and the with high margins and strong cash generation.
our high levels consumer detriment.
We have shared our views with the FSA equities and other asset classes during the year.
In light of development of our advanced and robust technology.
of client service and financial strength are appealing to our on this approach as we do not consider that our clients suffer the significant adverse impact of these regulatory changes The Group has significant capital resources and the surplus clients and ensure that we are well placed to deal with changes detriment and will monitor developments carefully.
we fully impaired the carrying value of the goodwill and over the capital resources requirement is disclosed later in in the regulatory environment.
our technology platforms, customer relationships associated with our Japanese this section under regulatory capital resources.
which offer efficient dealing, liquidity and competitive pricing, The European commission is reviewing the Markets in business as at 30 November 2010. are all accessible via browser or mobile and provide us with a Financial Instruments Directive MiFID, with draft legislative our award-winning dealing platforms, our market-leading competitive advantage in winning and retaining clients.
proposals due for release in the second half of 2011.
Based In addition, the following events occurred during the year and brands and our active client base are all highlighted on early policy proposals of the commission, we do not had an impact upon the Groups regulatory environment: within the What We Do and our Strategy sections of the Business review.
T he FSA recently tightened client money rules and this has not had a significant effect upon the Group as we already our continued growth is highly dependent upon attracting segregated all uK, Europe, uS and Asia Pacific retail client and retaining high-calibre employees.
our employee numbers funds into client money bank accounts and were already and remuneration levels are discussed in detail later in the operating in accordance with best practice in this area.
The Groups employees have extensive knowledge of our key markets and actively D uring the year, the Financial Services compensation contribute to the development of new products and services.
Scheme FScS issued an interim levy related to the continuing costs of Keydata Investment Services Limited and The Groups reputation for innovation and high levels of other failed investment intermediary firms.
Being classified customer service reflects over 30 years of investment in as an investment intermediary under FScS rules, we were technology.
The vast majority of technology development required to take part in this levy, our share of which was is carried out in-house and our employees continue to be 4.1 million, significantly higher than in prior years.
24 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 25 Business Review: operating and Financial Review opeRAtInG And FInAnCIAl RevIeW continued FINANcIAL rEvIEW An overview of the Groups financial performance is provided Summary Group Income Statement Net trading revenue grew 7.3% to extremes of october 2008 to March 2009.
Subsequent spikes in both the chairmans Statement and the chief Executives 320.4m in mixed market conditions have occurred in May and June 2010 and in March 2011, and review.
The following section provides a more detailed analysis 000 2011 2010 KPI: net trading revenue these have driven record levels of client activity.
of the Groups financial performance for the year ended 31 May clients can trade on a number of different asset classes from 2 Net trading revenue 320,392 298,551 2011, including a discussion of the Key Performance Indicators one account and this is a major competitive advantage.
As a The first few months of the financial year saw strengthening KPIs used to monitor and control our business.
other net operating income 4,863 1,172 result, our clients trading patterns vary with volatility across all equity markets, which encouraged clients to trade equity cFDs the markets in which we offer products.
The year ended 31 May and spread bet on shares.
This was then followed by a period Net operating income 325,255 299,723 The critical accounting estimates and judgments that impact 2011 saw mixed market conditions across asset classes which of range-bound markets with a tail-off in volatility, resulting the Groups financial performance, together with new and drove differing levels of client activity.
In a similar manner, Fx revenues in operating expenses 151,642 133,782 amended accounting standards adopted in the preparation of the year were closely correlated with the Deutsche Bank Fx the Financial Statements, are set out in note 37 to the Financial EBITDA 173,613 165,941 The profile of the vIx the chicago Board options Exchange volatility index.
Finally, several markets including oil, gold Statements.
Market volatility Index measure of the implied volatility of the and silver all saw heightened volatility towards the end of the Depreciation, amortisation and S&P 500, which focuses on equity markets, highlights that financial year and this boosted activity.
As a result March 2011 amounts written off property, volatility has trended back to a more normal level after the provided the Groups highest ever monthly net trading revenue.
regulatory capital resources plant and equipment 10,583 8,654 Interest paid received 30 352 3 263.6m 18.7% Adjusted profit before tax 163,000 157,639 vIx volatility FY08-FY11 90 90 80 Amortisation and impairment Total dividend per share of intangibles 155,953 17,298 80 70 70 60 Profit before taxation 7,047 140,341 60 50 Tax expense 32,339 38,855 8.1% 50 40 Loss profit for the period 25,292 101,486 40 30 1 Dividend payout ratio Diluted adjusted earnings 30 20 per share 32.64p 30.77p 20 10 Total dividend per share 20.00p 18.50p 10 0 61.3% 0 2 Net trading revenue is trading revenue excluding interest on segregated client 1 Calculated as total dividend per share divided by diluted adjusted earnings funds and is net of introductory broker commissions.
3 Adjusted profit before taxation excludes both the amortisation and impairment 16 of goodwill and customer relationships associated with our Japanese business, IG Markets Securities formerly FXOnline, and the impairment of goodwill Deutsche Bank Fx volatility Index FY11 15 16 associated with the Sport business.
14 15 14 13 13 12 11 12 10 11 10 9 8 9 7 8 7 6 6 26 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 27 Jun-07 Jun-07 Sep-07 Sep-07 Dec-07 Dec-07 Mar-08 Mar-08 Jun-08 Jun-08 Sep-08 Sep-08 Dec-08 Dec-08 May-10 Mar-09 May-10 Mar-09 Jun-09 Jun-10 Jun-09 Jun-10 Sep-09 Jul-10 Sep-09 Jul-10 Dec-09 Aug-10 Dec-09 Aug-10 Mar-10 Mar-10 Sep-10 Jun-10 Sep-10 Jun-10 Oct-10 Sep-10 Oct-10 Sep-10 Dec-10 Nov-10 Dec-10 Nov-10 Mar-11 Dec-10 Mar-11 Dec-10 May-11 May-11 Jan-11 Jan-11 Feb-11 Feb-11 Mar-11 Mar-11 Apr-11 Apr-11 May-11 May-11 FX V FX V olatilit olay tilit Inde y Inde x x Closing VIX Closing VIX Inde Inde x x Business Review: operating and Financial Review opeRAtInG And FInAnCIAl RevIeW continued FINANcIAL rEvIEW continued Net trading revenue grew in all regions except Japan The European businesses grew revenue by 21% to 57.5 million changes in revenue by asset class KPI: geographic net trading revenue 2010: 47.4 million driven by a strong performance in Germany, reflect individual market movements Given the scale of revenue growth in the prior year, which which was the fastest growing of our European offices with KPI: net trading revenue by asset class was driven by significant levels of market volatility in the final revenue growth of 54%.
our French business grew by 17%, The changing mix of revenues by asset class from the prior to quarter, and the current year impact of leverage restrictions in whilst Italy and Spain performed well under very challenging the current year reflects our wide product offering that can Japan, the Group faced a tough set of comparatives during the economic conditions.
Europe now contributes 18% of Group provide our clients with interesting trading opportunities 2011 financial year.
Excluding Japan, revenue from the financial revenue and is likely to become an increasingly significant under a range of market conditions.
Equity indices remain our business increased by 9% with Europe and the rest of the contributor to Group revenue growth over the next few years.
highest revenue-generating asset class, with forex second, World providing the highest growth rates.
Growth rates of net despite a reduced contribution during the year.
commodities trading revenue by region are highlighted below.
our Japanese business operates in an extremely challenging increased their contribution, reflecting the volatility seen in oil, competitive and regulatory environment.
The imposition of gold and silver markets, while shares remained flat.
The uK, our largest market, saw a less favourable share trading leverage limits on forex in August 2010 and on equity indices environment for the cFD business but spread betting revenue in January 2011 had a severe impact on revenue, which was grew 6% year on year.
The comparatives are affected by the 14% lower than in the previous year.
FY11 Financial revenue 312.7m acquisition of Ideal cFDs, our South African white label partner, which was previously included in the uK and is now reported The rest of the World revenue grew 52% to 19.9 million in rest of the World.
revenue from our white label with Ideal 2010: 13.0 million due to a strong performance in Singapore cFDs was previously included within revenue from the uK which was up 38% and the acquisition of the South African office and amounted to 1.8 million in the prior year and white label partner, Ideal cFDs, previously reported in the uK.
0.5 million in the first quarter of the 2011 financial year.
Excluding the impact of the acquisition, the rest of the World annual revenue growth was 31%.
This growth rate is diluted 2011 our Australian business had a strong final quarter, leaving it by changes in the uS which saw us close our oTc business to well positioned for the new financial year with overall revenue allow management to focus on the Nadex exchange business 22% Shares growing by 4% to 47.6 million 2010: 45.7 million for the year.
which, as reported elsewhere, has made encouraging progress 36% Equity Indices in the financial year.
26% Forex 11% commodities 5% Binaries Geographic net trading revenue 180 FY10 Financial revenue 292.6m 3% FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 160 140 120 2010 100 23% Shares 35% Equity Indices 80 29% Forex 9% commodities 21% 4% Binaries 60 4% 40 -14% 52% 20 0 UK Australia Europe Japan Rest of the World 28 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 29 Revenue m Clients trading 000s Business Review: operating and Financial Review opeRAtInG And FInAnCIAl RevIeW continued FINANcIAL rEvIEW continued Active clients grew 13% excluding Japan and Number of active clients continued growth KPI: average revenue per client Quality of earnings demonstrated through revenue per client was stable despite tough comparatives Average revenue per financial client total revenue divided low volatility of trading revenue rates of account opening and propensity to trade are heavily KPI: number of active clients by the number of active clients varied during the year across KPI: daily net trading revenue influenced by underlying market conditions, as highlighted During the year the number of active financial clients, products and geographies.
The stability of our revenue is illustrated in the chart below, earlier in this section, as well as our own and competitor excluding Japan, increased 13% to 117,252 2010: 103,338. which shows the distribution of daily net trading revenue activity.
The primary drivers of the Groups financial revenue Europe saw strong growth with a 33% increase and the rest over the course of the financial year, the average revenue during the financial year.
This demonstrates the quality of are the number of active clients and the average revenue per of the World grew 28%.
Both Australia and uK spread betting from uK spread betting and Australian clients was stable, the Groups earnings and also the effectiveness of our systems client.
These are discussed in turn below.
A five-year summary delivered double digit growth but the uK cFD business saw a although the uK cFD business was impacted by the fading of and processes of market risk management.
We do not take of other client metrics is provided in the Investor resources lower growth rate as a result of less favourable equity trading the favourable equity environment in the prior financial year.
proprietary market positions based on the expectation of UK SB UK CFD Australia Europe Japan and other Information section.
conditions compared to the prior year.
Including Japanese overall, revenue per client in the uK was down 6% and up 1% market movements and this is a significant contributory clients, the overall growth rate averaged 11%.
Total Financial excl Japan factor to trading revenue stability.
3,000 The profile of active clients over the last three years is European revenue per client fell 6.1% during the financial The Group did not experience a single loss-making day during 2,500 illustrated below.
The more volatile conditions experienced year and this reflected both variations across asset classes and the financial year.
our last loss-making day was a bank holiday 2,000 in March 2011 attracted a record number of clients trading geographies.
In particular, Germany, which is characterised by in May 2008. in any one month, surpassing the previous record month of a lower average revenue per client than its European peers, 1,500 May 2010 and, in turn, resulted in our highest ever monthly increased average revenue per client by 11%.
This was offset by 1,000 net trading revenue.
falls in France, Italy and Spain.
500 Lower revenue per client levels in Japan reflected the impact of new leverage restrictions introduced in stages over the course of the financial year.
Monthly revenue vs active clients trading FY09-FY11 Average revenue per client FY09-FY11 Daily net trading revenue FY11 Financial revenue Clients trading excl.
Japan Clients trading Japan 35 80 18 Daily Mean 1.22m UK SB UK CFD Australia Europe Japan 16 All Financial business excl.
