MANAGERS REPORT The fragile state of the global economy and ongoing uncertainty over resolution of the European sovereign debt crisis provided a difficult backdrop to 2011.
Asian markets were especially weak, creating a significant headwind to performance, which obscured some more positive trends.
The Companys US and European holdings performed broadly in line with global indices, with more defensive sectors such as hazardous waste and ltration signicantly outperforming.
Drivers of environmental markets in 2011 Developments in environmental policy and regulation were positive for the Company in 2011.
The Chinese government implemented a plan to invest RMB 5 trn US$ 770 bn in low carbon energy by 2020 in order to cut annual carbon dioxide emissions by 1.2bn tonnes and sulphur dioxide emissions by 7.8m tonnes.
In light of the catastrophic damage to Japans Fukushima Daiichi reactors, Germany, Belgium and Switzerland decided to abandon nuclear power generation and increase the rate of adoption of renewable energy.
Corporate activity also accelerated during 2011, with four portfolio holdings taken over at full valuation, while a further three holdings made material acquisitions.
We believe that the combination of strong long term growth prospects and cheap valuations will result in continued corporate activity in 2012.
Alternative Energy and Energy efficiency 45% portfolio weighting at 31 December 2011 i Renewable and Alternative Energy RAE 18% weighting During 2011, the RAE sector continued to struggle with regulatory uncertainty, challenging power markets and reduced availability of project finance.
Overcapacity and margin pressure remain significant issues for the wind and solar generation equipment sectors, and the sell-off of these stocks has continued.
In the solar segment, 50% declines in module prices led to a record 25 GW installations during 2011.
However, ongoing subsidy cuts and substantial overcapacity led to earnings disappointments and an uncertain near term outlook.
For this reason, the Company held only 2% exposure to the solar sector, with a focus on technology leaders and low cost manufacturers.
In the longer term, dramatic price declines are expected to open up new markets that are less reliant on subsidy.
profitability is currently challenging, but we expect winners to emerge and added Trina Solar China to the portfolio during the year with this in mind.
The wind segment faced similar challenges to solar.
IEM held an average position of about 3% in wind power generation equipment providers over the year, with a negative contribution to performance from Vestas wind turbines, Denmark.
The Companys wind and solar holdings benefitted from corporate activity, with Total taking a 60% stake in SunPower solar, US and Hansen Transmissions wind gearboxes, Belgium acquired by ZF Group, both at full valuations.
Given the problems faced by the renewable energy equipment suppliers, IEM has remained focussed on the renewable energy independent power producers that develop, own and operate renewable energy projects.
These represent around half of our total renewables exposure and benefit from more defensive characteristics, together with attractive valuations with zero value attributed to pipeline projects.
Long term value is supported by corporate activity, with Iberdrola and EDF both buying back their renewables businesses.
We continue to favour this segment, adding Innergex Canada during the year.
5 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC Job No.
: 10884 Proof Event: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Impax Project Title: Annual Report T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED ii Energy efficiency EE 27% weighting Energy efficiency remained a key theme in the portfolio during 2011.
Policy momentum remains strong, as shown by the Better Buildings Initiative in the US, a ban on incandescent lighting in China, the announcement of draft energy efficiency legislation in the EU, and significant smart metering initiatives in the UK and France.
Subsector performance was mixed, with investor concerns on the outlook for industrial and construction activity weighing on share prices and the Light Emitting Diode LED sector experiencing temporary overcapacity.
M&A contributed positively to performance, with Schneider Electric of France acquiring top ten holding Telvent automated meter reading, Spain.
NIBE Industrier ground source heat pumps, Sweden, another top ten holding, acquired Schulthess in a substantial deal that extended its geographic reach and product portfolio.
We remain positive on this subsector on the basis of policy momentum and strong commercial sales propositions offered by portfolio holdings.
During the year we added Inneon power electronics, Germany, the global market leader in power management for the automotive and industrial market and Spirax Sarco steam-based energy efficiency, UK, a provider of consultation, service and products for the control and efficient management of steam and industrial uids.
We sold out of Active Power ywheels, US following a deterioration in its core business.
Water Treatment and Pollution Control 23% portfolio weighting at 31 December 2011 i Water Infrastructure & Technologies WIT 17% weighting Global demand for water continues to increase, driven especially by population growth and increasing industrialisation in emerging markets.
This is resulting in substantial capital allocations, with the Chinese government allocating US$ 450bn in the current 5 year plan for water conservation, urban wastewater treatment and water recycling.
The Companys investments in the water treatment equipment subsector performed well in 2011, with Pall Corporation ltration, US making progress on restructuring and benefitting from lower economic sensitivity and Nalco water treatment chemicals, US being taken over by US peer Ecolab.
The performance of water infrastructure companies was mixed.
Asian names with relatively high capital requirements, such as Jain Irrigation micro-irrigation systems, India and IVRCL water infrastructure, India fared poorly, whilst  Hydro International stormwater and wastewater management, UK performed well.
During the year we added three new holdings.
Xylem water infrastructure, US is a global leader in the provision of infrastructure and treatment technologies for both clean and waste water applications.
Ecolab water treatment equipment, US recently acquired Nalco to become the worlds largest global water treatment chemicals company, gaining significant access to non-US markets in the process.
Finally, Kemira water treatment equipment, Finland is another leading water treatment chemicals business.
We sold out of Bioteq mining efuent treatment, Canada and Mueller Water water infrastructure, US.
ii Pollution Control PC 6% weighting The economically resilient PC sector performed well in general over the year, driven by strong performance from defensive companies such as Clarcor air pollution control, US and Horiba environmental and engine testing, Japan.
6 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC Job No.
: 10884 Proof Event: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Impax Project Title: Annual Report T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED During the year we added Norma pollution control, Germany, the market leading supplier of joining components to the automotive OEMs with growth coming from tightening emissions and fuel efficiency regulations.
We sold out of TSO3 ozone sterilisation, Canada as it had reached its target price.
Waste Technologies and Resource Management 32% portfolio weighting at 31 December 2011 i Waste Management & Technologies WMT 27% weighting The environmental policy ratchet continued to tighten in the WMT subsector, with the EU proposing stricter targets on electronic waste as lawmakers said they wanted member states to collect at least 85% of discarded electronics by 2016, compared with only 33% today.
Hazardous waste saw the strongest performance within the waste sector, as market leaders with good pricing power such as Clean Harbors and Stericycle both US experienced strong organic growth and made complementary acquisitions.
Companies active in value-added waste processing saw mixed results.
Exposure to softening commodity prices hurt the performance of Lee & Man cartonboard manufacturing, China and Sims metals recycling, Australia, while companies with good competitive positions in niche businesses such as LKQ automotive recycling, US performed well.
Performance of the general waste management segment was muted by slow economic growth, impacting Lassila & Tikanoja Finland and Shanks waste management, UK : nevertheless, given low valuations and early signs of corporate activity, we are optimistic that sentiment will improve in the near term.
During the year we sold out of Headwaters recycled materials, US on concerns about its balance sheet strength.
ii Environmental Support Services ESS 5% weighting Environmental consultants, our focus within the ESS subsector, are exposed to government expenditure and infrastructure and construction markets.
Poor sentiment in these areas led to disappointing performance during the year.
However, earnings releases from portfolio holdings have shown that government expenditure has remained largely intact and that commercial and industrial markets are recovering.
With recovering organic growth, strong balance sheets for acquisitions and cheap valuations, we remain positive on this subsector.
We exited our position in Camco International carbon trading, UK early in the year.
We are generally cautious on the prospects for carbon markets, although there was some positive news when Australia announced a xed carbon price would be introduced from 1 July 2012 and an emissions trading scheme would be launched three years later.
Portfolio Activity and Current Structure excluding unquoted companies The Company started the year with 78 listed holdings.
By year end, this number had fallen to 76, as we sold out of 14 and invested in 12 new companies.
The portfolio remains diversied by subsector, with a positive bias towards energy efficiency and low exposure to renewable energy.
Regional exposure is relatively unchanged, with 42% in North America, 38% in Europe and 20% in Asia-Pacic.
The focus remains on profitable companies which represented 98% of the portfolio, excluding the unquoted holdings.
At year end, 4% of the portfolio was invested in unquoted companies, 15% in companies with a market capitalisation of less than US$ 500m, 44% in 7 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC Job No.
: 10884 Proof Event: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Impax Project Title: Annual Report T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED companies between US$ 500m and US$ 2bn, and 37% in companies above US$ 2bn.
The median market cap was US$ 646m and the weighted average market cap was US$ 1.7bn.
Unquoted Companies At 31 December 2011, the value of the Companys investments in unquoted companies stood at 14.1m, representing 4.1% of the portfolio.
Movements in the year were as follows: m Valuation at 1 January 2011 16.6 Additional investments 1.4 Valuation and FX changes 3.9 Valuation at 31 December 2011 14.1 Market conditions remained challenging throughout the year, with all the usual sources of finance reluctant to commit capital to developing unquoted businesses.
This resulted in a 500k net increase in the 3.4m net downward revaluations reported in the interim report.
Whilst seeking to minimize additional exposure to this asset class, we worked with other shareholders to support selected holdings, resulting in incremental investments of 1.4m during the year.
Following the year end, further net aggregate write downs of 1.7m have been made in relation to the Companys existing holdings, all of which arose as a result of transactional events which took place in the first quarter of 2012.
Our focus remains on nurturing our portfolio companies through to an exit event with the minimum of incremental investments.
Outlook for 2012 With early signs of stabilisation of the European sovereign debt crisis, we are cautiously optimistic on the prospects for equity markets.
Risks remain, however, and against this backdrop, we are maintaining a well-balanced and diversied portfolio consisting of a balance of stocks with varying levels of sensitivity to economic cycles.
The portfolio is composed of high quality companies with proven track records, successful management teams and solid balance sheets that are exposed to long term secular growth themes.
We believe that the long term fundamentals of environmental markets remain strong, earnings momentum is positive and valuation is compelling relative to both historical levels and global indices.
With corporate activity set to continue, we continue to believe that the Company represents an attractive long term investment opportunity.
We will continue to post monthly updates on sector news and on the Companys performance at www.
Impax Asset Management Limited 4 April 2012 8 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC Job No.
: 10884 Proof Event: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Impax Project Title: Annual Report T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
