TEN LARGEST INVESTMENTS AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2011 Nibe Industrier Sweden 3.6% of net assets NIBE Industrier provides heating products such as ground source heat pumps, electric heating applications, and wood-burning stoves.
It has an excellent track record, generating consistently high returns-on-equity over many years, and has grown strongly as it has expanded out of its Nordic home market into larger European markets such as Germany, France and the UK.
com Pall Corp United States 3.5% Pall is a ltration and uid management specialist, providing solutions for complex contamination, separations, purication and detection.
The company is executing well on its current strategic plan to increase margins and has an attractive defensive business model.
In addition, Pall is a likely M&A target among the US industrial peer group.
com LKQ United States 3.4% LKQ is the largest provider of recycled light vehicle original equipment manufacturer OEM products in the United States.
The companys growth is driven by the increased use of recycled parts that has resulted from insurance companies desire to reduce costs of collision repair.
LKQ has a nationwide distribution network and is complementing strong organic growth with acquisitions.
com Clean Harbors United States 3.1% Clean Harbors is North Americas leading provider of environmental and hazardous waste management services.
The company is set to profit from the gradual closure of industrial customers in-house disposal facilities, which are becoming uneconomical due to their inability to comply with increasingly stringent environmental regulations.
com Regal Beloit United States 2.9% Regal Beloit is a leading global manufacturer of electric motors, ranging from HVAC heating, ventilation and air conditioning motors, electric generators and mechanical motion controls.
The company benets from the increasing emphasis being placed on energy efficiency as a means to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
It is an active acquirer of businesses and has been increasing its presence in the Asia-Pacic region and Brazil.
com EDP Renovaveis Spain 2.7% EDP Renovaveis is the third largest wind farm operator globally with 7.3GW of capacity across 11 countries.
Recent falling power prices and weakening regulatory support in selected key markets such as Spain and Germany have presented the company with a challenging environment in recent years.
However, EDP Renovaveis will benefit from rising power prices and mandated renewable energy generation targets in selected regions.
com CLARCOR United States 2.7% CLARCOR is a global manufacturer of ltration products for the transportation, industrial and environmental markets.
CLARCOR has strong growth potential from the introduction of new products and the further penetration of emerging markets with existing products, notably Brazil and China.
com 10 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC Job No.
: 10884 6661 Proof Event: 4 Proof Event: 1 Park Communications Ltd Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way Alpine Way London London E6 6LA E6 6LA Customer: Customer: Impax Impax Project Title: Project Title: Annual Report Annual Report T: T: 020 7055 6500 020 7055 6500 F: F: 020 7055 6600 020 7055 6600 TEN LARGEST INVESTMENTS CONTINUED Horiba Japan 2.3% Horiba is a manufacturer of measuring instruments and systems for the automotive, environmental, medical and semiconductor industries.
The company benets from tightening regulations in the automotive sector space and is set to profit from a recovery in the semiconductor market and in car manufacturers capex.
Horiba has a strong management team and balance sheet and is well positioned to grow.
com Kingspan Ireland 2.3% Kingspan is an Ireland-based manufacturer of insulated panels and boards, and environmental housing solutions such as solar hot water and rainwater harvesting.
In 2011 Kingspan acquired CIE Insulation which will provide Kingspan with a platform to penetrate further into the Continental European market.
It remains a high quality business that is poised to benefit from increasing regulatory focus on energy efficiency buildings.
com Spirax-Sarco United Kingdom 2.2% Spirax-Sarco provides knowledge, service and products world-wide for the control and efficient use of steam and other industrial uids.
The company focuses on environmentally friendly solutions for process efficiency and energy savings of as much as 8% in steam distribution and 7% in steam generation.
Since 2007 Spirax-Sarco has increased its gross R&D investment by 50% in order to accelerate the ow of new products.
com 11 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC Job No.
: 10884 Proof Event: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Impax Project Title: Annual Report T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
