Intermediate Capital Group plc 60 Directors report The directors present their annual report and the audited financial Christophe Evain, CEO and Chief Investment Officer.
statements for the 12 months ended 31 March 2011.
The consideration of new senior debt, second lien debt and high yield investments has been delegated to the Credit Funds Principal activities and business review Investment Committee.
This Committee is chaired by Christopher The principal activities of the Group are those of providing Evain, CEO and Chief Investment Officer CIO.
All investments mezzanine and equity finance to companies throughout Europe, are reviewed by the corresponding Investment Committee.
Asia Pacific and North America along with the management of third The approving Committees, comprise up to seven additional party funds.
members for mezzanine investment and five additional members for The Groups profit before taxation was 186.3 million 2010: credit fund management.
The CIO selects the members among two 105.8 million.
The directors consider the state of the Companys predefined lists of people including managing directors and senior affairs to be satisfactory.
One of these members will be nominated as The review of the Groups business as required by section 417 Sponsor member, depending on the specificities of the investment of the Companies Act 2006 including its likely future development geography, size, nature of the transaction.
By chairing both is contained in Our business, the Business review and on pages Investment Committees, the CIO ensures consistency in the 43 to 56, which are incorporated into this report by reference, Global Investment Strategy of the firm.
together with this report itself.
The Corporate Governance Statement, set out on pages 65 to 69, forms part of this report.
Key performance indicators KPIs The Pillar 3 disclosure is available on the shareholders section Details of the KPIs are shown in the Business review on pages 22 of the Companys website www.
Investment process Risk management The Group has a defined and disciplined investment process for all The principal risks affecting the Group together with risk mezzanine and equity investments.
Investments are sourced by management disclosures, objectives and policies are included in ICGs network of investment professionals in Europe, Asia Pacific note 31 to the accounts and in the Business review on page 33. and the US from financial partners including private equity sponsors, banks, professional advisers and or directly with the Directors management teams of companies.
Investment teams assess all The present membership of the Board is as set out in the table investment opportunities against ICGs investment criteria and below.
present potential investments to the Investment Committee with John Manser also served as a director until his retirement on details of pricing, leverage, capital structure and a full commercial 13 July 2010. background of the Company.
The Investment Committee is Key matters regarding the membership of the Board are as follows: responsible for approving the Groups investments in opportunities and will guide the investment teams on due diligence and set All the directors shown below served throughout the year.
Extensive due diligence is then undertaken The Companys Articles of Association contain provisions for the by advisers, retained by the equity sponsor or appointed directly by periodic retirement of directors.
However, in accordance with ICG, covering the management team, the market, financial and legal emerging best practice and provisions of the UK Corporate review, sustainability and corporate social responsibility issues.
Governance Code the Board has decided it would be appropriate The due diligence focuses on the protection of principal and interest for all directors to submit to re-appointment every year.
and assessing the future value of the equity.
Once completed, Accordingly all current directors will retire from office and stand a further Investment Committee meeting is held to review all for re-election at this years Annual General Meeting AGM.
available information and reach a consensus unanimous approval John Manser, who retired at the conclusion of the 2010 AGM is required before an investment can be made.
on 13 July 2010, was replaced as Chairman of the Board by A similar process is followed for all credit fund investments, with Justin Dowley on that day.
a two-step Investment Committee process approving trading limits Justin Dowleys position as Senior Independent Director was for all new investments.
The process works on a shorter time frame assumed by Kevin Parry.
with the team usually benefiting from pre-agreed documentation and a prepared due diligence set of information.
In order to effectively manage potential conflicts of interests between both ICGs businesses, namely mezzanine investment and credit fund management, two separate and independent Investment Committees have been set up: the consideration of new mezzanine loans or equity investments for approval and monitoring of performance of existing mezzanine loans and equity investments has been delegated to the Mezzanine and Minority Equity Investment Committee.
The Committee is chaired by Annual Report & Accounts 2011 61 Our business 01-07 Business review 08-41 Funds and portfolio 42-56 Governance Accounts 85-119 The interests of the directors of the Company and their connected Dividend persons, as defined by the Companies Act, in the shares of the The directors recommend a final net dividend payment in respect Company as at 31 March 2011 are as follows: of the ordinary shares of the Company at a rate of 12p per share 2010: 11p, which when added to the interim net dividend of 6p per 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 Number of 20p Number of 20p share 2010: 6p, gives a total net dividend for the year of 18p per ordinary shares ordinary shares share 2010: 17p.
The amount of dividend paid in the year was Tom Attwood 1,178,649 871,149 65.2 million 2010: 41.1 million.
Under the terms of the scrip Jean-Daniel Camus dividend scheme, that was introduced in 2009, shareholders will be Justin Dowley Chairman 112,092 109,998 offered the opportunity to elect to receive their cash dividends in shares.
Further details will be announced on 20 July 2011.
Christophe Evain Chief Executive Officer 775,650 409,350 Trade creditors Peter Gibbs It is Group policy to agree and clearly communicate terms of Philip Keller 69,500 39,500 payment as part of the commercial arrangements negotiated with Franois fide Mitry 255,109 255,109 suppliers and then to pay according to those terms, based upon James Nelson 40,180 40,180 the timely receipt of an accurate invoice.
The Group does not follow Kevin Parry any code regarding terms of payment.
During the financial year our trade creditor days, based upon the ratio of amounts that were Since 31 March 2011 Philip Keller has acquired an additional owed to trade creditors at the year end to the aggregate amounts 17,006 net of UK personal tax shares as a result of the vesting invoiced by trade creditors during the year, were 27 days 2010: of an award made to him under the deferred share award scheme 33 days.
bringing his shareholding in the Company to a total of 86,506.
Tom Attwood exercised his option over 119,984 shares on 1 June Auditor 2011 bringing his shareholding to 1,298,633.
Other than this, there A resolution for the reappointment of the current auditor, Deloitte have been no changes to the directors interests in shares at LLP, will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Details of auditors 31 March 2011 as set out above as at 3 June 2011. remuneration for audit and non audit work are disclosed in note 9 to the accounts.
Directors share options Details of directors share options are provided in the Report of the Disclosure of information to auditor Remuneration Committee on pages 79 and 80.
During the financial Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this year ending 31 March 2011, the directors had no interests in the report confirms that: shares of any subsidiary Company.
No Company shares were issued under the Executive Share Option Schemes during the year.
so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor are unaware: and Significant shareholdings the director has taken all reasonable steps that he ought to have As at 10 May 2011 the Company had been notified or otherwise taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant become aware of the following interests pursuant to the Disclosure audit information and to ensure that the Companys auditor are Rules and the Transparency Rules representing 3% or more of the aware of that information.
issued share capital of the Company: This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance Number Percentage of with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. of shares voting rights Institution Aviva Plc and its Subsidiaries 31,772,470 8.0 Charitable and political contributions Baillie Gifford 28,037,597 7.0 During the year the Group made charitable donations of 97,000 F & C Asset Management Plc 27,547,322 6.9 2010: 7,800 principally to local charities serving the communities BlackRock Inc 24,274,555 6.1 in which the Group operates.
59,000 of donations 2010: nil have Legal & General Investment Mgmt Ltd 14,355,095 3.6 been made to the Private Equity Foundation this year, a foundation backed by private equity firms and their advisers.
Their mission is to empower young people, by investing both money and expertise from the private equity community, to help charities achieve a significant change in their impact.
The Group also allows employees to take two days paid leave a year to devote to charitable causes supported by the Group under its Corporate Social Responsibility programme, further details of which are given on pages 40 and 41.
No contributions were made during the year 2010: nil for political purposes.
Intermediate Capital Group plc 62 Directors report continued Directors indemnity b he or any interested person has failed to supply the Company The Company has entered into contractual indemnities with the with the information requested within 14 days where the shares directors pursuant to the amendment to the Companys Articles of subject to the notice the default shares represent at least Association authorised at the 2010 AGM and these remain in force.
0.25% of their class or in any other case 28 days after delivery The Company also provides directors and Officers insurance for of the notice.
Where the default shares represent 0.25% of their class the Board may also decide that no dividend is payable in respect of Acquisition of shares by Employee Benefit Trust those default shares and that no transfer of any default shares During the year the Intermediate Capital Group Employee Benefit shall be registered.
These restrictions end seven days after Trust 2002, funded in full by the Company, purchased 7,452,221 receipt by the Company of a notice of an approved transfer of the ordinary shares in the Company having an aggregate nominal value shares or all the information required by the relevant section 793 of 1,490,444.20 for a consideration of 21.0 million.
The shares notice, whichever is the earlier.
were purchased in order to hedge the Companys future liabilities in The directors may refuse to register any transfer of any share relation to the vesting of awards under the Companys long term which is not a fully paid share, although such discretion may not incentive plans.
be exercised in a way which the Financial Services Authority This represented 1.9% of the Groups share capital at regards as preventing dealings in the shares of the relevant class 31 March 2011. or classes from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The directors may likewise refuse to register any transfer of a Share capital and rights attaching to the Companys share in favour of more than four persons jointly.
shares The Company is not aware of any other restrictions on the As at 31 March 2011 the issued share capital of the Company was transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than: 399,206,490 ordinary shares of 20p each.
Certain key matters regarding the Company share capital are noted below: certain restrictions that may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws or the Under the Companys Articles of Association, any share in the UK Takeover Code : and Company may be issued with such rights or restrictions, whether pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority in regard to dividend, voting, transfer, return of capital or whereby certain employees of the Company require approval of otherwise as the Company may from time to time by ordinary the Company to deal in the Companys shares.
resolution determine or, in the absence of any such determination, as the Board may determine.
All shares currently in The Company is not aware of any agreements between issue are ordinary shares of 20 pence each carrying equal rights.
shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
At a general meeting of the Company every member present in person and or as a duly appointed proxy has one vote on a show At the 2010 Annual General Meeting the directors were given the of hands and on a poll one vote for each share held.
power to allot new shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 26,009,255 plus, in the case of a fully pre-emptive rights issue The Intermediate Capital Group Employee Benefit Trust 2002 only, a further amount of up to 52,018,510.
A resolution will be holds shares which may be used to satisfy options and awards proposed to renew the Companys authority to allot further new granted under the Companys employee share schemes shares at the forthcoming AGM.
In accordance with the including its long term incentive plans.
The voting rights of these institutional guidelines issued by the Association of British Insurers shares are exercisable by the Trustees in accordance with their ABI, the proposed new authority will allow the directors to allot fiduciary duties.
ordinary shares equal to an amount of up to one third of the The notice of any general meeting specifies deadlines for Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 3 June 2011 exercising voting rights either by proxy or present in person plus, in the case of a fully pre-emptive rights issue only, a further in relation to resolutions to be passed at a general meeting.
amount of up to an additional one third of the Companys issued No shareholder is, unless the Board decides otherwise, entitled to share capital as at 3 June 2011.
Further details of the resolutions attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting proposed at the forthcoming AGM are set out on pages 63 or to exercise any other right conferred by being a shareholder if: and 64. a he or any person with an interest in shares has been sent a The directors authority to effect purchases of the Companys notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 which shares on the Companys behalf is conferred by resolution of confers upon public companies the power to require information shareholders.
At the 2010 AGM the Company was granted with respect to interests in their voting shares : and authority to purchase its own shares up to an aggregate value of 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 26 May 2010.
The authority to effect purchases of the Companys shares is renewed annually and approval will be sought at the forthcoming AGM for its renewal.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 63 Our business 01-07 Business review 08-41 Funds and portfolio 42-56 Governance Accounts 85-119 Powers of directors 7 The employee share schemes, details of which can be found in Subject to its Articles of Association and relevant statutory law the Report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 71 to 83, and to such direction as may be given by the Company by special Awards and options under the 2001 Approved and Unapproved resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board, Executive Share Option Schemes and SAYE Plan 2004 become who may exercise all powers of the Company whether relating to exercisable for a limited period following a change of control the management of the business or not.
whereas awards under the KERSP will only become exercisable The Companys Articles of Association give power to the Board if the Remuneration Committee so decides.
Awards and options to appoint directors.
The Articles also require directors to submit under the Omnibus Plan and the BSC Plan vest immediately on themselves for election at the first AGM following their appointment a change of control.
and for one third of the Companys directors to retire by rotation Annual General Meeting at each AGM.
Directors may resign or be removed by an ordinary A number of resolutions will be proposed at the Annual General resolution of shareholders.
Meeting AGM as ordinary and special business as follows: Change of control agreements Resolutions 16, 17 and 18 will be proposed as special resolutions.
There are no agreements between the Group and its directors or All other resolutions will be proposed as ordinary resolutions.
employees providing for compensation for loss of office or To pass special resolutions 75% or more of the votes cast must employment that occurs because of a takeover bid apart from the be in favour.
Voting on all resolutions will be by way of poll.
usual payment in lieu of notice.
There are no significant agreements to which the Group is a Resolutions party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control Financial Statements and Reports Resolution 1 of the Group following a takeover bid, other than: The directors are required to present to shareholders at the AGM the financial statements and reports for the year ended 1 The multi currency revolving loan facility agreement of 31 March 2011.
1,067 million dated 5 April 2005 as amended and restated on 8 December 2006 where a change of control is an event Directors Remuneration Report Resolution 2 of default and gives lenders the right, but not the obligation, The directors are required to seek approval of the shareholders for to cancel their commitments to the facility and declare the loans the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March repayable on demand.
The resolution is an advisory vote, as permitted by law, and no entitlement to remuneration is made conditional on the resolution 2 The multi currency forward start revolving loan facility agreement being passed.
The Report of the Remuneration Committee is on of 250 million dated 1 July 2009 where a change of control is pages 71 to 83. an event of default and gives lenders the right, but not the obligation, to cancel their commitments to the facility and Dividend Resolution 3 declare the loans repayable on demand.
The directors recommend a dividend of 12p per share.
The final dividend cannot exceed the amount recommended by the directors.
3 The three Private Placement arrangements totalling 316 million If approved by shareholders, the final dividend will be paid on 19 dated between 28 June 2001 and 28 February 2007 where a August 2011 to those shareholders on the register as at 15 July change of control gives rise to a downgrade in the credit rating 2011. and the loans are thereafter repayable on demand.
The Auditor Resolutions 4 and 5 4 The Private Placement arrangement totalling 34 million dated The shareholders are asked every year to approve the 26 June 2008 where a change of control in the Company gives re-appointment of the auditor, Deloitte LLP, as auditor of the rise to an event of default under the agreements.
The loans are Company and agree that the directors may approve their thereafter repayable on demand.
5 The 450 million loan facility agreement dated 31 March 2008 Re-election of directors Resolutions 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 where a change of control is an event of default and gives and 14 lenders the right, but not the obligation, to cancel their In accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance commitments to the facility and declare the loans repayable Code relating to the annual re-election of directors, James Nelson, on demand.
Tom Attwood, Justin Dowley, Christophe Evain, Jean-Daniel 6 The forward start loan facility agreement of 250 million dated Camus, Philip Keller, Peter Gibbs, Franois fide Mitry, and Kevin 1 June 2009 and amended and restated 1 July 2009 where a Parry are retiring and will be standing for re-election at the AGM.
change of control gives lenders the right, but not the obligation, The Chairman is satisfied that, following formal performance to cancel their commitments to the facility and declare the loans evaluation, each director continues to be effective and repayable on demand.
demonstrates commitment to his role.
The Board considers that each of the directors brings experience and skills valuable to the Boards effective performance and that their re-appointment is in the best interest of the Company.
Biographies of all the directors appear on pages 58 and 59.
Intermediate Capital Group plc 64 Directors report continued Authority to allot shares Resolutions 15 Repurchase of own Shares Resolution 17 The directors may allot relevant securities only if authorised to do The Company may buy its own shares with the authority of so by shareholders.
The authority granted at the 2010 AGM is due shareholders.
Resolution 17 seeks to renew the current authority to expire at this years AGM.
Resolution 15 seeks to renew this given at the 2010 AGM.
The resolution specifies the maximum authority for a period until 30 September 2012, or the date of the number of shares that may be purchased in the markets up to a 2012 AGM, whichever is the earlier.
limit of 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at Paragraph a of Resolution 15 will allow the directors to allot 3 June 2011 and the highest and lowest prices at which they may ordinary shares up to a maximum nominal amount of 26,621,764 be bought.
In the event that shares are purchased, they would representing approximately one third 33.33% of the Companys be either cancelled and the number of shares in issue would be existing issued share capital and calculated as at 3 June 2011 reduced accordingly or, in accordance with the Companies Act being the latest practicable date prior to publication of the Notice 2006, be retained as treasury shares for re-sale or transfer for use of AGM.
In accordance with the latest institutional guidelines issued with the Companys employee share plans.
by the ABI, paragraph b of Resolution 15 will also allow directors General Meetings Resolution 18 to allot, including the ordinary shares referred to in paragraph a Resolution 18 is required to meet the requirements of the of Resolution 15, further ordinary shares in connection with a Shareholder Rights Directive, which would otherwise require the pre-emptive offer by way of a rights issue to ordinary shareholders notice period for General Meetings of the Company to be not less up to a maximum nominal amount of 53,243,529, representing than 21 days.
approximately two thirds 66.67% of the Companys existing issued The Shareholder Rights Directive provides that the Company share capital calculated as at 3 June 2011.
The directors have no must have shareholder approval to allow the Company to call present intention of exercising this authority.
However, if they do General Meetings other than an AGM on 14 clear days notice.
exercise the authority, the directors intend to follow emerging best The approval given at the 2010 AGM is due to expire at this years practice as regards its use including, where appropriate, the AGM.
If granted, the 2011 AGM approval will be effective until the directors standing for re-election as recommended by the ABI.
2012 AGM or 30 September 2012, whichever is the earlier.
Issue of Shares Resolution 16 The Company will also need to meet the requirements for electronic If the directors wish to allot equity securities or sell treasury shares voting under the Directive before it can call a general meeting on for cash, the Companies Act 2006 requires that these shares are 14 days notice.
offered first to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing By Order of the Board holdings.
These requirements are known as shareholders pre emption rights.
There may be occasions, however, when, in order to act in the best interests of the Company, the directors need flexibility to finance business opportunities as they arise without offering securities on a pre emptive basis.
Resolution 16 asks Aneta Maria Polk shareholders to renew the directors authority to allot equity Company Secretary securities for cash up to an aggregate nominal value of 3,993,264 6 June 2011 being equivalent to approximately 5% of the ordinary issued share capital as at 3 June 2011 without the shares being offered first to existing shareholders.
If given, this power will expire on 30 September 2012 or at the conclusion of the 2012 AGM, whichever is the earlier.
