Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Our business 01-07 43 Business review 08-41 Funds and portfolio Governance 57-84 Accounts 85-119 Our investment culture Strong credit discipline leads to ICGs network of 53 investment executives Our investment culture consistent returns.
Since inception, basedin nine countries provides us with a ICG is one of the leading independent mezzanine wehave realised 253 assets with a powerful advantage based on local insights, providers in the world with 22 years of mezzanine 1.6times average money multiple knowledge and relationships.
Our local network investing experience.
In addition, we are one of the andan average IRR of 19% enables us to: largest managers of European senior loans and highyield bonds, having started investing in 1999. successfully source, select, structure and We structure and provide mezzanine finance, 19% IRR execute investment opportunities through leveraged credit and minority equity deploying capital established local relationships and so deliver from the ICG plc balance sheet and on behalf of our superior returns third party fund investors.
ICG manages third party conduct in-depth, experienced investment funds in mezzanine, senior debt, high yield bonds selection and pricing of risk via rigorous credit andrelated assets.
Common to all of these asset analysis.
Fundamental analysis and corporate classes is our ability to originate, assess and price information is the key to unlocking market risk across the capital structure of sub-investment inefficiencies, mispricings and superior returns grade companies.
carry out effective portfolio management with We invest across a companys capital structure local investment executives who know their depending on where we identify the potential value local markets, cultures and jurisdictions and and subsequent returns for our investors.
We do not canhandle challenging situations apply a fixed investment structure, instead we configure deploy robust recovery strategies for undera capital solution to fit the cash flow generation of performing investments, through active the underlying business in order to maximise value involvement with portfolio companies for our investors.
management teams and significant stakeholders Intermediate Capital Group plc 44 Our investment culture continued Mezzanine investment philosophy Mezzanine investment strategy We invest alongside financial sponsors and We believe that, given its position in the capital management teams with a focus on mid-market structure, mezzanine as an asset class has a companies in Europe, Asia Pacific and the US.
number of key attributes that make it an attractive We seek a prudent balance of risk and return for investment opportunity: Acquisition of Quorn our investors and this balance determines which part the cash yield on mezzanine loans can fromPremierFoods of the capital structure we invest in.
Returns are provideanannual cash distribution to investors generated through debt coupon cash, payment ICG, together with Exponent creditor protections on mezzanine loans inkind, pay-if-you-can or pay-if-you-want and Private Equity, acquired Premier providesignificant security and stability of returns through equity, either through equity warrants Foods meat free division to mezzanine investors associated with mezzanine or standalone equity.
attractive upside returns are available A key strength is our ability to adapt our financing fromtheequity participation available approach to each investment opportunity.
ICG has tomezzanineinvestors led the market through a very reactive and flexible approach, structuring ad hoc solutions and products We focus on mid-market companies with enterprise and introducing features such as pay-if-you-can, values between 150 million and 1 billion with reverse toggles and unirates.
leading market positions, led by strong management By controlling each instrument in which we teams.
As a mezzanine investor with a strong focus invest, we provide certainty and stability in a capital on protecting its invested principal and minimising structure.
If syndication is required this is typically defaults across its portfolio, ICG looks to create a toone of our limited partners or financing partners well-diversified portfolio by investment instrument, but ICG is always the primary contact point for industry sector, geography and investment size, management and shareholders.
with the aim of delivering an attractive balance of We are take and hold investors with the risk and returns.
intention to hold our investments to maturity, When reviewing investments we utilise not investing in the business and its management onlythe market intelligence and company-specific teamfor the medium to long term.
By investing for information provided by our large network of longer periods and by having board representation, investment executives and the current investment either as an observer or director, a deeper mutual portfolio, but also our 22 years accumulated direct understanding is generated between ICG, management investment experience.
We are often a repeat investor We aim to apply our core credit principles and ina business as businesses are sold in secondary strong focus on recovery of our invested principal transactions.
We represent continuity and stability consistently across investments and we strive for tothose management teams and businesses.
aconsistent approach in relation to deal execution We believe in a local approach to investment.
when partnering with private equity sponsors, Our local executives originate and execute management teams, banks and advisors across transactions and retain a monitoring responsibility Europe, Asia Pacific and the United States.
throughout the life of the investment.
This ensures continuity and better communication between ICG, management and shareholders.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Our business 01-07 45 Business review 08-41 Funds and portfolio Governance 57-84 Accounts 85-119 Market cyclicality offers opportunities for longer term Credit Fund Management CFM investors with the experience and conviction to investment philosophy invest when prices are overcompensating for risk.
We believe that risk in the European leveraged We believe return normalisation takes time so a finance market is persistently mispriced due to three medium to long investment horizon is essential structural inefficiencies: togenerating alpha.
Rating changes New issue pricing is based on ratings at the prevailing market rate rather than CFM investment approach the underlying risk over a bonds life.
Up to 80% We believe in fundamental analysis and in depth of high yield bonds undergo a rating change, information.
This is the key to unlocking the demonstrating that the pricing based on the initial inefficiencies caused by lack of transparency and rating risk can change.
We have the largest team of Transparency Leveraged finance is a specialist dedicated leveraged finance professionals in Europe market requiring complex investment decisions providing fundamental analysis: six local European but it has less published information than more offices accessing local intelligence: and 22 years widely researched public markets.
This creates ofrelationships with financial partners providing market inefficiencies.
extensive access to management teams and Risk appetite Non-credit related factors such company information.
asrisk appetite, strategic asset allocation and theoverall liquidity of financial markets influence the credit markets.
These changes in supply and demand impact leveraged finance for non-credit related reasons.
We seek to exploit these inefficiencies to create alpha creating returns above the expected market returns.
Our rigorous bottom-up research provides a real information advantage that drives our investment selection, significantly lowers our default rates and enables better management of recoveries.
