Intermediate Capital Group plc 06 Excellent progress towards  Priorities for FY 11 Market drivers The economic environment has stabilised, with some Manage our portfolio Western economies showing signs of recovery.
tomaximise value There is a strong exit market with transactions achieving high valuations due to high levels of liquidity and a continued appetite amongst private equity firms for assets that performed well through the cycle.
1 Priorities for FY 11 Market drivers The temporary availability of high levels of debt, Invest selectively available from the high yield market, and equity capital has created a more challenging investment environment for standard mezzanine products.
However, there are attractive investment opportunities for tailored capital solutions in mid-market transactions, in partnership with local sponsors and management teams, who need flexible solutions to execute transactions.
2 Priorities for FY 11 Market drivers The fundraising environment remains mixed.
We are Grow our seeing strong interest for alternative investment FundManagement products in our core credit speciality.
However, Company ongoing changes in the regulatory environment are hampering the ability of some institutions to commit funds to long term investment decisions.
3 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Our business 07 Business review 08-41 Funds and portfolio 42-56 Governance 57-84 Accounts 85-119 Progress Priorities for FY12 Portfolio performance showed strong and We took full advantage to realise significant Managing our portfolio to maximise value consistent improvement throughout the value via 13 exits across our geographies, remains a strategic priority.
year with top-line growth across the majority which led to a high level of realisations for We expect the exit window to remain of the portfolio leading to strong EBITDA our mezzanine and equity funds and our open providing further opportunities to realise increases and further deleveraging.
For the latter we value from the assets held by our funds and 31March 2011, 74% of the portfolio was generated 132 million of capital gains, our Investment Company in FY12.
performing better or at the same level than 388 million of repayments of principal and the prior year, compared to 59% at 31 March 82 million of accrued interest over the 12 2010 and 62% at 30 September 2010. months to 31 March 2011.
3 For more information see page 12 Progress Priorities for FY12 Our response has been to invest principally We invested close to 1 billion for the full We will continue to focus on local in proprietary deals, originated through the year on behalf of our mezzanine and equity transactions where our long term local reach and relationships of our network funds and our Investment Company.
As a relationships with sponsors and management of investment professionals, to gainearly result our ICG European Fund 2006 is now teams enable us to generate attractive access to deals.
Providing tailored and fully invested and our ICG Recovery Fund proprietary deal flow.
flexible solutions to local sponsors and 2008 is 75% invested.
For the Investment management teams enables us to obtain Company we deployed 311 million, well anattractive pricing on our new investments.
above our initial guidance for the year.
3 For more information see page 15 Progress Priorities for FY12 and have continued to deliver strong AUM has grown to 11.8 billion at 31 March The focus will be on raising the ICG Europe performances.
This solid track record is 2011, up 5%.
This includes 9.0 billion of Fund V and marketing our senior loan and ofkey importance as we seek to grow third party funds, up 9%.
The increase in high yield funds.
thirdparty funds was principally due to the We will continue to make selective hires We have also expanded our marketing Eos Loan Fund I, the vehicle we set up for the of experienced marketing and distribution and distribution team which is now ten acquisition of the RBS portfolio, as well as professionals to strengthen our brand strong.
We have begun marketing our new theacquisition of the 300 million StPauls andinvestor reach in support of our mezzanine fund, ICG Europe Fund V, CLO and the 51% stake in Longbow.
globalfundraising activities in Europe, thesuccessor to ICG European Fund Our third party funds have benefited theUS and Asia Pacific.
2006and are working towards a first from the same improving economic closewith investors.
environment and favourable exit conditions 3 For more information see page 17 Intermediate Capital Group plc 08 Business review 09 Our market 12 Year in review 22 Key performance indicators 26 Financial review 33 Principal risks and uncertainties 38 Our people 40 Corporate social responsibility
