Intermediate Capital Group plc 58 Board of directors and company secretary Christophe Evain Tom Attwood Franois fide Mitry Managing Director and CEO Managing Director Managing Director Opened ICG offices in Paris, Hong Kong Before joining ICG as a Managing Director in Previously worked at HSBC and Socit and New York.
Before ICG, Christophe 1996, Tom served as a Non Executive Director Gnrale in the Corporate Finance and helda number of roles in leading financial on ICGs Board from June 1993 and worked Leverage Finance divisions.
He is currently institutions including Banque fide Gestion with ICGs founders in raising the initial equity the Chairman of Eismann and Gerflor, and a Prive, National Westminster Bank and for ICG prior to its incorporation in 1989.
Non Executive Director of Wendel, Nocibe Crdit Lyonnais specialising in leverage and Before ICG he was a director at James Capel and Parkeon.
Franois was also a Non structured finance.
Graduate of Dauphine & Co, now HSBC Investment Bank, Executive Director of Sbia and Marken, University, Paris.
responsible for the growth of their IPO which were both successfully sold in 2010.
Chairman of Investment Committee business.
He is a graduate of Institut dEtudes Joined: 1994 Politiques and has a MBA from Paris Chairman of Executive Committee and member of Dauphine University.
Responsible for marketing and fundraising.
Joined: 1996 Member of Investment and Executive Committees.
Responsible for mezzanine and minority equity business.
Joined: 1997 Philip Keller Aneta Polk Managing Director and CFO Company Secretary and General Counsel Prior to ICG, Philip was Finance Director of Responsible for legal and compliance.
ERM, a global environmental consultancy, Twelve years with Citigroup in a number where he was part of a management team ofsenior executive legal positions within that led two leveraged buyouts in 2001 wealth management, corporate and and2005.
He previously held a number of investment banking.
financial directorships at GlaxoSmithkline and Joined: 2009 Johnson & Johnson.
Chartered Accountant and graduate of Durham University.
Member of Investment and Executive Committees.
Responsible for finance, human resources and operations.
Joined: 2006 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Our business 01-07 59 Business review 08-41 Funds and portfolio 42-56 Governance Accounts 85-119 Justin Dowley Jean-Daniel Camus Peter Gibbs Chairman Non Executive Director Non Executive Director Vice Chairman of Nomura International plc Founding Partner of Orium, a proprietary Chief Investment Officer of Merrill Lynchs which acquired Tricorn Partners LLP, the investment firm.
Previously worked for LBO Investment Management activities outside independent advisory firm which he co France.
Jean-Daniel started his career in the the US and prior to this Co-Head of Equity founded in 2003.
Non Executive Director of French civil service and served as special Investments worldwide.
Currently serves as Ascot Authority Holdings Ltd.
Previously adviser to the Department of the General a Non Executive Director of Evolution Group Head of Investment Banking at Merrill Lynch Secretary to the French President.
plc, Impax Asset Management Group plc, Europe and Director of Morgan Grenfell.
Director of Merrill Lynch UK Pension Plan Joined: 2007 Chartered Accountant.
Trustees Ltd and as a Director of UKFI.
Joined: 2006 Joined: 2010 James Nelson Kevin Parry Non Executive Director Non Executive Director Non Executive Director of Henderson Chief Financial Officer at Schroders plc, Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc.
theFTSE 100 asset management and Founding partner of Graphite Capital private banking group, and Chairman of Management LLP and formerly Chairman their Audit Committee from 2003 to 2008. ofthe BVCA.
Previously Chief Executive at Management Chairman of ICGs Remuneration Committee Consulting Group plc and a managing Joined: 2002 partner at KPMG.
Chartered Accountant with extensive experience of auditing and advising large international groups.
Chairs ICGs Audit and Risk Committee and is the SeniorIndependent Director.
