Intermediate Capital Group plc 02 Our business Our model We deploy capital on behalf of The Fund Management Company FMC The Investment Company IC more than 170 investors through mezzanine, credit and minority The FMC is the operating vehicle of ICG plc that The IC is the investment unit of ICG plc and equity funds specialising in sources and manages investments on behalf of co-invests alongside our third party funds.
mid-market transactions typically the IC and our third party funds.
250 million to 1 billion of 3 Full details of our funds are available on pages 46 47 3 Full details of the ICs portfolio are listed on pages 48 56 enterprise value.
Wealsoinvest our own capital alongside third party funds.
There are two discrete teams within FMC: mezzanine funds and credit funds.
Our mezzanine and equity funds Our credit funds ICG mezzanine and equity funds invest in ICG credit funds deploy third party capital mezzanine and minority equity assets of proven investing in senior loans and highyield bonds of mid-market companies with leading market proven European companies.
The IC co-invests alongside the funds seed capital to launch and develop new funds atpredetermined ratios.
such as the European High Yield Bond Fund.
11.8bn 2011 Total assets under management Behind these funds is our Where we source capital Where we invest capital longestablished and rigorous Third party investors Mezzanine approach to originating investment ICG Credit funds opportunities: assessing and pricing risk appropriately across the capital structure of a company before we invest.
Our competitive advantage isour local network of investment 2.8bn 5.6bn professionals with unparalleled access to their local market combined with the resources andknowledge of an established global asset manager.
9.0bn 6.2bn Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Our business 03 Business review 08-41 Funds and portfolio 42-56 Governance 57-84 Accounts 85-119 Our strategy Manage our portfolio to maximise value Regular involvement with portfolio companies is Building and strengthening relationships with fundamental to managing and supporting the value stakeholders, which has historically provided a ofour investments.
Post-investment monitoring significantnumber of both follow-on and new isakeyfocus of both ICG investment executives .
andtheInvestment Committee and typically we seek Closely monitoring investments enables us to board attendance rights from portfolio companies.
identifyrisks within the portfolio at an early stage.
Investment executives are responsible for attending ICGexecutives have experience in default situations monthly, or quarterly, board meetings.
Board representation assists in: Effective portfolio management due to access tomanagement and company information: and 1 Invest selectively ICG has one of the widest and most experienced local Each investment opportunity is considered individually on networks dedicated to sub-investment grade investments itsmerits and in the context of the expected risk and and as a result has a strong deal origination capability.
return requirements set by the Investment Committee.
Given jurisdictional and cultural differences across Particular emphasis is placed on limiting thedownside Europe, we recognise the importance of having local risk ofthe investment and the underlying focus is on teams that speak the languages and understand cash flow generation and repayment of theinvestment.
thecultures of the markets in which they operate.
ICGs investment strategy has been underpinned by Theseinvestment teams have established our reputation rigorous analysis of the credit fundamentals of each as a trusted and experienced investment partner with investment toachieve this aim.
Equally importantly, our investment teams have built long-standing relationships with local private equity sponsors, banks, advisors and management teams, providing deal flow and early access to investment opportunities.
2 Grow our Fund Management Company This success wasachieved by combining local, dedicated teams ofinvestment specialists with a Mezzanine and equity funds.
We continue to build common investment discipline and operating platform.
onour leadership position and strong track record in We will continue to grow our product offering through European and Asia Pacific mezzanine and continue to measured expansion into adjacent asset classes where expand our presence in the US.
We will increase AUM ourcore skills, global reach and infrastructure can create through fundraising.
value for our institutional clients and shareholders.
As one of the longest established We believe that our skills can be successfully applied European credit managers we are well placed to grow to adjacent asset classes such as commercial real AUM in both senior loans and high yield bonds.
estate, however, we will take measured steps to expand In addition we will continue to review opportunities to our product offering.
In December 2010, we acquired expand our franchise geographically and through a51% stake in Longbow Real Estate to replicate in selective acquisitions.
thereal estate mezzanine market the success we have Expanding the product offering new asset classes.
enjoyed inthe leveraged buyout market.
Overthe past 20 years ICG has built a leading global mezzanine platform and a strong European leveraged loans and high yield bond business.
