IIn nt te er rm me ed diia at te e C Ca ap piit ta all G Gr ro ou up p p pllc c 1 12 2 Year in review Overview Strategic priorities We have enjoyed a strong financial performance Our strategy remains consistent: manage our portfolio forthe full year, reporting a profit before tax of to maximise value, invest selectively and grow our 186million.
This represents one of the most Fund Management Company.
profitable years in ICGs 22 year history.
The performance of the portfolio improved 1.
Manage our portfolio to maximise value significantly throughout the year and, as a result, Portfolio performance showed strong and consistent impairments further declined.
We have been able improvement throughout the year due to a more towrite-back 19 million of provisions on four positive economic environment with top-line growth assets which have shown a material recovery.
across the majority of portfolio companies leading to The European buyout market returned in 2010 significant increases in EBITDA.
Asat31March and has remained active throughout this year, 2011, 74% of the portfolio was performing at the fuelled by secondary deals.
We took full advantage level of or better than the prior year compared to 59% to exit 13 investments 11 in Europe held in our last year and 62% in September 2010.
In addition portfolio and funds, generating realised returns leverage had been reduced across the board.
This markedly improved portfolio performance Whilst a short term oversupply of debt and has led to significantly lower gross impairments equity capital created a favourable market for exits, of90 million compared to 180 million last year.
it also squeezed the standard mezzanine market, Inaddition, we have also written back 19 million raising challenges for reinvesting.
However, the ofprovisions relating to four assets, the performance ability of our network of investment professionals of which have improved materially.
Asa result togain early access to local opportunities, and netimpairments were 71 million compared to create tailored structures resulted in a string of 162 million last year.
innovative and unique investments for ICG.
In total, We also took full advantage of the favourable we invested close to 1 billion over thecourse of exit conditions to realise value at attractive levels the year from our Investment Company and third ofreturn.
In the year, we have achieved 13 exits with party funds.
an average money mutiple of 1.8 times and anIRR We have taken further steps to increase the rate of 18%.
of growth of our Fund Management Company via In Europe we benefited from 11 exits: Picard, new fundraising, entry into an adjacent asset class Medica, Visma, Eurofarad, TeamSystem, Loyalty and complementary acquisitions.
Partners, Pasteur Cerba, Geoservices, Sebia, Gerflor and a partial exit from Labco.
In the US we realised our investment in Behavioral Interventions.
In Asia Pacific we exited Taiwan Broadband Communications and shortly after the close of our financial year, we exited our 2006 investment in Tegel in New Zealand.
In total, over the 12 months ended 31 March 2011 we generated 133 million of capital gains, 388 million of repayments of principal, and 82million payment of accrued interest for the Investment Company.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Our business 01-07 13 Business review Funds and portfolio 42-56 Governance 57-84 Accounts 85-119 Visma Visma was acquired in 2006 by Hg Capital in a public to private transaction in which ICG provided mezzanine, senior equity and equity financing.
ICG worked closely with Hg to devise a unique financing solution in a very short timeframe.
ICG took a seat on the board of Visma and continued to support the company with additional equity financing for a number of acquisitions.
Visma is the leading provider of business software and services for accounting and administration in the Nordic region.
The group comprises four business areas: Software, BPO Payroll and Accounting, Procurement and Collecting, and Retail IT Solutions.
Visma has an outstanding record ofsales and profit growth, having increased EBITDA from NOK305 million in 2006 to NOK684 million in 2009.
Hg initiated an IPO process in the spring of 2009 with atarget completion date of March 2010.
Following several strong expressions of interest by financial sponsors a limited and focused auction process was conducted over the summer.
KKR acquired the business for NOK11 billion inSeptember 2010.
Country: Norway Sector: Business services Year: 2006 Status: Exited investment www.
com Intermediate Capital Group plc 1 14 4 Gerflor In March 2011 ICG acquired the Gerflor Group from AXA Private Equity, with the support of Gerflors management team.
ICG has been invested in Gerflor since 1992 successively supporting LBO France 1992, PAI 1998 and AXA Private Equity 2006.
The 310 million financing, encompassing subordinated debt tranches and equity, enabled the group to reduce leverage at the operating level and raise corporate debt from banks.
By providing more flexibility and reduced leverage, thegroup will be able to continue its international expansion and benefit from the likely consolidation of the sector.
Gerflor is the third largest manufacturer of PVC flooring inthe world and the second largest manufacturer in Europe with around 15% of the market.
Their positioning is in the mid to high-end PVC flooring market.
The company has a strong brand, leading product and segment positions, strong cash flow conversion and low exposure to full building materials cycles as approximately 70% of sales are related to renovation projects.
Gerflors management team is industry recognised and they have performed strongly over the course of ICGs investment cycle.
Country: France Sector: Building materials Year: 1992, 1998, 2006, 2011 Status: Current investment www.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Our business 01-07 15 Business review Funds and portfolio 42-56 Year in review continued Governance 57-84 Accounts 85-119 2.
Invest selectively European mezzanine market Our response to the slow market for mezzanine We invested in three sponsor-led mid-market hasbeen to generate proprietary deals through the European buyout transactions, working as a partner local reach and relationships of our local network to the sponsor to provide a blend of securities European Mezzanine House ofinvestment professionals.
It is testament to our fromsenior bonds to equity, for the acquisitions of of the year origination capabilities that we successfully invested Courtepaille, Quorn, and TeamSystem.
Eos Loan a large amount of capital in such a market.
Fund I, Gerflor and Courtepaille represent our top For the third year in a row ICG We invested close to 1 billion for the full year, three deals of theyear by size and they were has been awarded European of which 311 million came from our balance sourced, structured and led by ICG.
Mezzanine House of the year.
sheet, through new mezzanine deals and follow In December ICG provided the whole debt oninvestments, as well as providing cash paying financing structure for Courtepaille, a fast growing equity to finance the acquisition of a 1.4 billion grill chain in France via a 160 million unitranche senior loan portfolio from RBS, for which we created single bond providing the management team Eos Loan Fund I in August 2010.
We are one of andprivate equity sponsor, Fondations Capital, thevery few alternative asset managers with the witha tailored financing solution which will give the ability to analyse, price, manage and underwrite company maximum flexibility to continue growing atransaction of this scale and complexity and the and creating long term value for its shareholders.
only one to have completed such an acquisition In the case of Quorn, the leading European thisyear.
This is due to the depth of experience meat substitute producer, ICG provided junior inour credit team, our financial firepower and debtand equity financing of 80 million to support thelong-standing relationship of trust we have the acquisition of the business by Exponent established with our fund investors.
Originating PrivateEquity from Premier Foods.
ICG also theopportunity would also not have been possible arranged amezzanine loan and equity investment without the close relationship developed over of120million in support of the acquisition of averylong time with the vendor.
TeamSystem, an established Italian software company, by HgCapital.
Our response has been to invest selectively, principally in proprietary deals, originated through the local reach and relationships of our local network of investment professionals.
Intermediate Capital Group plc 16 Year in review continued All our funds continue .
In addition we invested in two ICG led sponsorless Asia Pacific mezzanine market transactions: BaxterStorey and Gerflor.
Our The Asia Pacific buyout market has continued to relationship with Gerflor, a global PVC flooring beactive, driven primarily by auction processes for company based in Europe, began as a mezzanine secondary buyouts.
Valuations for good businesses High Yield Investor investor in 1992, since which time we have backed have been high as a result of increased numbers oftheYear several buyouts creating significant interest income ofauction participants: Asian based private equity and capital gains.
Given our knowledge of the sponsors, trade buyers and US and European For the third year in a row ICG company and our confidence in the management sponsors with no local presence, looking to gain a has secured the award for High teams business plan, we were able to invest foothold in the region and access the growth in Asia.
Yield Investor of the Year at the alongside them in a deleveraging structure to Bank liquidity is high, particularly from the Private Equity News fifth annual support the companys international development localbanks, which have not been as badly affected awards for Excellence in strategy.
We structured this transaction using by the crisis as their European counterparts, Private Equity.
corporate senior debt giving thecompany a much although leverage multiples have remained lower cost of debt and amoreflexible framework.
For known BaxterStorey, a fast growing UK catering companies and market leaders, multiples have company, was purchased by its management reached 5-6 times EBITDA.
teamwith our support via the provision of a mix Sponsors have significant amounts of unofmezzanine and equity.
Our ability to structure a invested commitments from dedicated Asian solution that answered managements requirement funds, and this is also driving valuations higher with and our deep knowledge of their industry were increased equity contributions.
The result of these critical factors in closing this transaction.
factors is that an understanding of the equity case, and where business improvements and increased US mezzanine market profitability can be generated, are critical to the The US sub-investment grade debt market has structuring of our investments between debt and seen afaster recovery than the European market.
USbanks have dealt with legacy loans more Our response has been to leverage our aggressively than their European counterparts relationships in the region to find attractive investment andtherefore have a greater capacity to write value.
We completed an add-on investment to newbusiness.
The US institutional market is more finance an acquisition by Link, ourshare registrar mature and diverse than the European market and, and pension administration investment in Australia.
as a result, the buyout debt market in the US has In addition, in May 2011, wecompleted a successful become more competitive with covenant-lite loans exit and reinvestment inTegel, New Zealands and dividend recapitalisations now back at pre leading integrated poultry producer.
We have formalised our China strategy and Despite a competitive market, we have made recently signed a strategic co-investment two new investments recently demonstrating partnership with CITIC Capital China Opportunities, solidprogress towards our strategy to build the L. P. a fund of CITIC Capital.
In August 2010, the Investment provides superior access to deal flow in mainland Companyinvested in Fort Dearborn and in China.
In the coming year we expect to be investing May2011 after our year end in Cogent-HMG, in mid-sized, privately owned, Chinese companies ourtenth American investment.
where we see long term growth and a strong management team.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Our business 01-07 17 Business review Funds and portfolio 42-56 Year in review continued Governance 57-84 Accounts 85-119 3.
Grow the Fund Management Company 1.8times money multiple and 29% IRR on realised Our strategy for growing the FMC is threefold.
assets and a net money multiple and IRR of First, increase AUM in our credit and mezzanine 1.2times and 8% overall on both realised and funds: second, pursue acquisitions of loan portfolios unrealised investments.
ICG Recovery Fund 2008 andcredit fund management contracts: and third, is75% invested with no exits and a strong expand judiciously into adjacent asset classes.
performance to date: net IRR and money multiple AUM has grown to 11.8 billion 10.4billion have reached 22% and 1.2 times respectively.
This includes 9.0billion ICGMinority Partners Fund 2008 is 84% invested 8.0 billion of third party funds, up 9% principally with a2.1 times multiple and 55% IRR on exits.
due to Eos Loan Fund I, which added 953 million Intermediate Capital Asia Pacific Fund 2005 is 842 million of AUM, as well as the acquisition of fullyinvested and shows a net money multiple of the St Pauls CLO I B. V. and the acquisition of a 51% 1.3times and an 11% net IRR overall onboth stake in Longbow Real Estate LLC.
TheInvestment realised and unrealised investments.
Intermediate Company investment book was 2.7billion 2.4 Capital Asia Pacific Fund 2008 is 26% invested billion, excluding investments in our credit funds, and, at this early stage, performing satisfactorily.
down 7% due to the strong realisations.
We have also expanded our marketing and Key to increasing the AUM of the Fund distribution team which is now ten strong and we Management Company is the performance of will continue to hire experienced marketing and ourexisting funds so as to attract new third party distribution professionals to strengthen our brand investors and repeat business from current and investor reach in support of our global investors.
All our funds continue to perform very fundraising activities in Europe, the US and strongly.
Our European mezzanine funds have AsiaPacific.
benefited from the same improving economic We have begun marketing our new mezzanine environment as our Investment Company portfolio.
fund, ICG Europe Fund V, the successor to ICG These funds have generated net multiples in line European Fund 2006.
The fund will be raised over with top quartile performance private equity returns the course of 2011 and 2012 and is targeting since 2000.
2billion including a 500 million commitment Our mezzanine funds have performed strongly.
ICG Mezzanine Fund 2000 is almost entirely realised Our credit funds have also benefited from the and holds only one asset which we expect to realise improved operating performance of their underlying in the current year.
The fund has generated a net assets.
Our 12 month senior loan default rate for money multiple of 1.7 times and a net IRR of 18%.
theyear ended 31 March 2011 was 1.5% compared Its successor, ICG Mezzanine Fund 2003, shows to 1.7% for the market.
These funds have benefited an18% IRR and a money multiple of 1.5 times on from the wave of exits in the buyout market as a exited investments and has returned over 121% change of ownership triggers the repayment of ofcommitments with a significant distribution in outstanding loans, resulting in improving December 2010.
This fund shows a net IRR of performance ratios and a recovery in junior fees.
15%and a net money multiple of 1.6 times.
The ICG High Yield Bond Fund seeded by the ICGEuropean Fund 2006 is now 92% invested Investment Company in late 2009 has outperformed andclosed for new investment.
It has achieved a the market returning 14% net of fees in 2010.
Intermediate Capital Group plc 18 Eos ICG Eos Loan Fund I Eos is a 1.4 billion portfolio at par value of senior secured loans of western European based companies across a diversified range of sectors, backed byleveraged buyouts selected and purchased from the RoyalBank of Scotland Groups loan portfolio.
Eos is a fully invested low levered fund that closed in August 2010.
ICG negotiated and purchased 100% ofthe preferred and subordinated notes the equity and privately placed a significant part of the equity to select institutional clients.
Intermediate Capital Managers Limited ICML, a whollyowned subsidiary of ICG, analysed and selected the initial portfolio and was retained as the investment manager.
ICGapplies a rigorous approach to credit selection and willactively manage the portfolio over the two year non-call, reinvestment period.
Portfolio statistics Primarily western European LBO backed, high quality, diversified loan portfolio 1.4 billion portfolio of 71 issuers Average portfolio rating B Weighted average life of 4.9 years 92% senior secured loans Rated by Fitch and Moodys Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Our business 01-07 19 Business review Funds and portfolio 42-56 Year in review continued Governance 57-84 Accounts 85-119 The ICG High Yield Bond Fund has been set up as We want to grow ICGs product offering into a UCITS III fund in March 2011and is now open to adjacent asset classes through measured third party investors.
We will continue fundraising for expansion in new areas where our core skills, both our high yield and senior secured loan funds.
globalreach and infrastructure can create value for The European high yield bond market grew our fund investors and shareholders.
In December, significantly in both 2010 and 2011.
Close to a third weacquired a 51% stake in Longbow Real Estate, of recent issuances are from companies which a UK real estate debt specialist providing mezzanine previously financed themselves in the loan market.
finance to the UK commercial property market.
Given our long standing knowledge of these Thecombination of ICGs international platform companies, we believe we can build a franchise andLongbows expertise and track record in real inthis asset class over time.
estate positions us to expand successfully into this We continue to review potential acquisitions asset class.
The transaction closed in March 2011 ofmanagement contracts of both CLOs and loan and we have seen good progress in both raising portfolios.
In December, we became the investment capital and investing.
manager of a 300 million CLO, having acquired the We will continue to pursue opportunities management contract of Resource Europe CLO I selectively where we can apply our specialist skills B. V. from Resource America, since renamed oflocal origination, risk pricing and investment StPauls CLO I B. V. structuring with a view to expanding our Current market conditions have made these productrange.
transactions less attractive at the moment, as banks and loan fund managers have seen a recovery in performance and have consequently increased theirprice expectations.
For a number of European banks, leverage finance activity has nonetheless become non-core and it is possible that we will see new opportunities in the future both for non-core bank loan portfolios and sub-scale funds from managers with limited access to capital.
20 Year in review continued We outline in the Our market section the Outlook significant investment opportunities that we expect We are encouraged by the steady uplift in the to emerge from a growing imbalance between performance of our portfolio throughout the year supply and demand of credit in the European and we expect this positive trend to continue.
The wall ofmaturing European Wehave realised strong exits and we expect the buyout debt that requires refinancing over the exit window to remain open in the current year nextfour years coincides with the expiry of CLO providing further opportunities for ICG to realise reinvestment periods.
As banks are no longer value from the assets held by our funds and seeking to drive growth and CLOs, which provided ourInvestment Company.
the majority of buyout debt before the crisis, are Despite a relatively slow recovery in the currently not economic, buyout companies will coremezzanine market in Europe and strong haveto refinance from alternative sources of capital.
competition in both the US and Asia Pacific, we We believe that instutional investors, via the high have demonstrated our ability to invest in unique yield, mezzanine and sub-investment grade debt investment opportunities.
We are seeing a steady market, will form a key part of the supply solution.
pipeline of potential deals and will tap local We therefore see opportunities to continue pocketsof value, originate off-market opportunities, togrow our fund management business.
and beinnovative in our structuring.
Our long heldrelationships with management teams andfinancialpartners and our local network throughoutEurope, the US and Asia Pacific are key competitive advantages.
Our experience of helping management teams to refinance and delever their balance sheets in order to invest in growth and development positions us as an attractive partner inthe mid-market.
Internally, the introduction of a new compensation scheme for our employees, following approval by our shareholders at last years AGM, aligns our interests directly with both shareholders and fund investors.
This scheme also allows us tobetter motivate and retain our staff.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Our business 01-07 21 Business review Funds and portfolio 42-56 Governance 57-84 Accounts 85-119 Courtepaille In February 2011 ICG financed the entire debt structure forthe acquisition of French restaurant chain Courtepaille byFondations Capital.
The 160 million unitranche single bond issue is the first of its kind in a leveraged buyout in France.
ICG offered management and sponsor an attractive alternative to a standard LBO financing structure by providinga simpler capital structure with a single investor, nointercreditor issues and greater flexibility in the use of cashto finance the strong organic growth.
The group and its management were very well known toICG who had previously supported the secondary LBO ledby ING Parcom in 2005.
Courtepaille is the second largest waiter-service food chain in France with 222 grill restaurants nationwide and a turnover of 280 million.
It follows a uniform concept centred on a distinctive restaurant design grill concept offering competitive pricing and high quality service.
As one of the fastest growing companies in a rapidly developing sector, management wanted to execute a growth plan to increase restaurant penetration across France.
The company benefits from a resilient business model, positive market dynamics and good geographical coverage.
Courtepaille is a strong cash-generative business with competitive price positioning and a balanced customer base combined with an experienced management team.
Country: France Sector: Hotels and catering Year: 2005, 2011 Status: Current investment www.
