Financial Statements Independent assurance report to the directors of International Personal Finance plc on selected performance information We have been engaged by the directors of International Personal limited testing, on a selective basis at central and country Finance plc the Company to perform an independent assurance level, of the preparation and collation of the Selected engagement in respect of selected performance information Information prepared by the Company: and hereafter Selected Information contained in the International reviewing internal audit reports where the terms of Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements reference and or findings are relevant to the Selected for the year ended 31 December 2011.
The Selected Information for the year ended 31 December 2011 Limitations subject to limited assurance is presented on pages 18 to 21 and Non-financial performance information is subject to more marked with : it consists of the following: inherent limitations than financial information, given the customer numbers: characteristics of the subject matter and the methods used customer retention: for determining such information.
The absence of a significant agents: body of established practice on which to draw allows for the selection of different but acceptable preparation techniques agent retention: which can result in materially different results and can impact credit exceptions: and comparability.
Furthermore, the nature and methods used to customer service score.
determine such information, as well as the criteria may change over time.
It is important to read the Selected Information in We also assured the restatement of the 31 December 2010 data the context of the Basis of Preparation at www.
co. uk for customer service score.
This was performed based on new sustainability reporting basisofreporting.
The customer service score results rely on information from Assurance work performed a customer interview programme: in one country interviews are We conducted this limited assurance engagement in accordance conducted by a third-party organisation.
Our assurance work with International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 has not included an examination of the interview exercises or Revised Assurance Engagements other than Audits or the information provided by the customers to the interviewing Reviews of Historical Financial Information ISAE 3000 issued organisation.
by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board.
Conclusion A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope Based on the results of the assurance work performed, nothing than a reasonable assurance engagement under ISAE 3000. has come to our attention that causes us to believe that, for the Consequently, the nature, timing and extent of procedures year ended 31 December 2011, the Selected Information has not for gathering sufficient appropriate evidence are deliberately been stated, in all material respects, in accordance with the limited relative to a reasonable assurance engagement.
Our limited assurance procedures included: making enquiries of relevant management of the Company,  LLP including the Senior Management Group, and reviewing Chartered Accountants a sample of relevant management information including Leeds reports to the Senior Management Group: 29 February 2012 evaluating the design and implementation of the key processes and controls for managing and reporting the Selected Information, including controls over third-party information where applicable: Respective responsibilities of the directors and  LLP The directors are responsible for the preparation of the Selected Information in accordance with the criteria set out in the Companys Basis of Preparation, see www.
co. uk sustainability reporting basisofreporting, and for the development of the criteria.
Our responsibility is to form an independent conclusion, based on limited assurance procedures, on whether anything has come to our attention to indicate that the Selected Information is not stated, in all material respects, in accordance with the Companys Basis of Preparation.
This report, including the conclusion, has been prepared for the directors of the Company as a body, to assist the directors in reporting the Companys performance in relation to the Selected Information.
We permit the disclosure of this report within the Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011, to enable the directors to demonstrate that they have discharged their governance responsibilities by commissioning an independent assurance report in connection with the Selected Information.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the directors as a body and the Company for our work on this report save where terms are expressly agreed and with our prior consent in writing.
co. uk annualreport Independent assurance report 71 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8
