Directors Report: Governance Our Board and Committees as at 29 February 2012 Christopher Rodrigues CBE John Harnett Gerard Ryan Chairman, age 62 Chief Executive Officer, Chief Executive Officer age 57 Designate, age 47 Christopher joined the Board of International Personal John joined the Board of International Personal Gerard joined the Board of International Personal Finance plc in 2007 at the time of the demerger from Finance plc in 2007 and served as Chief Operating Finance plc in January 2012 as Chief Executive Officer Provident Financial plc, serving as Executive Chairman Officer until October 2008 when he was appointed Designate.
until October 2008 when the chairmanship became Chief Executive Officer.
Qualifications: Fellow of the Institute of Chartered a non-executive role.
Qualifications: Graduated in Business Studies and Accountants in Ireland.
Qualifications: Graduated in Economics and Economic is a chartered accountant.
Previous appointments: qualified at Touche Ross, History and has an MBA.
Previous appointments: Finance Director of Holliday auditor at KPMG: Chief Financial Officer of Garanti Bank, Other appointments: Chairman of VisitBritain, Chemical Holdings plc, Finance Director of Allied Turkey and Chief Executive Officer of GE Money Bank, a non-executive director of Ladbrokes plc and Colloids PLC and Finance Director of Provident Prague: Chief Executive Officer for Citis consumer Chairman of the Almeida Theatre Islington.
Financial plc, later Managing Director of its finance businesses in the Western Europe, Middle International Division.
East and Africa region: director of Citi International Previous appointments: Chief Executive of Thomas plc, Egg plc and Morgan Stanley Smith Barney UK.
Cook, Chief Executive of Bradford and Bingley, board John will leave the Board on 31 March 2012. member of the Financial Services Authority, President Gerard will become Chief Executive Officer at the and Chief Executive of Visa International and Joint beginning of April 2012.
Deputy Chairman of Provident Financial plc.
David Broadbent Tony Hales CBE Charles Gregson Finance Director, Senior independent Non-executive director, age 43 non-executive director, age 64 age 63 David joined the Board of International Personal Tony joined the Board of International Personal Charles joined the Board of International Personal Finance plc as Finance Director in 2007.
Finance plc as a non-executive director in 2007.
Qualifications: Graduated in Classics, has an MBA Qualifications: Graduated in Chemistry.
Qualifications: Graduated in History and Law and and is a chartered accountant.
Other appointments: Chairman of British Waterways, Previous appointments: Senior Manager with a non-executive director of Capital & Regional plc Other appointments: Non-executive Chairman of , Financial Controller and and a board member of The Services Sound and CPPGroup Plc, ICAP plc, and St. Jamess Place plc.
later Finance Director of the International Division Vision Corporation.
He is also a director of Welsh He is also a non-executive director of Caledonia of Provident Financial plc.
Previous appointments: Chief Executive of Allied Previous appointments: Chief Executive of PR Domecq plc, Chairman of Workspace Group plc and Newswire Association Inc, director of United Business NAAFI, and a non-executive director of Provident Media plc, a non-executive director and Deputy later Financial plc, Welsh Water plc, Aston Villa plc, Joint Deputy Chairman of Provident Financial plc.
HSBC Bank plc and Reliance Security Group plc.
Charles will leave the Board on 9 May 2012.
Edyta Kurek John Lorimer Nicholas Page Independent non-executive Independent non-executive Independent non-executive director, age 45 director, age 59 director, age 59 Edyta joined the Board of International Personal Finance John joined the Board of International Personal Nicholas joined the Board of International Personal plc as a non-executive director in February 2010.
Finance plc as a non-executive director in May 2010.
Qualifications: Graduated in Nuclear Engineering.
Qualifications: Graduated in Philosophy, Politics and Economics and is a Fellow of the Institute of Other appointments: Vice President East Central Other appointments: Chairman of CAF Bank Ltd and Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Europe and Middle East, and General Manager of a trustee of the Charities Aid Foundation: a director Herbalife Polska Sp.
z o. o. of Aberdeen New Dawn Investment Trust PLC and Other appointments: Non-executive director of Collins The British United Provident Association Limited.
He is a senior advisor to Star Previous appointments: positions in Oriflame He is also a director of Welsh National Opera Limited.
Capital Partners and Chairman of C. A. R. E. Europe sarl.
Previous appointments: senior positions with Standard Previous appointments: Chief Operating Officer of Chartered Bank including Group Head of Compliance Travelex plc, Managing Director of Hambro Insurance and Regulatory Risk and Citigroup.
Services plc, executive director of Hambros Bank and Joint Deputy Chairman of Hambro Group Investments, and a non-executive director of MoneyGram International Limited.
Executive Committee Disclosure Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Audit and Risk Committee John Harnett Chairman John Harnett Chairman Christopher Rodrigues Chairman Tony Hales Chairman Nicholas Page Chairman David Broadbent David Broadbent Tony Hales John Lorimer Tony Hales Fred Forfar Rosamond Marshall Smith John Harnett Nicholas Page John Lorimer Gerard Ryan Edyta Kurek John Lorimer Nicholas Page 38 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8
