Directors Report: Business Review Achieving the right balance between growth and credit The European economies in which we operate are quality can be challenging and we were pleased that significantly exposed to developed Western European alongside stronger growth we were able to reduce the economies.
It is notable however that our largest market, Group impairment charge as a percentage of revenue Poland has seen consistent gross domestic product by 1.8 percentage points to 25.8%.
GDP growth throughout the global economic downturn and continues to show itself to have a resilient domestic As expected, following last years refinancing which economy.
Our central assumption is for slow economic delivered longer-term, diversified debt funding, finance growth across our European markets as a whole during costs increased sharply, up by 28% to 42.9 million.
However, a move back into recession is also a real costs increased in line with growth in the business, with possibility.
We are well prepared for such an outcome around two thirds of the increase reflecting the additional and we proved our ability to handle economic downturns investment in new branches and field management to during 2009. increase our geographical penetration as well as additional marketing spend.
Growth of the Mexican economy, with its stronger links to the United States, has not been impacted to the Market overview same extent as our European markets.
In this market, growth is supported by increasing exports and stronger We operate in the consumer credit sector of the domestic demand.
financial services industry, which includes credit cards, unsecured personal loans, retail credit, overdrafts, home Forecast GDP growth outlook credit, home shopping catalogues and pawn broking % 2011 2012 lending.
According to Euromonitor the sector is worth approximately 71 billion in the markets we operate.
4.2 3.9 3.0 3.0 Demand for credit in emerging markets is on a long-term 2.5 1.9 1.7 growth trend.
In the immediate aftermath of the global 1.2 1.7 recession, however, increased caution has dampened 0.0 0.0 growth and in some markets there has been a reduction 0.5 in the use of consumer credit.
At the same time, many Poland Czech Republic Slovakia Hungary Mexico Romania banks have curtailed or closed their consumer credit Source: Citigroup.
operations and, in these less competitive conditions, we Competitive landscape have seen our credit issued increasing and our market Since the 2009 economic downturn many lenders in share growing.
our European markets have reduced access to credit for Economic environment consumers or withdrawn from the market completely.
Economic conditions in Europe are uncertain and In the first half of 2011 we saw increased marketing economic growth slowed rapidly during the second half activity by banks and retail lenders in Poland and the of 2011.
Consumer confidence in the first half of 2011 was Czech Republic but this has since reduced.
broadly stable but in quarter 3, as the eurozone financial crisis impacted markets around the world, confidence In Mexico, group lending models compete in the small sum in our European markets began to decrease.
We expect loan environment as do retail credit and pawn broking.
that consumers will remain cautious in 2012, but we also Currently, there are no other home credit providers.
expect accelerated growth opportunities subsequently as consumer confidence returns while levels of competition remain subdued.
