Directors Report: Governance Our Senior Management Group David Parkinson Chris Wheeler Botond Szirmak Country Manager Country Manager Country Manager Poland Czech Republic Hungary and Slovakia David joined the business in 2003 as Field Development Chris joined the business in June 2001, working in Botond joined the Group in Hungary in February 2002 Manager and was appointed Country Manager of the operations in the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Poland.
as a Development Manager, moving to Area Manager, Czech Republic and Slovakia in January 2008 and In 2005 he moved to Mexico to lead the expansion Regional Operations Manager and Divisional Operations Country Manager of Poland in February 2010.
He into the Guadalajara region and in January 2008 Manager.
He was appointed Operations Director previously held various operational roles within the was appointed Country Manager of Russia.
He was in 2006 and in February 2008 he became Country UK home credit division of Provident Financial plc appointed Country Manager of the Czech Republic Manager of Hungary.
before serving as Head of Communications, Head and Slovakia in February 2010.
He previously held of Training and Head of Agent Support.
various management positions within the UK home credit division of Provident Financial plc.
Kenny McPartland Russell Johnsen Fred Forfar Country Manager Country Manager Group Development Mexico Romania Director Kenny joined the business in 1998 as Field Development Russell joined the business in 1997 and played a key Fred joined the business in 2003 having previously Manager in the Czech Republic.
He was appointed role in establishing the businesses in Poland and the served as Deputy MD, HR director and Marketing and Country Manager of Slovakia in 2001 and moved to Czech Republic.
In 2007 he joined Provident Mexico Commercial director of the UK home credit division be Country Manager of the Czech Republic in 2003. as Business Development Director.
He was appointed of Provident Financial plc.
He was responsible for He took charge of both countries in January 2006.
Country Manager of Romania in February 2009. new market development at IPF before being appointed In January 2008 he was appointed Country Manager He previously held various field-based management Group Development Director in August 2010.
He previously held various operational roles within the UK home credit division of Provident responsibility for development and for the identification, roles within the UK home credit division of Provident Financial plc.
researching and opening of new markets.
member of the Executive Committee.
John Mitra Ben Murphy Simon Quick Corporate Affairs Group Legal Group Marketing Director Director Director John joined the Group as Marketing and Ben was promoted to Group Legal Director in March 2011, Simon joined the Group in February 2011 having Communications Director in 2004 having previously having joined the Group in 2008 to work on regulatory previously undertaken a range of senior marketing worked for global companies including Rothmans, and legal matters.
He is a solicitor and previously and general management roles at Hearthstone Sheaffer and Bic.
He became Corporate Affairs worked at Slaughter and May and Pinsent Masons, Investments plc, AEGON Direct Marketing Services, Director in August 2010.
John is responsible for before joining William Hill PLC as in-house Legal Norwich Union Life, Barclays, TSB and Dixons.
developing and delivering the Group corporate Counsel.
Ben is responsible for Group legal matters.
He is responsible for developing and implementing communications strategy to optimise the regulatory the marketing strategy for the business.
and reputational aspects of the business and minimise regulatory risk.
Davie Thompson Helen Thornton John Williams Field Operations Human Resources Credit Director Director Director Davie joined the Group in January 2011 having Helen joined the Group in 2009 having previously John joined the Group in 2005 having previously previously spent 29 years at Provident Financial plc worked for National Express East Coast, British worked for companies including GUS, The Associates working at all levels of operational management in Airways and as HR Director for GNER.
His role includes managing addition to managing a range of central functions.
responsible for the development and implementation all aspects of credit risk across all markets.
He is responsible for Field Operations and the Group of an effective HR strategy for the business.
