Directors Report: Business Review Chief Executive Officers review Delivering sustainable performance In 2011 we implemented a framework for a standard A key focus in helping to deliver our organisational approach towards succession and strategic objectives is to create an resource planning.
To support talent development and organisation that encourages a more business growth, we have an accelerated development entrepreneurial, localised approach programme for senior operational managers which will produce future leaders with a broad business perspective.
to operational management and performance.
Stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement is an important part of our We aim to deliver this by empowering approach to sustainability.
It helps us to understand those employees who are closest to our the impact of our business on society, better manage customers to create and manage local risk and identify opportunities for growth.
business plans, budgets and performance In 2011 we held stakeholder workshops in all our targets, and to support them in gaining markets and a roundtable in Brussels.
These events the knowledge, skills and behaviours give our stakeholders the opportunity to engage directly with IPF.
In most of our markets we are the only financial necessary for their continued success.
services business engaging in such open dialogue.
Issues raised included mobile payment technology, the social impact of our products and services, financial education, product diversification and how we work potentially with social service providers and public authorities to better address poverty.
We report on stakeholder feedback each year and our response can be found at www.
Customer retention and lifetime value Repeat business tells us our customers like our service and it allows us to take a responsible, long-term approach to lending, ensuring we increase loan size gradually and do not overstretch our customers.
Credit risk management is based primarily around the relationship between agents and their customers.
As the face of our business, agents are key to assessing a customers capacity to repay, and are supported by sophisticated credit risk management systems.
co. uk annualreport Directors Report: Business Review 13 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 Chief Executive Officers review Delivering sustainable performance continued Customer satisfaction Balanced scorecard Delivering a credit product that our customers want To ensure we have a clear link between our strategy and together with excellent customer service is vital to roles, and to drive performance through team alignment, achieving our strategic objectives.
We realise customer we are implementing a balanced scorecard approach.
expectations are rising and need to respond by listening Our aim is to assess and reward performance across and continually improving the service that our people a core set of measures.
These new measures will target provide.
Thats why we interview 30,000 customers the core performance drivers that lead to business each month, asking them to score us on service levels.
The six key areas are: people recruit and retain the right people who Branch-based credit strategies are fully engaged: A major change supporting the sustainable growth of our safety and operational excellence operate in a business has been the move from a countrywide blanket safe way in compliance with operational framework: credit policy to a localised branch-based approach over customer service leads to satisfied customers the past three years.
This has enabled us to be more who stay with us and recommend us to others: precise in our credit management, respond to local building future value generating more selling conditions and identify opportunities and risks which opportunities and increased sales through more are not apparent at a country level.
quality customers: Branch performance is monitored monthly and we collections and arrears improving collections use this data to adjust credit rules, marketing spend and reducing bad debt which, in turn, provides and incentives at branch level.
For example, in a branch more sales opportunities: and where credit performance is very good, we can relax financial all leading to the financial success of credit settings and implement local marketing spend our business, shared by all our stakeholders.
for growth and incentives focused primarily on sales.
If a branch has poorer credit performance then we can tighten credit settings, limit marketing activity and the operational and incentive focus will be on collecting arrears.
These controls are highly flexible, allowing management to adapt to the changing business environment.
This approach has been key in successfully controlling credit quality during the global economic downturn.
14 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Pr IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 oof 8 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 Directors Report: Business Review Sustainability principles Everything we do is built on the foundations of our sustainability principles.
In 2011 we carried out work to formalise these principles and build a stronger management framework to support their use in everyday business decisions.
These define how we treat each stakeholder group and underpin our vision of being a sustainable business, our corporate behaviour and our business practices.
Customers As a responsible lender, we provide a simple, transparent and flexible product, offer a choice of repayment methods Employees and act on feedback.
Shareholders We manage and We aim to deliver motivate our people in a sustainable long-term way that gives them every shareholder value.
Agents Media We remunerate agents We issue clear and with fair incentives: seek Our sustainability transparent communications lasting, working relationships: and answer questions principles and provide guidance to help rapidly, openly them meet customer and honestly.
expectations and develop their agency.
Environment Business partners We seek to fully understand the impact We work closely with our of our activities on the business partners in an environment and strive environment of mutual trust to reduce harmful and respect and with Communities effects.
and wider society We operate to high ethical standards and make a positive contribution to our communities.
co. uk annualreport Directors Report: Business Review 15 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Pr IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 oof 8 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 Chief Executive Officers review Delivering sustainable performance continued Investing in social issues We work with charities, non-governmental and or consumer protection organisations across all our We have implemented community investment programmes markets.
Our financial education work is also promoted in all our markets.
These programmes focus on benefiting to our customers, agents and employees.
In 2011 we the communities in which we operate.
trained 200 professionals who have in turn disseminated In 2011, our overall Group contribution to charities financial skills to over 20,000 people.
and community organisations was 1.2 million Activities involve promoting financial education in areas excluding 100,000 of fundraising, representing where research has shown low levels of awareness and 1.2% of pre-tax profit.
gaps in the provision of financial education.
We do this We invest in our communities through social inclusion through collaborative working groups, communication and financial education programmes.
This includes and media campaigns, and running money management giving grants to projects that offer training and skills workshops with partners.
development to disadvantaged people looking for work: Our Family Budget Programme in Romania is fuelling the financial advice initiatives: and projects that help to financial capability debate through media engagement regenerate our communities through enterprise.
and, as a founding member of the Romania Association Our employee volunteering programme is another for Financial Education, we initiated a public consultation important way for us to contribute to our communities.
on the issue with the aim of developing a national The programme engages our people by giving them the strategy.
We have also instigated a financial education chance to enhance their job-related skills while gaining media campaign in Poland reaching six million people the satisfaction of helping in their local area.
We support and through our Academy of Family Finance, we have projects that have been initiated by employees while run 82 education workshops since its launch in 2007 seeking to invest in the same type of projects that we reaching 3,000 individuals.
do through our grant giving.
In 2011, 2,800 employees volunteered 11,500 working hours to help local Awards, reporting and benchmarking communities.
In 2011 we were included in the FTSE4Good index for the fourth consecutive year.
Each year we report against the Financial education Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Guidelines and It is important to us that consumers are well informed: for the third consecutive year our level of disclosure and we want our customers to make the right choices, quality of content has been rated as A.
We also report manage their household finances and understand annually against the UN Global Compact Principles the terms and conditions of their loans.
and take part in the Carbon Disclosure Project which is an investor initiative seeking corporate disclosure on carbon emissions, risks and management.
16 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 Directors Report: Business Review Our operations across the Group also received external We have a unique relationship with our customers.
recognition and a number of awards throughout the year: The face to face, personal nature of our service differs to that of banks, giving us an important perspective on our business in the Czech Republic was included in the our customers aspirations and needs.
This gives us Index of Ethical Lenders and named as the non-banking an insight into the likely impact of government policy lender with the most ethical approach to customers proposals that could affect our customer base.
We take recognising our commitment to transparency: a leadership role in regulatory debate and discussion, we came third in an award for responsible financial and proactively reflect these realities to policy makers, companies from Polands leading economic daily to help them understand our business and develop newspaper, Dziennik Gazeta Prawna: policies that work for consumers.
in Hungary we won two Client First Excellence in Customer Service awards for outstanding personal Environment customer service and our call centre service: and We have a responsibility to run the business in a way in Mexico we were recognised for the sixth consecutive that creates the least possible harm to the environment.
year as a socially responsible company by the Mexican Our strategy is based on a precautionary approach to Centre of Philanthropy.
Our Mexican call centre also environmental management and is driven by the Group received four awards in the National Award in Customer environmental policy, a management system and Relations from the Mexican Institute of Teleservices.
annual audits to the international ISO 14001 standard, and annual targets which are set and monitored by Regulation working groups in each region as well as regular Our business complies with the local regulations in communication and training.
We work closely with policy makers and Due to the nature of the business model involving legislators in each country and at EU level to ensure the weekly customer home visits, our most significant impact of proposed or new legislation on consumers or environmental impact is from the use of vehicles.
This our business is understood.
constitutes approximately 74% of our carbon footprint.
In 2011 we appointed a specialist advisor to support our Public policy work in this area, to help provide new solutions to meet We welcome policy initiatives that contribute to a our target of reducing our carbon footprint by 10% by well-functioning market in consumer credit and work the end of 2013 and to improve cost savings as a result positively with our regulators across the Group.
believe that good regulation has to be fit for purpose In 2011, our carbon footprint was 11.7kg CO per 2 and that a one size fits all approach is not effective.
customer, representing a 3.9% decrease on 2010. www.
