Group at a glance Our investment proposition Our business generates Effective risk Resilient management systems business model a healthy return on equity The resilience of our business Effective risk management and we maintain a wellmodel comes from close, weekly underpins our business and capitalised balance sheet contact with our customers, the is embedded in our approach to support our long-term effectiveness of our risk and credit to short and long-term decision systems and the short-term nature taking.
This is supported by wellgrowth.
We are proving developed systems and processes Growth is fundamental this resilience as we manage the that reach from the customer to the business successfully through Board and touch all of our activities, to fulfilling our vision the global economic downturn.
from provisioning systems, credit and achieving our plans.
losses and funding to agent safety.
Even during challenging times, We are resilient and the business model generates profitable, focused on good margins and returns.
In 2011 markets where we have we generated a profit margin of 15.5% and a return on capital identified significant employed of 22.7%.
We have a clear and consistent strategy supported by a leading brand presence in our markets, strong risk management systems and a customer centric approach.
100.5 million 25.8% impairment profit as a % of revenue 15.5% profit 2.2% credit margin exceptions Read more Financial review, page 34 04 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 Directors Report: Business Review Experienced and Strong Good profitable motivated people financial profile growth prospects The engagement of our people and Our home credit business model is We are improving and expanding the leadership skills and expertise of cash and capital generative.
We are our operations in existing markets our Board and senior management well capitalised with shareholders to deliver further growth and are key to delivering success.
Our equity representing 58.5% of profitability.
We also see opportunities development programmes focus on receivables, the equivalent of a in new markets around the world building the skills of our managers to banks Tier 1 ratio.
In 2011, the where demand for small sum cash create the next generation of leaders.
Group generated 144.3 million of loans is increasing.
cash from operations before growing Our Board has extensive experience Improving market penetration in receivables by 61.6 million.
We have of operating public listed companies under-represented regions in our a diversified debt funding structure, in international markets.
Our Senior established markets will result in with a mix of bond and bank facilities Management Group has a strong strong profit growth as it leverages and a balanced maturity profile.
We and successful track record and our existing investment in countryhave good cover against all of our combines long-term home credit wide branch infrastructure.
In our core funding covenants.
expertise with wider financial developing markets we also see the services experience.
opportunity for further geographic expansion.
81.1% employee 58.5% equity to 8 new branches retention receivables ratio 59.1% agent 0.8x gearing 9% growth retention in customers www.
