International Public Partnerships Limited Case Studies The Royal Children's Hospital Project About the project The Royal Childrens Hospital RCH in Parkville, Australia was officially opened on 26 October 2011 by Her Majesty The Queen.
This project is one of the Groups largest and represents 7.7% of the portfolio by value.
The scope of the c. A$1.1 billion project includes: the construction of a new childrens hospital on the site adjacent to the existing hospital: the refurbishment of selected existing hospital buildings: the erection of temporary accommodation structures: and transitional services and upon completion, demolition of the old hospital buildings.
The design of this project specifically takes into account the needs of the children who utilise the hospitals services.
For example, patient bedrooms include three separate zones clinical, patient and family that are designed to respond to the emotional needs of children, with more than 85 per cent of the rooms designed for single occupancy.
A central street allows easy way-finding and creates a heart for the hospital.
Features considered in the design include solar panels, site orientation, volatile organic compound free materials, collection and re-use of rainwater, water efficient appliances and landscaping, black water treatment plant, efficient lighting, 500 bike parking spaces, materials with high recycled content, bio mass fuel boiler, and 5 star Green Star status.
All revenues on the project are availability based and the public sector client is The Government of the State of Victoria.
International Public Partnerships role International Public Partnerships will play a leading role in the 25 year operating phase of the hospital.
It will oversee a variety of different services including building management, the provision of utilities and medical gases management services, waste services, security and grounds and gardens maintenance.
While a significant portion of the project is now operational, the second phase of the project is due to complete in 2014.
Building Schools for the Future portfolio About the portfolio Building Schools for the Future Investments LLP BSFI was established by the UK Government in 2006 and holds 10% stakes in 32 Local Education Partnerships LEPs set up to deliver the program to build and or refurbish all the secondary schools in England.
BSFI also holds 10-20% stakes in each of 49 design, build, finance and operate projects delivered by LEPs to develop 108 secondary schools and 2 leisure centres.
The projects are located across England including Barking and Dagenham, Barnsley, Birmingham, Blackburn and Bolton, Bradford, Bristol, Cambridgeshire, Derbyshire, Durham, Essex, Hull, Islington, Kent, Lancashire, Leeds, Leicester, Lewisham, Luton, Newcastle, Newham, Nottingham, Rochdale, Salford and Wigan, Sandwell, Sheffield, Somerset, Southwark, South Tyneside and Gateshead, Tameside, Waltham Forest and Wolverhampton.
35 International Public Partnerships Limited Case Studies Continued 80% of assets in the portfolio are fully operational.
20% of schools are still in construction, and are due to become operational over a phased period up to September 2014.
Revenues are all availability based and payable by the respective local authority.
Benefits for International Public Partnerships The acquisition of the unique BSFI portfolio was one of the largest PPP transactions in the secondary market during 2011.
BSFI was acquired by the Group for approximately 58 million and currently represents 10.3% of the funds portfolio - bringing International Public Partnerships interests in schools to well over 200.
The BSFI portfolio offers high quality investments and a strategic platform for portfolio growth as it benefits from enhanced shareholder rights compared to other investors in the underlying PFI school projects.
International Public Partnerships has the opportunity through pre-emption rights to increase its holding in the underlying projects when other shareholders seek to sell their interests.
BSFI allows the Group to take an active role in the assets, which complements the Groups experience of actively managing investments in its existing 106 schools portfolio.
It also positions the fund to help develop innovative investment opportunities at a local level, as LEPs have the opportunity to transform into local infrastructure providers delivering a wider range of future investment schemes.
