International Public Partnerships Limited Investment Policy Investment Objectives Distributions The Company seeks to provide shareholders with a predictable and attractive distribution from the Companys investments: the Board of Directors have provided indicative distribution guidance of 6.0 pence per share for 2012, a 2.6% increase on 2011 to be paid in instalments in October 2012 and May 2013 : as per previous periods, it is the Companys policy to pay distributions from cash flows generated from operations: it is the Boards intention to grow distributions broadly in line with the Groups long-term inflation forecast of 2.5% per annum.
Capital Growth The Directors also believe that capital growth can also be achieved.
The Company targets an Internal Rate of Return IRR equal to or greater than 8 per cent per annum on the original Initial Public Offer issue price in November 2006 of 100 pence per ordinary share to be achieved over the long-term and the Company hopes to achieve this through amongst other means asset development, future acquisitions, active management and prudent use of gearing.
The portfolio is currently performing in line with this target and the Directors believe, based on the advice of the Investment Advisor, that there are currently opportunities to acquire additional investments that may further enhance the Companys IRR.
Investment Policy The Group intends to continue acquiring operational and construction phase assets both from entities related to its Investment Adviser and or third party vendors.
The Group intends but is not bound to hold its investments for the long-term and may even hold its investments for their whole life.
The Group will seek to enhance the capital value of its investments and the income derived from its investments.
The Group intends to acquire further investments within any of the following parameters: investments with characteristics similar to its existing portfolio: investments in other assets or concessions having a public infrastructure character and in respect of which availability based payments are or will become payable: or other investments in infrastructure assets or concessions which, based on the advice of the Investment Advisor, the Directors believe have high barriers to entry and expect to generate an attractive total rate of return over the whole of the life of the investments.
Such investments may be in single assets or portfolios of assets and may arise globally.
The Group may therefore make investments in any location or jurisdiction where the investment in question meets the parameters set out above.
Geographic Diversification The Companys investment policy is to invest directly or indirectly in public or social infrastructure assets located in the U. K. Australia, Europe, North America and, it is anticipated, in due course, in other parts of the world.
While there are no restrictions on the amount of the Companys assets which may be invested in any one area or sector, the Group will, over the long-term, seek a spread of investments both geographically and across industry sectors in order to achieve a broad balance of risk in the Companys portfolio.
Shareholders should note that the actual asset allocation will depend on the development of the 25 International Public Partnerships Limited Investment Policy continued infrastructure market, market conditions and the judgment of the Investment Advisor and the Board as to what is in the best interests of shareholders at the time of the relevant investment.
Since listing, the percentage of assets located outside the U. K. has increased from 10% at the time of the IPO to 44% at 31 December 2011.
New Investments and Conflicts of Interest It is expected that further investments will be sourced by the Investment Advisor and it is likely that some of these will be investments that have been originated, advised upon and developed for reward by, and may be acquired from entities associated with the Investment Adviser.
The Group has established and operated the following procedures and arrangements to deal with the possible conflicts of interest that may arise in respect of any proposed acquisition of an investment from entities associated with the Investment Adviser and to manage the conduct of such acquisitions accordingly.
The potential conflicts of interest that may arise include that entities associated with the Investment Adviser may be an existing investor in the asset while AFML acts on the buyside as Investment Advisor.
Entities associated with the Investment Advisor may also from time to time provide before, at or after the time of their acquisition fee based financial advisory and or other services to entities acquired or subsequently acquired by the Group.
The Investment Advisory Agreement contains procedures with the intention of ensuring that the terms on which the vendors of such assets dispose of their assets are fair and reasonable to the vendors: and on the buyside AFML as Investment Advisor must be satisfied as to the appropriateness of the terms for, and the price of, the acquisition.
These include a requirement for any offer approved by the Directors which is made for the assets to be supported by advice on the fair market value for the transaction from an independent expert.
The acquisition of assets from any entities associated with the Investment Adviser will be considered and only approved by the Independent Directors of the Company.
The purpose of these procedures is to ensure that the terms upon which any investment is acquired from entities associated with the Investment Adviser is on an arms length basis.
Single Asset Exposure The Group will not other than in respect of Holding Entities lend to, or invest in the securities of, any one company or group more than 20 per cent.
of the Groups total assets as calculated at the time the investment or loan is made.
The Directors have adopted this investment restriction with the intention of maintaining a spread of investment risk.
This investment restriction applies at the time of investment.
The Group will not be required to rebalance its Investment Portfolio in accordance with such investment restriction as a result of a change in the Net Asset Value of any investment or of the Net Asset Value of the Group as a whole.
At 31 December 2011, the largest investment in the Companys portfolio, the Diabolo Rail project, accounted for 12.3%.
While the Companys largest ten investments accounted for 54% of the portfolio.
Cash Management Until the Group is fully invested and pending re-investment or distribution of cash receipts, cash received by the Group will be invested in cash, cash equivalents, near cash instruments, money market instruments and money market funds and cash funds.
The Group may also hold derivative or other financial instruments designed for efficient portfolio management or to hedge interest, inflation or currency rate risks.
The Company and any other member of the Group may also lend cash which it holds as part of its cash management policy.
Hedging Where investments are made in currencies other than Sterling, it is expected that the Group will consider whether to hedge currency risk in accordance with the Groups currency and hedging policy as determined from time to time by the Directors.
26 International Public Partnerships Limited Investment Policy continued A portion of the Groups underlying investments are denominated in currencies other than Sterling.
For example, a portion of the existing portfolio and some potential new investments are denominated in Australian Dollars, Canadian Dollars and Euro.
However, any dividends or distributions in respect of ordinary shares are made in Sterling.
Currency hedging may be carried out to seek to provide some protection to the level of Sterling dividends and other distributions that the Group aims to pay on the ordinary shares, and in order to reduce the risk of currency fluctuations and the volatility of returns that may result from such currency exposure.
Such currency hedging includes the use of foreign currency borrowings to finance foreign currency assets and forward foreign exchange contracts.
Interest rate hedging is carried out to seek to provide protection against increasing costs of servicing debt drawn down by the Group to finance investments.
This involves the use of interest rate derivatives and similar derivative instruments.
Hedging against inflation may also be carried out and this may involve the use of RPI swaps and similar derivative instruments.
Currency, interest rate and any inflationary hedging policies are reviewed by the Directors on a regular basis to ensure that the risks associated with movements in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and inflation are being appropriately managed.
Such transactions if carried out are only undertaken for the purpose of efficient portfolio management to stabilise returns from the portfolio and are not carried out for speculative purposes.
The execution of currency, interest rate and inflationary hedging transactions is at the discretion of AFML in its capacity as Operator as defined in Advisory Services section of the Directors Report, subject to the policies set by and the overall supervision of the Directors.
Leverage The Group intends to make prudent use of leverage to enhance returns to investors, to finance the acquisition of investments and to satisfy working capital requirements.
Borrowings are made by the Company itself or by any of its holding entities.
Under the Articles, the Groups outstanding borrowings, including any financial guarantees to support subscription obligations in relation to investments, are limited to up to 50 per cent.
of the Gross Asset Value GAV of the Groups investments and cash balances, with the Company having the ability to borrow in aggregate up to 66 per cent.
of such GAV on a short term i. e. less than 365 days basis if considered appropriate.
Circumstances where this might be the case include for the purposes of new acquisitions.
For the purposes of the borrowing limitation, outstanding borrowings exclude intra-group borrowings and the debts of underlying project entities.
The Group borrows in currencies other than Sterling as part of any currency hedging strategy.
Following the tap issue in September 2011, the Company partly paid down its Group-level borrowings and as at 31 December 2011 had 18.1 million drawn against its facility.
Debt secured against each of the projects is on an individual asset basis and is non-recourse to the Company.
The Company also seeks to secure long-term debt matched to the concession life of the asset.
For example, the average life of the existing project-level debt is 23 years compared to the average remaining life of the Companys assets of 22 years.
Changes to Investment Policy Material changes to the investment policy set out in this section may only be made by ordinary resolution of the Shareholders in accordance with the Listing Rules.
27 International Public Partnerships Limited Investment Policy continued Investment Strategy The Directors believe that the opportunity offered to the Company by its relationship with the Investment Adviser will lead to the Group being well placed to acquire further investments meeting the Companys investment objectives and policy.
The Directors believe that there are two ways in which this is likely to occur: acquisition of further investments developed by the Investment Adviser the Directors are aware of a number of further transactions fitting within its investment policy for which the Investment Adviser is preferred bidder or which are under development by the Investment Adviser.
These opportunities may offer capital growth potential: and acquisitions from third parties.
Such acquisitions may be of single assets, of portfolios or of shares in companies or partnership interests.
These investments are likely to be at an operational stage, having been developed by the vendor, and offer support to the Companys income and therefore yield paid to investors.
The Directors anticipate, based on the advice of the Investment Advisor, that a number of attractive investment opportunities will be available to the Company over the next 6 to 12 months.
Opportunities are currently under review in the U. K. Europe, and Australia.
The acquisition of further investments will be financed from cash reserves including those arising from the raising of additional capital and or by drawing on the Companys debt facility or a combination of these.
Acquisitions will be led by a desire to increase value for shareholders.
Further investments may be either direct or indirect i. e. through the Group investing in a company or other entity which itself has a direct or indirect interest in the underlying investment opportunity.
