International Public Partnerships Limited Company Overview International Public Partnerships Limited LSE: INPP, the Group, the Company, INPP is a FTSE 250 company that invests in public and social infrastructure projects.
The portfolio consists of 117 individual investments arising from 69 separate projects in the U. K. Australia, Canada, Germany, France, Belgium, Italy and Ireland.
Examples include schools, hospitals, courthouses, police stations, transport infrastructure, rolling stock and energy transmission projects.
The Company seeks to provide its shareholders with both a long-term yield and the opportunity for capital growth through investment across both construction and operational phases of infrastructure projects.
The Company aims to provide a medium term return to investors of 8-9% on the initial public offer issue price in November 2006 of 100 pence per share.
The Company listed on the London Stock Exchange in November 2006 with a market capitalisation of approximately 300 million.
In April 2008, the company raised a further 84 million via a C-share capital listing and in January 2010 the company completed a further capital raising of 89 million by way of a placement, open offer and offer for subscription.
In January 2011, the Company completed a tap issuance raising 2 million and in September 2011, the Company completed a further tap issuance raising 52 million and this capital was used partially to repay the corporate debt facility, which had been drawn during the period to fund acquisitions and partially to fund new investments.
International Public Partnerships is advised by Amber Fund Management Limited, a specialist infrastructure advisor and manager with over 60 staff dedicated to advising, managing, investing in and developing infrastructure projects and investments.
Overview Market Capitalisation 645.9 million at 31 December 2011 558.1 million at 31 December 2010 Shares in Issue 534.2 million at 31 December 2011 479.0 million at 31 December 2010 Index Inclusion FTSE AllShare, FTSE 250 ISA PEPs SIPPs Status The Companys shares are eligible for ISA PEPs and SIPPs transfers.
com Objective The investment objective of the Company is to provide shareholders with longterm distributions at levels that are sustainable arising from public infrastructure investments.
The Directors also believe that continued capital growth can be achieved from further investment in public infrastructure assets.
Investment Advisor Amber Fund Management Limited AFML is a wholly owned subsidiary of Amber Infrastructure Group Limited.
AFML is active internationally in developing, managing and originating infrastructure investment opportunities and AFML is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Amber Fund Management Limited st 1 Floor, Two London Bridge, London, SE1 9RA Capital Structure The Company has a capital structure comprising of Ordinary Shares only, although the Companys articles of association include provision for the creation of an additional class of shares.
2 International Public Partnerships Limited Registered Office Heritage Hall PO Box 225, Le Marchant Street, St Peter Port, Guernsey, Channel Islands, GY1 4HY Administrator & Heritage International Fund Managers Limited Company Secretary Heritage Hall, PO Box 225, Le Marchant Street, St Peter Port, Guernsey, Channel Islands, GY1 4HY Auditor Ernst & Young LLP Royal Chambers St Julians Avenue St Peter Port Guernsey Channel Islands GY1 4AF Legal Advisor Carey Olsen PO Box 98 Carey House Les Banques St Peter Port, Guernsey, Channel Islands, GY1 4BZ Corporate Brokers Numis Securities Limited The London Stock Exchange Building, 10 Paternoster Square, London, EC4M 7LT Corporate Bankers Royal Bank of Scotland International 1 Glategny Esplanade, St Peter Port, Guernsey, Channel Islands, GY1 4BQ Public Relations FTI Consulting Holborn Gate 26 Southampton Buildings London WC2A 1PB 3
