International Public Partnerships Limited Investment Advisors Report About the Investment Advisor Amber Fund Management Limited AFML is a wholly owned subsidiary of Amber Infrastructure Group Limited Amber.
AFML is authorised and regulated in the U. K. by the Financial Services Authority.
Amber is a specialist developer, manager and originator with respect to infrastructure assets in Europe, Australia and North America.
At 31 December 2011 Amber had over 60 staff based in the UK London, Germany Munich, Australia Melbourne and Sydney and the United States San Francisco.
Introduction International Public Partnerships Limited performed well in 2011.
The portfolio delivered returns as anticipated and the Companys distribution increased in line with target for the fifth year.
In addition the Company invested 122.0 million into new assets and secured a leading position in a new sector of electricity transmission.
The year was characterised by: An increased focus on value for money for the public purse from infrastructure investment: A steady supply of new investment opportunities more than making up for any reductions attributable to UK Government spending cuts: Continued supply of attractive portfolios of assets from construction companies and other vendors with a short term investment horizon: Strong support in the UK and other key markets such as Australia for greater private sector investment in infrastructure assets: The establishment of a good pipeline of opportunities likely to come to fruition in 2012.
The continued volatile economic and market conditions that affected the wider equity markets also served to illustrate how infrastructure assets can offer stable returns for investors even through such volatile conditions.
Over the year we have seen increasing numbers of investors become interested in infrastructure investment.
We are confident that there will be exciting opportunities for the Company in 2012 and that the Company will continue to deliver shareholders sustainable growing income coupled with some organic capital growth.
Investment Performance The Company aims to provide attractive risk adjusted levels of income to its investors coupled with capital 5 appreciation.
Based on the Companys Net Asset Value NAV at 31 December 2011 and the total dividend of 5.85 pence per share paid in the year, the Company provided a distribution of approximately 5.0% to investors in 2011 based on the NAV per share on 31 December 2011.
The total return achieved by an investor share price appreciation plus distribution between 1 January 2011 and 31 December 2011 was 9.2%.
The Companys policy remains to target annual growth in its distribution in future years in the 2.5 3% range which range is broadly consistent with long term policy targets for inflation in the countries where the Company operates.
5 The methodology for calculating NAV is referred to below 9 International Public Partnerships Limited Investment Advisors Report continued INPP Share Price Performance vs FTSE 30% 20% 10% 0% -10% INPP -20% FTSE ALLSHARE -30% FTSE 250 -40% -50% Source: Bloomberg We believe that the Company continues to provide an attractive level of return to investors both on an absolute basis and on a risk adjusted basis.
The chart below shows a comparison between the 6 Companys yield in 2011 and the distribution of certain other assets classes: INPP Yield v Market 4.7% 5% 4.6% 4% 3.1% 3.0% 3% 2% 1% 0% INPP FTSE 350 World FTSE 250 High Yield Investment Index Index compnaies Index Source: Thomson Reuters Data Stream The Company aims to provide consistent low volatility returns to investors that display only limited correlation to more general equity markets.
Generally the returns from infrastructure assets such as those invested in by the Company are not significantly linked to macro economic trends such as GDP change.
6 Bloomberg 10 Nov 06 Feb 07 May 07 Aug 07 Nov 07 Feb 08 May 08 Aug 08 Nov 08 Feb 09 May 09 Aug 09 Nov 09 Feb 10 May 10 Aug 10 Nov 10 Feb 11 May 11 Aug 11 Nov 11 International Public Partnerships Limited Investment Advisors Report continued As such the expectation is that the share price performance of the Company should exhibit low volatility coupled with relatively low levels of correlation with wider market indices such as the FTSE250 or FTSE AllShare indices.
Looking forward, the Company has targeted a further increase in the projected distribution in 2012 and 2013.
The focus of the Company and the Investment Advisor will continue to be on: protecting and enhancing cashflow from the Companys existing portfolio of assets: delivering where possible further capital appreciation in the Companys portfolio: researching and acquiring additional infrastructure asset investments which are complementary to the existing portfolio and offer further enhancements to shareholder value: maintaining and enhancing our relationships with the public sector bodies who benefit from the infrastructure assets invested in by the Company.
Portfolio Performance The Companys portfolio of assets performed in line with projections during the twelve months to 31 December 2011.
At 31 December 2011, 26% of the portfolio was under construction.
This has reduced from 28% at 31 December 2010, following the commissioning of services at Orange Hospital in Australia and the South East Resource Centre in the UK together with the acquisition of operational assets including LIFT projects and three offshore transmission assets.
This was partially offset by new projects requiring construction including Liverpool Library, Gold Coast Rapid Transit and a portion of the Building Schools for the Future portfolio which are still under construction.
As at the date of signing of these financial statements, each of the following projects under construction is either on schedule or ahead of time with the exception of the Reliance Rail project in Australia.
Asset Location Expected Completion Date Status % of INPP NAV Diabolo Rail Belgium June 2012 Construction 12.3% virtually completed.
On schedule to become fully operational.
Newby Place UK May 2012 On schedule 0.1% Liverpool Library UK November 2012 On schedule 1.0% Reliance Rail Australia September 2013 Behind schedule nil Building Schools for the UK Various.
Latest February On schedule 1.5% Future portfolio 2014 Gold Coast Rapid Transit Australia May 2014 On schedule 1.7% Royal Childrens Hospital Australia Phase 1 September 2011 Phase 1 - 7.7% Completed Stage 2 December 2014 Phase 2 - On schedule 1 The table excludes South Bristol Community Hospital LIFT UK and Moray Schools which reached completion before the signing date of these financial statements.
11 International Public Partnerships Limited Investment Advisors Report continued There were a number of significant construction milestones within the portfolio during the year: Construction works were completed on two of the Companys largest projects: o The commissioning of Orange Hospital in Australia, which since March 2011 has been providing clinical services to patients in the surrounding area: and o Phase 1 of the Royal Childrens Hospital in Melbourne, where clinical services have been provided since December 2011.
Construction works were also completed at Pforzheim School Germany, South East Resource Centre and Goscote Palliative Care Centre both UK.
Subsequent to the end of the 31 December 2011 financial year South Bristol Community Hospital LIFT UK also completed on schedule: Diabolo Rail remains on programme for operational commencement in early June 2012: Construction continued on the 35m Moray Schools scheme to replace the existing facilities at Keith Primary and Elgin Academy which was completed after the year end: Construction commenced on the Liverpool Library project and the Gold Coast Light Rail project in Australia.
The largest investment currently in the construction phase is the Diabolo project.
It is pleasing to note that the major construction elements have been finished on time and that the asset remains on target for full operations in 2012 as expected.
The second largest asset in construction is the Royal Childrens Hospital in Melbourne, Australia.
Construction on Phase 1 of the Royal Childrens Hospital was completed on time in September.
This culminated in the official opening of the A$1 billion facility by Her Majesty The Queen on 26 October 2011 and the start of operations occurring in December as scheduled.
Phase 2 is due to be completed in 2014.
The Hospital has recently received a number of awards including: Infrastructure Project of the Year by Infrastructure Partnerships Australia: and The Grand Prix at the 2012 Dulux Colours Awards, for its outstanding design.
The other projects in construction are smaller and are on time with the exception of the Moray Schools project where minor delays occurred and Reliance Rail.
Construction of Moray Schools reached completion at the end of March 2012 without any financial impact on the Company, as the consequences of the delay are to be borne by the building contractor.
At Reliance Rail the financial consequences of the delays are also being borne by the building contractors but the project has required financial restructuring.
This has resulted from a combination of factors including the global financial crisis and the collapse of the monoline insurers who provided credit support for the project and changes in the attitudes of the project lenders.
As a result of the restructuring the Companys equity investment in the project has been written off however on the basis that certain preagreed operational and financial metrics are achieved, there is a mechanism for equity to receive some sharing of the projects future value.
The project was already held at a low valuation within the Companys portfolio.
As at 31 December 2010 it formed 0.2% of the portfolio and the decision has recently been taken to reduce its current carrying value as at 31 December 2011 to nil.
To the extent that the metrics referred to above are achieved this valuation may be reconsidered in future periods.
The Company, through the Investment Advisor and the arrangements in place to provide asset level management services, continues to apply considerable resource to managing relationships with its public sector counterparties particularly those who occupy facilities such as schools and health sector buildings.
We believe that the relationships thus created both protect investor returns and help uncover new opportunities.
They also allow an open discussion on alterations to project facilities that provide good value for money for the public sector.
During the period the significant requests for changes from public sector clients included: The finalisation of a variation with The London Borough of Tower Hamlets which saw over 60 million of additional public sector capital being invested in four schools forming part of the Companys portfolio: The delivery of a new catering service at the Northamptonshire Group Schools project: 12 International Public Partnerships Limited Investment Advisors Report continued The conclusion of a new custody suite development at Abingdon police station: and A large number of more minor changes and amendments across the remainder of the portfolio.
High levels of operational performance were achieved by the Companys projects as evidenced by: Annual availability and performance deductions across the portfolio were, in net terms, negligible: Good ongoing relationships with the Companys public sector customers: and The finalisation and on-going progression of various insurance and Facilities Management benchmarking exercises.
Acquisitions 2011 was the busiest year for acquisitions for the Company since its inception.
During the year the Company invested in 122.0 million in additional investments.
The main investments were: A 26.6% interest in Gold Coast Rapid Transit, a A$1.1 billion light rail project linking University Hospital and Broadbeach in Queensland, Australia: 80.1% interest in Liverpool Central Library, one of the flagship legacy projects for the Liverpool City Council in 2008 as part of the Liverpool European Capital of Culture programme: Interests in eight UK LIFT projects: three new projects including South Bristol Community Hospital, Goscote Palliative Care Centre, and Harrow Neighbourhood Resource Centres: as well as additional interests in five existing NHS LIFT projects: An additional 50% investment in both Long Bay Forensic and Prison Hospital and the Royal Melbourne Showgrounds in Australia, taking both holdings to 100%: 100% investments in the Robin Rigg, Gunfleet Sands, and Barrow offshore transmission projects.
The Company is scheduled to reach financial close in one remaining scheme in respect of which it is preferred bidder in 2012.
The consortium of which the Company is a member is also shortlisted for another three such projects which are due to be awarded in 2012 2013: The Company purchased the UK Governments interest in the Building Schools for the Future BSF programme, bringing stakes of between 10-20% in 49 local partnerships involving over 100 schools.
An additional 1.0 million was also invested into add-on investments arising through the BSF programme in the last quarter of 2011.
All these investments are so far performing in line with or ahead of expectations.
The Companys policy with investments is to, whenever possible, acquire a majority or 100% holding in assets.
However, where assets are large, the Company may take smaller investments.
Generally where smaller stakes are held they will be held on the basis that the Company expects to have the opportunity to increase its stake over time.
The Long Bay and Showgrounds assets referred to above are good examples of this approach.
A key part of the Companys approach to investments is its ability to source investments both from the marketplace where third parties periodically offer for sale portfolios of such assets and to source assets from the development pipeline of the Investment Adviser.
The Investment Adviser is relatively unusual in also being a developer of new projects in respect of which the Company has certain rights to acquire.
This twin track approach to acquiring new investment opportunities allows the Company to access and consider opportunities on an exclusive basis that it would otherwise not access.
The prospects for further acquisitions in 2012 are reviewed in the Outlook section below.
Net Asset Valuation NAV and Future Cashflows The directors of the Company assess the NAV of an Ordinary Share with the assistance of AFML.
The Company produces fair market valuations of the Groups investments on a six-monthly basis as at 30 June and 31 December.
The valuation methodologies used are primarily based on discounting the Companys future projected net cashflows at appropriate discount rates.
Valuations so obtained are however also 13 International Public Partnerships Limited Investment Advisors Report continued reviewed against values obtained for similar assets in comparable market transactions seen by the Company over the year and adjusted accordingly.
Key inputs and assumptions utilised in projecting the Companys net future cashflows include: inflation where the Company assumes long-term inflation will run at 2.5% annum : cash deposit rates where the Company assumes a long term average deposit rate of 3.5% : that current tax rates remain applicable: that the contracts under which payments are made to the Company and its subsidiaries remain on track and are not terminated before their contractual expiry date: that any deductions suffered under such contracts are fully passed down to subcontractors: that cashflows from and to the Companys subsidiaries and the infrastructure asset owning entities in which it has invested may be made and are received at the times anticipated: that where assets are in construction they are either completed on time or any costs of delay are borne by the contractors not the Company: that where the operating costs of the Company or the infrastructure asset owning entities in which it has invested are fixed by contract such contracts are performed, and where such costs are not fixed, that they remain within projected budgets: that where the Company or the infrastructure asset owning entities in which it has invested owns the residual property value in the asset that the projected amount for this value is realised: that where assets in which the Company invests are not Sterling assets that foreign exchange rates remain consistent with current three year projections.
To calculate the NAV the Company, advised by the Investment Adviser discounts the projected net future cashflows for each investment using a discount rate which reflects the aggregate of: 1. rates on government bonds with an average life equivalent to the asset issued by the national government for the location of the asset risk free rates : 2. a premium to reflect the inherent greater risk in investing in infrastructure assets over government bonds: 3. a further premium to reflect the state of maturity of the asset with a larger premium applied to immature assets and or assets in construction and or to reflect any current asset specific or operational issues relating to assets.
Typically this risk premium will reduce over the life of any asset as an asset matures, its operating performance becomes more established, and the risks associated with its future cash flows decrease: 4. an additional premium applicable to assets over a certain size: 5. an additional premium applicable to assets denominated in currencies other than Sterling: 6. a further adjustment reflective of market based transaction valuation evidence for similar assets The Company builds up its NAV by applying the principles above to each of its investments and aggregating the results.
On this basis the Directors appraisal of the Companys NAV as at 31 December 2011 increased by 3.8 pence per share 113.1 pence per share as at 31 December 2010 to 116.9 pence per share.
As at 31 December 2011 the Companys portfolio was valued at 624.3 million at 2010 - 541.9 million.
The main drivers of this change included: A reduction in risk premia affecting certain assets as a consequence of their moving from the construction to operational phase: Cashflows being greater than projected due in part to higher than projected inflation: Valuation benefits arising from acquisitions made during the period: A continued reduction in government bond rates in some jurisdictions: Beneficial movements in foreign exchange rates: Offsetting in part these positive contributions was an adjustment designed to reflect the prices at which similar investments were observed to be trading at in the market.
14 International Public Partnerships Limited Investment Advisors Report continued Valuation Change m m 640 620 29.1 40.0 42.7 600 27.9 17.1 0.8 7.8 580 624.3 560 54.4 540 541.9 520 500 It is important to appreciate that while assets of the sort the Company invests in are regularly the subject of open market transactions the volume and frequency of such transactions varies and there is no immediate liquid market to allow for such assets to be valued on a mark-to-market basis.
As such, and in common with similar investors in the sector, the Companys assessment of NAV has to be based on its judgment at the time of making such assessment.
On a weighted average basis, taking into account the changes referred to above, the weighted average discount rate applicable across the portfolio decreased by 0.13% reflecting a 0.65% reduction in the weighted average risk-free rate, which reduced sharply as a result of turmoil in financial markets: this was partially offset by an increase in weighted average project premium of 0.53%.
The increase in the project premium largely reflected an adjustment to take into account transactions that have been observed in the market discussed above offset by a reduction in the risk premia associated with construction assets as larger assets near or reach construction completion.
The discount rates used for valuing each of the underlying assets in the Companys portfolio ranged from 6.50% to 11.25%.
Valuation Methodology 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 Movement Dec - Dec NAV per share 116.9 pence 113.1 pence 3.8 pence Weighted Average Discount Rate 8.50% 8.63% 0.13 % Weighted Average Risk-Free 3.84% 4.49% 0.65 % 7 Rate Weighted Average Project 4.66% 4.13% 0.53% 8 Premium comprising: Discount Rate Range 6.50% to 11.25% 6.24% to 15.52% 0.26 % to 4.27 % 7 See item 1 above 8 Aggregate effect of items 2 to 6 above 15 Dec-10 Capital Raise Change in Risk Free Rates Change in Project Risk Premium Change in Construction Risk Premium Change in FX Curve Investments Distribution Return Dec-11 2047 2046 2045 2044 2043 2042 2041 2040 2039 2038 2037 2036 2035 2034 2033 2032 2031 2030 2029 2028 2027 2026 2025 2024 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 International Public Partnerships Limited Investment Advisors Report continued To assist investors evaluate the longer-term return profile of the fund, a graph charting the future projected cashflows is provided below.
The chart demonstrates how, all other things being equal, the portfolio valuation is currently expected to evolve over a 35 year period to 2047.
The Companys portfolio is made up of fixed-term concessions whose valuation reduces as that concession draws to a close.
The majority of the payments to investors over the life of the concession are investment income from the operational assets.
However, as the life of the concession draws to a close, payments to investors take the form of a return of capital.
The current portfolio is expected to make its final capital repayment in 2047.
Any future acquisitions or disposal or changes to the projected cashflows of any investment will change this projected profile from time to time.
INPP projected cashflow profile by income type m NPV m Income Phase Capital Repayment Phase 120 700 Senior Debt 600 100 Sub Debt 500 80 Dividend 400 60 NPV of cashflows 300 40 200 20 100 0 0 Financial Results At 31 December 2011, the Group had a total of 117 investments arising from 69 separate projects, of which it is deemed for the purpose of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS that the Group has control over 26 of these investments by virtue of having the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of the specific project entities.
Under IFRS, the results of these companies are consolidated in the Groups financial statements on a line-by-line basis.
The remainder are equity accounted for generally a shareholding in the range of 2050% or are a minority investment that is valued on a discounted cash flow method at the reporting date and held as an available for sale financial asset.
These consolidated investments form part of the Companys larger portfolio of similar investments all of which are held for investment purposes and managed as such, with no distinction for management purposes made between those investments classified under IFRS as subsidiaries consolidated investments, associates or joint ventures equity accounted investments and those which are not.
In addition, as at the 31 December 2011, all debt owed by the Groups investments with the exception of the Companys corporate debt facility with RBS and NAB is project specific and non-recourse to the Company.
Further in addition to its statutory reporting obligations under IFRS, the Company has prepared additional proforma financial information prepared on an investment basis.
By deconsolidating the subsidiary investments, the performance of the business under consolidated IFRS basis may be compared with the results under the investment basis.
This proforma financial information is not audited but is provided to give additional guidance, in combination with consideration of the primary financial statements, to aid visibility of the financial results based on the dividends, interest and capital receipts that are received from the individual investments of the Group.
IFRS Results On a consolidated IFRS basis, profit before tax was 13.2 million 2010 restated: 16.5 million with earnings per share of 3.3 pence 2010 restated: 3.2 pence.
Profit after tax was 16.1 million 2010 restated: 15.1 million.
The results on a consolidated IFRS basis include profits from the underlying project entities that are consolidated or equity accounted.
These results are impacted by non-cash items, 16 International Public Partnerships Limited Investment Advisors Report continued including amortisation of intangible assets, unrealised foreign exchange translation movements, depreciation and impairment charges.
Not all profits generated in the underlying project entities are immediately distributed due to requirements to retain cash for future costs or to ensure covenant compliance.
Income and Expenses Investment basis Cash received from the portfolio of investments by way of distributions, including dividends, interest payments, capital and principal repayments the latter from subordinated debt and senior debt held in investments was 44.0 million 2010: 43.0 million.
The net cash receipts to the investment holding companies within the Group, before one-off transaction costs were 33.8 million 2010: 33.6 million as set out below.
This net cash receipt provided significant coverage of the 2011 cash distribution of 20.3 million 2010: 22.8 million.
The table below summarises cash received from investments net of corporate costs.
Net cash receipts pre one-off transaction costs have increased by 0.2 million to 33.8 million during the year.
Summary net corporate cashflow unaudited Year to 31 December Year to 31 December 2011 2010 million million Cash received from investments Dividends and interest 41.7 40.3 Capital receipts 2.3 2.7 44.0 43.0 Corporate costs and net finance costs Net financing costs 1.1 0.7 Corporate expenses 9.1 8.7 10.2 9.4 One-off transaction costs 3.3 - 13.5 9.4 Net cash Cash received from investments 44.0 43.0 Corporate costs and net finance costs 13.5 9.4 30.5 33.6 Net cash pre-transaction costs Cash received from investments 44.0 43.0 Corporate costs and net finance pre transaction costs 10.2 9.4 33.8 33.6 Corporate costs and net finance costs Investment basis unaudited Total corporate costs pre-one off transaction fees increased by 0.8 million to 10.2 million 2010: 9.4 million as a result of the increase in investments made by the fund: - Net financing costs increased during the year by 0.4 million to 1.4 million as a result of higher utilisation of the corporate facility to part finance new investments 17 International Public Partnerships Limited Investment Advisors Report continued - The increase of 0.4 million in the level of recurring corporate expenses to 9.1 million 2010: 8.7 million was associated with the investment advisors management fee which increased as a result of the growth in managed investments The increase in total corporate costs after one-off transaction costs was 4.1 million to 13.5 million 2010: 9.4 million Year to 31 Year to 31 December 2011 December 2010 million million Net financing costs Interest income 0.3 0.3 Corporate facility running costs 1.4 1.0 Total net financing costs 1.1 0.7 Corporate expenses Investment advisors management fee 7.0 6.5 Audit fees for the group 0.1 0.1 Director fees & expenses 0.2 0.2 Other running costs 1.8 1.9 1 Total corporate expenses 9.1 8.7 Total corporate costs excluding one-off transaction costs 10.2 9.4 One-off transaction costs 3.3 Total one-off transaction costs 3.3 - Total corporate costs including one-off transaction costs 13.5 9.4 1 In accordance with Association of Investment Companies AIC guidance this number is used to calculate the Total Expense Ratio.
One-off transaction costs related to 2.0 million related to new investments, 1.1 million related to renewal of the corporate debt facility and 0.2 million related to an intra-group reorganisation as detailed below 2010: nil.
One-off transaction costs New investment transaction costs 2.0 - Corporate facility renewal 1.1 - Intragroup reorganisation costs 0.2 - 3.3 - For the year end 31 December 2011 the TER was 1.5% 2010: 1.6%.
The reduction of 0.1% was due to an increase in net assets through capital raisings and acquisitions in the period but only a partial period increase in ongoing corporate expenses.
Total Expense Ratio TER Year to 31 Year to 31 December 2011 December 2010 million million Total corporate expenses 9.1 8.7 Net Asset Value 624.3 541.9 1 TER 1.5% 1.6% 1 In accordance with the Association of Investment Companies guidance this calculation excludes transaction fees 18 International Public Partnerships Limited Investment Advisors Report continued Balance Sheet Investment basis In order to provide shareholders with further information regarding NAV, and to assist with enhanced transparency of the Companys capacity for investment and ability to make distributions, additional unaudited financial information is provided to help illustrate the Groups financial position and its projected ability to maintain distribution coverage.
This analysis compares the components of the NAV to IFRS net assets.
For investment purposes the Company reports its Net Asset Value twice a year.
The Companys investment NAV is a valuation of the cash that the Company expects to receive in the future from its investments.
This NAV takes account of the dates when cash is expected to be received through applying a discount factor to reflect the time value of money.
In common with similar investment funds, the Directors believe that this is the most useful measure of the Companys value to investors.
For accounting purposes the Group is required to prepare consolidated group accounts in accordance with IFRS.
There are important differences between the investment NAV and the Groups Balance Sheet prepared under IFRS.
This note is designed to explain some of these differences.
Unaudited Summary Balance Sheet Year to 31 December 2011 Year to 31 December 2010 Consolidated Restated NAV NAV IFRS Consolidated basis Adjustments Basis Adjustments 2 IFRS 1 million million million million million million Investments at fair 600.7 574.8 25.9 464.9 447.0 17.9 value Financial assets at - 2,269.8 2,269.8 - 1,694.0 1,694.0 amortised cost Other current & non- 5.4 458.8 464.2 14.5 398.4 412.9 current assets Net cash borrowings 22.7 1,989.9 1,967.2 66.8 1,457.9 1,391.0 3 3 Other current & non- 4.5 432.0 436.5 4.3 312.9 317.2 current liabilities Non-controlling - 1.7 1.7 - 2.8 2.7 interests Net assets to equity 624.3 269.8 354.5 541.9 128.2 413.9 holders of the parent 1 Investments at fair value on an investment basis reflected an investment in the capital, subordinated or senior debt of the underlying projects as represented in the Financial Statements, with the exception of the interest in Long Bay Forensic & Prison Hospital Project and the Royal Melbourne Showgrounds Redevelopment Project.
At 31 December 2010, the Group included the acquisition of the additional 50% of the Share Capital and Subordinated Loans in accordance with an executed Sale & Purchase agreement signed on 22 December 2010 with Brookfield Infrastructure Partners LP.
Legal completion of the acquisition of these investments was not completed by 31 December 2010 and accordingly these investments were presented as associates and were not consolidated in the Groups December 2010 Financial Statements.
2 Refer to note 1 for details relating to the restatement of the 31 December 2010 Consolidated IFRS Balance Sheet.
3 Includes fair value of interest rate swaps of 279.4 million in 2011 and 132.6 million in 2010.
Investments Under IFRS, the Group Balance Sheet is prepared to reflect the consolidation of the gross assets and liabilities of underlying project investments, line-by-line, that are controlled by the Group by virtue of it having the power to govern, directly or indirectly, the financial and operating policies of the underlying 19 International Public Partnerships Limited Investment Advisors Report continued investment entities.
It also includes the Groups share of the assets and liabilities of underlying joint ventures and associate investments by virtue of the Group having either joint control or significant influence over the underlying investments.
Given the Group has control, joint control or significant influence over virtually all of its investments, which is beneficial from an operating and therefore investor cashflow perspective, the impact in the consolidated Group IFRS Balance Sheet is to look-through to the majority of underlying investments balance sheets as highlighted above.
By contrast, the investment NAV reflects the fair market value of the underlying investments from an investor perspective.
Included in the investment NAV are investments at fair value of 600.7 million 2010: 464.9 million.
The increase in the fair value of the Groups investments is attributed to movements in the underlying risk free rates, enhancements on the existing portfolio and acquisitions made during the year, together with an assessment of the market values for such investments.
Financial assets and liabilities Under IFRS non-recourse, ring-fenced project level debt is included within the IFRS Consolidated Balance Sheet.
However, the Group does not provide guarantees in relation to such debt and would only be exposed in the event of default up to the maximum value of any investment made an underlying project and therefore this debt is not included in the investment NAV analysis.
Under IFRS the fair value i. e. the value if the interest rate swaps had been terminated on 31 December 2011 of underlying project level interest rate swaps used to give the group an effective fixed rate of interest on such underlying debt must also be brought into the Group Balance Sheet at the balance sheet date.
This is the case notwithstanding that the Group has no intention of seeking early termination of such interest rate swaps and it would be likely to be contrary to the interests of the group to seek to do so.
The impact of this IFRS requirement is Shareholders can expect to see period-to-period volatility in the Group Balance Sheet reflecting the difference between point-in-time market interest rates and fixed interest rates under swap agreements held within the underlying portfolio.
Whilst these cashflow hedges provide risk mitigation against cashflow volatility and therefore to investor returns and would be expected to unwind over the life of the underlying concessions, this leads to a significant difference between IFRS and the investment NAV basis which the Directors continue to believe gives a more useful view of the Companys net assets.
The Groups interest rate swaps are in place for the duration of the relevant underlying project debt and therefore the Groups intention is to hold these until maturity.
However, under IFRS the impact of markingto-market these interest rates swaps when market rates are historically low has resulted in a reduction in the IFRS Consolidated Balance Sheet in the year ended 31 December 2011 by 146.7 million before the impact of deferred tax.
On a cumulative basis the total interest rate swap liability on a fair value basis of 279.4 million is included in the IFRS consolidated accounts whereas this does not appear in the investment NAV.
The Group has no intention to break these swaps and therefore in cashflow terms such liabilities would not be expected to arise, hence they are excluded from the investment NAV.
The movement in the fair value of interest swaps accounts for the main difference in the net Balance Sheet position between an IFRS consolidated basis and investment NAV basis.
Gearing The Groups 100 million three year revolving facility from Royal Bank of Scotland plc RBS and National Australia Bank NAB was renewed in April 2011 on similar terms to the previous facility also provided by RBS and NAB.
The key changes were revisions to the margin charged on the facility which increased from 175 to 225 basis points.
This facility is used to fund acquisitions and is on a recourse basis to the Group.
The Companys Articles of Association limit the Groups recourse debt to 50% of Adjusted Gross Asset Value of its investments and cash balances.
As at 31 December 2011, the Group had drawn 20 International Public Partnerships Limited Investment Advisors Report continued 18.1 million under the facility.
At the asset-level, the Company seeks to secure long-term non-recourse debt matched where possible to the concession life of an asset at the time of acquisition.
Such debt is nonrecourse to the Company.
On a consolidated IFRS basis no distinction is made in respect of investments that are consolidated between asset level debt that is non-recourse to the Company and Company level debt that is full recourse to the Company.
Thus for IFRS purposes the Group reports net debt of 1,967.2 million at 31 December 2011 2010 restated: 1,391.0 million.
This increase in IFRS net debt over the year reflects the additional debt from consolidated investments, offset by the repayment of the corporate debt facility.
Currently, the weighted average concession life remaining in the portfolio is 23 years, compared to a weighted average debt tenure of 22 years.
As a result, less than 1% of total debt is required to be refinanced over the next 30 years, with the aim of ensuring strong protection for investors of future projected cashflows.
INPP Concession Length vs Debt Tenor Years 30 23 Years 22 Years 20 10 0 Weighted Average Concession Average Debt Tenor Length INPP Debt Profile bn Debt requiring refinancing 2.5 Total INPP Debt 2.0 1.5 1.0 0.5 0.0 21 International Public Partnerships Limited Investment Advisors Report continued Distributions The continuing performance of the portfolio has allowed the Directors to increase the target distribution for 2012.
The target distribution for 2012 has increased around 3% to 6.0 pence per share.
Inflation 9 Inflation seems to have peaked in the UK in September 2011 at 5.6% but has consistently run ahead of the portfolio assumption for long term inflation of 2.5% per annum.
Inflation protection is an important consideration for the Company.
At 31 December 2011, all assets in the portfolio had a degree of inflation linkage and, in aggregate, in excess of approximately 70% of gross revenue was inflation linked.
The Company and Investment Adviser have noted that some peer group investment funds in the infrastructure sector utilise a long term inflation assumption of 2.75% per annum.
Given continued market expectations of inflation at or above this level then we will continue to consider whether the Companys long term inflation assumption should increase.
For the time being however, taking into account central bank inflation targets the Company continues to believe that its 2.5% assumption is reasonable.
Where actual inflation is higher or lower than this level it will impact on the Companys cashflow in either a positive or negative manner.
If the Company were to assume a long term inflation rate for all its assets of 2.75% per annum instead of 2.5% per annum then assuming all other variables remained static, then using the same discount rate as has been adopted to calculate NAV at 31 December 2011 the Companys NAV would be 118.1 pence per share.
While the Company has no plans to change its inflation assumptions in the short-term, it will continue to monitor trends in the geographies it invests and may choose to vary its long-term assumptions should market conditions change.
Political Landscape The Company and the Investment Advisor are mindful of the political considerations surrounding infrastructure investment both in the UK and overseas.
In the view of the Investment Adviser there are three main themes currently: A strong desire on the part of most governments to promote increased infrastructure investment in order to renew and improve social, energy and transport infrastructure.
This is clear from the UK Governments National Infrastructure Plan and similar plans issued by other governments.
In our view this is a strongly positive trend for the Company as virtually all governments are promoting the use of private sector investment to drive delivery of new infrastructure: A focus in the UK in particular, but also overseas in ensuring and demonstrating better value for money from private sector investment in infrastructure.
This focus has been accentuated by a series of reports from the National Audit Office and Parliamentary Select Committees and has culminated in a review by HM Treasury over the future operation of the private finance initiative in the UK.
The consequences of this review are yet to be announced and although our expectation is that the government will continue to promote private sector investment in infrastructure it is clear that there will be more emphasis on demonstrating and ensuring value for money benefits in future projects.
With respect to the Companys portfolio, we are unaware of any instances in respect of which the public sector has complained that good value for money is not being received, but the Company has long held the view that infrastructure investment is a customer service business as well as an investment business and we believe the wider market is increasingly of the same view.
9 Retail Price Index RPI, Office for National Statistics 22 International Public Partnerships Limited Investment Advisors Report continued The third current theme remains the steady increase in appetite we see from investors particularly pension fund investors to gain greater exposure to infrastructure investment.
This is matched by the desire of governments again the UK government is in the lead here to encourage additional investment from sectors for instance UK pension funds who have only limited current exposure.
In overall terms therefore we believe that the political climate is supportive of the private sector infrastructure investment industry but the industry in general needs to become more sensitive to public sector and taxpayer concerns and be more transparent in demonstrating the value for money benefits that private sector investment in infrastructure does bring.
We expect the Company to continue emphasising such benefits in its dialogue with its public sector counterparties in 2012 and beyond.
Outlook The market for infrastructure is strong but evolving.
The Company is well placed to take advantage of such evolution.
As noted above the general trend is for governments to be very supportive of additional private sector investment in infrastructure.
More specifically however we are seeing fewer UK private finance initiative projects being developed due to UK Government spending cuts.
However for the Company any decline in this area is currently being more than made up by current and prospective opportunities in other areas and geographies.
Areas of particular focus for the Company currently include: Continued application in the area of UK transmission where the Company has a strong market leading position: Delivery of additional investments from areas of business where it already has involvement.
Examples of this include additional investment opportunities arising through the Building Schools for the Future Investment in the UK and other electricity transmission opportunities that may arise as a result of relationships formed from current activities: The wider regulated utility market both in the UK and elsewhere where attractive returns can be projected from assets with low risk profiles: Social infrastructure projects in Germany, Australia and elsewhere which conform to the existing risk profile within the Companys portfolio: Opportunities arising in the UK health and social care sphere where an active pipeline of small to medium sized opportunities continue to exist: Opportunities that arise from re-pricing of capital in the debt capital markets.
Overall there continues to be a strong pipeline of investment opportunities and we are encouraged by governments reaffirmation of the importance of private sector involvement in the provision of such assets.
This includes, in the UK, through the National Infrastructure Plan the likelihood of greater investor interest in the sector, bolstered by the Governments proposed plans to involve UK pension funds in the provision of financing to infrastructure schemes.
It is also encouraging that the UK Government is currently engaging in a consultation process to determine the future form of the private finance initiative, which should result in better value for money for public sector clients while providing more certainty for the private firms involved in providing services as part of this programme.
Evidence of the Governments continued commitment to the sector includes the announcement in July 2011 of its intention to deliver a 2 billion programme to develop between 100 and 300 schools utilising private investment.
There are a number opportunities in Australia and Europe, focused on education, transportation and health sectors which, through the Investment Advisor, the Company is also actively pursuing.
The Company continues to review proposals from third parties seeking to dispose of assets meeting the Companys investment criteria.
Any such investment, whether sourced from the primary or secondary market, is assessed in a very disciplined way and to the extent that an investment is made, it will only be on the basis that it is projected 23 International Public Partnerships Limited Investment Advisors Report continued to reinforce the Companys cashflows and projected returns.
To the extent that additional capital is required, the Company has previously indicated that it may approach investors during the year to fund these acquisitions.
Overall, we continue to remain positive about the prospects for the Company, both in terms of the performance of its existing assets and the opportunity to add high quality assets to the portfolio during the remainder of 2012.
Amber Fund Management Limited 18 April 2012 24
