International Public Partnerships Limited Directors Report The Directors present their annual report on the affairs of the Group, together with the financial statements and auditors' report thereon, for the year ended 31 December 2011.
These financial statements have been prepared by the Directors in compliance with the provisions of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Board of Directors The Directors, all of whom are non-executive and the majority of whom are independent, who served throughout the year are listed below and were appointed on 2 August 2006 unless stated otherwise : Keith Dorrian Chairman Aged 65, a resident of Guernsey, is an experienced professional in the banking, finance and fund management industries.
A former committee member of the Guernsey Investment Fund Association he was also a director of ANZ Bank Guernsey Limited and until his retirement in December 2003, Managing Director of Management International Guernsey Limited, the Fund Administration Company of the Bank of Bermuda Group in Guernsey.
Prior to retirement he had local responsibility for the Banks Global Fund Services products with over USD14 billion of assets being administered from Guernsey.
Prior to this he was employed by Manufacturers Hanover Trust and First National Bank of Chicago.
He holds the Institute of Directors Diploma in Company Direction and holds a number of directorships in listed offshore property funds, funds of hedge funds and hedge funds.
As at the date of this report Mr Dorrian is a director of the following companies: AB Alternative Strategies PCC Limited IIAB PCC Limited AB International Fund PCC Limited K A N Consulting Limited Arab Bank Fund Managers Guernsey Limited MasterCapital Fund Limited BH Credit Catalysts Limited PSource Structured Debt Limited Cayuga Investment Management Limited Strategic Investment Portfolio Holdings Limited Eagle & Dominion Limited Strategic Investments GP Limited Eagle & Dominion Growth Fund Limited Third Point Offshore Investors Limited Eurocastle Investments Limited UK Commercial Property Trust Limited Emerging Markets Private Equity Fund GP Limited Rupert Dorey Aged 52, a resident of Guernsey, has over 22 years experience in debt capital markets, specialising in credit related products, including derivative instruments.
Mr Doreys expertise is principally in the areas of debt distribution, origination and trading, covering all types of debt from investment grade to high yield and distressed debt.
He was at Credit Suisse First Boston for 17 years from 1988 until May 2005, holding a number of positions including fixed income credit product coordinator for European offices and head of UK Credit and Rates Sales.
Since leaving CSFB, Mr Dorey is acting in a non-executive directorship capacity for a number of hedge funds, funds of hedge funds and private equity funds.
He is a member of the Institute of Directors.
37 International Public Partnerships Limited Directors Report continued As at the date of this report Mr Dorey is a director of the following companies: AAA Guernsey Limited CQS Diversified Fund Limited AIAF PCC Limited Convertible Bond Arbitrage Endurance High Performance Fund Limited Fund AIAF PCC Limited G7 Fixed Income Fund Episode Inc AIAF PCC Limited Fixed Income Macro Fund Episode LLP AIAF PCC Limited Global Macro Fund Global Credit Opportunities Master Investment Company Limited AIAF PCC Limited Strategic Equity Advantage Green Park Capital Investment Management Fund Limited AP Alternative Assets LP HarbourVest Senior Loans Europe Limited Celadon Fund PCC Limited M&G General Partner Inc Clifford Estate Company Limited Onesimus Dorey Holdings Limited Clifford Estate Company Chattels Limited Partners Group Global Opportunities Limited Cognis General Partner Limited Saltus European Debt Strategies Limited Cognis 1 Fund LP Tetragon Financial Group Fund Limited Cognis 1 Master Fund LP Tetragon Financial Group Master Fund Limited Giles Frost Aged 49, resident in the United Kingdom, is a director of Amber.
Prior to establishing the Investment Advisor in 2009, he was joint head of the European public infrastructure business unit at Babcock & Brown.
He was employed at Babcock & Brown for nine years and was involved in the development, investment and management of projects in the public infrastructure sector throughout this time.
Prior to joining Babcock & Brown he was a solicitor and partner in the law firm Wilde Sapte now SNR Denton.
Mr Frost is a director of Amber Infrastructure Group Holdings Limited, the ultimate holding company of the Investment Advisor to the Company and various of its subsidiaries.
Mr Frost is also a director of a number of the Groups entities and of other entities in which the Group has an investment.
He received no directors fees from such roles for the Group.
Carol Goodwin appointed 19 February 2007 Aged 68, a resident of Guernsey, has extensive experience in the finance industry and has held senior executive positions with several European and North American banks, managing businesses in London, Toronto, Montreal, Amsterdam, Nassau and Guernsey.
During the periods 1994-1996 and 1998-2001 Ms Goodwin held the position of Managing Director of Investec Bank Channel Islands Limited and continues to be a director of the bank and other subsidiary and associated Investec companies.
She also serves as a non-executive director for a number of other financial services entities, including investment management companies and a variety of other listed investment funds.
Ms Goodwin is a Fellow of the Institute of Canadian Bankers, a Trust and Estate Practitioner and a Chartered Director and a Fellow of the Institute of Directors.
38 International Public Partnerships Limited Directors Report continued As at the date of this report Ms Goodwin is a director of the following companies: AB Alternative Strategies Fund PCC Limited Episode L. P. AB International Fund PCC Limited General Holdings Limited Arab Bank Fund Managers Guernsey Limited Investec Bank Channel Islands Limited Curlew Group Holdings Limited Investec Bank Channel Islands Nominees Limited Dalton Capital Asia Limited IIAB PCC Limited Dalton Capital Guernsey Limited Melchior European Fund Limited Dexion Trading Limited Melchior European Master Fund Limited Eastern European Property Fund M&G General Partner Inc.
Episode Inc. Yorkshire Guernsey Limited in voluntary liquidation John Whittle appointed 6 August 2009 Aged 56, is a resident of Guernsey.
He is a Chartered Accountant and holds the IoD Diploma in Company Direction.
He is a non-executive director of Aurora Russia Ltd, India Capital Growth Fund Ltd and Advance Frontier Markets Fund Ltd all listed on AIM.
He also acts as non-executive director to several other Guernsey investment funds.
He was previously Finance Director of Close Fund Services, a large independent fund administrator, where he successfully initiated a restructuring of client financial reporting services and was a key member of the business transition team.
Prior to moving to Guernsey he was at Price Waterhouse in London before embarking on a career in business services, predominantly telecoms.
He co-led the business turnaround of Talkland International now Vodafone Retail and was directly responsible for the strategic shift into retail distribution and its subsequent implementation: he subsequently worked on the 20 million private equity acquisition of Ora Telecom.
As at the date of this report Mr Whittle is a director of the following companies: Advance Frontier Markets Fund Limited Merchant Financing Funds ICC Aurora Russia Limited The Solar Park Fund GBO IC Limited Avoca Senior Loans Europe Limited Pont du Val Limited B&Q Retail Guernsey Limited Saunderton Data Centre GP Limited B&Q Retail Jersey Limited Sciens Acqua Master Fund CPL GP Limited Sciens Global Strategic Fund Limited CPL Guernsey Limited Steadfast Capital III GP Limited Mid Europa III Management Limited Sustainable Agroforestry IC Limited EMP Europe CI Limited Sustainable Red IC Limited Dynamic Fund IC Limited Sustainable Teak and Agarwood IC Limited GC Dynamic Investments ICC Limited The IPM renewable Energy Fund ICC Limited Guernsey International Management Company The Merchant Gemini Turnaround Fund IC Limited India Capital Growth Fund Limited The Offshore Mutual Fund PCC Limited Merchant Asset Management Guernsey Limited The Sustainable Forestry ICC Limited 39 International Public Partnerships Limited Directors Report continued Principal activities The principal activity of the Group comprises the investment in the equity and debt of public infrastructure projects in order to provide shareholders with long-term distributions, and increasing the capital value where possible through active management.
The subsidiary and associated undertakings principally affecting the profits or net assets of the Group in the year are listed in notes 17, 18 and 19 to the financial statements.
Business review A review of the business for the year ended 31 December 2011 is contained in the Letter from the Chairman pages 5 to 8 and Investment Advisors Report pages 9 to 24.
Results The results for the year are set out in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income on page 58.
Principal risks and uncertainties The principal risks and uncertainties of the business are discussed in more detail in the Risks and Risk Management report pages 29 to 32.
The Groups principal risks relate to general economic factors such as interest rate movements, foreign exchange movements, inflation along with political and regulatory developments within the PPP PFI space.
More detailed explanations of these risks and the way in which they are managed are contained under the headings of credit risk, liquidity risk and interest rate risk in note 30 to the financial statements.
The Investment Manager also seeks to mitigate these risks through continual review of the portfolio and active asset management initiatives.
Other risks faced by the Group include the following: - Strategic share price may be at a discount or premium to the NAV - Illiquidity of assets - Reliance on service providers - Adverse government actions - Ability to raise equity or source finance to continue invest The Board seeks to mitigate and manage these risks through continual review, policy setting and enforcement of contractual obligations.
It also regularly monitors the investment environment and the management of the Groups portfolio.
The Board and the Investment Manager also recognise the importance of the share price relative to net asset value in maintaining shareholder value.
Key Performance Indicators The Board uses a number of performance measures to assess the Groups success in meeting its objectives.
The key performance indicators are long term yield and capital growth.
These indicators for the year ended 31 December 2011 are referred to in the Chairmans Statement and Investment Managers Report.
The Company is a member of the Association of Investment Companies AIC.
40 International Public Partnerships Limited Directors Report continued Directors remuneration During the period 1 January 2011 to 31 December 2011 the Directors remuneration was paid as follows: Base Other Total Total 2011 2010 Keith Dorrian Independent Non- 47,000 - 47,000 52,000 Executive Chairman Rupert Dorey Independent Non- 37,000 - 37,000 42,000 Executive Director Giles Frost NonExecutive 32,000 - 32,000 37,000 Director Carol Goodwin Independent Non- 32,000 - 32,000 37,000 Executive Director John Whittle Independent Non- 32,000 - 32,000 37,000 Executive Director There are no service contracts in existence between the Company and any Directors but each of the Directors was appointed by a letter of appointment which sets out the terms of their appointment.
Frost are paid to his employer Amber Infrastructure Limited, a related company of the Groups Investment Advisor.
Directors interests The Directors who held office at 31 December 2011 had the following interests in the shares of International Public Partnerships Limited: 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 Number of Ordinary Shares Number of Ordinary Shares NonNonName of Director Beneficial Beneficial beneficial Beneficial 1 Keith Dorrian - 44,205 43,575 Giles Frost - 275,000 - 273,745 2 Rupert Dorey - 493,687 - 493,687 3 Carol Goodwin - 33,983 - 31,550 John Whittle - 34,875 - - 1 Holds shares indirectly through a Retirement Annuity Trust Scheme 2 Shares owned by Mr Doreys spouse 3 Holds shares directly through an investment company Mr Frost is also a Director of International Public Partnerships Lux 1 Sarl and International Public Partnerships Lux 2 Sarl, wholly-owned subsidiary undertakings of the Company.
Frost is also a director of a number of other companies in which the Company directly or indirectly has an investment, although Mr.
Frost does not control or receive remuneration in relation to these entities.
41 International Public Partnerships Limited Directors Report continued In accordance with the articles of association at least one third of the Independent Directors will retire at each Annual General Meeting whilst Mr Frost as the non independent Director will retire at each Annual General Meeting.
As all of the Directors are non-executive Directors, the Company considers the recommendation for annual re-election of all Directors is not appropriate in these circumstances as it potentially exposes the Company to additional risk.
The Board regularly reviews the performance of the Directors of the Company and currently believes that the performance of each Director continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
Directors indemnities The Company has made qualifying third-party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its Directors which were made during the period and remain in force at the date of this report.
Substantial shareholdings As at 31 December 2011 the Company had been notified, in accordance with chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following substantial voting rights as shareholders of the Company.
of Nature of of voting ordinary holding rights and shares issued share Name of holder capital Schroder Investment Management Ltd. 13.48 72,018,808 Indirect Investec Wealth & Investment Ltd. 11.45 61,165,736 Indirect M&G Investment Management Ltd. 7.85 41,926,921 Indirect Brewin Dolphin Ltd. 6.85 36,577,450 Indirect Sarasin & Partners LLP 5.69 30,417,357 Indirect Legal & General Investment Management Ltd. 3.43 18,335,902 Indirect British Steel Pension Fund 3.32 17,732,153 Indirect London Borough of Enfield Pension Fund 2.85 15,218,251 Indirect Tilney Investment Management Ltd 2.63 14,063,617 Indirect Smith & Williamson Investment Management Ltd. 2.47 13,201,603 Indirect Listing Requirements On 9 November 2006, the Companys Ordinary Shares were admitted to the Official List maintained by the Financial Services Authority.
Throughout the year the Company has complied with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
Advisory Services Amber Fund Management Limited AFML provides advisory services to the Company.
A summary of the contract between the Company and AMFL in respect of investment advisory services provided is given in note 40 to the financial statements.
Amber Fund Management Limited has also been appointed as Operator to International Public Partnerships Limited Partnership a subsidiary of the Company pursuant to the Limited Partnership 42 International Public Partnerships Limited Directors Report continued Agreement and Operating Agreement.
As Operator, Amber Fund Management Limited is responsible for the discretionary investment management of International Public Partnership Limited Partnerships investment portfolio.
In addition, it or its associates provides in conjunction in some cases with the Administrator accounting and finance resource, legal, company and asset management, compliance and risk management services, and IT systems to the Group and its subsidiaries and the asset holding entities in which it is invested.
Share Capital The Companys share capital at 31 December 2011 comprised entirely ordinary shares which rank equally in all respects.
The rights attached to the ordinary shares, in addition to those conferred on their holders by law, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution of the shareholders.
In January 2011 the company announced the issue of 2,000,000 new Ordinary shares of 0.01 pence each for cash at 117.0 pence per share under its block listing facility.
In May 2011 3,244,167 new ordinary fully paid shares of 0.01 pence each were issued as a scrip dividend alternative in lieu of cash for the final dividend in respect of the six months ended 31 December 2010.
In September 2011, the Group raised an additional 52.03 million of capital through Tap issues for Subscription of 46,428,447 new Ordinary shares of 0.01 pence each at an issue price of 112.15 pence per share on an ex-dividend basis.
In October 2011 3,521,274 new ordinary fully paid shares of 0.01 pence each were issued as a scrip dividend alternative in lieu of cash for the interim dividend in respect of the six months ended 30 June 2011.
The total number of Ordinary Shares in issue at 31 December 2011 was 534,234,191.
Details of the Companys share capital are set out in note 31.
Directors Authority to Buy Back Shares and Treasury Shares The Company did not purchase any shares for treasury or cancellation during the year.
The current authority of the Company to make market purchases of up to 14.99% of the issued Ordinary Share Capital expires on 21 June 2012.
The Company will seek to renew such authority at the Annual General meeting to take place on 21 June 2012.
Any buy back of Ordinary Shares will be made subject to Guernsey law and within any guidelines established from time to time by the Board and the making and timing of any buy backs will be at the absolute discretion of the Board.
Purchases of Ordinary Shares will only be made through the market for cash at prices below the prevailing Net Asset Value of the Ordinary Shares as last calculated where the Directors believe such purchases will enhance shareholder value.
Such purchases will also only be made in accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority which provide that the price to be paid must not be more than 5 per cent above the average of the middle market quotations for the Ordinary Shares for the five business days before the shares are purchased unless previously advised to shareholders.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association up to 10% of the Companys shares may be held as treasury shares.
Foreign exchange, gearing and treasury policy The Group has exposure to foreign currency as a result of investments outside of the United Kingdom and, as such, is exposed to movements in exchange rates between the Euro, Canadian Dollar, Australian Dollar and Pound Sterling.
The Group may enter into forward exchange contracts to mitigate these risks.
43 International Public Partnerships Limited Directors Report continued The existing 100m debt facility was re-negotiated in April 2011 with Royal Bank of Scotland and National Australia Bank and as at 31 December 2011 was drawn down by 18.1 million and expires in May 2014.
The Board may from time to time consider increasing the amount of this facility if it considers that such an increase will assist the Company in the acquisition of assets seen by the Board as attractive and accretive to the Companys performance and portfolio diversification.
The Board considers that any such increase would be a trigger for a further equity raising.
Regulation The Company has been declared an Authorised Fund under the Authorised Closed-ended Investment Schemes Rules of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Earnings per share Basic and diluted earnings per share were 3.33 pence for the year ended 31 December 2011 2010 restated: 3.20 pence.
Dividend and distribution policy Distributions on Ordinary Shares are expected to be paid twice a year, normally in respect of the six months to 30 June and 31 December each year, subject to the provisions of Guernsey law, by way of dividends.
The Company may also make distributions by way of capital as well, or in lieu of, by way of dividends and if to the extent that the Directors consider this to be appropriate and permitted by the Listing Rules, the Laws and the Articles.
In accordance with announcements made, a distribution of 2.925 pence per share for the period 1 January 2011 to 30 June 2011 was paid on 28 October 2011.
The distribution of 2.925 pence per share for the period 1 July 2011 to 31 December 2011 is to be paid on 15 June 2012.
Further details of the Companys distributions are set out in note 13.
Accounting policies and adjustments The Company and the Group have adopted appropriate accounting policies in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards.
As part of the Directors ongoing review of the suitability and appropriateness of accounting policies and treatments, a change in accounting policy has been voluntarily adopted during the year to reflect the longterm contractual nature of the underlying investment concessions and therefore managements view that given the fixed or determinable nature of forecast cashflows, financial assets during construction would be more appropriately accounted for as loans and receivables at amortised cost as opposed to available for sale financial assets at fair value.
This change in accounting policy provides greater consistency with the way financial liabilities are accounted for in the underlying investments and therefore mitigates a potential accounting mismatch whilst still be consistent with general market convention.
This policy change has no impact on the Consolidated Income Statement, Consolidated Cashflow Statement or investor returns, but has a presentational reclassification impact on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The change has been made to the prior year balance sheet for comparative purposes.
Further details are provided in note 1 to the financial statements.
An accounting adjustment has also been made to restate debt related break costs incurred in 2006 as part of a wider transaction to acquire the initial seed portfolio for the fund.
These costs had been included within intangible assets along-with the portion of acquisition costs attributable to the service profits of underlying investments.
Given this element of the intangible is not recoverable, management are of the view that these costs should have been expensed rather than capitalised in 2006.
The impact of the restatement as of 2006 is to add back intangible amortisation in the year ended 31 December 2010 as 44 International Public Partnerships Limited Directors Report continued set out in note 1 to the financial statements.
In addition, as part of the same wider transaction, debt arrangement fees that related to external debt before the initial portfolio it was acquired by the Group was carried against the outstanding balance of total loans.
Given the debt was intra-group these costs have been restated to write off the costs as at 2006.
These restatements have no impact on the Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 other than to alter the brought-forward reserves.
Further details of the impact of these changes are set out in note 1.
Relations with shareholders The Board recognises the importance of maintaining an active and transparent dialogue with shareholders and that communications are given the highest priority.
The Company welcomes the views of shareholders and, where practicable, enters into dialogue with institutional shareholders based on the need for mutual understanding of objectives.
The Companys Investment Advisor regularly meets the largest shareholders and Company analysts.
The Annual General Meeting of the Company provides a forum, both formal and informal, for investors to meet and discuss issues with the Directors and the Investment Advisor.
The Company also provides comprehensive information on its recently refreshed website including documents issued to shareholder such as financial reports and presentations, information on its portfolio of assets and dividend and share price information.
The Annual General Meeting is scheduled for 21 June 2012 and a Notice of the meeting will be sent to shareholders in advance of this meeting.
At its Annual General Meeting, the Company complies with the provision of the Code relating to the disclosure of proxy votes, the separation of resolutions and the attendance of the Chairman.
Going concern basis The Directors have acknowledged their responsibilities in relation to the financial statements for the year to 31 December 2011.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Investment Strategy and Principal risk and uncertainties sections of this report.
The Directors have considered significant areas of possible financial risk and comprehensive financial forecasts have been prepared and submitted to the Board for review and the Directors have, based on the information contained in these forecasts and the assessment of the committed banking facilities in place, formed a judgement, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
After consideration, the Directors are satisfied that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements refer to note 1.
Investment Strategy The Company continues to pursue a strategy focussing on investment in infrastructure assets offering a low level of credit and other risks that provide secure yield and potential capital growth particularly from assets which are in construction and yet to reach their operational stage.
During the period there were a considerable number of investment opportunities presented to the Company for consideration however not all passed stringent and extensive due diligence and sustainable yield reviews.
In considering future opportunities, it is worth emphasising that the Directors prime responsibility and focus is the need to create and demonstrate value benefits for shareholders.
All proposed acquisitions recommended by the Investment Advisor are robustly reviewed by the independent directors before any 45 International Public Partnerships Limited Directors Report continued investment decision is made.
The Board take a close interest in all the Companys assets and their performance reviewing, at least quarterly, detailed operational performance reports and comparing their financial performance against original expectations.
The Board also ensures that on an annual basis it visits a number of the Companys assets and meets with its public sectors clients to discuss, in open forum, management performance.
The Board, in early 2012, visited a number of the Companys assets in Australia, which currently represent around 18% of the portfolio.
The Board took the opportunity to meet with many of the Companys public sector partners in the region and tour assets including Royal Childrens Hospital in Melbourne and Orange Hospital in rural New South Wales, together with newer investments such as Gold Coast Rapid Transit which is currently under construction in Queensland.
Corporate Governance The Board pays a high level of attention to corporate governance issues.
There have been no board changes to report this year.
The Board has quarterly formal meetings at which all assets are reviewed in detail and holds a significant number of additional meetings to consider investment recommendations and for other ad hoc purposes.
The Board also holds at least one formal strategy meeting each year.
The Board has two principal sub-committees: these are the audit committee and the management engagement committee.
The role of the latter is to review the performance of all of the Companys advisors, most importantly the Investment Advisor.
The Company complies with the UK Corporate Governance Code and treats matters of appropriate corporate governance with great care.
Further details are provided in the Corporate Governance section of this report.
Post balance sheet events There were no material events after the balance sheet date requiring disclosure.
Auditors Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this annual report confirms that: so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company's auditors are unaware: and the director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company's auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 249 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
As previously reported, Ernst & Young LLP were appointed as the Groups auditors for the 2011 financial year and the Board would like to acknowledge the substantial commitment and interest shown in ensuring that the accounts were audited in a timely and professional manner Keith Dorian 18 April 2012 Chairman 46
