business review business resources The main resources the group uses to A strong customer base.
For example, achieve its results are: in the GB take-home market, Britvics customers include the Big 4 An extensive portfolio of stills and supermarkets Tesco, J Sainsburys, carbonates brands, including Robinsons, Asda and Wm Morrisons together with Pepsi, 7UP, Tango, J O and Fruit Shoot.
2 a number of other important grocery The breadth and depth of Britvics portfolio retailers.
The group has significant supply enables it to target consumer demand arrangements with a number of key across a wide range of consumption players in the GB pubs and clubs sector occasions, in all the major soft drinks and leisure and catering channels.
categories and across all relevant routes Through Britvic International, the group to market.
Britvic Ireland owns a number has built on the success of the Robinsons of leading brands in the Republic of Ireland and Fruit Shoot brands by introducing and Northern Ireland, including Club, these products into markets outside GB.
Ballygowan and MiWadi as well as the rights to the Pepsi, 7UP and Mountain Britvic also has a well-invested and Dew brands.
In France the portfolio flexible group production capability includes the leading syrup brand Teisseire and distribution network that enables as well as Moulin fide Valdonne, Pressade its soft drinks to be made available and Fruit Shoot.
to consumers across all of its operating territories.
A successful long-standing relationship with PepsiCo that resulted in the exclusive bottling agreement EBA being renewed in Great Britain in 2003 for a further 15 years, with an extension to 2023 on admission to the London Stock Exchange.
The EBA for Ireland lasts until 2015.
This relationship gives Britvic the exclusive right to distribute the Pepsi and 7UP brands in Great Britain and Ireland, access to all new carbonated drinks developed by PepsiCo for distribution in Great Britain and Ireland and, to support the development of its carbonates offering, access to PepsiCos consumer and customer insight, competitor intelligence, marketing best practice, brand and product development expertise and technological know-how.
Britvic has added to its portfolio with Mountain Dew Energy in GB and Ireland and has also been appointed in recent years as the exclusive GB bottler of Gatorade, Lipton Ice Tea and SoBe.
