governance directors report For the 52 weeks ended 2 October 2011 The directors are pleased to present their report and the consolidated financial statements of the company and its subsidiaries for the 52 weeks ended 2 October 2011.
Principal activities The group trades principally as a manufacturer and distributor of soft drinks.
Business review A detailed review of the groups activities and of future plans is contained within the Chairmans Statement on page 10 and the Chief Executives Review and Business Review on pages 13 to 31.
The information contained in those sections fulfils the requirements of the Business Review, as required by Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006 and should be treated as forming part of this report.
Results and dividends The groups profit for the 52 weeks ended 2 October 2011 before taxation attributable to the equity shareholders amounted to 79.9 million 2010: loss of 28.8 million and the profit after taxation amounted to 58.4 million 2010: loss of 48.2 million.
An interim dividend of 5.1 pence 2010: 4.7 pence per ordinary share was paid on 8 July 2011.
The directors are proposing a final dividend for the 52 weeks ended 2 October 2011 of 12.6 pence 2010: 12.0 pence per ordinary share.
This will be paid on 10 February 2012 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 9 December 2011, subject to shareholder approval.
Directors The following were directors of the company during the 52 weeks ended 2 October 2011: Gerald Corbett, Paul Moody, Joanne Averiss, John Gibney, Ben Gordon, Bob Ivell and Michael Shallow.
Subject to company law and the companys articles of association the articles, the directors may exercise all of the powers of the company and may delegate their power and discretion to committees.
The Executive Committee is responsible for the day-to-day management of the group.
The articles give the directors power to appoint and replace directors.
Under the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee, any appointment must be recommended by the Nomination Committee for approval by the board.
The articles also require directors to retire and submit themselves for election to the first annual general meeting following appointment and to retire at the annual general meeting held in the third calendar year after election or last re-election, but to comply with provision B.
7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code published by the FRC in June 2010 all of the directors will submit themselves for re-election at the forthcoming annual general meeting AGM.
Their biographical details are set out on page 35 of this report.
Directors interests The directors interests in ordinary shares of the company are shown within the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 53.
No director has any other interest in any shares or loan stock of any group company.
Other than Joanne Averiss, who is a director of a number of PepsiCos subsidiaries, no director was or is materially interested in any contract other than his service contract, subsisting during or existing at the end of the 52 weeks ended 2 October 2011, which was significant in relation to the groups business.
Further details of Joanne Averiss appointment are set out on page 40 in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report.
Directors liabilities As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under which the company has agreed, to the extent permitted by law and the companys articles, to indemnify: The directors, in respect of all losses arising out of, or in connection with, the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as directors of the company or any of its subsidiaries: and Directors of companies which are corporate trustees of the groups pension schemes against liability incurred in connection with those companies activities as trustees of such schemes.
Directors remuneration The Remuneration Committee, on behalf of the board, has adopted a policy that aims to attract and retain the directors needed to run the group successfully.
The directors remuneration report is shown on pages 45 to 53.
Annual general meeting Details of the companys forthcoming AGM are set out in a separate circular which has been sent to all shareholders with this report.
36 Britvic plc Annual Report 2011 Employee involvement The group uses a number of ways to engage employees on matters that impact them and the performance of the group.
These include annual roadshows at key sites by members of the Executive Committee, regular team meetings, the publication of a bi-monthly internal newsletter, Britvic Life, together with the b. link intranet site providing easy access to the latest company information as well as company policies and vacancies.
The company organises quarterly formal business performance updates for employees, which are cascaded by line managers.
An Employee Involvement Forum was established in 2004 through which nominated representatives ensure that employees views are taken into account regarding issues that are likely to affect them.
In addition, where the group has entered into a recognition agreement with a trade union, it fulfils its obligations to consult and negotiate accordingly.
The group approaches these relationships from a partnership perspective.
A robust employee opinion survey process is also in place to ensure that employees are given a voice in the organisation and that the group can take action based on employee feedback.
This covers a variety of topics including leadership and line management, employee wellbeing, career development, training, communications and corporate responsibility commitments.
All eligible employees are able to participate in the Britvic Share Incentive Plan which gives them the opportunity to purchase ordinary shares in the company using money deducted from their pre-tax salary, and to receive matching shares from the company, up to a maximum of 75 per four week pay period until 8 December 2011 and 50 per four week pay period from 9 December 2011.
Equal opportunities The group is committed to providing equality of opportunity to all employees without discrimination and applies fair and equitable employment policies which ensure entry into and progression within the group.
Appointments are determined solely by application of job criteria and competency.
Disabled persons Disabled persons, whether registered or not, are accorded equal opportunities when applying for vacancies, with due regard to their aptitudes and abilities.
In addition to complying with legislative requirements, procedures ensure that disabled employees are fairly treated in respect of training and career development.
For those employees who become disabled during the course of their employment, the group is supportive, whether through retraining or redeployment, so as to provide an opportunity for them to remain with the group, wherever reasonably practicable.
In the opinion of the directors, all employee policies are deemed to be effective and in accordance with their intended aims.
Supplier payment policy It is group policy to agree terms and conditions for its business transactions with all suppliers.
Payment is made in accordance with these terms provided the supplier meets its obligations.
The average number of days of payments outstanding for the group at 2 October 2011 was 48 2010: 48.
Political contributions During the 52 weeks ended 2 October 2011, the group and its subsidiaries made no political contributions 2010: Nil.
Charitable donations During the 52 weeks ended 2 October 2011, the group and its subsidiaries donated 581,297 for charitable purposes 2010: 310,421.
This included cash and product donations directly to charitable organisations and other investment in support of community programmes employee volunteering.
Major shareholders At 29 November 2011 the company has been notified, pursuant to DTR5 of the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following notifiable voting rights in its ordinary share capital: Number of Percentage Nature of ordinary shares of voting rights holding 1 Black Rock Investment Management UK Limited 18,736,229 7.79% Indirect Route One Investment Company, LLP 15,082,580 6.25% Direct PepsiCo, Inc. 10,739,120 4.97% Direct Legal & General Group Plc 8,633,246 3.99% Direct 1 Holding includes 15,042,586 ordinary shares representing 6.26% of the 7.79% of total voting rights shown in the above table which would be held by Black Rock Investment Management UK Limited, if all financial instruments notifiable under DTR 5.3.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2011 37 governance directors report continued Share capital As at 2 October 2011, the companys issued share capital comprised a single class of shares referred to as ordinary shares.
1,284,343 ordinary shares were allotted and issued to the Trustee of the Britvic Share Incentive Plan at par value during the 52 weeks ended 2 October 2011 to enable the Trustee to meet its obligations under the Britvic Share Incentive Plan.
Full details of the ordinary share capital can be found in note 13 to the parent company financial statements which should be treated as forming part of this report.
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the company every holder of ordinary shares present in person and entitled to vote shall have one vote and on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
The Notice of AGM specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be passed at the AGM.
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution are announced at the AGM and published on the companys website after the meeting.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the company other than: Certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws.
Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority whereby certain employees of the company require the approval of the company to deal in its ordinary shares.
Resolution 16, which will be proposed as a Special Resolution at the 2012 annual general meeting, will give the company authority to use its available cash resources to acquire up to 24,140,000 of its own shares in the market for either cancellation or to hold them as treasury shares.
The directors will only use this power after careful consideration, taking into account market conditions prevailing at the time, other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels, and the overall position of the company.
The directors will only purchase such shares after taking into account the effects on earnings per share and the benefits for shareholders.
IFG Trust Jersey Limited, as trustee of the Britvic Employee Benefit Trust the Trustee, holds 0.005% of the issued share capital of the company, as at 29 November 2011, on trust for the benefit of the executive directors, senior executives and managers of the group.
A dividend waiver is in place in respect of the Trustees holding.
The Trustee is not permitted to vote on any unvested shares held in the trust unless expressly directed to do so by the company.
Under the rules of the Plan eligible employees are entitled to acquire shares in the company.
Plan shares are held in trust for participants by Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited the Trustees.
Voting rights are exercised by the Trustees on receipt of participants instructions.
If a participant does not submit an instruction to the Trustees no vote is registered.
In addition, the Trustees do not vote on any unawarded shares held under the Plan as surplus assets.
As at 29 November 2011, Trustees held 0.43% of the issued share capital of the company.
The company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
There are no agreements between the company and its directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The companys banking arrangements are terminable upon a change of control of the company.
Certain other indebtedness becomes repayable if a change of control leads to a downgrade in the credit rating of the company.
The companys agreements with PepsiCo are terminable upon a change of control.
The companys articles may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
No amendments are proposed to be made to the existing articles at the 2012 AGM.
Financial risk management It is the groups objective to manage its financial risk so as to minimise the adverse fluctuations in the financial markets on the groups reported profitability and cash flows.
The specific policies for managing each of the groups main financial risk areas are detailed in the Treasury Management section of the Business Review on page 25.
38 Britvic plc Annual Report 2011 Directors statement as to disclosure of information to auditors So far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined by the Companies Act 2006 of which the auditors are unaware.
Each director has taken all steps that ought to be taken by a director to make himself aware of and to establish that the auditors are aware of any relevant audit information.
A copy of the financial statements is placed on the companys website.
The maintenance and integrity of this website is the responsibility of the directors.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Going concern In presenting the financial statements on a going concern basis, the directors have considered both the business activities and principal risks and uncertainties as set out in the Business Overview and Business Review on pages 1 to 31.
In addition, the directors have considered the following factors: the groups ability to generate cash flows, the financial resources available to it, headroom under bank covenants, and exposure to credit risk.
Based on the groups cash flow forecasts and projections, the board is satisfied that the group will be able to operate within the level of its facilities for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the group continues to apply the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements.
Auditors Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to accept reappointment as auditors of the company and a resolution proposing their reappointment is contained in the Notice of AGM and will be put to the shareholders at the AGM.
By order of the board Emma Thomas Company Secretary 29 November 2011 Britvic plc Annual Report 2011 39
