Compliance Compliance risk is the risk that Investec fails to comply with the letter and spirit of statutes, regulations, supervisory requirements and industry codes of conduct which apply to our businesses.
We seek to bring the highest standard of compliance best practice to all our jurisdictions.
In keeping with our core values, we also endeavour to comply with the highest professional standards of integrity and behaviour, which builds trust.
Investec is subject to extensive supervisory and regulatory governance in the countries in which we operate.
The banking supervision department of the South African Reserve Bank SARB is our lead regulator.
Signi cant business developments in any of our operations must be approved by SARB as well as by the business home country regulatory authority.
Under the DLC structure, Investec plc and Investec Limited maintain separate compliance structures.
Each structure operates under terms of reference which are approved by its listed company board and audit committee.
Each structure is headed by a group compliance of cer who operates independently from operational management and is responsible for ensuring adequate management of compliance risk within their area of business.
Each group compliance of cer reports to the chief executive of cer of their listed company, as well as to the global head of compliance, who is ultimately responsible for management of the compliance function of both listed groups.
The group compliance of cers have unrestricted access to the chairman of their respective audit committees.
The compliance divisions operate under matrix management reporting structures and are decentralised throughout the businesses.
Under these arrangements, compliance of cers are appointed to all signi cant business units and report to the business heads, but remain under the general supervision of Group Compliance.
Where appropriate, certain cross-enterprise compliance functions, such as compliance monitoring, are centralised and report directly to the group compliance of cer.
Compliance risk is managed through internal policies and processes, which include legal, regulatory and other technical requirements relevant to the business.
The compliance of cers provide regular training to ensure that all employees are familiar with their regulatory obligations.
They also provide advice on regulatory issues.
Compliance staff independently monitor the business units to ensure adherence to policies and procedures and other technical requirements.
Compliance staff work closely with business and operational units to ensure consistent management of compliance risk.
Compliance of cers are charged with developing and maintaining constructive working relationships with regulators and supervisors in all geographies.
UK and Europe year in review The year in review has seen further signi cant proposed reforms to the regulatory and supervisory framework of UK and European rms.
These proposed reforms have focused on macro-prudential regulation, capital, resolution, liquidity, market infrastructure and reform of regulatory institutions.
The overall banking regulatory environment remains relatively uncertain, notwithstanding the recent announcements made by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, both in terms of prudential regulation and the wider reform to the UKs regulatory oversight framework.
A particular concern throughout 2010 therefore continues to be the volume of regulatory pressure facing banks, including Investec.
This pressure is expected to increase in 2011 due to a raft of both UK and EU led reforms coming online.
The observed trend is toward higher impact, costly and potentially transformational reforms which typically require a higher degree of coordination and strategic consideration by international banking groups.
Despite this pressure, Investec has continued to successfully adapt to the changing landscape via dedicating signi cant resources to monitoring, analysing and implementing regulatory developments as they arise.
During the period under review regulatory activity in the UK has been focused on the following initiatives: Reform of the UK regulatory framework Independent banking commission Capital and liquidity FSA Remuneration Code The mortgage market review.
212 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance
