Compliance continued Mortgage market review The FSA has made signi cant progress in its wide ranging review of the regulation of the UK mortgage market, with several key proposals relating to responsible lending and arrears handling now at consultation stage.
With regard to responsible lending, the FSA proposes to ensure that all mortgages are carefully assessed to make sure borrowers can afford them.
Speci c proposals include: imposing affordability tests for all mortgages and making lenders ultimately responsible for assessing a consumers ability to pay: requiring veri cation of borrowers income in every case to prevent over in ation of income and to prevent mortgage fraud.
These proposals effectively ban self-certi cation and fast-track mortgages where income is not veri ed and provides extra protection for vulnerable customers with a credit impaired history.
Final rules are expected to be published during the course of 2011.
South Africa year in review Anti-money laundering and terror fi nancing Compliance with the Financial Intelligence Centre Act FICA, as amended, and the Protection of Constitutional Democracy against Terrorist and Related Activities Act is ongoing.
The requirements provided by this regulation are set out in the group anti-money laundering and antiterror nancing policy which incorporates Investecs client acceptance policy.
The anti-money laundering AML system, which calculates the risk rating of clients taken on by the business and monitors any changes to the risk ratings of existing clients, continues to be used to implement the customer acceptance policy.
Clients are risk weighted according to the money laundering and or terror nancing risks they potentially pose.
This risk rating includes cross referencing clients against international databases of adverse client information including persons named on the United Nations lists.
Clients assessed as being high risk, either at client take-on or during the course of the client relationship, are required to satisfy enhanced due diligence processes.
The automated suspicious activity monitoring ASAM system, an enhancement to the AML system to address suspicious activity reporting, is operational in the higher risk businesses.
ASAM uses a clients risk weighting together with pro les of the clients transactional behaviour across business unit systems to determine potentially suspicious activities.
Such activities are further investigated to determine whether they need to be reported to the financial intelligence centre FIC as required by legislation.
ASAM has been further enhanced to automate cash threshold reporting, a FICA requirement from December 2010.
The initiative for all business units to implement both the AML and ASAM systems is ongoing.
Business units not currently using the AML and ASAM systems have alternative controls in place to manage the risks.
In accordance with the amended FICA requirements, all Investec divisions that are accountable institutions have been registered with the FIC.
All cash threshold reports CTRs and suspicious transaction reports STRs are made in accordance with the accountable institution where they arose.
Consumer protection Consumer protection regulation continues to be a key focus into 2011 with ongoing monitoring and reporting of compliance with the requirements of the Financial Advisory and Intermediary Services Act FAIS, the National Credit Act NCA and, as of 1 April 2011, the Consumer Protection Act CPA.
To better regulate the quality of financial advice, the FSB has introduced amendments to the FAIS t and proper requirements, which deal with the quali cations and experience needed to perform a representative or key individual role for a financial services provider FSP.
Compliance and Human Resources have developed a system to monitor the t and proper status of representatives and key individuals of all licensed Investec FSPs.
The FSB has additionally introduced regulatory examinations which all FAIS representatives must pass to be deemed t and proper.
Compliance has provided training material and exam readiness, facilitated through an external provider, to ensure that all representatives are appropriately quali ed by the deadline date.
The CPA was enacted to promote a fair, accessible and sustainable marketplace for consumer products and services, promote responsible consumer behaviour, improve standards of consumer information and prohibit unfair marketing and business practices.
Although the CPA came into effect on 1 April 2011, the regulations have not yet been nalised and as such the full impact of the CPA remains unclear.
Group Compliance continues to oversee the implementation of the NCA in the affected areas, which are limited.
214 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Further drafts of the Protection of Personal Information Act POPI have been circulated to the industry for comment: however a promulgation date has still not been set.
Once enacted POPI will have a material impact on all aspects of Investecs business that concern the processing of personal information in respect of Investecs clients and employees, as well as information relating to the Investec group and subsidiaries.
Market conduct, including confl icts of interest The con icts index matrix for the South African business has been captured into a speci c module of the enterprise risk assessor ERA system.
As such, ERA now contains an outline of the types of con icts applicable to the business, and an indication of which business areas they are applicable to and or occur between, the current mitigations and controls in place to manage the respective con icts, and a record indicating where enhanced controls are necessary.
ERA COI provides an additional monitoring programme to enable con icts of interest monitoring.
Amendments to the FAIS general code, with implementation dates between July 2010 and April 2011, highlighted and detailed the con ict of interest management requirements of FSPs.
These include enhanced disclosures of existing con icts, a board approved policy on how the FSP identi es, avoids and where avoidance is not possible manages con icts and stringent provisions on what financial interests representatives can receive.
Risk-based monitoring Annual reassessments continue to be performed for all relevant legislation loaded on the ERA.
The reassessment programme includes a reevaluation of all the risks, controls, treatments and monitoring tests to ensure that these are still relevant.
There has been continued focus on thematic monitoring across business areas and on streamlining the monitoring reports to management.
Training The compliance awareness induction programme CAIP has continued to run successfully throughout the year.
All new employees are required to attend the face to face version of CAIP and are required to complete and pass an online assessment.
CAIP incorporates modules on: Compliance and the regulatory framework AML and terror nancing Consumer protection Market conduct, including con icts of interest.
eCAIP, the online version of the training module, was successfully launched in 2010.
As expected, it has broadened both access to and the audience of the CAIP programme.
Australia year in review There has been increased activity as a result of our regulators, namely the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority APRA and the Australian Securities and Investments Commission ASIC, introducing reforms to their supervisory and regulatory frameworks.
From an APRA perspective the key proposals include global liquidity standards and Basel III.
The introduction of the national credit code has replaced the uniform consumer credit code and covers credit activities.
This means that home loans, personal loans and consumer leases, among other products and services, are now regulated under Commonwealth legislation and administered by ASIC.
Investec Australia has been granted its credit licence and has implemented processes to address the requirements contained within the legislation when issuing credit to clients in their personal capacity.
ASIC have taken over the market supervision of market participants which includes Investec Securities Australia Pty Ltd.
The Australian governments future of financial advice reform is actively exploring ways to improve access to and the quality of advice.
215 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Corporate governance Introduction While the Investec board provides leadership based on an ethical foundation, and oversees the overall Investec is process and structure of corporate governance, each business area and every employee of the group is responsible for acting in accordance with sound corporate governance practices.
committed to promoting In formulating our governance framework, we apply recognised corporate governance practices pragmatically so as to: sustainable stakeholder Build and sustain an ethical corporate culture in the company con dence in Identify and mitigate signi cant risks, including reputational risk our conduct as Exercise effective review and monitoring of our activities a business and Promote informed and sound decision making as a responsible Enable effectiveness, ef ciency, responsibility and accountability corporate citizen.
Enhance the capital markets and other stakeholders perception of us Facilitate legal and regulatory compliance Secure trust and con dence of all stakeholders Protect our brand and reputation Ensure sustainable business practices, including social and environmental activities Disclose the necessary group information to enable all stakeholders to make a meaningful analysis of our financial position and actions Respond appropriately to changes in market conditions and the business environment Remain at the forefront of international corporate governance practices.
Investecs values and philosophies are the framework against which we measure behaviour and practices so as to assess the characteristics of good governance.
Our values require that directors and employees behave with integrity, displaying consistent and uncompromising moral strength and conduct in order to promote and maintain trust.
Sound corporate governance is implicit in our values, culture, processes, functions and organisational structure.
Structures are designed to ensure that our values remain embedded in all businesses and processes.
We continually re ne these structures and a written statement of values serves as our code of ethics.
We operate under a Dual Listed Companies DLC structure, and consider the corporate governance principles and regulations of both the UK and South Africa before adopting the appropriate rule for the group.
All international business units operate in accordance with the above determined corporate governance recommendations, in addition to those of their jurisdiction, but with clear adherence at all times to group values and culture.
216 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Governance framework Investecs governance framework is depicted as follows: Investec plc and Investec Limited board of directors DLC remuneration DLC nomination and Board risk and Audit committees committee directors affairs committee capital committee Group DLC capital Audit sub-committees investment committee committee Executive Group legal risk review risk forums Audit and compliance forum implementation forums Deal forum Internal Global new product audit forums forum Compliance Global Global credit market risk committee forum Global Group asset operational and liability risk committees commitee Global IT Global steering compliance committee forum Board statement The board, management and employees of Investec are committed to complying with the disclosure and transparency rules and listing rules of the United Kingdom Listing Authority UKLA, the JSE Limited JSE listings requirements, regulatory requirements in the countries in which we operate, the London Combined Code 2008 and the majority of the King Code of Governance Principles for South Africa 2009 King III, whereby all stakeholders are assured that we are being managed ethically and in compliance with the latest legislation, regulations and best practices.
Governance requirements London Combined Code 2008 The board is of the opinion that, based on the practices disclosed throughout this report, which were in operation during the year under review, Investec has complied with the Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice contained in section 1 of the London Combined Code 2008, excluding the following: 217 Independence of the chairman: The chairman, Hugh Herman, is not considered to be independent as, at the time of his appointment and up to 2005, his duties included promoting the group and introducing clients, but excluded day-to-day executive decisions.
His role was full time and he sat on certain management forums.
He also participated in various management incentive schemes.
2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance
