Private Banking continued Management structure Global head of Private Banking Steven Heilbron UK and Europe Regional heads Avron Epstein Paul Stevens Chief operating of cer Chris Forsyth Structured property finance Gary Dobson Specialised lending David Drewienka Growth and acquisition finance Ed Cottrell Specialised banking Wayne Preston Linda McBain Trust and duciary Xavier Isaacs Investec Bank Channel Islands Stephen Henry Investec Bank Ireland Michael Cullen Marketing Linda McBain Finance Liza Jacobs IT Alan Bletcher South Africa Country head Colin Franks Chief operating of cer Jodi Joseph Risk management Mark Trollip Credit risk Anthony Church Banking Kobus Burger Strategic projects Grant Hartland IT Graeme Lockley Regional head: Cape Town Rob Nicolella Regional head: Durban Brendan Stewart Regional head: Johannesburg Brett Copans Regional head: Port Elizabeth Dion Millson Regional head: Pretoria Charl Wiid Australia High income transactional banking Barry Lanesman Structured property finance Paul Hanley Specialised lending Paul Hanley Growth and acquisition finance Paul Hanley Private wealth management Paul Hanley Treasury and operations in Australia have been centralised.
Review of operating environment In each of the geographies in which we operate, private clients were materially impacted by the global financial crisis.
Private clients experienced signi cant wealth erosion resulting in risk aversion, reduced appetite for leverage and a focus on balance sheet management.
This in turn had a signi cant impact on each of our business units resulting in materially reduced activity and increased impairment levels over the past two and half years.
In response to these conditions the businesses have been through rigorous strategic reviews and restructuring.
Economic recovery has been slower than anticipated but across all geographies we have now started to experience an increase in activity levels.
78 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Divisional review Financial analysis The Private Banking division reported a loss of 91.4 million Impairment losses on loans and advances have increased as a result of the depressed economic environment Key earnings drivers: Core loans and advances increased by 3.0% to 13.3 billion since 31 March 2010 The deposit book increased by 5.9% to 12.5 billion since 31 March 2010 The Private Bank Wealth Management specialisation moved to the Wealth and Investment division with effect from 1 April 2010 in South Africa and 1 July 2010 in the UK and Europe.
Contribution analysis Operating profit Employees Adjusted shareholders equity 100% 100% 100% Remainder of Investec group Private Banking 0% 0% 0% 2011 2010 2011 2011 2010 2010 Before goodwill, acquired intangibles, non-operating items, taxation and after non-controlling interests excluding Group Services and Other Activities.
The numbers prior to 31 March 2005 were reported in terms of UK GAAP.
Amounts from 2008 are shown before goodwill, non-operating items, taxation and after non-controlling interests.
Prior to 2008 amounts have not been adjusted for non-controlling interests.
2011 Investec integrated annual report | Divisional review 21.0% 121.0% 9.3% 90.7% 28.8% 71.2% 36.3% 63.7% 33.8% 66.2% 39.1% 60.9% Private Banking continued Income statement analysis 31 March 31 March % 000 2011 2010 Variance change Net interest income 295249 287121 8128 2.8% Net fee and commission income 70963 91344 20381 22.3% Principal transactions 33027 12578 20449 100.0% Other operating income 348 498 846 100.0% Total operating income 399587 390545 9042 2.3% Impairment losses on loans and advances 244 976 115195 129 781 100.0% Operating costs 246052 238298 7754 3.3% Operating loss profi t before goodwill, acquired intangibles, nonoperating items, taxation and after non-controlling interests 91 441 37052 128 493 100.0% UK and Europe 84 041 6545 90 586 100.0% Southern Africa 2990 29330 26340 89.8% Australia 10390 1177 11567 100.0% Operating loss profi t before goodwill, acquired intangibles, nonoperating items, taxation and after non-controlling interests 91 441 37052 128 493 100.0% Ordinary shareholders' equity 1 099 642 1 008 371 91 271 9.1% ROE pre-tax 9.2% 5.3% Return on tangible equity pre-tax 9.6% 5.5% Cost to income ratio 61.6% 61.0% Operating loss pro t per employee '000 42.4 17.0 59.4 100.0% As calculated on pages 49 and 51.
The variance in operating loss over the year can be explained as follows: The increase in net interest income is mainly due to improved lending margins and a growth in the loan portfolio in South Africa.
In the UK and Europe net interest income has been negatively impacted by increased liquidity levels Net fees and commissions receivable have decreased as a result of lower lending activity levels in prior periods, the closure of the trust of ce in Guernsey and the successful migration of the Private Bank Wealth Management business to the new Investec Wealth and Investment pillar Principal transactions include the revaluations and realisations of equity and warrant positions held.
The increase in principal transactions re ects the realisation of equity holdings in the UK and Europe and the increased value of equity held in South Africa Impairment losses on loans and advances have increased substantially in the UK and Europe and South African businesses.
In the UK and Europe this is due to the limited improvement in the UK economic situation combined with the continued dif cult operating environment in Ireland.
The increase in South Africa is due to a slower than expected recovery in the default book.
Refer to pages 40 and 41 for further commentary on the groups view on impairments The increase in expenses was mainly driven by the increase in average headcount in South Africa.
In the UK and Europe expenses decreased due to a drop in the average headcount related to the migration of the Private Bank Wealth Management business to the new Investec Wealth and Investment pillar and the signi cant restructuring of the Irish business at the beginning of the financial year.
83 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Divisional review Private Banking continued Developments UK and Europe Private Bank UK and Europe can be analysed in three distinct sub-sets for the year to March 2011: the UK banking business, Ireland and the Trust business The UK banking business has experienced: Continued moderate increases in activity levels across all lending specialisations Increased impairments as a result of the limited improvement in the economic situation A stable cost of funds and opportunities to reprice loans to re ect the new market conditions Low deposit raising activities as the group focuses on managing the cost of funds and levels of surplus liquidity A series of new product launches aimed at diversifying our portfolio of deposit products A focused team in place to explore and develop transactional banking capabilities.
The Private Bank Wealth Management business was migrated into Investec Wealth and Investment with effect from 1 July 2010 The Irish operating environment has continued to be very dif cult resulting in increased impairments over the period.
No new business is being written within this geography The Trust business has been subject to an extensive strategic review over the period resulting in the closure of the Guernsey based Trust business and a signi cant reduction in headcount in the Jersey based business.
The emphasis now is the development of new business opportunities.
Southern Africa The Private Bank continues to be active in the raising of retail deposits.
However, growth was muted due to the lack of support for cash as an asset class and the low interest rate environment Lending activity levels have improved compared with the previous year.
Due to signi cant growth in repayments, overall asset growth was subdued Revaluations and realisations of equity stakes and pro t shares contributed signi cantly to operating income The economic environment remains subdued and contributed to an increase in impairments, while also delaying the exit of some of the larger non-performing transactions.
Exit opportunities on residential leisure developments in particular are very limited at present In line with the strategy to consolidate the Wealth and Investment business, the Private Bank Wealth Management business was integrated into this pillar from 1 April 2010 A renewed focus on core banking activities is currently in progress, aiming to improve the offering and client experience to target market individuals.
Australia In order to achieve operational ef ciencies within this geography, the Private Bank was rationalised into two business units: namely High Income Transactional Banking and Private Client Investment Banking.
All divisional operational support and treasury activities were centralised The Private Client Investment Banking business has three key areas of focus: that is, structured property finance, specialised lending and growth and acquisition finance The structured property finance book continued to experience elevated levels of impairments The Private Wealth Management business unit, lacking a stockbroking platform, will be divested early in the new financial year.
84 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Divisional review Outlook The Private Bank is cautiously optimistic as we anticipate a gradual economic recovery.
The past six months have shown an increase in activity as our entrepreneurial private clients risk appetite returns.
This is supported by a healthy pipeline and an improvement in the impairment outlook.
UK and Europe The key objectives remain broadly consistent with those stated in September 2010.
These are to: Entrench our positioning with the entrepreneurial class Drive down our cost of funds and diversify our funding channels Diversify the loan portfolio away from property Achieve an appropriate risk reward ratio on all assets Balance cost containment with investment for the future Diversify revenue streams through the development of non-interest income Provide a fresh alternative to our selected clients within transactional banking.
Southern Africa The key objectives for the forthcoming period are: Restoration of pro tability largely due to improved activity levels in both lending and funding activities and an anticipated reduction in impairments Growing our client base within our key target markets Reduce the risk pro le through increased focus on lower risk lending activities Increase in annuity income through a focus on banking activities and transactional activities Diversifying deposit base Balance cost containment with investment for the future.
Australia High Income Transactional Banking The business has grown substantially over the past year and the investment in infrastructure ensures a base for solid growth Critical objectives are to: Continue to focus on dominating the medical markets Maintain losses and arrears at current low levels Maintain current margins New products launched through the year will grow the business through broadening relationships Pro tability to grow substantially through control of expenses and bene ts of scale.
Private Client Investment Banking An increasing interest rate environment and relatively subdued economic activity in non-mining sectors will continue to exert pressure on the non-performing loan portfolio.
We therefore expect impairments to remain at elevated levels over the short term The critical objective of the Private Client Investment Banking business is to generate non lending, advisory fee income.
85 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Divisional review Private Banking continued Sustainability considerations Investec Private Bank has distinguished itself as a sustainable and diversi ed banking business, with a We have seen compliant and risk conscious culture.
Our approach to sustainability is based on: partnerships in our Our clients: client engagement is core to our business and our belief in partnership business around Our profi tability: forms the basis of our business model, taking into account the economy and green issues and how it affects our clients business and we Our people: the talent within our business are considering Our environment: the planet and how we engage the challenges we face.
ways that we can Over the past year our focus has been on keeping staff morale high and creating opportunities for empower change the business and individuals to grow.
Our internal people strategy emphasises the creation of an in this area.
environment of accountability and responsibility and making emotional connections with staff.
We also focus on the creation of stability and retaining growing talent, as well as ensuring transformation and succession planning in the division.
Core areas of emphasis are: learning and development programmes, addressing identi ed skills gaps, engagement through performance development programme processes, talent retention and people strategy sessions with Organisational Development.
During the past year, our South African business has focused on increasing its learning and development spend on employment equity and maintaining a conscious awareness of employment equity responsibilities, broadly in line with its objectives for junior and middle level roles.
Moving forward we see a need to engage with transformation specialists in order to identify gaps and to become more representative of the South African talent pool.
In February 2011 the Private Bank in Johannesburg launched a solar water geyser initiative, where employees were offered the opportunity to finance solar water geysers for their homes through the Private Bank.
For every three solar water geysers purchased by staff members, one is installed in a low-cost housing project through the Investec social enterprise fund, enabling a family in need to gain access to hot water.
We are the first corporate to offer such a nancing model to employees.
This will be rolled out to other of ces in South Africa during 2011.
Our CSI activity centres around: Supporting staff initiatives in the form of collections and donations to projects and charities of their choice Directing funds to skills development and broad food security projects.
We have seen partnerships in our business around green issues and business and we are considering ways that we can empower change in this area.
This can be done through carefully leveraged equity stakes and pro t share type transactions with clients engaging in renewable energy and water related activities.
Our focus would be for these to have a strong social enterprise slant where we see great bene t at the bottom end of the economic pyramid.
86 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Divisional review Investment Banking Business profi le The Investment Banking division engages in a range of investment banking activities and positions itself as an integrated business focused on local client delivery with international access.
We target clients seeking a highly customised service, which we offer through a combination of domestic depth and expertise within each geography and a client centric approach.
Our activities include: corporate finance, institutional research, sales and trading and principal investments.
Our target market includes: listed and unlisted companies, fund managers, government and parastatals.
UK and Europe The UK business offers a full service mid-market investment banking capability comprising both corporate finance and securities Corporate finance activities include: M&A services Corporate broking Strategic advice IPOs and secondary fundraisings Debt advisory.
Securities activities include: Equity research covering over 80% of the UK All Share Index and select European equities Distribution in the UK, USA and Europe Market making in UK and European equities.
Southern Africa Corporate Finance The Corporate Finance division in South Africa focuses on the following activities: Financial advisory M&A including disposals Corporate and balance sheet restructuring Privatisation Corporate BEE transactions partner selection, structuring, full negotiation, debt raising Fair and reasonable opinions.
Equity capital markets Primary listings primary capital raisings and inward listings Secondary issues rights offers vendor placings issues for cash Share buy-backs.
Sponsor services JSE Securities Regulation Panel liaison and compliance.
Institutional Research, Sales and Trading Institutional Research, Sales and Trading is a specialist South African equity broker which targets both the local and foreign institutional and hedge fund investor.
The offering is presented on a single platform providing clients with access to broad-based, in-depth South African centric research and sales, equity execution, electronic trading, prime broking services and a selection of equity derivative instruments.
Principal Investments We invest in businesses using our balance sheet and apply a buy, build and grow strategy to deliver superior, sustainable returns through a combination of insightful investing, strategic participation and long-term trusted partnerships.
We invest directly into private companies or work as a specialist team to buy out public companies.
We back management teams through building trusted partnerships focusing on organic growth combined with bolt-on acquisitions to help 87 build considerable, sustainable businesses, fund new technologies, expand working capital, make acquisitions and strengthen balance sheets.
2011 Investec integrated annual report | Divisional review
