Reform of the UK regulatory framework The UK government is currently in consultation on reforming the UK regulatory system, representing a dismantling of the tripartite system and a new approach to regulation in the UK.
The proposals include integration of responsibility for banking supervision into the Bank of England under a new prudential regulation authority and the creation of the financial conduct authority FCA which will be responsible for the nonprudential areas of regulation that currently sit with the FSA.
In terms of macro-prudential regulation, the UK government is also proposing the creation of a new financial policy committee FPC in the Bank of England which will assume control of macro-prudential tools to make sure that systemic risks to financial stability are managed.
The UK governments aim is for the new regulatory structure to come into force by the end of 2012.
The reforms will be implemented through primary legislation amending the Financial Services and Markets Act with a draft bill due to be published in Spring 2011.
Independent banking commission The independent banking commission was established in 2010 in order to examine the structure of the banking industry, including the levels of competition in the sector.
The issue of whether banks should be broken up into separate retail and investment banking functions, or somehow ring-fenced from each other, is one of the commissions main considerations.
The commission published its interim report on 11 April 2011.
This sets out the provisional views of the commission on the need for reform and on possible options, and to seek views, evidence and analysis in response as part of a consultation process.
The key concepts outlined in this interim report include structural reforms to the sector, enhanced capital requirements and loss absorbency and the promotion of competition in the retail banking market.
The structural reforms discussed by the commission include high level thoughts on the introduction of a UK retail ring-fence in which UK retail banking activities of universal banks can continue to be provided by universal banks but must be contained within separately capitalised subsidiaries.
The commissions full report is due to be published by the end of September 2011 and submitted to the cabinet committee on banking reform.
Capital and liquidity The prudential regulation and supervision of financial institutions continues to undergo signi cant change in an attempt to address the systemic failures that caused the global financial crisis.
The Basel committee, following consultation, impact analysis and draft proposals during 2010, issued final proposals in December 2010 on the twin areas of capital and liquidity, the key aspects of which are set out below.
These proposals are going through a period of consultation and are expected to be introduced by the end of 2011 and onwards, with substantial transitional arrangements.
Proposals have included: Increased risk weightings for the trading book, securitisations, off-balance sheet exposures and derivatives to be implemented by the end of 2011 A minimum common equity ratio of 4.5% by 1 January 2015, alongside the adoption of an additional capital conservation buffer of 2.5% in common equity, to be phased in between 1 January 2016 and 1 January 2019.
Furthermore, the Basel committee has nalised its proposals for a countercyclical buffer of up to 2.5% in loss-absorbing capital, to be built up in periods during which credit growth exceeds GDP growth Introduction of a gross leverage ratio of 3% of total non-risk weighted assets.
An observation period of parallel running will start in 2013, aiming for the adoption of a minimum standard becoming mandatory in 2018 A new minimum standard has been proposed for liquidity, the liquidity coverage ratio, to extend, under stressed conditions, the period during which a bank can continue to operate when it is unable to dispose of assets to repay withdrawals.
Proposals are also being debated for a net stable funding ratio, which will require banks to match more accurately the maturities of liabilities to assets held.
It is expected that these measures will be phased in after observation periods, in 2015 and 2018 respectively.
FSA Remuneration Code In December 2010 the FSA published an updated Remuneration Code to take into account changes required by the capital requirements directive CRD3.
The revised Code applies to an extended range of rms including all banks and investment rms.
Speci c requirements of the revised Code will primarily affect the remuneration of those senior employees deemed to be code staff a new concept introduced by the revised Code.
Investec largely adheres to the remuneration principles as set out in the FSA Code refer to the remuneration report on page 265 for more detail and will formally adopt the requirements as set out in the code in its 2012 financial year.
213 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance
