Annual Report 11 front end final tp A&R design 3 16 03 2012 17:16 Page 26 Business Review Finance Directors Review The Group continues to operate a prudent hedging programme to capital ratios.
All exposures to individual counterparties are subject to reduce the volatility caused by exchange rate movements, by a formal credit limit to control concentrations of credit exposure and entering into forward foreign exchange contracts.
limit the impact of default risk.
Counterparty limits, ratings, credit default spread rates and capital base, together with utilisation levels, In 2011, the Group achieved an average rate of US$1.52.
are reviewed regularly and reported to the Group Board and Audit & The Groups hedging position as at 28th February 2012 is set out in Risk Committee.
the table on page 25 along with an indication of the potential yearon-year revenue impact based on current market rates.
The respective credit quality by rating of each class of financial asset is included within the notes to these accounts.
As a guide, each one cent movement in the achieved rate taking into account the hedges in place currently translates into a change of Capital risk and liquidity approximately 1 million in revenue, with a corresponding impact on trading profit equal to approximately 65% of the revenue change.
The Group's objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Based on current hedging levels, in 2012 it would take a movement ability to continue to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for of 7 cents in the spot rate to create a 1 cent movement in the other stakeholders and to maintain an efficient capital structure to achieved rate.
ensure an optimal cost of capital.
In order to achieve these objectives, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to The Group has significant investments in overseas operations.
shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell Movements in exchange rates between balance sheet dates will assets to reduce debt.
affect the sterling value of the Groups consolidated balance sheet.
The Group does not hedge exposure to currency movements that The Group manages its balance sheet through monthly reviews, affect the translation of the profits of overseas subsidiaries earned in controls and financial reporting.
foreign currencies, except to the extent that those profits are The Group continues to maintain adequate, committed, long-term expected to be distributed to the holding company.
credit facilities to ensure that it is well positioned to meet seasonal The currency profile of the Groups borrowings is managed to capital requirements and to support the strategic growth of the mitigate exposure to translation exposures where practical and cost business.
There are no restrictions on the use of these facilities in the effective.
The insurance broking operations within the Group operate in a Interest rate risk number of jurisdictions where local regulation requires a minimum The Group has both interest bearing assets and interest bearing level of capital to be maintained.
The total regulatory capital to be liabilities that give rise to net exposures to changes in interest rates, held by the Group is not considered significant in the context of the primarily in US Dollars and Sterling.
Where appropriate, the Group total available capital.
uses interest rate swaps to hedge or match these interest rate exposures.
The Groups policy is to continue to manage net interest rate exposures arising from the Groups cash and borrowings.
The total capital of the Group at 31st December 2011 and Each 1% movement in the average achieved rate of return impacts 2010 was as follows: interest income receivable by approximately 7.0 million, based on m 2011 2010 average invested balances.
Total own funds 90.1 69.3 Counterparty credit risk Borrowings 190.1 145.4 The Group's gross exposure to credit risk at 31st December 2011 is Net debt 100.0 76.1 787 million, representing own cash, fiduciary funds, investments Total equity 298.4 303.4 and deposits, derivative assets and trade receivables.
The Group maintains a counterparty policy based on credit analysis, market data Total capital 398.4 379.5 and published ratings criteria to manage the concentration of funds and exposure to individual counterparties.
Deposit limits are assigned to each counterparty appropriate to its credit rating and overall financial profile.
The Group manages its own cash and invested fiduciary funds in the form of deposits with investment grade banks, AAA money market funds and other secure short-term money market instruments.
All deposit counterparties are subject to review at Board level.
The Groups approval criteria include a requirement that financial institutions maintain a minimum long-term rating of A, with additional reference to credit default swap spreads and capital base and Tier 1 26 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2011
