Overview Annual Report 11 front end final tp A&R design 3 16 03 2012 17:16 Page 3 What We Do Risk & Insurance Retail Wholesale The Risk & Insurance group comprises Delivering an increasingly specialist retail Providing brokers in the US and elsewhere with our specialist broking operations insurance broking service to clients in local, access to insurance capacity in London, around the world and our national and international markets.
Bermuda and Continental Europe through our predominantly London Market based specialist wholesale broker.
Specialty specialist risk, wholesale insurance and Offering clients in selected industries insurance Reinsurance reinsurance broking businesses.
broking and risk management advice through Delivering to clients an analytical approach to It offers clients a distinctive choice dedicated specialist teams with deep client reinsurance broking and a wider variety of through a combination of industry expertise.
independence, flexibility of approach, scale and specialisation.
Employee Benefits Trustee Solutions Investment Solutions As one of the UKs leading employee Offering a range of services designed to meet the Advising institutional clients on all aspects of benefits providers, JLT offers a simple, requirements of pension scheme trustees investment and managing assets for high net centralised source for clients pensions including pensions and actuarial consulting, worth individuals.
and benefit requirements, from administration, governance and communications.
Pension Capital Strategies pensions and actuarial consultancy, to Employee Benefit Solutions Providing strategic consultancy and execution for investment consulting, from flexible Providing advice on the design, implementation a range of fide-risking and risk transfer options to benefit packages to benefit and operation of employee benefit programmes, sponsors and trustees of defined benefit communications and from employee using JLTs own integrated online benefit schemes.
healthcare and protection to wealth platform, BenPal.
Wealth Management Providing independent trustee services to Defined Offering advice and support to scheme members Benefit schemes, particularly to those where risk faced with increasing scheme options, and and conflict may arise or complex transactions through its Chartered Financial Practice offering may be contemplated.
high net worth clients holistic financial advice.
Thistle Insurance Services Direct Intermediated Thistle Insurance Services, which includes the Groups UK Managing Online: Distributing and underwriting insurance This Insurance: Distributing and underwriting General Underwriter, is an underwriting products to consumers and small companies insurance products to a network of more than and distribution company, which through the internet or via a contact centre.
markets products on a non-advisory Affinity: Working with affinity groups to distribute This London Market: Providing UK independent basis.
and underwrite insurance products to their regional brokers with access to the London Thistle offers the fully integrated members.
services of an insurer with its Public & Social: Distributing and underwriting Expacare: Distributing and underwriting underwriting capital being provided by insurance to the Public Sector and to Housing expatriate healthcare insurance through an authorised insurer.
The Group does Association tenants.
independent brokers in the UK and abroad.
not therefore take any underwriting risk on its balance sheet.
JLT International Network A unique network Access to specialty capabilities The JLT International Network operates Utilising the combined resources of owned, partly Providing clients with access to the combined in over 135 countries and is a owned and independent operations to the benefit specialty skills of the JLT International Network.
combination of owned, partly owned of multi-national clients.
and non-owned insurance broking and An actively managed network employee benefit consultancy Actively managed by JLT to provide a flexible, operations.
high quality and innovative service to clients.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2011 3
