Corporate Governance Annual Report 11 front end final tp A&R design 3 16 03 2012 17:17 Page 39 to recruit, retain and motivate individuals of sufficient expertise and Basic salary commitment to further the success of the Group.
The Committees policy on base salary is to provide a fixed component of remuneration which is competitive in the markets in The Group's remuneration for executive directors comprises three which we operate and which appropriately reflects the experience elements: a basic salary, an annual bonus with an element of and capabilities of the individual in the role.
deferral and participation in the Group's LTIP scheme.
These are described in more detail below.
The Committee believes that these After having considered the market positioning of executive director components of remuneration are transparent, uncomplicated in their salaries against this policy, and having regard to practice in the wider operation and strike the right balance between rewarding good Group, the Committee determined that salaries from 1 January 2012 performance in any one year and encouraging the necessary focus would remain unchanged from 2011.
The base salaries are set out in on long term stewardship and performance.
In setting levels of remuneration including basic salary levels, the 2012 Salary 2011 Salary Committee considers appropriate remuneration data relevant to UK D J Burke 650,000 650,000 public companies of a similar size and complexity.
S J Mawson 385,000 385,000 It recognises, however, that there are no directly comparable V Y A C Wade 385,000 385,000 companies in the UK and that its principal international competitors M F G Drummond Brady 330,000 330,000 are often businesses which are part of much larger groups.
In 2011, the Chief Executives base salary was increased from In setting remuneration for 2011, the Committee had proper regard 600,000 to 650,000, having been increased from 525,000 in to the pay and employment conditions of other employees within the 2010.
These increases followed a comprehensive review of the Chief Group.
Executives remuneration package in Q1 2010, after which the Remuneration Committee unanimously concluded that a meaningful A substantial proportion of directors potential remuneration is linked step up in that base salary was appropriate.
This reflected a to the Group's performance, with Group profit before tax determining number of factors, including a his achievements since being a significant proportion of the annual bonus and the Groups EPS appointed to this office in 2005, in particular his energetic leadership performance determining the vesting of long-term incentive awards.
of the business and the contribution he had made to the Group's The following chart illustrates the balance between base salary, significant strategic and financial progress: b his central role in the annual bonus and long term incentive for the CEO and the other Groups continued delivery of significant increases in shareholder Executive Directors.
This chart represents salary, target bonus and value in what could reasonably be considered very difficult markets the face value of the LTIP awarded in the current year.
and c the importance of his salary being competitive against companies of a similar size and complexity.
Chief Executive However, in concluding as part of its 2010 review that an increase was required, the Committee also determined that any such increase should be phased over a period of two years, but with no contractual Other Executive commitment to effect any increase in 2011 and any second tranche Directors only being allocated in the light of continuing outstanding performance and demonstration of the qualities outlined above.
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% In 2011, the Committee, having regard to the financial results for Base salary Annual bonus Long-term incentive 2010 and the demonstrable momentum in the business, concluded that continuing strong performance had been achieved and the further increase referred to above was approved.
The Companys policy in relation to share incentive schemes is to provide the necessary mechanisms for its employees and executive It is worth noting that in a period when many companies have had to directors to participate in the long term success of the Group through settle for navigating through a crises, our business has, in the past schemes which can be operated both in the UK and in overseas five years, broadly doubled in size, with shareholder return in the top jurisdictions where local legislation permits.
The operation of these decile measured against the FTSE 250. schemes is seen by the Board as an essential tool in aligning the The Committee believes that this phased increase was a more interests of key staff with those of the shareholders.
These are prudent and appropriate approach than applying the increase in one summarised on pages 40 and 41. year only.
As explained above, there will be no increase to the Chief The Committee has also considered the structure of directors' Executives salary for 2012. remuneration packages from a risk perspective.
It is satisfied that the packages, which include a market-competitive base salary, an annual Performance related remuneration bonus with an element of deferral and substantial long-term Annual bonus incentives, do not encourage inappropriate risk taking.
The Companys policy on bonus payments is to ensure that they are appropriately linked to challenging Group, business unit and individual Directors Remuneration performance targets, and enable the Company to deliver The various elements of the remuneration package of executive remuneration packages which are competitive in the market, directors are described below and, for emoluments in 2011 and particularly in the insurance industry, and allow it to retain and 2010, set out in the table on page 41. incentivise key executives.
The Chief Executive has a target bonus of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2011 39
