Business Review Annual Report 11 front end final tp A&R design 3 16 03 2012 17:16 Page 17 Continental Europe Insurance Management Financial highlights Financial highlights Total Revenue Underlying Trading Profit Total Revenue Underlying Trading Profit m m m m 21.7 20.9 Trading Margin Trading Margin 5.0 4.9 3% 8% 3.5 2011 2011 0.4 0.3 16% 6% 2010 2010 0.6 10 10 11 11 10 11 10 11 Our Northern European operations had a strong year.
Ireland JLT Insurance Management helps corporations define and exceeded our expectations and we have added to its specialty maximise the benefit of their captive insurance and alternative risk capabilities with the acquisition of FBD, an agri-food specialist.
It has operations in Bermuda, Singapore, Our Nordic region businesses also performed well.
Given the Guernsey, Barbados and also in Malta through a joint venture.
increasingly specialist emphasis of Ireland and the Nordic region, we There was a modest improvement in the performance for JLT have moved the management of these businesses into JLT Specialty Insurance Management with revenue increasing 2%, or 4% at from the start of 2012. constant rates of exchange.
Continued soft insurance market In Southern Europe the performance of our Italian business was conditions remained challenging.
However, new business unsatisfactory and action was taken to reposition and merge that development initiatives implemented in the year, particularly in business with an independent specialty broker, Marine & Aviation emerging markets and new products, began to show positive S. p. A. at the conclusion of the year, in return for a 25% stake in the results in the latter part of the year and this will continue into 2012. combined business.
This will provide a strong foundation from which The continued commitment to service quality and efficiency has to build the leading independent broker in Italy.
provided opportunities in more mature markets.
JLT Insurance In February 2012 we announced the combining of our retail Management continues to be an important adjunct to our retail operations in Spain with March-Unipsa, the largest independent client base as an essential part of risk management.
commercial insurance broker in Spain.
JLT has taken a 25% stake in the combined business which has strong specialty capabilities in construction, tourism and marine & cargo.
Taking minority positions in leading independent brokers in Spain and Italy aligns with our broader European strategy of securing exclusive commercial relationships.
This is already the case in France with our 26% shareholding in Siaci Saint Honor, in Central and Eastern Europe with our 20% interest in GrECo and with JLTs exclusive trading relationship with Ecclesia in Germany.
Principal lines of business Principal lines of business Specialty Captive Management Corporate Captive Consulting Schemes Protected Cell Vehicles Affinity Transformer Structures Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2011 17
