Annual Report 11 front end final tp A&R design 3 16 03 2012 17:17 Page 32 Corporate Governance Directors Report The Directors present their report and the audited consolidated Restrictions on voting financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31st December No member, unless the Directors otherwise determine, is entitled to 2011. vote either in person or by proxy at any general meeting in respect of any shares held by him if any call or other sum then payable by him in Principal activities and business review respect of that share remains unpaid.
In addition, no member is Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc is a holding company entitled to vote if he has been served with a notice after failure to Company Registration Number:1679424. provide the Company with information concerning interests in those Its principal subsidiary and associated undertakings are engaged in shares required to be provided under the Companies Act.
risk management advice, insurance and reinsurance broking, Deadlines for exercising voting rights underwriting services and the provision of employee benefit services.
Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to corporate The Business Review, comprising the Chairmans Statement, Chief members, by corporate representative.
The Articles provide a deadline Executives Review, Review of Operations, Finance Directors Review for submission of proxy forms of not less than 48 hours before the and Risk Management Report together with the Overview on pages 1 time appointed for the holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting to 29 report on the Group's development during the year under review and the notice of Annual General Meeting will specify the deadline for and on the outlook for the future.
These fulfil the requirements of the exercising voting rights.
Business Review and are incorporated in this report by reference.
Variation of rights Results and dividends If at any time the capital of the Company is divided into different The financial statements set out the consolidated results of the Group classes of shares then, subject to statute, the Articles specify that for the year ended 31st December 2011, which are shown on pages rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the written 49 to 104.
The profit attributable to shareholders amounted to consent of the holders of at least 75% nominal value of the issued 88,746,000 2010: 90,664,000. shares of that class, or with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of those shares.
The financial statements for the Company to 31st December 2011, At every such separate general meeting the quorum is two persons prepared in accordance with UK GAAP, are set out on pages 107 to holding or representing by proxy at least one third in nominal value of 110. the issued shares of the class calculated excluding any shares held The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 14.8 as treasury shares.
pence per share which, together with the interim dividend of 9.2 A member that is a corporation may appoint an individual to act on its pence per share paid in October 2011, amounts to a total dividend of behalf at a general meeting or class meetings as a corporate 24.0 pence per share 2010: 22.5 pence per share.
The person so authorised shall be entitled to exercise Shareholders rights the same powers on behalf of such corporation as the corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the Company.
Dividends and distributions Shareholders can declare final dividends by passing an ordinary Transfer of shares resolution but the amount of the dividend cannot exceed the amount All transfers of shares may be effected by transfer in writing in any recommended by the Board.
usual or common form or in any other form acceptable to the The Board can pay interim dividends whenever the financial position of Directors.
The instrument of transfer must be signed by or on behalf of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies such payment.
The the transferor and except in the case of fully-paid shares by or on Board can withhold payment of all or any part of any dividend or other behalf of the transferee.
The transferor shall remain the holder of the monies payable in respect of the Companys shares from any person shares concerned until the name of the transferee is entered in the with a 0.25 per cent interest as defined in the Articles if that person Register of Members of the Company.
The Directors may, at any time has been served with a notice after failure to provide the Company after the allotment of any share, but before any person has been with information concerning interest in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act.
In addition, the Directors may Substantial shareholders deduct from any dividend payable to any member all sums of money if any presently payable by him to the Company on account of calls At 16th March 2012 being the latest practicable date prior to the or otherwise in relation to shares of the Company.
The Directors may posting of this report, the Company had been notified of the retain any dividends payable on shares on which the Company has a following major interests each representing 3% or more of the lien, and may apply the same in or towards satisfaction of the debts, existing issued ordinary share capital see table below.
Jardine liabilities or engagements in respect of which the lien exists.
Matheson Holdings Limited's interest is held through its wholly Voting rights owned subsidiary JMH Investments Limited.
Jardine Strategic Holdings Limited is interested in the shares of Jardine Matheson On a show of hands at a general meeting, every member present in Holdings Limited under Section 823 1 b of the Companies Act person has one vote and on a poll every member who is present in person or by proxy has one vote for each share held.
In the case of 2006. joint holders of a share the vote of the senior who tenders a vote Ordinary % whether in person or by proxy will be accepted to the exclusion of the Shareholder shares Held votes of the other joint holders and, for this purpose, seniority will be JMH Investments Limited 87,701,454 40.20 determined by the order in which the names stand in the Register of Members in respect of the share.
Voting rights in relation to Treasury Silchester International Investors LLP 16,260,234 7.45 shares are suspended and the voting rights are not normally exercised Massachusetts Financial Services Company 10,100,298 4.63 in respect of the shares held in the employee benefit trusts.
Royal Bank of Canada 8,692,411 3.98 32 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2011
