Annual Report 11 front end final tp A&R design 3 16 03 2012 17:17 Page 34 Corporate Governance Directors Report conflict management procedures have been prepared and approved The Board considers that the members of the Committee collectively by the Board.
The Board is responsible for reviewing and authorising possess the requisite skills and experience to enable it to discharge its any conflict declarations arising and these are subject to periodic responsibilities in a proper manner.
These procedures remained in place for the year The Committee met four times during the year, with representatives and no conflicts of interest have been reported.
from the external and internal auditors, and the Group Finance Director, Group Legal Director, Group Chief Operating Officer and Powers of the Directors and Board procedures Group Chief Risk Officer normally in attendance at each meeting.
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and any directions The Chairman and the Group Chief Executive also attend, subject to given by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed availability.
by the Directors who may exercise all the Companys powers, including borrowing money, mortgaging or charging any of its In addition, the Committee meets separately with the external and undertaking, property and uncalled capital and issuing debentures and internal auditors.
Details of the attendance of each member are set out other securities, whether outright or as collateral security for any debt, in the table below.
liability or obligation of the Company or of any third party.
The Committee is, inter alia, responsible for: There are established formal procedures for the structure and Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group authorities through which the Board discharges its responsibilities for and any formal announcements relating to the Group's financial the direction and management of the Group.
performance, and reviewing significant financial reporting The Board meets at least six times a year, to review the performance judgements contained therein: of the Group and to discuss the matters reserved for its decisions, Reviewing the Group's risk management framework, risk appetite which include, inter alia, the approval of Group strategy and budget and risk strategy to ensure that these are appropriate to the plans, material expenditure authorisations and any other matters that activities of the Group and to make recommendations to the are referred to it.
The Board is responsible for identification of the material risks facing the Group and for determination of risk appetite: The Board has established a number of standing committees including an Audit & Risk Committee, a Nominations Committee and a Reviewing the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal Remuneration Committee.
The terms of reference of these committees controls, such review covering financial, operational and are available on the Company's website.
compliance controls and risk management and reporting to the Board thereon: Relationship with shareholders Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Group's internal audit function: The Board endeavours to maintain dialogue with institutional shareholders and carries out a programme of meetings and Making recommendations to the Board in relation to the presentations each year following the publication of interim and final appointment of the external auditors and the approval of the results and at other times as appropriate.
At the Annual General remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditors: Meeting the Chairmen of the Audit & Risk, Nominations and Reviewing and monitoring the external auditors' independence Remuneration Committees will be available to answer questions.
and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking The Senior Independent Director is available to meet with Institutional into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory Investors upon request.
requirements: and Reviewing the policy on the engagement of the external auditors Committees of the Board to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant guidance The Audit & Risk Committee regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external The Committee members are non-executive directors, the majority of auditors.
The membership of the Committee during the The Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, year comprised: Nick MacAndrew Chairman, Richard Harvey, Simon identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or Keswick and John Paynter.
improvement is needed, and make recommendations as to the steps Mr MacAndrew is a chartered accountant and his profile is set out on to be taken.
Board attendance The number of Board and Committee meetings attended by Board or appropriate Committee members in the year is shown below.
Board Audit & Risk Remuneration Nominations meeting Committee Committee Committee 7 x in period 4 x in period 3 x in period 1 x in period G M T Howe 7- - 1 D J Burke 7- - - M F G Drummond Brady appointed to the board on 1st March 2011 4- - - R J Harvey 74 3 1 S L Keswick 52 1 1 Lord Leach 5- 1 1 N R MacAndrew 74 3 1 S J Mawson 7- - - J G H Paynter 74 3 1 V Y A C Wade 7- - - 34 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2011
