The Fund Managers have contributed 2.2% of Portfolio Value growth 6. through enhancing the assets The Fund Managers David Marshall David Marshall has 11 years of infrastructure investment The JLIF Portfolio comprises a experience with John Laing.
Before assuming his position diversified balance of stable, low risk as dedicated Fund Manager he was Chairman of the John Laing Investment Committee and sat on its project review operational projects requiring proactive committee for 10 years.
David also held the position of John Laing Group Treasurer for seven years and has management, and we benefit from substantial M&A experience including, during the course access to a large team of highly of his career with John Laing, the acquisition and disposal of PPP assets both on an individual and Portfolios basis.
experienced PPP professionals with David is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants an in depth knowledge of our projects in England and Wales and a Fellow of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
Prior to joining John Laing, he was and the industry as a whole.
Group Treasurer of two FTSE 100 listed companies.
2011 has been a landmark year for the Company, with an expansion and pleasing level of growth in the value of our assets.
We look forward to sustained growth and the continued delivery of value to our shareholders in 2012.
Andrew Charlesworth Andrew Charlesworth has over 13 years of experience in JLIF has had an eventful year, raising infrastructure investments.
He has a multi-faceted experience an additional 158 million and in the PPP market, having been Adviser to authorities in procuring PFI projects and to senior lenders in funding them 1 acquiring 15 new or additional prior to becoming an equity sponsor.
In the last 10 years Andrew has led the equity investment in a number of PFI projects across stakes in projects, launching it into most sectors, delivering investment of over 600 million of the FTSE 250 index in December.
shareholder contributions into projects and having raised over 1.5 billion in funding.
We are particularly pleased to have Prior to moving into JLCM Andrew led significant parts of sourced seven investments from the primary investment business within John Laing, initially as CEO of Regenter John Laings Social Housing PFI JV, then three third party vendors post year as Local Authority PFI Director and ultimately as the Financial and Commercial Director for the global John Laing end whilst driving steady growth Investments business.
in underlying Portfolio Value and stable yield, delivering Total Shareholder Return from launch to the end of 2011 of 12.0%.
1 30 assets acquired prior to December 2011 with an additional three assets acquired from secondary market January 2012.
Joanne Gibbins ACSI Joanne is the Senior Analyst to JLCM, providing fund JLIFs Portfolio has management services to JLIF to deliver value to investors.
experienced 9.2% growth Joanne is primarily responsible for managing acquisitions, reporting, research, and finance on behalf of JLIF.
Joanne on a rebased value since also holds a directorship on one of JLIFs assets.
Nearly Joanne has over eight years experience in infrastructure investments, contributing to 31 projects and raising 2 billion a quarter of this growth was of funding in the primary market.
Prior to August 2010, Joanne led the finance and commercial elements of multiple due to value added by the PPP projects across most sectors of the infrastructure Investment Adviser through market, both in the UK and internationally, and raised and invested project finance of approximately 500 million.
our vast experience and Previously, Joanne worked at a FTSE 250  company and gained significant experience in understanding of JLIFs financial modelling for bidding and advising consortia on their assets.
afforded JLIF seven successes Joanne is regulated by the FSA, holds the ACSI designation and is currently a CFA candidate, having passed both level 1 in third party acquisitions in and level 2 exams.
recent months and have anchored JLIFs credibility in the infrastructure space.
John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited
