JLIF has a board of five independent non-executive Directors who 30. are responsible for the overall management of the Company Board of Directors Paul Lester, CBE, Chairman 62 years old Paul Lester, a resident of the United Kingdom, has been appointed as Chairman of three organisations: Greenergy International Ltd in October 2010, Survitec Group in August 2011 and Norland Managed Services in September 2011.
Mr Lester was Chief Executive of VT Group plc, the support services company, from July 2002 to July 2010.
Mr Lester was group managing Director of Balfour Beatty plc, the international engineering, construction and services group, from 1997 to 2002, and Chief Executive of Graseby plc from 1990 to 1997.
Mr Lester has also held senior management positions at Schlumberger and the Dowty Group plc.
He is an ex-president of the Society of Maritime Industries.
Mr Lester is a non-executive Director of Invensys plc and is a visiting professor at Nottingham Trent University.
David MacLellan, Deputy Chairman 52 years old David MacLellan, a resident of the United Kingdom, is the founder and currently Chairman of RJD Partners, a midmarket private-equity business focussed on the services and leisure sectors.
Previously, Mr MacLellan was an Executive Director of Aberdeen Asset Managers plc following its acquisition in 2000 of Murray Johnstone where he was latterly Chief Executive having joined the company in 1984.
Mr MacLellan has served on the boards of a number of companies and is currently a non-executive Director of Havelock Europa plc and Maven Income and Growth VCT 2 plc.
He is a past council member of the British Venture Capital Association and is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
Christopher Spencer 61 years old Christopher Spencer, a resident of Guernsey, qualified as a chartered accountant in London in 1975.
Following two years in Bermuda, he moved to Guernsey.
Mr Spencer, who specialised in audit and fiduciary work, was Managing Partner Director of Pannell Kerr Forster Guernsey Limited from 1990 until his retirement in May 2000.
Mr Spencer is a member of the AIC Offshore Committee, a past President of the Guernsey Society of Chartered and Certified Accountants and a past Chairman of the Guernsey Branch of the Institute of Directors.
Mr Spencer sits on the board of Directors of Real Estate Credit Investments Limited, IRP Property Investments Limited, Tamar European Industrial Fund Limited, JP Morgan Private Equity Limited, Dexion Trading Limited and Ruffer Investment Company Limited, each of which is listed on the London Stock Exchange, and Low Carbon Accelerator Limited, which is listed on the London Stock Exchanges Alternative Investment Market.
Mr Spencer also sits on the board of Directors of Thames River Longstone Limited and Thames River ISIS Fund Limited, each of which is listed on the Irish Stock Exchange, and Thames River Property and Growth Fund Limited, which is listed on the Channel Islands Stock Exchange.
Guido Van Berkel 61 years old Guido Van Berkel, a resident of Luxembourg, is an Associate of The Directors Office, the leading practice of independent Talmai Morgan Directors in Luxembourg.
Mr Van Berkel started his career in the financial industry nearly 40 years ago and has held 59 years old various senior positions with Bank Sarasin, Rabobank, Robeco Group and Citibank.
Over the course of his career, he Talmai Morgan, a resident of Guernsey, qualified as a has worked in the Netherlands, Jersey, Switzerland and barrister in the United Kingdom in 1976.
Guernsey in 1988 where he worked for Barings as general counsel and then for the Bank of Bermuda as Managing From 2000 until 2007 Mr Van Berkel was active on the Director of Bermuda Trust Guernsey Limited.
From January Executive Board of Bank Sarasin in Switzerland and as such 1999 to June 2004, Mr Morgan was Director of Fiduciary he acted as chairman of various Sarasin entities across Services and Enforcement at the Guernsey Financial Services Europe and Asia.
Currently Mr Van Berkel is independent Commission Guernseys financial regulatory agency where Director in a number of Luxembourg and Dutch investment he was responsible for the design and subsequent fund ranges and from the beginning of 2012 he is implementation of Guernseys law relating to the regulation chairman of BlackRock Luxembourg SA and BlackRock of fiduciaries, administration businesses and company Fundmanagement Sarl in Luxembourg.
Mr Morgan was also involved in working groups of the Financial Action Task Force and the Offshore Group of Banking Supervisors.
From July 2004 to May 2005, Mr Morgan served as Chief Executive of Guernsey Finance, which is the official body for the promotion of the Guernsey finance industry.
Mr Morgan is now the Chairman or a non-executive Director of a number of investment companies including companies listed on the London Stock Exchanges main market for listed securities.
He holds an M. A. in economics and law from the University of Cambridge.
John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited
