JLIF invests in assets that have predominantly availability based revenue streams and are located in fiscally strong countries Investment Policy The Company invests in projects whose revenue streams are: The Companys Investment public sector or government-backed: and Policy is to invest in equity and predominantly availability based where the payments received by the Assets do not generally depend on the level of use of the project subordinated debt issued in asset : other projects being demand based where the payments respect of infrastructure PPP received by the Assets depend on the level of use made of the project assets.
A project is availability based for these purposes if projects.
The Company will the Investment Adviser deems that 75% or more of payments from the relevant Project Entity do not generally depend on the level of predominantly invest in use of the project asset.
projects that have completed Whilst it is envisaged that further acquisitions will be of operational construction and that are in PPP projects with availability based revenues, it may be possible that a limited number of projects in construction or with demand based their operational phase.
revenue mechanisms may be acquired.
Currently all projects owned Investment Capital in projects whose revenue streams are predominantly are operational and at all demand based will be limited to 15% of the Total Assets of the Company, calculated at the time of investment.
For the purposes of this investment times Investment Capital restriction the shadow toll mechanism for the investments in both the M40 motorway and M6 motorway projects is not regarded as carrying in projects that are under demand risk due to its relative insensitivity to traffic movement.
construction will be limited Geographic focus to 15% of the Total Assets of The Directors believe that attractive opportunities for the Company the Company calculated at to enhance returns for Shareholders are likely to arise in areas of the world where PPP is a practiced route for delivering infrastructure the time of investment.
The Company may therefore make investments in the European Union, other European countries, Canada, the United States of America and the Asia Pacific region.
The Company will seek to mitigate country risk by concentrating on investment opportunities in jurisdictions where JLCM advises that contract structures and their enforceability are reliable, where to the extent applicable JLCM advises that public sector obligations carry a satisfactory credit rating and where financial markets are relatively mature.
The Company will seek to ensure that over 50% of the Companys Total Assets, measured by value, will be in respect of projects that are based in the UK although this will not require the Company to dispose of Investment Capital in respect of non-UK projects if this limit is breached as a result of changes in value of the Investment Portfolio.
John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited 16.
Single investment limit and diversity of clients and suppliers A requirement for the buy-side committee to conduct due diligence on the Investment Capital proposed to be purchased When any new acquisition is made, the Company will ensure that the which is separate from and independent of any due diligence investment or in the event of an acquisition of a Portfolio of investments conducted for the John Laing Group, and for a report on the Fair each investment in the Portfolio acquired does not have an acquisition Market Value of the Investment Capital to be obtained from an value or, if it is an additional stake in an existing investment, the independent expert.
combined value of both the existing stake and the additional stake acquired is not greater than 25% of the Total Assets of the Company The establishment of information barriers between members of immediately post acquisition.
In selecting new investments to acquire, the buy-side and sell-side committees to ensure confidentiality the Company will seek to ensure that the Portfolio of projects in which and integrity of commercially sensitive information, and for the Company invests has a range of public sector clients and supply individuals with economic interests in the Investment Capital to chain contractors, in order to avoid over-reliance on either a single abstain from participating in committee discussions and votes on client or a single contractor.
The Company will seek to acquire further investments going forward Gearing both from the John Laing Group and from the wider market.
In The Company intends to make prudent use of leverage and leverage selecting the assets to acquire, JLCM will ensure that these projects in the context of the Company shall exclude senior debt in place at have similar characteristics to the projects in the Portfolio and meet Project Entity level for financing acquisitions of investments and the investment criteria of the Company.
Under the Company Articles, and in accordance with the Companys Investment Policy, the Companys Any proposed acquisition of assets by the Company from John Laing outstanding borrowings, excluding intra-group borrowings and the Group companies that fall within the overall investment parameters debts of underlying Assets but including any financial guarantees to set by the Company, including in relation to funding, will be subject to support subscription obligations, will be limited to 25% of the Total approval by the Directors, who other than as disclosed in paragraph Assets of the Company.
The Company may borrow in currencies other 7.8 of Part 7 of the October 2010 Prospectus are independent of John than pounds sterling as part of its currency hedging strategy.
In view of the procedures above and the fact that it is a key part of the Companys Investment Policy to acquire assets that have been originated by and from the John Laing Group, the Company will not seek Origination of investments the approval of Shareholders to acquisitions of assets from the John All of the investments in the Portfolio haves similar characteristics Laing Group in the ordinary course of the Companys Investment Policy.
to those set out above and further investments will only be acquired if they generally satisfy these criteria.
It is expected that further The Rules, as defined in the Prospectus, require that any arrangements investments will include investments that have been originated and between a relevant person as defined in the Rules and the Company developed by members of the John Laing Group and may be acquired are at least as favourable to the Company as would be any comparable from them.
arrangement effected on normal commercial terms negotiated at arms length between the relevant person and an independent party.
The Company has established procedures to deal with any potential conflicts of interest that may arise from individuals at John Laing who The Company has the contractual right of first offer for relevant may either act on the buy-side for the Company or the sell-side Investment Capital in UK, European and Canadian accommodation and for any member of the John Laing Group in relation to any acquisition roads and UK waste projects of which the John Laing Group companies of assets from the John Laing Group.
These procedures include: wish to dispose and that are consistent with the Companys investment policies.
It is envisaged that the John Laing Group companies will The creation of a separate buy-side committee representing the periodically make available for sale further Portfolios of Investment interests of the Company as purchaser and a separate sell-side Capital in infrastructure PPP projects that have completed construction committee representing the interests of the relevant John Laing although there is no guarantee that this will be the case.
Subject Group company as seller, with each member of the buy-side to due diligence and agreement on price, the Company will seek to committee having the benefit of a release from his or her duties acquire those projects that fit the investment objectives of the Company.
as a John Laing Group employee to the extent that these duties conflict with their duties to act in the interests of the Company as a member of the buy-side committee.
The Company will also seek out and review acquisition opportunities Interest rate hedging may also be carried out to seek to provide protection from outside the John Laing Group that arise and will, where against increasing costs of servicing any debt drawn down by the appropriate, carry out the necessary due diligence.
If, in the opinion Company to finance investments.
This may involve the use of interest of JLCM as Operator of the Partnership the risk characteristics, rate derivatives and similar derivative instruments.
valuation and price of the Investment Capital in the project or projects Currency and interest rate hedging transactions will only be undertaken for sale is acceptable and is consistent with the Companys investment for the purpose of efficient Portfolio management and these transactions policies, then subject to the Company having funds an offer will will not be undertaken for speculative purposes.
be made without seeking the prior approval of the Board and, if successful, the Investment Capital in the relevant project or projects Amendments to and compliance with the Investment Policy will be acquired by the Company, following approval by the Board.
Material changes to the Investment Policy of the Company may only be made in accordance with the approval of the Shareholders by way of Potential disposals of investments ordinary resolution and for so long as the Ordinary Shares are listed Whilst the Directors may elect to retain Investment Capital in the on the Official List in accordance with the Listing Rules.
Portfolio projects which the Company acquires and any other further investments made by the Company over the long-term, JLCM will The investment restrictions detailed above apply at the time of the regularly monitor the valuations of such projects and any secondary acquisition of Investment Capital.
In the ordinary course of business, market opportunities to dispose of Investment Capital and report the Company will not be required to dispose of Investment Capital and to the Directors accordingly.
The Directors only intend to dispose of to rebalance its investment Portfolio as a result of a change in the Investments where upon the advice of JLCM they consider that respective valuations of Investment Capital.
Minor changes to the appropriate value can be realised for the Company or where they Investment Policy must be approved by the Board of the Company, taking otherwise believe that it is appropriate to do so.
Proceeds from the into account advice from the Investment Adviser where appropriate.
disposal of investments may be reinvested or distributed at the discretion of the Directors.
Investment Adviser and Operator Under the Investment Advisory Agreement, JLCM, an investment Currency and hedging policy manager authorised and regulated in the UK by the FSA, has been A portion of the Companys underlying investments may be denominated appointed by the Company as Investment Adviser.
JLCM has also been in currencies other than Sterling.
For example, currently some of the appointed as Operator of the Partnership through which the Company Portfolio is denominated in Canadian Dollars and Euros.
However, conducts its investment activities and in its capacity as Operator of the any dividends or distributions in respect of the Ordinary Shares will Partnership acts as discretionary investment manager of the Companys be made in Sterling and the market prices and Net Asset Value of the investments within the strategic guidelines set out in the Partnership Ordinary Shares will be reported in Sterling.
only be carried out to seek to provide protection to the level of Sterling David Marshall and Andrew Charlesworth, both of whom are Directors dividends and other distributions that the Company aims to pay on the of JLCM and lead its management team, are dedicated to advising the Ordinary Shares, and in order to reduce the risk of currency fluctuations Company and the management of the Company.
and the volatility of returns that may result from such currency exposure.
This may involve the use of foreign currency borrowings to finance foreign currency assets, or forward foreign exchange contracts for up to three years to hedge the income from assets that are exposed to exchange rate risk against Sterling.
John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited 18.
Relationship with John Laing Company structure John Laing is a leading sponsor of privately financed investment in The Company has invested in its current Portfolio and will continue to infrastructure.
Its business is based primarily on long-term concessions invest in further infrastructure investments indirectly via a series of to design, build, operate and finance infrastructure projects.
Further holding entities, as follows: details in relation to John Laing were set out in Part 4 of the 2010 The Company invests in equity and profit participation instruments Prospectus.
of JLIF Luxco 1 Srl Luxco 1, a socit responsabilit limite The Company has now acquired 31 stakes in projects from John Laing, Srl established in Luxembourg, which in turn invests in equity the Seed Portfolio of 19 projects, and 12 in 2012.
All of these projects and debt of a similar entity, JLIF Luxco 2 Srl Luxco 2.
Both have either been originated and developed or acquired in the secondary Luxco 1 and Luxco 2 together the Luxcos are wholly owned market, by John Laing plc.
For originated projects John Laing has been subsidiaries of the Company direct and indirect respectively, involved throughout the original competitive bidding process for each with Luxco 2 being wholly owned by Luxco 1. project.
For those projects acquired in the secondary market John Luxco 2 is the sole limited partner in the Partnership, an English Laing was responsible for due diligence prior to completion of the limited partnership which has a special purpose vehicle as its relevant acquisitions and for the integration of such projects into the general partner the General Partner.
The General Partner is a John Laing Portfolio.
wholly owned indirect subsidiary of John Laing plc.
The General John Laing provides day to day management services directly to 24 of Partner, on behalf of the Partnership, has appointed JLCM as the projects in the Portfolio under management services agreements.
The remaining six projects are managed by associated companies of Luxco 2 primarily invests the contributions it receives from Luxco 1 co-shareholders.
For all of these projects which the Company acquired, in capital contributions and partner loans to the Partnership, which JLCM, as Operator, has been fortunate to be able to retain experienced acquired and holds infrastructure investments directly or indirectly John Laing project directors, who will continue to take an active role in through intermediate wholly owned companies and or other entities.
managing and reviewing these projects.
The Companys infrastructure investments are registered in the name John Laing now owns 18.2% of the Ordinary shares in JLIF.
It subscribed of the General Partner, the Partnership, subsidiaries of the Partnership for 23.1% of the Ordinary Shares that were issued at IPO, and only or their respective nominees.
partially took part in the two capital raisings in 2011.
John Laing is no longer the subject of a lock-in agreement.
A representative diagram of the Company structure is set out on page 83.
