Ofcom Statement on BTs Current Cost Financial Statements 2010 11 Current Cost Accounting valuation of assets Introduction Following a significant increase in the net replacement cost of assets in the 2009 10 RFS we Relevant, reliable and timely regulatory financial information informs many of our decisions.
note that in 2010 11 a number of unrelated factors have resulted in a decrease in the We require this information in order to monitor and enforce various obligations that are placed valuation of assets.
In Section 4.1, BT describes how these values were derived and in on BT in markets where they are found to have significant market power SMP and as a particular the assumptions and estimates used to calculate access network asset mainly source of data for setting and monitoring charge controls.
It is also an important tool for other copper, duct and 21CN equipment values.
They show a holding loss decrease in value of communications providers, because amongst others it provides assurance that BT is approximately 1,200m, representing approximately 7.5% of the Mean Capital Employed in complying with its cost-orientation and no undue discrimination obligations.
BTs reporting obligations arise out of market reviews conducted by Ofcom and out of SMP Traditional Interface Symmetric Broadband Origination TISBO above service Conditions OA1 to OA34 and Directions 1 to 6.
45Mbit s up to and including 155Mbit s Restatement Under SMP services Condition OA6 c, BT is required to publish with the audited regulatory financial statements RFS any written statement made by Ofcom and provided to BT We note that in Section 4.1 BT has explained that in TISBO above 45Mbit s up to and commenting on the data in, the notes to or the presentation of any or all of the RFS and or the including 155Mbit s 2009 10 comparative figures have been restated to reflect a correction Accounting Documents.
in BTs calculation of internal links volumes.
The RFS are produced by BT and follow the principles and methodologies as set out in BTs As a result we observe that this has reduced revenues and costs in the TISBO above 45Mbit s Primary and Secondary accounting documents.
These documents are published alongside the up to and including 155Mbit s Market for 2009 10 by 21m and 9m respectively with a RFS.
They have not been reviewed by Ofcom.
consequent increase in the unit costs for impacted services.
Notwithstanding this, Ofcom believes that we can be helpful to users of the accounts by Maintaining the current reporting obligations drawing attention to several important aspects of BTs 2010 11 RFS.
We believe it is important that the current reporting requirements remain appropriate and Reporting of Long Run Incremental Costs LRIC, the Distributed Long Run therefore continue to discuss with BT how the RFS need to change to secure this.
As in Incremental Costs DLRIC and the Distributed Stand Alone Costs DSAC previous years, we will identify and work with BT to improve the 2011 12 RFS, for example to reflect our market review decisions and technological developments.
BT is required to publish these statements within four months of the financial year end by 31 July.
However, on 29 July 2011 BT issued a statement explaining that the publication of the A fundamental review of the reporting framework Regulatory Financial Statements RFS for 2010 11 would be delayed until September 2011.
In 2008 09 we announced that we would undertake a fundamental review of the regulatory This delay was caused by BTs decision to review the methodology used to calculate the LRIC, reporting framework to ensure it remains fit for purpose into the future, provides good quality DLRIC, and DSACs published in the Current Cost Financial Statements.
In Section 4.1, BT states data and is an effective system for monitoring compliance.
Due to changing priorities our work its view that its approach for calculating the LRIC, DLRIC and DSACs for 2010 11 is now such was put on hold.
that all cost categories are treated on a consistent basis.
The comparative figures for the year 2009 10 have been restated by BT on the same basis as outlined in Section 4.1.
These changes It is now our intention to restart this review this Autumn.
We will review BT's regulatory in certain services have had a material impact on the estimated LRICs, DSACs and DLRICs.
financial reporting, as well as consider publishing guidance on the methodology for assessing cost orientation.
BT advises that further detail is included in Sections 1.2 and 4.1 of the RFS, and in the LRIC Model: Relationships and Parameters 2011.
