REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS POLICIES Political donations Responsible business Our continuing policy is that no company in the group will make Our Statement of Business Practice: The Way We Work TWWW contributions in cash or kind to any political party, whether by gift has been in place for more than 10 years.
This covers all our or loan.
However, the denition of political donations used in the operations and applies worldwide to all employees, and to all Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act is very much broader than the agents and contractors when representing BT, and is available in sense in which these words are ordinarily used.
It is supported by a number of ethical policies, activities such as making MPs and others in the political world including Anti-Corruption and Bribery, Gifts and Hospitality and aware of key industry issues and matters affecting the company, Charitable Donations and Sponsorship: as well as guidance on which make an important contribution to their understanding of ethical issues.
All employees and contractors are required to sign up BT.
These activities have been carried out on an even-handed basis, to TWWW and our Anti-Corruption and Bribery Policy.
Our suppliers related broadly to the major UK political parties electoral strength.
are also expected to comply with the principles set out in TWWW The authority we are requesting at the AGM is not designed to and our ethical policies.
It will, however, ensure that BT continues We operate a Gifts and Hospitality recording system for our to act within the provisions of the 2006 Act requiring companies to employees to register and approve all gifts and business obtain shareholder authority before they can make donations to EU entertainment given and received.
We are committed to high political parties and or political organisations as dened in the ethical standards and legal compliance in all aspects of our 2006 Act.
During 2011, the companys wholly-owned subsidiary, business.
We have measured our employee awareness of TWWW British Telecommunications plc, made the following payments and the extent to which our employees display ethical behaviour: totalling 11,935 2010: 14,952 to cover, for example, the cost and our performance measures on ethics track our policies.
We of hosting brieng meetings with MPs and MEPs about the have also conducted an independent culture survey to assess companys activities: Labour Party 2,000: Conservative Party ethical behaviours within our business and to help us to build on 3,686: Liberal Democrats 600: Scottish National Party 4,650 our global culture for the coming year.
No loans were made to any political party by any company in the BT group.
Through our Sourcing with Human Dignity initiative, we seek to ensure that working conditions throughout our supply chain meet Pension funds internationally recognised human rights standards.
We investigate potential social and environmental shortcomings and are BTs two main UK pension arrangements the BT Pension Scheme committed to achieving 100% follow-up within three months for BTPS and the BT Retirement Saving Scheme BTRSS are not all suppliers identied as high or medium risk.
During 2011 we controlled by the Board but by a separate and independent completed 34 on-site assessments 2010: 32.
The majority of corporate trustee for the BTPS and a management committee for assessments were conducted in China as well as in Vietnam, Turkey, the BTRSS.
The Trustee of the BTPS looks after the assets of the Sri Lanka, the UK, Ukraine and Spain.
We now employ our own funds, which are held separately from those of the company.
For assessor based in Shanghai, which has enabled us to focus our BTRSS members, each member has an individual personal pension efforts on suppliers in China.
We work with our suppliers to help secured with an insurance company Standard Life.
Pension funds them improve their performance.
In 2011 86% of our suppliers assets can be used only in accordance with their respective rules agreed that we work with them to ensure our purchases are made, and for no other purpose.
More information on the BTPS is included delivered, used and disposed of in a socially and environmentally in note 23 to the consolidated financial statements.
Financial statements The principles in TWWW and our ethical policies are supported by a continuing and comprehensive communication programme and So far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant training.
A dedicated ethics helpdesk is available to employees who information that has not been disclosed to the auditors and each of have questions or would like guidance about our ethical policies.
the directors believes that all steps have been taken that ought to We also provide a condential helpline so people can report any have been taken to make them aware of any relevant audit ethical concerns.
BTs Undertakings code of practice It matters information and to establish that the auditors have been made forms part of our statement of business practice and is consistent aware of that information.
A statement by the directors of their responsibilities for preparing We are committed to managing our environmental performance.
the financial statements is included in the Statement of directors BTs environmental management system within the UK has been responsibility on page 88.
The directors statement on going certied to the international standard ISO 14001 since 1999.
Since concern is included in the Financial review on page 54. then we have extended our main certication to include Belgium, Ireland, Germany and the Netherlands.
BT Italy and BT Spain hold Takeover Directive disclosure their own individual ISO 14001 certications.
Following the implementation of the EU Takeover Directive by A Board committee the Committee for Sustainable & Responsible certain provisions of the 2006 Act, we are required to make Business chaired by Sir Michael Rake and comprising three BT additional disclosures.
A number of these disclosures can be found senior executives, three non-executive directors and three elsewhere in this Report as set out below: independent members oversees our corporate responsibility, structure of BTs share capital refer to page 137 including the environment and community activities, including charitable rights and obligations attaching to the shares refer to pages 167 expenditure and the strategy for maximising our contribution to to 170 society.
More information is available in Business review Our restrictions on the transfer of BT shares and voting rights refer to corporate responsibility on page 36.
The Report of the Committee pages 167 and 168 for Sustainable & Responsible Business is on page 68. significant direct or indirect shareholdings refer to page 86 appointment and replacement of directors refer to page 169.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 2011 83 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS POLICIES The disclosures which are not covered elsewhere in this Report We have enterprise-wide risk management processes for include the following: identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the group.
These processes have been in place for the whole of the BT has two employee share ownership trusts which hold BT 2011 financial year and have continued up to the date on which shares for the purpose of satisfying awards made under the this document was approved.
The processes are in accordance with various employee share plans.
The trustee of the BT Group the Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code Employee Share Investment Plan may invite participants on published by the Financial Reporting Council the Turnbull whose behalf it holds shares to direct it how to vote in respect of Guidance.
those shares, and if there is an offer for the shares or other transaction which would lead to a change of control of BT, Risk assessment and evaluation takes place as an integral part of participants may direct it to accept the offer or agree to the BTs annual strategic planning cycle.
We have a detailed risk transaction.
In respect of shares held in the BT Group Employee management process, culminating in a Board review, which Share Ownership Trust, the trustee abstains from voting those identies the key risks facing the group and each business unit.
This shares, and if there is an offer for the shares the trustee is not information is reviewed by senior management as part of the obliged to accept or reject the offer but will have regard to the strategic review.
Our current key risks are summarised in Business interests of the participants, may consult them to obtain their review Our risks on pages 40 and 43. views on the offer and may otherwise take the action with The key features of the enterprise-wide risk management and respect to the offer it thinks fair internal control process comprise the following procedures: we are not aware of any agreements between shareholders that senior executives collectively review the groups key risks and may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on voting have created a group risk register describing the risks, owners rights and mitigation strategies.
This is reviewed by the Operating no person holds securities carrying special rights with regard to Committee before being reviewed and approved by the Board control of the company the lines of business and internal service units carry out risk proxy appointment and voting instructions must be received by assessments of their operations, create risk registers relating to the registrars not less than 48 hours before a general meeting those operations, and ensure that the key risks are addressed see also page 167 senior executives with responsibilities for major group operations the amendment of BTs Articles of Association requires report quarterly with their opinion on the effectiveness of the shareholder approval in accordance with legislation in force from operation of internal controls in their area of responsibility time to time the groups internal auditors carry out continuing assessments of the powers of the directors are determined by UK legislation and the quality of risk management and control, report to the Articles of Association.
They are authorised to issue and allot management and the Audit & Risk Committee on the status of shares, and to undertake purchases of BT shares subject to specic areas identied for improvement and promote effective shareholder approval at the AGM risk management in the lines of business and internal service BT Group plc is not party to any significant agreements that take units operations effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a the Audit & Risk Committee, on behalf of the Board, considers takeover the effectiveness of the operation of internal control procedures we do not have any agreements with directors providing for in the group during the financial year.
It reviews reports from the compensation for loss of ofce or employment that occurs internal and external auditors and reports its conclusions to the because of a takeover.
There is similarly no such provision in Board.
The Audit & Risk Committee has carried out these actions standard contracts for employees.
Joint ventures and associates, which BT does not control, have not Financial instruments been dealt with as part of the group risk management process and Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies of are responsible for their own internal control assessment.
the group and exposure to interest risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and BTs accounting policies are set out on pages 91 to 99.
The foreign exchange are given in note 29 on pages 139 to 149. consistent application of those policies is subject to ongoing verication through management review and by independent Internal control and risk management review by internal and external auditors.
The processes supporting the preparation and consolidation of the financial statements have The Board is responsible for the groups systems of internal control been documented and are subject to annual verication through the and risk management and for reviewing each year the effectiveness programme of testing conducted jointly by our internal and external of those systems.
Such systems are designed to manage, rather auditors which serves to confirm the operation of the internal than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives: controls over financial reporting and compliance with the Sarbanesany system can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, Oxley Act.
The Audit & Risk Committee reviews BTs published assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The process in financial results, related disclosures and accounting judgments the place for reviewing BTs systems of internal control includes Committees activities are set out on pages 65 to 66. procedures designed to identify and evaluate failings and weaknesses, and, in the case of any categorised as significant, The Board has approved the formal statement of matters which are procedures exist to ensure that necessary action is taken to remedy reserved to it for consideration, approval or oversight.
approved the groups corporate governance framework, which sets out the high level principles by which BT is managed and the The Board also takes account of significant social, environmental and ethical matters that relate to BTs businesses and reviews responsibilities and powers of the Operating Committee and the groups senior executives.
As part of this framework, the annually BTs corporate responsibility policy.
The companys workplace practices, specic environmental, social and ethical risks development and implementation of certain powers relating to group-wide policies and practices are reserved to identied senior and opportunities and details of underlying governance processes are dealt with in the Business review Our resources on page 19. executives.
84 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS POLICIES US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Internal control over financial reporting BT has securities registered with the US Securities and Exchange BTs management is responsible for establishing and maintaining Commission SEC.
As a result, we must comply with those adequate internal control over financial reporting for the group provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act applicable to foreign issuers.
Internal control over financial We comply with the legal and regulatory requirements introduced reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding pursuant to this legislation, in so far as they are applicable.
the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with The Audit & Risk Committee includes members Phil Hodkinson and IFRS.
Management conducted an assessment of the effectiveness Nick Rose who, in the opinion of the Board, are audit committee of internal control over financial reporting based on the framework financial experts and who are independent as dened for this for internal control evaluation contained in the Turnbull Guidance.
The Board considers that the Committees members have broad commercial knowledge and extensive business leadership Based on this assessment, management has concluded that as at experience, having held between them various prior roles in major 31 March 2011, BTs internal control over financial reporting was business, Government, financial management, treasury and effective.
financial function supervision and that this constitutes a broad and There were no changes in BTs internal control over financial suitable mix of business and financial experience on the Committee.
reporting that occurred during 2011 that have materially affected, The code of ethics adopted for the purposes of the Sarbanes-Oxley or are reasonably likely to have materially affected, the groups Act is posted on the companys website at www.
The internal control over financial reporting.
Any significant deficiency, code applies to the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and as dened by the US Public Company Accounting Oversight Board senior finance managers.
PCAOB, in internal control over financial reporting, is reported to the Audit & Risk Committee.
 LLP, which Disclosure controls and procedures has audited the consolidated financial statements for 2011, has The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, after evaluating also audited the effectiveness of the groups internal control over the effectiveness of BTs disclosure controls and procedures as of financial reporting under Auditing Standard No.
the end of the period covered by this Annual Report & Form 20-F, Their report is on page 90. have concluded that, as of such date, BTs disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that material information relating to BT was made known to them by others within the group.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director concluded that BTs disclosure controls and procedures are also effective to ensure that the information required to be disclosed by the company in reports that it les under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarised and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director have also provided the certications required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 2011 85 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
