REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS THE BOARD The directors submit their report and the audited financial statements of the company, BT Group plc, and the group, which Corporate governance statement includes its subsidiary undertakings, for the 2011 financial year.
Directors The Business review on pages 8 to 43 forms part of this report.
The audited financial statements are presented on pages 91 to 150 Governance and role of the Board and 155.
Directors powers to authorise conicts of interest Corporate governance statement BTs non-executive directors We are committed to operating in accordance with best practice in Main Board committees business integrity and ethics and maintaining the highest standards of financial reporting and corporate governance.
The directors New York Stock Exchange consider that BT has, throughout the year, complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code and applied the main principles of the Code as described in pages 60 to 86 of this Report.
The Code BT Group plc is the listed holding company for the BT group of and associated guidance can be found on the Financial Reporting companies: its shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange Council website at www.
cfm and on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of American Depositary Shares.
The Code was replaced in May 2010 by the UK Corporate Governance Code the New Code for financial years beginning on The BT Board is committed to operating in accordance with or after 29 June 2010.
It is the intention of the directors to comply best practice in business integrity and ethics, whilst with the New Code and during 2011 we have sought to implement maintaining the highest standards of financial reporting and its provisions early as appropriate.
We believe that good corporate governance should not be a bureaucratic burden but should be Directors clear and straightforward and support the business by providing it with simple guidelines for decision making and risk The names and biographical details of the directors are given on management.
pages 60 and 61 in Board of Directors and Operating Committee.
Key activities Changes to the composition of the Board from 1 April 2010 are set With operations worldwide, the BT governance framework out in the table below: has to reect diverse cultures and regulatory environments.
During the year we reviewed our corporate governance New directors Date of appointment framework.
Nick Rose 1 January 2011 We have extended the role of the Audit Committee to reect Jasmine Whitbread 19 January 2011 an increased focus on risk.
The Audit & Risk Committee recommends to the Board the groups risk appetite and Following a nine-year term as a director, Clay Brendishs current reviews its risk prole.
appointment will end on 31 August 2011 when he will retire from We have extended the remit of the Nominating Committee the Board.
now the Nominating & Governance Committee to give it the responsibility for oversight of governance and Length of tenure of non-executive directors compliance issues.
0-3 Years We also established five regional governance committees to 2 3-6 Years have oversight of BTs group-wide governance policies 6-9 Years across their region, particularly focusing on corporate governance and compliance, ethics, business principles, and data retention and protection.
We have commented on many of the various recent 1 5 consultations on governance, including those leading to the new UK Corporate Governance Code, and the associated Guidance on Board Effectiveness.
62 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS THE BOARD strong leadership for the Board on all aspects of its role.
As well as Governance and role of the Board chairing the Board, the Chairman consults the non-executive The Board, which operates as a single team, is made up of the directors, particularly the Senior Independent Director, on part-time Chairman, the Chief Executive, two other executive corporate governance issues, matters considered by the directors and eight non-executive directors.
All the non-executive Nominating & Governance Committee, which the Chairman chairs, directors during 2011 met, and continue to meet, the criteria for and the individual performance of the non-executive directors.
The independence set out in the New Code and are therefore Chairman, through the Company Secretary, ensures a full and considered by the Board to be independent.
comprehensive induction is provided to new non-executive directors.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors hold Board composition regular meetings at which they discuss matters without the 1 executive directors being present.
With the Chief Executive and the Chairman Company Secretary, the Chairman ensures that the Board is kept Executive directors properly informed, is consulted on all issues reserved to it and that Independent non-executive 3 its decisions are made in a timely and considered way that enables directors the directors to full their duciary duties.
The Chairman ensures that the views of the shareholders are known to the Board and 8 considered appropriately.
He represents BT in specified strategic and Government relationships, as agreed with the Chief Executive, and generally acts as the bridge between the Board and the executive team, particularly on BTs broad strategic direction.
The Chairmans other current significant commitments are shown in Board of directors and Operating Committee on page 60.
The Carl Symon and Nick Rose are both non-executive directors of BAE Chief Executive has final executive responsibility, reporting to the Systems plc and the Board has determined that, as they both serve Board, for the success of the group.
in a non-executive capacity, they are independent for the purposes The Company Secretary manages the provision of timely, accurate of paragraph A.
1.1 of the New and considered information to the Board for its meetings and, in Code.
consultation with the Chairman and Chief Executive, at other The Board viewed the Chairman as independent at the time of his appropriate times.
He recommends to the Chairman and the Chief appointment.
The Board comprised a majority of independent nonExecutive, for Board consideration where appropriate, corporate executive directors throughout 2011. governance policies and practices and is responsible for communicating and implementing them.
He advises the Board on The Board is ultimately responsible for the management of the appropriate procedures for the management of its meetings and groups operations in addition to discharging certain legal duties and the meetings of the main committees, as well as responsibilities.
It has final responsibility for the groups strategy corporate governance and compliance within the group.
The and for overseeing the groups performance.
Its principal focus is on: appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for strategy the whole Board.
development growing shareholder value Directors powers to authorise conicts oversight and control of interest corporate governance.
All directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 It approves BTs: Act to avoid a situation in which he or she has or can have a direct or indirect interest that conicts or possibly may conict with the values, ethics and business policies and practices interests of the company.
The companys Articles of Association strategic plans include provisions for dealing with directors conicts of interest in annual budget accordance with the 2006 Act.
The Company has procedures in place, which it follows, to deal with situations where directors may capital expenditure and investments budgets have any such conicts, which require the Board to: larger capital expenditure proposals consider each conict situation separately on its particular facts the overall system of internal controls, governance and consider the conict situation in conjunction with the rest of compliance authorities.
their duties under the 2006 Act The Board also oversees internal controls, operating and financial keep records and Board minutes as to authorisations granted by performance and reviews the risk register.
These responsibilities are directors and the scope of any approvals given set out in a formal statement of the Boards role which is available at www.
com board regularly review conict authorisation.
The Board has agreed the corporate governance framework, including giving authority to the key management committee, the BTs non-executive directors Operating Committee, to make decisions on operational and other The Nominating & Governance Committee has agreed and reviews matters.
The roles and powers of this Committee are set out below.
from time to time the combination of experience, skills and other The Board normally meets nine times each year.
The Board met 10 attributes which the non-executive directors as a whole should bring to the Board.
This prole is used by the Committee, when the times during the 2011 financial year.
appointment of a non-executive director is being considered, to The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are separate.
assess the suitability of candidates.
Short-listed candidates meet They are set out in written job descriptions, approved by the members of the Committee, which then recommends candidates to Nominating & Governance Committee.
The Chairman provides the Board for appointment.
This year, following this process, the BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 2011 63 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS THE BOARD Board appointed Nick Rose and Jasmine Whitbread, as new nonTo meet best corporate governance practice, the Audit & Risk executive directors.
Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nominating & Governance Committee have long been an established part of BTs The non-executive directors provide a strong, independent element system of governance.
Each committee has written terms of on the Board and are well placed to constructively challenge and reference, which are available on our website.
The Report of the help develop proposals on strategy.
Between them, they bring Audit & Risk Committee, the Report of the Nominating & experience and independent judgment, gained at the most senior Governance Committee and the Report on directors levels of international business operations and strategy, finance, remuneration are on pages 65 to 81.
The Report of the Committee marketing, technology, communications and political and for Sustainable & Responsible business is included on page 68.
The international affairs and corporate social responsibility.
In her Equality of Access Board EAB, which is also a committee of the capacity as the Senior Independent Director, and as the chair of the Board, was established, as part of the Undertakings given by BT to Remuneration Committee, Patricia Hewitt meets regularly with BTs Ofcom following Ofcoms strategic review of telecommunications, major institutional shareholders and shareholder representative to monitor, report and advise BT on BTs compliance with these bodies.
She is able, if necessary, to discuss matters with these Undertakings.
As required by the Undertakings, the EAB comprises shareholders where it would be inappropriate for those discussions five members: Carl Symon, a BT non-executive director and to take place with either the Chairman or the Chief Executive.
chairman of the EAB: a BT senior executive, Dr Tim Whitley, Group Non-executive directors are appointed initially for three years, Strategy Director replacing Himanshu Raja, then Chief Financial subject to three months termination notice from either BT or the officer, BT Innovate & Design who has stepped down as a member director and automatic termination in the event of not being of the committee : and three independent members: Sir Bryan re-elected by shareholders.
Appointments may be extended for Carsberg, Stephen Pettit and Dr Peter Radley.
The EAB reports usually up to two further three year periods, provided the director regularly to the Board.
Its terms of reference are available on BTs remains independent.
The EAB publishes an annual report to Ofcom, which is also available on BTs website.
Carl Symon completed nine years of service in January 2011 and, in accordance with the New Code, the Board assessed whether Carl is The Board also has a Pension Scheme Performance Review Group, independent of management and any business or other which reviews the position of the BT Pension Scheme and issues relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of affecting its ongoing funding.
objective or independent judgment by him or his ability to act in the best interests of the group.
The Board took into account the New York Stock Exchange way he performs the role of chairing the Equality of Access Board BT, as a foreign issuer with American Depositary Shares listed on the as described in Main Board committees below which it considers New York Stock Exchange NYSE, is obliged to disclose any evidence of Carls independence by nature of the role performed.
significant ways in which its corporate governance practices differ The Board concluded that Carl remains a valuable and effective from the corporate governance listing standards of the NYSE.
independent non-executive director and he demonstrates the highest commitment to the role.
We have reviewed the NYSEs listing standards and believe that our corporate governance practices are consistent with them, with the Each non-executive director is provided, upon appointment, with a following exception where we do not meet the strict requirements letter setting out the terms of his or her appointment, including set out in the standards.
These state that companies must have a membership of Board committees, the fees to be paid and the time nominating corporate governance committee composed entirely of commitment expected from the director.
The letter also covers such independent directors and with written terms of reference which, in matters as the condentiality of information and BTs share dealing addition to identifying individuals qualied to become board code.
members, develops and recommends to the Board a set of corporate governance principles applicable to the company.
During Main Board committees the year we renamed our Nominating Committee the Nominating & The Operating Committee, the key management committee, meets Governance Committee and extended its terms of reference to weekly and is chaired by the Chief Executive.
The other members include governance and compliance issues see Report of the are the Group Finance Director and the Chief Executives of BT Nominating & Governance Committee on page 67.
The Retail, BT Wholesale, BT Global Services, BT Innovate & Design and Nominating & Governance Committees terms of reference are in BT Operate.
The Company Secretary attends all meetings and the line with the requirements set out in the standards.
However, the Group HR Director normally attends the meetings.
The Committee Committee is chaired by the Chairman, Sir Michael Rake, who is not has collective responsibility for running the groups business.
To do considered independent under the NYSEs listing standards.
The that, it develops BTs strategy and budget for Board approval, Board and the Nominating & Governance Committee are made up recommends to the Board capital expenditure and investment of a majority of independent, non-executive directors.
budgets, monitors financial, operational and customer quality of The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Sarbanes-Oxley the US service performance, reviews the risk register and individual risks Securities and Exchange Commission SEC and NYSE introduced on it, allocates resources across BT within plans agreed by the rules on 31 July 2005 requiring companies to comply with certain Board, plans and delivers major programmes, and reviews the provisions relating to their audit committee.
These include the senior talent base and succession plans.
Within BTs corporate independence of audit committee members and procedures for the governance framework, approved by the Board, the Operating treatment of complaints regarding accounting or auditing matters.
Committee can approve, up to limits beyond which Board approval We are fully compliant with these requirements.
is required, capital expenditure, disposals of xed assets, investments and divestments.
It can, and has, delegated some of these approvals, up to its own limits, to sub-committees and to senior executives.
