BUSINESS REVIEW OUR LINES OF BUSINESS Business overview BT Global Services is a global leader in the provision of managed BT Global Services networked IT services for large corporate and public sector customers.
We provide services to around 7,000 large corporate and public sector customers with operations across the world in a During 2011 we consolidated our position as a wide range of sectors such as banking and financial services, global leader in networked IT services.
Order consumer packaged goods, logistics, pharmaceuticals and intake in the year grew by 10% as we signed manufacturing.
We serve customers in the public sector in the UK, including central Government and local councils, as well as public contracts with major corporate and public sector organisations in countries outside the UK.
We have implemented a new We operate domestic businesses in key markets in Europe such as global operating model and industry sector Italy, Germany, and Spain, where we serve both multinational strategy, and have achieved our operating cash corporations and SME customers, and have local network ow target a year ahead of plan.
infrastructure including high-speed bre networks in key cities.
We have operations across the Americas, and a strong business in Latin America based on an extensive satellite network.
In 2010 we announced, and started to deliver on, a strategic investment plan to strengthen our business in the Asia Pacic region.
8,047m Our customers benefit from BTs global scale and operating model.
Products are sold globally, and customers are served locally by our Revenue teams in their own countries and sectors who understand their specic business challenges and create locally relevant solutions.
We call this operating globally and delivering locally.
We make this possible through our assets and skills.
These include 593m our global IP network, data centres, solution design and integration professionals and IT security experts.
By combining network, IT and EBITDA professional services we create managed solutions that help our customers to operate more efficiently.
BT Global Services revenue by sector 3% Products and services 8% Corporate customers Networked IT services Public sector UK & overseas 19% Financial institutions We connect our customers to their customers through our Virtual 46% Transit Private Network VPN, connectivity and value added services.
We Other global carrier provide a range of products and services to do this such as BT MPLS, BT Etherow and BT Application Assured Infrastructure services to optimise application performance over networks.
24% Unied communications We provide a range of communication services to enable organisations to collaborate and communicate better.
This spans from the provision of PSTN and ISDN services, to our global managed services for IP telephony, and collaboration tools, either hosted on the customer site or as a cloud-based service.
119m Customer relationship management CRM Operating cash ow Through the combination of our professional services, cloud platforms and global inbound voice services, we offer a suite of CRM tools that give our customers the exibility and value they require when dealing with their end customers.
7.3bn Security Order intake We provide a range of security and risk management products from professional services to assess risk and vulnerability, through to a suite of proactive managed security services.
Data centre services World Communication With our global estate of data centres across the world, we provide a Awards 2010 range of hosting and managed services.
With the launch of our virtual BT Global Services data centre offering, BT Virtual Data Centre VDC, we have a new Best Global Operator generation of cloud-based services, giving our customers the exibility and agility that comes from a cloud computing environment.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 2011 23 BUSINESS REVIEW
