BUSINESS REVIEW OUR BUSINESS AND STRATEGY Who we are BT is one of the worlds leading communications services Who we are companies, serving the needs of customers in the UK and in more than 170 countries worldwide.
What we do Our aim What we do Our strategic priorities Our main activities are the provision of xed telephony lines and How we measure our progress calls, broadband, mobile and TV products and services as well as networked IT services.
In the UK we are a leading communications services provider.
We sell products and services to consumers, small and medium-sized enterprises SMEs and the public sector.
We also sell wholesale No.
1 products and services to communications providers CPs in the UK Provider of xed telephony lines and around the world.
Globally, we supply managed networked IT services to multinational corporations, domestic businesses in the UK and national and local government organisations.
Our aim 3% Our aim is to drive shareholder value by making BT a better business with a better future.
Last year we set out a three-year Improvement in customer plan to achieve this aim.
Our strategy focuses on three key areas customer service delivery, cost transformation and investing for the service delivery measure future.
These three areas are the building blocks for making BT a better business.
The better we serve our customers, the less time and money we spend on xing faults and by transforming our costs we create new opportunities for investment in our future.
By 1.1bn investing in our strategic priorities we expect to deliver growth a in 2013.
Operating cost savings Customer service delivery Our strategy starts with customer service and we continually work 2.5bn to improve the level of customer experience.
In practice this means keeping our promises, being easy to contact and straightforward Potential investment in to deal with: it means keeping our customers informed and taking super-fast broadband network prompt action to put things right if they have cause to complain: above all it means trying to do things right first time.
Right first time is our key measure for customer service.
It Progress made against all our measures how often we get things right the first time for our customers: this is important as failure increases our costs.
In 2011 strategic priorities we achieved a 3% improvement in this measure which compares with a 10.5% improvement in 2010.
This shows that we made further progress this year but the scale was less than in previous years due to a number of issues, particularly a large increase in provision volumes requiring engineer visits.
These were up over 25% in the year.
In addition, the very poor winter weather both increased repair demand and reduced our ability to deploy engineers effectively.
In order to meet these challenges we This is the BT Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2011.
It complies with UK regulations recruited additional engineers and have now brought repair work and comprises part of the Annual Report on Form 20-F for the US Securities and Exchange Commission to meet US regulations.
This Annual Report has been sent to shareholde rs who have in hand to the equivalent of a day and a halfs work.
Provision lead elected to receive a copy.
A separate summary financial statement & notice of meeting 2011 has been issued to shareholders who have elected to receive a shorter document.
Both documents times improved to an average of 10 days at the end of March 2011. are available on the companys website, www.
We will learn from what went wrong and will work more closely In this Annual Report, references to BT Group, BT, the group, the company, we or our are with our CP customers to ensure that together we provide better to BT Group plc which includes the activities of British Telecommunications plc and its subsidiaries and lines of business, internal service units, or any of them as the context may volume forecasts and we have a more exible resource that can require.
meet peaks of demand more effectively.
References to a year are to the financial year ended 31 March of that year, e. g. 2011 refers to the year ended 31 March 2011, except in relation to our super-fast bre-based broadband roll-out plans, which are based on calendar years, not financial years.
Unless otherwise stated, all We did make progress in a number of other areas.
Call handling non financial statistics are at 31 March 2011 except BT Innity customer numbers which are at times for consumer sales improved by 19 seconds due to the 6 May 2011. introduction of Agent.
com, a new system that allows our sales Please see cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements on page 162. agents to process orders faster and more effectively.
With the rollDenotes corporate responsibility activities.
Being a responsible and sustainable business is integral to the way we work.
Our non financial key performance indicators measure our progress.
out of a desktop help system, broadband consumer customers can These also include direct costs to BT related to our environmental and social performance, in line with the principles of the connected reporting framework.
now solve many problems without the need to call our service centres.
Within BT Retail, our one contact resolution aims to deal a Before specic items, depreciation and amortisation.
with customer queries in one call.
We saw the number of queries dealt with in one contact increase by 15% in BT Consumer and 10 BUSINESS REVIEW OUR BUSINESS AND STRATEGY 9% in BT Business.
Within BT Global Services right first time Our strategic priorities programme, we reduced customer faults by 11%.
Driving broadband-based consumer services We believe the changes we have made, and will make in the next Competition in the UK consumer market is intense and customers financial year, will deliver signicantly improved service levels for demands are evolving.
Around 99% of UK premises now have our customers.
access to broadband and customers are increasingly buying their line and calls service together with broadband and TV.
We already Cost transformation provide a comprehensive broadband service offering many features Cost transformation goes hand in hand with getting it right first and offer attractively priced bundles of services.
time for customer service we have continued with our drive to During 2011 we made the following progress: improve operational efficiency across the business, from using IT systems more effectively and driving savings from suppliers, to we grew our retail broadband customer base to 5.7m, up 11% streamlining internal processes and ways of working.
144,000 customers now take our super-fast bre-based broadband service, BT Innity In 2011 we made good progress with our cost transformation activities, which have contributed to our operating costs savings of 79% of the total UK broadband market, including cable, is now 1.1bn, representing a 7% decline in our operating cost base.
This delivered over the BT network, with our retail share at 29% represents a cumulative reduction in our cost base of almost 2bn our retail share of DSL and LLU net additions in the fourth over the last two years.
All of our lines of business and internal quarter of 2011 was 64%, the highest share of quarterly net service units have made a contribution to the delivery of these additions in eight years savings.
See Financial review Transforming our cost base on page BT Visions customer base grew to 575,000.
Looking ahead, we are aiming to grow the number of services we Savings have been delivered from targeted cost reduction provide customers by building on our position as the market leader programmes which focus on: in broadband.
TV is a growth area for us and one that will benefit eliminating the cost of failure across the group from the roll-out of super-fast broadband.
On-demand TV is becoming more popular and TV services will become increasingly an overhead value analysis programme, which provides a personalised and interactive.
It is for those reasons that we are structured approach to reducing costs investing in content and delivery, improving the user-interface for process re-engineering, which reviews processes end-to-end BT Vision and participating in the YouView joint venture.
across the group to remove unnecessary steps.
In addition, over the coming years we expect to see the emergence These actions have allowed us to operate more efficiently and of a range of broadband-based consumer services, building on new consequently reduce our costs while at the same time reducing and existing services.
There will also be new opportunities in the failure in our processes which assist customer service.
entertainment and networked home space, such as energy usage We have also continued to review procurement arrangements with management and home automation.
our major suppliers on a group-wide basis and have improved Our future plans for driving broadband-based consumer services supply terms and service delivery.
include: As a result of increased efficiency across our operations we have continuing to offer attractive bundled voice, broadband and continued to reduce our net labour costs, which were down 7%.
As TV services far as possible, we try to retain our permanent workforce through redeployment, retraining and in-sourcing work which has been enhancing our entertainment offering with services such as previously performed by third parties.
Around 4,000 people have online gaming been re-skilled and redeployed into roles within BT in 2011. seeking new opportunities to differentiate our services, for example by using our winetwork.
Investing for the future By being more efficient in customer service and transforming our Being the Brand for Business for UK SMEs cost base we can provide services to our customers on a more We are the leading provider of xed-line communications services for competitive basis and improve our cash generation.
This is critical SMEs in the UK and we are well-placed to grow our revenue from IT as it creates the opportunity for us to invest in our strategic and mobility services.
The market remains highly fragmented and we priorities as well as reduce our overall level of net debt, support believe this provides us with further opportunities to become the the pension fund and pay dividends to shareholders.
main brand SMEs trust by providing a one-stop shop for all their In 2010 we set out five strategic priorities which are underpinned communications needs, and will help us to increase our market share.
by our views of the markets we operate in.
By focusing investment During 2011 we made the following progress: around these strategic priorities we believe we will build a better future for all our stakeholders.
improved trends in BT Business compared with prior years, with revenue only marginally down in 2011 In 2011 we added a new strategic priority which reects our IT services and mobility revenue grew by 17% and 14%, work to embed sustainability and corporate responsibility at the respectively.
Our opportunities for growth include selling new services to our existing customer base and helping customers migrate to cloudbased services, which allow customers to access IT services on a more exible basis.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 2011 11 BUSINESS REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW OUR BUSINESS AND STRATEGY Our future plans for becoming the Brand for Business for UK SMEs we received the Best Wholesale Carrier award at the World include: Communication Awards 2010. increasing the number of SME customers buying our services Our future plans for becoming the wholesaler of choice include: selling more IT services and mobility to our existing SME increasing the proportion of revenue under long-term contract customers by selling new MNS contracts offering bundles which combine xed and mobile making investments in Wholesale Broadband Connect, our communication and IT services.
second generation broadband service, which we plan to extend to cover around 80% of UK premises by December 2011 BT Global Services a global leader launching IP services that enable our CP customers to enter and exploit new and emerging markets BT Global Services is already a global leader in the provision of managed networked IT services.
Over the past year we have increasing capacity on our IP platforms to meet growing focused on improving the performance of the business by customer demand simplifying the portfolio, rationalising systems and networks, continuing to evolve our next generation product portfolio for industrialising the process of bid management and exploiting the global wholesale market.
We adopted an industry sectorbased structure to help focus on customer needs in four global The best network provider sectors: Banking & Financial Markets: Commerce: Consumer Packaged Goods: and Government & Health.
We also invested in BT is the largest provider of xed telephony lines in the UK and growth areas such as multi-protocol label switching MPLS, through Openreach we manage the last mile of the UK access Ethernet, unied communications, security, customer relationship network.
We offer access to this network to other CPs on an open management, mobility and cloud services.
Last year we identied and equal basis.
the Asia Pacic region as a target for investment and we are It is our aim to improve network reliability, extend our Ethernet strengthening our ability to support new and existing customers footprint, continue our super-fast broadband roll-out and put in in this growing market.
place systems improvements and transformation programmes to During 2011 we made the following progress: enhance our proposition, reduce our cost base and make it easier for CPs to do business with us.
we delivered operating cash ow of 119m, a year ahead of target During 2011 we made the following progress: order intake was 7.3bn we rolled out our super-fast bre-based broadband network to we invested to grow our presence in the Asia Pacic region reach over 4m UK premises we have been recognised as a leader, winning the award for we contributed to the growth of the broadband market in the UK Best Global Operator at the World Communication Awards 2010. by the provision of 7.6m external unbundled lines, up 15% we extended our footprint to over 1,000 bre Ethernet nodes, Our future plans include: providing the largest Ethernet network in the UK building on our strong market position in managed networked we commenced testing a 1Gbps service over bre-to-theIT services premises.
expanding further to serve our customers in fast-growing Our 2.5bn investment in super-fast bre-based broadband will economies make the UK one of the best connected countries in the world.
developing our relationships with our target customers, and improving their customer experience Super-fast broadband roll-out plan building and enhancing industry based solutions in key sectors making our operations more efficient generating around 200m of operating cash ow in 2012.
ADSL 1.5M PREMISES 5M PREMISES 10M 2 3 PREMISES PASSED BY THE ENABLED FOR PASSED BY PASSED BY PREMISES The wholesaler of choice C. 99% OF ALL SUMMER 2010 SPRING 2011 PASSED BY END OF 2015 PREMISES 2012 BT is committed to supplying CPs in the UK and overseas with vital communications infrastructure and services.
While we are already the largest wholesaler in Europe, there are significant opportunities Our super-fast bre roll-out plans are ambitious and we are for us to win new business.
We aim to be the wholesaler of choice working to pass two thirds of UK premises by the end of 2015.
To in the UK, where we already have more than 1,000 CP customers, deliver this we are installing 30,000 cabinets, connecting 200,000 provide xed-line services to the five key mobile operators and distribution points, enabling over 1,000 exchanges and laying over are the established partner for carriers.
We also operate an 50,000km of bre.
We have developed and rened our systems and international wholesale business, where we serve customers in processes to enable us to deliver bre faster and we are upgrading over 170 countries.
more than 250 cabinets and enabling on average around 80,000 premises each week to access bre.
During 2011 we made the following progress: We also aim to bring bre to homes and businesses in the final our managed network services MNS revenue grew by 8% third of the UK, given the right investment and regulatory 40% of BT Wholesales external revenue is now underpinned by conditions and access to Government funds.
long-term contracts our second generation copper broadband service is available to over 65% of UK premises 12 BUSINESS REVIEW OUR BUSINESS AND STRATEGY We are planning to roll out two solutions as part of our super-fast A responsible and sustainable business leader broadband deployment: We believe that long-term profitable growth can be aided by fibre-to-the-cabinet FTTC where new bre-optic cables link supporting the communities in which we operate and through telephone exchanges to road-side cabinets and our copper lines sustainable business practices.
We are committed to contributing are used to deliver super-fast broadband to premises positively to society, the economy and the environment through  FTTP where new bre-optic cables are our operations, our employees and our products and services.
We aim deployed the whole way from the exchange to the premises.
to provide products and services which enable our customers to be more sustainable by making use of innovative communication We have deployed FTTC first and are on track to pass around 5m and managed networked IT services.
Currently, we are conducting FTTP trials at a number of sites with speeds of up to 1Gbps and full commercial Even though this is a new strategic priority, we are already FTTP is expected to be launched in 2011. recognised as a responsible and sustainable business leader.
For example we have: We see the Governments creation of Broadband Delivery UK BDUK as a positive step in providing services to the final third cut our absolute carbon footprint by 53% since 1997 and of premises in rural areas of the country where it is not currently reduced energy consumption by 2.5% in 2011 economic to provide super-fast broadband services.
We are invested money and in-kind contributions worth 27.6m committed to exploring ways to extend the footprint of super-fast supporting responsible and sustainable business activities, broadband, and our deployments in Cornwall and Northern Ireland exceeding our commitment to invest at least 1% of group demonstrate that commitment.
pre-tax profits All parts of the business play a role in the delivery of super-fast launched a new online fundraising service for UK charities called broadband: MyDonate, the first online fundraising service not to charge a subscription fee or commission Openreach is building the bre access infrastructure which will maintained gold sector status in the Dow Jones Sustainability offer super-fast broadband to all CPs on an open and equal basis Index and Platinum Plus level in the Business in the Community BT Wholesale is developing products and services which use the Corporate Responsibility Index.
We also won awards such as the Openreach network so it can offer managed super-fast World Communication Award Green Award.
broadband to its CP customers More details of our corporate responsibility activities can be found BT Retail and BT Global Services will purchase the BT Wholesale at Our corporate responsibility on page 36. offer and design their own propositions and services for end users, for instance BT Innity An increasing number of customers are seeking to source from BT Innovate & Design and BT Operate both play a key role in suppliers that can demonstrate a strong track record in improving leading the design, development and end-to-end testing of the the sustainability of their own businesses.
Our credentials as a platforms, systems and products that will underpin our responsible and sustainable business leader support our ability propositions for customers.
to win and retain customers.
We also plan to contribute in many other ways through the responsible use of resources: through our Through Openreach we have continued to invest in our marketemployment: and through our community involvement.
Our drive leading UK Ethernet footprint.
Ethernet is a data service primarily for BT to be a better business with a better future is therefore linked used by businesses to create their own private networks and can to our commitment to be a leader in corporate responsibility and run over copper or bre.
Being the best network provider is not just about expanding Our future plans for maintaining and enhancing our position as a coverage.
Openreach has made substantial progress in improving responsible and sustainable business leader include: the copper access network in recent years.
Network resilience has been improved through an extensive programme of work, building stronger communities through the power of our accompanied by efficiency gains with regard to provision and repair technology and people times.
As a result of these efforts, customers now experience a reducing carbon emissions and our impact on the environment copper line fault once in every 14 years compared with once in through our operations and products every nine years as experienced four years ago.
behaving responsibly towards our customers, people and our Our future plans for becoming the best network provider include: suppliers promoting MyDonate for the benefit of charities and fundraising.
continuing with our super-fast broadband roll-out providing new access products such as duct and pole access How we measure our progress improving our overall efficiency while improving the resilience and reliability of our networks We measure our overall progress by three key performance indicators: adjusted earnings per share, reported free cash ow increasing our potential FTTC speeds to up to 80Mbps.
and customer service improvement see Our strategy Key performance indicators on page 6.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 2011 13 BUSINESS REVIEW
