REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Introduction This report sets out the details of the remuneration policy for the Overview companys directors and senior executives and the amounts paid to As outlined in the Chairmans message, the executive team the directors in 2011.
As well as meeting statutory requirements, has made considerable progress in a challenging year, the Remuneration Committee aims to comply with best practice achieving or exceeding demanding objectives for guidelines and apply the principles of good corporate governance in profitability and cash generation.
The Chief Executive was producing this report.
Relevant sections of this report have been therefore awarded a bonus of 126% of target 79% of the audited in accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies maximum opportunity, compared with 142% of target and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
71% of the maximum for the previous year.
Half of the Shareholders will be asked to vote on this Report at the 2011 AGM.
bonus will be paid in cash and the remaining half will be deferred into shares receivable in three years time, subject Remuneration policy to continued employment as well as a clawback condition.
Whilst customer service improved during the year, the level This part of the Report on directors remuneration is not subject to of improvement was insufficient to justify a payment for audit.
that component of the annual bonus.
During 2011 the Remuneration Committee reviewed the Remuneration principles executive pay structure to ensure that it remains closely Our policy remains to maintain a competitive remuneration package aligned to BTs corporate strategy and shareholders that will attract, retain and motivate a high quality top team, avoid interests.
The Chair of the Committee led a consultation with excessive risk taking and align their interests with those of major investors and representative bodies as part of the shareholders.
We believe in pay for performance.
We aim to set base salaries The Committee agreed to maintain our policy position of below the median for our comparator group, while setting setting basic salaries below the median of our comparator stretching goals for the annual bonus including deferred shares group, so that executive directors can only achieve upper and the long-term incentive shares.
It is only in return for sustained quartile total rewards for exceptional performance in line and excellent performance that the remuneration package as a with stretching performance targets.
whole will deliver upper quartile rewards.
As BT moves towards achieving profitable growth, alongside A significant proportion of the total remuneration package is a continuing focus on customer service and cost therefore variable and linked to corporate performance.
The transformation, the Committee decided to strengthen Committee reviews the performance targets regularly to ensure incentives for long-term performance.
In particular, we will that they are both challenging and closely linked to the groups increase the element of the annual bonus dependent upon strategic priorities.
Furthermore, because a large part of the individual and role-specic performance aligned with our remuneration package is delivered in shares and senior executives long-term strategy, and add a new measure of three-year are required to build up a significant shareholding themselves, they revenue growth to the long-term incentive shares.
are directly exposed to the same gains or losses as all other We have reviewed base salaries and, where appropriate, shareholders.
increased them to bring them closer towards, but still below or around median levels in comparable companies.
In In setting directors remuneration, the Committee takes account of making these decisions, we took account of the position of the remuneration of other companies of similar size, complexity all BTs employees who will benefit from pay increases and and geographic reach.
The Committee also takes into account the annual bonuses based on the companys performance in pay and employment conditions of all our employees.
For instance, 2011. the overall increase in senior managers pay for 2011 was comparable with the pay settlement offered to our employees BTs executive share plans reach the end of their 10-year life generally, with some senior managers receiving no increase.
The Committee has agreed that renewed increases for the executive directors are given on page 78. plans should be adopted, generally in the same form as the current plans but updated and amended to reect best BT operates in a number of different environments and has many practice and current legislation.
Shareholders will be asked employees who carry out diverse jobs across a number of countries.
to approve the adoption of the plans for a further 10 years all employees, including directors, are paid by reference to the at the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
market rate performance is measured and rewarded through a number of performance-related bonus schemes across the group business unit performance measures are cascaded down through the organisation BT offers employment conditions that reect our values and are commensurate with a large publicly listed company, including high standards of health and safety and equal opportunities BT operates all-employee share plans which are open to all employees and executive directors alike BT offers benets which are available to everyone.
The Committee continues to keep under review the relationship of risk to remuneration and to seek input from the chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee.
The largest single driver of on-target BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 2011 69 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
