BUSINESS REVIEW OUR MARKETS AND CUSTOMERS We compete in a number of markets including the consumer and SME markets in the UK and delivering managed networked IT UK consumers services globally.
We also offer a range of wholesale and access products and services to CPs, both in the UK and internationally.
UK SMEs In the UK, regulation and the open, commercial marketplace have Global networked IT services created one of the most competitive telecoms markets in the world.
Wholesale Some of the products and services we offer in the UK are regulated Access because of our significant market power in some sectors.
See Regulation on page 17 for more information.
We also offer access Regulation services on an open and equal basis to all CPs.
UK consumers The consumer xed-line telecoms market in the UK is highly 51% competitive, with more than 160 companies offering broadband and or voice services.
Although total UK residential xed-line call BTs share of the UK minutes have declined 18% over the past three years, the total xed-line market number of UK residential lines is up 2% over this period according to Ofcom data.
The decline in xed-line call minutes can be attributed to factors such as consumers increasingly using mobile phones rather than xed-line phones, while the continued growth c. 5.7bn in xed-line broadband has helped slow the decline in the number of residential lines.
Value of UK pay TV market BT is the leading provider of xed-line voice and broadband services in the UK consumer market.
We provide consumers with a range of services including xed-line voice, broadband and TV products and services.
We also provide directory services both c. 29bn in print and via directory enquiries and sell telephones and computer equipment through our online retail presences.
Amount UK SMEs spend on IT and communications services BTs share of the xed-line market has declined from 69% to 51% over the past three years, reecting the competitive nature of the market and continued growth in local loop unbundling LLU.
The a share of the xed-line market provided by cable has remained at at 18% over the same period.
US$584bn An important change in the consumer market occurred when Value of global IT services market regulation was modied to allow us to sell our products and services in bundles to customers for one price.
This has allowed us to compete with other providers in offering attractive bundles: 40% of UK consumers currently buy triple-play services of broadband, pay TV and xed-line telephony.
We sell our services to consumers online directly and via selected afliates and through our call centres.
We also advertise across a range of media including TV and social media, such as Facebook.
More information about our products and services for UK consumers can be found in BT Retail on page 26.
The UK broadband market is highly competitive.
Following a period of industry consolidation, our main competitors are Virgin Media, TalkTalk Group and Sky.
Between us we account for 87% of the broadband market.
Share of UK broadband market at December 2010 13% BT 28% Virgin Media TalkTalk 15% Sky Other 22% 22% a IDC Global IT services Market size.
14 BUSINESS REVIEW OUR MARKETS AND CUSTOMERS The UK consumer broadband market has grown to reach more than The recession has had an impact on SMEs spending levels with the 17.7m households.
BT has contributed to this growth by supplying markets for xed-line voice and data, mobile services and IT LLU over which suppliers can deliver broadband services.
The UK is services all declining since 2008.
IT services spend is expected to now the sixth largest broadband market in the world by number of resume growth in calendar year 2011, while we expect the xedhouseholds.
line voice and data market to continue to decline, driven in part by the significant fall in xed-line business call minutes.
A positive Broadband penetration has increased year-on-year and the xed trend in the market is SME customers increasing preference to buy broadband penetration rate now exceeds 65%.
This has been bundled services, comprising xed lines, mobile and broadband.
driven by the increasing use of the internet by consumers.
The number of adults accessing the internet every day has increased SME preference to buy bundles 42% over the past three years.
% Score 60 6.2 We believe that xed broadband will remain most popular with customers and mobile broadband will be largely complementary.
6.0 50 The increasing importance of broadband-enabled services in our 5.8 40 daily lives and initiatives such as the Government sponsored Race 5.6 Online 2012 have contributed to continued growth in the 30 5.4 broadband market.
20 5.2 Pay TV services remain popular with customers and this sector 10 5.0 continues to grow in size.
The UK pay TV market is estimated at around 5.7bn and has increased by over 30% in the past three 0 4.8 Apr-Jun May-Jul Jun-Aug Jul-Sep Aug-Oct Sep-Nov Oct-Dec Nov 10- Dec 10- Jan 10- years.
Ofcom data shows that 31% of internet-enabled 1-4 Disagree 7-10 Agree Mean Score households watched catch-up TV online, up from 23% a year Source: GfKNOP on behalf of BT.
Survey of SMEs with xed-line, broadband and mobile.
Agreement with statement your organisation prefers to buy complete Comms IT products in combined package with score 1 to 10.
There are a number of companies in the UK market supplying pay Calendar year 2010 saw a modest recovery in the economy with TV, video-on demand, and catch-up TV services.
YouView, the joint GDP growth becoming positive after shrinking 3.5% the previous venture between the BBC, ITV, Channel 4, BT and others is expected year, but conditions for SMEs remain challenging.
We have seen to be launched in calendar year 2012 and will make a significant a 14% reduction in the 2010 calendar year in the number of contribution to the UK TV market.
companies going into liquidation, but levels remain above Consumers are increasingly demanding more ethical and historical trends.
 business practices from their suppliers.
A growing number of customers want to buy services which will allow Global networked IT services them to improve their own sustainability performance by improving The global market for networked IT services is fragmented with efficiency and reducing emissions.
We have met this demand by developing products such as our Home Hub 3 which uses 39% less a wide range of products and services and with many different competitors, from large IT corporations and network-based power than previous models.
vendors, such as BT, through to niche technology suppliers.
UK SMEs Estimates of industry size and growth trends vary.
The global IT a services market is estimated to have a value of US$584bn.
After The overall SME market in the UK is estimated as having 4.8m several years of relatively at spend on IT services due to economic customers with spend on IT, broadband and network services conditions, many industry analysts are forecasting higher rates of estimated at about 29bn.
Competition to supply services to SME customers remains fragmented, with many of our competitors growth for 2012. typically focusing on specic segments of the market depending on customer size, focus and geography.
Our competitors include Forecast increase in demand for managed networked IT services Multinational managed service spend companies focused on providing services to SMEs such as Daisy and $bn Opal, larger companies such as Virgin Media and Cable & Wireless 50 Worldwide, and mobile operators and IT services companies such as Phoenix IT and Computacenter.
40 We are the leading provider of xed-line communications services 30 for SMEs in the UK market.
Our share of the xed-line market is 52% and we have around 1m SME customers, characterised by 20 their diversity.
They range from start-ups and microbusinesses with fewer than 10 employees to medium-sized business with up 10 to 1,000 employees.
Forecast includes 1P VPN, Ethernet, Network management, Applications Visibility, Control & Optimisation and Managed Security for multinationals over 1,000 employees.
a IDC Global IT services Market size.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 2011 15 BUSINESS REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW OUR MARKETS AND CUSTOMERS Demand for network based IT services continues to evolve with The landscape for wholesale communications remains competitive customers increasingly seeking to unify their communications following the significant market consolidation of recent years.
where an organisations infrastructure, mobility, desktop and Competition continues to increase as a result of wholesale carriers applications work together more effectively.
They are also looking rolling out their own IP network infrastructure and the switch from to virtualise their infrastructure virtualisation or cloud services legacy to next generation products.
Our competitors in the UK where customers business applications can be provided across BTs include Cable & Wireless Worldwide, TalkTalk Group, Virgin Media network rather than from their own premises, for example virtual and COLT, as well as a range of equipment vendors.
Many of these data or contact centre solutions.
They continue to want their competitors are also customers.
Internationally, we compete with networked IT services delivered securely, efficiently and globally.
the wholesale divisions of local incumbents and alternative network operators as well as global wholesale players.
Increasingly, our customers are asking us to help them capture the opportunities in a recovering economy, as well as reducing costs The wholesale market is beginning to adopt next generation and improving efficiency in their businesses.
In addition to helping communications services like IP voice, higher speed broadband customers reduce their capital expenditure, virtualised services, over copper and bre and Ethernet for data connectivity.
We have such as virtual data centres also provide energy savings.
seen continued bandwidth growth with capacity more than trebling on our network over the past five years.
To support the rapid We are a global leader in the networked IT services market with growth of high bandwidth services such as video over xed lines around 7,000 large corporate and public sector customers.
and mobile networks, a number of service providers are buying We supply networked IT services to national and local government wholesale managed services to meet this demand quickly rather organisations and other public sector bodies around the world.
than building their own infrastructure.
We are one of the largest suppliers of networked IT services for the UK Government.
The UK Government, collectively, is BTs Growth in bandwidth consumed on the BT broadband network largest customer, but the provision of services to any one of its 300 departments or agencies does not comprise a material proportion of our revenue.
Except as described in Our relationship with HM 250 Government on page 18, the commercial relationship between BT 200 as a supplier and the UK Government as a customer is on a normal customer and supplier basis.
150 We are also seeing customers maintaining a focus on energy 100 efficiency, ethical supply chain and other components of responsible and sustainable business practices.
Through BT 50 Conferencing we are a leading supplier of videoconferencing April April April April April April services globally and we have seen growing demand for 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 videoconferencing, a service which helps both to drive business Bandwidth consumed measured in gigabits and rebased to April 2006 100 efficiency and limit emissions by reducing travel.
We expect the sale of wholesale managed network services to Wholesale continue to grow in line with developments in services like xed and mobile broadband and internet-based TV.
BT operates in wholesale markets in the UK through BT Wholesale and Openreach, and outside of the UK primarily through the In the UK, Ofcom regulates some of our wholesale broadband wholesale arm of BT Global Services.
BTs wholesale customers products based on geographic markets: in Market Three, which are xed and mobile operators, internet service providers ISPs, contains the most competitive exchanges mainly urban areas our broadcasters and other CPs.
We have over 1,000 such customers wholesale broadband products are not regulated: in Market Two in the UK and many more around the world.
where there is some competition mainly suburban areas, and in Market One where there is very little or no competition mainly European wholesale revenue, 2009 rural areas, our products are regulated.
$bn 10 Access 80 In the UK, we manage the last mile of the access network the copper wires and bre connecting homes and businesses to their 60 local telephone exchange through Openreach.
We offer wholesale 40 access products and services on an open and equal basis to CPs so that they can offer voice and broadband services to their own 20 end customers.
00 The competitive challenge we face in the UK access market varies according to geography.
We face direct competition in urban and metropolitan areas with some competition in rural areas.
We also face competition from cable and mobile across our footprint.
Source: Ovum We supply a range of access products directly to large and small CPs.
This includes products such as LLU which enables CPs to lease the local loop infrastructure from Openreach to offer voice and broadband to their own customers, Wholesale Line Rental WLR and Ethernet products.
Under new obligations, we will also be offering products which give greater access to our underlying network infrastructure such as access to ducts and poles.
16 BT France Telecom Deutsche Telekom KPN Belgacom AT&T TeliaSonera Verizon BUSINESS REVIEW OUR MARKETS AND CUSTOMERS In the traditional xed-line access market, we continue to see a Conditions applying to all providers steady rise in the number of households in unbundled exchange Although these general conditions are concerned mainly with areas, which over the last three years has risen by around 5%.
consumer protection, they also include requirements relating to general access and interconnection: standards: emergency planning: the payment of administrative charges: the provision of Proportion of unbundled exchanges and connected premises information to Ofcom: and numbering.
A separate condition % regulates the provision of premium rate services.
The Electronic 100 % Exchanges unbundled 89 85 Communications Code applies to all CPs authorised to carry out 84 % households in 82 unbundled exchanges 80 73 streetworks and similar activities for network provision.
60 Conditions applying to BT 44 Universal service obligations USO are dened in an order issued 37 40 36 33 27 by the Secretary of State.
BT is the designated supplier of universal service for the UK, excluding the Hull area where KCOM Group is 20 the designated provider.
Our primary obligation is to ensure that 0 basic xed-line services are available at an affordable price to all 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 citizens and consumers in the UK.
Other conditions relate to payphones and social needs schemes.
The UK Governments plans In the UK local access market, the roll-out of BTs super-fast for the digital economy have created a fund of up to 830m that is broadband network will improve the services available to available via competitive tender to bidders in order to deliver the customers.
Other companies have also embarked on rolling out Governments ambition for rural next generation access.
This is not high-bandwidth broadband networks, making this a competitive part of BTs USO, but BT is likely to be one of the providers eligible sector.
Demand for high bandwidth Ethernet access services also to bid for such funds.
significant market power designations We also provide backhaul services for mobile voice and data.
We Ofcom is also required by EU directives to review relevant markets expect to see more demand for these services with the increasing use of smartphones and tablet devices.
We believe that this market regularly, and determine whether any CP has SMP in those markets.
Where Ofcom nds that a provider has SMP, it must impose will continue to develop in the coming years with the roll-out of next generation access networks and high bandwidth applications.
appropriate remedies that may include price controls.
In 2011 Ofcom completed market reviews of the Wholesale Local Access WLA, Wholesale Broadband Access WBA, WLR, and ISDN30 Regulation markets, covering products such as LLU and IPstream.
Ofcoms Regulation in the UK WLA review conclusions include new obligations on BT to provide a bre-based Virtual Unbundled Local Access VULA product and Electronic communications regulation in the UK is conducted within an obligation to share our ducts and poles for bre-based a framework set out in various EU directives, regulations and broadband purposes.
The framework has been reviewed and amended directives are expected to be implemented by late May 2011 in the In the WBA market, Ofcom increased the size of the mainly urban UK and other EU member states.
deregulated geographic market Market Three, and introduced a price regulation obligation in the rural areas Market One subject Ofcom to further consultation on appropriate charge controls see SMP Ofcom was set up under the Ofce of Communications Act 2002 charge controls below.
Ofcom has deregulated the ISDN30 market to provide a single, seamless approach to regulating the entire UK at the retail level and proposed charge controls at wholesale level communications market.
Its principal duties are to further the subject to further consultation see SMP charge controls below.
interests of citizens in relation to communications matters, and to Later in the 2011 calendar year, Ofcom is expected to begin a further the interests of consumers in relevant markets, where market review of the business connectivity markets covering appropriate by promoting competition.
Ofcom regulation takes the products such as retail and wholesale leased lines.
form of sets of conditions laid down under the Communications Act 2003 Communications Act and directions under these conditions.
SMP charge controls Some conditions apply to all providers of electronic As a result of SMP designations, the charges we can make for a communications networks and services: others apply to individual number of wholesale services are subject to regulatory controls providers, which Ofcom has designated as universal service which are designed to ensure that our charges are reasonably providers or as having significant market power SMP in a derived from costs, plus an appropriate return on capital employed.
These include: network charge controls NCC on wholesale interconnect services we operate under interconnection agreements with most other CPs partial private circuits PPC charge controls applying to certain wholesale leased lines that BT provides to other network operators certain wholesale Ethernet access and backhaul services LLU and WLR.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 2011 17 BUSINESS REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW OUR MARKETS AND CUSTOMERS Ofcom is currently consulting on charge controls for WBA Market Regulation outside the UK One, LLU, WLR and ISDN30 Wholesale products.
BT must comply with the regulatory regimes in the countries in which Ofcom has imposed SMP charge control regulation on the mobile we operate and this can have a material impact on our business.
call termination market with effect from April 2011.
Termination rates charged by mobile network operators will fall to 0.69 pence European Union per minute by April 2014.
This will enable us to lower the cost of Communications regulation in each EU country is conducted within calling mobiles from xed lines.
the regulatory framework determined by EU directives, regulations and recommendations.
The manner and speed with which the Regulatory decisions by Ofcom are subject to appeal.
existing directives have been implemented vary from country to country.
National regulators are working together in the Body of BTs Undertakings European Regulators for Electronic Communications to introduce In response to Ofcoms 2005 strategic review of greater harmonisation in their approach to the assessment of SMP telecommunications, we proposed a number of legally-binding and the imposition of appropriate remedies.
Undertakings under the Enterprise Act 2002 Enterprise Act.
These Undertakings, which included the creation of Openreach, The rest of the world were accepted by Ofcom and came into force in September 2005.
The vast majority of the communications markets in which we The Undertakings are intended to deliver clarity and certainty to operate around the world are subject to regulation.
The degree the UK telecommunications industry about the way BT will provide to which these markets are liberalised varies widely, and our ability upstream regulated products to support effective and fair to compete is constrained, to a greater or lesser degree, in many competition in related downstream markets.
We continue to press incumbent operators and their that BTs delivery of the Undertakings has enabled deregulation in national regulatory authorities around the world including in the more competitive downstream markets.
The vast majority of the EU for cost-related non discriminatory wholesale access to their commitments in the Undertakings have been delivered.
networks, where appropriate, and for advance notice of any changes to their network design or technology which would have Business rates an impact on our ability to serve our customers.
The European Commission formally investigated the way the UK Government set the rates payable on BTs infrastructure and those Competition law paid by KCOM, and whether or not the UK Government complied In addition to communications industry-specic regulation, BT with EU rules on state aid.
The Commissions decision in October is subject to the Competition Act 1998 in the UK and to EU 2006 that no state aid had been granted was appealed.
2011, the appeal was rejected as inadmissible.
Our relationship with HM Government We can be required by law to do certain things and provide certain services for the UK Government.
For example, under the Communications Act, we and others can be required to make and implement plans for the provision or restoration of services in connection with disasters.
Additionally, under the Civil Contingencies Act 2004, the UK Government can impose obligations on us and others at times of emergency and in connection with civil contingency planning.
Also, the Secretary of State can require us to take certain actions in the interest of national security and international relations.
