BUSINESS REVIEW OUR RESOURCES BTs resources include our people, physical networks and property estate: our expertise and intellectual property: our brand and Brand and reputation reputation: and close relationships with people and organisations, including major customers and suppliers.
We seek to steward these People assets and relationships in a responsible and sustainable manner.
Networks and platforms We strive to recruit and retain talented people, so that the company Global research capability can best serve its customers, build relationships, remain innovative and reduce its impact on the physical environment.
We are Suppliers investing to enhance our resources in the long-term interests of the Property portfolio company and all its stakeholders.
For example, as described elsewhere in this report, we are committing 2.5bn to build a super-fast broadband network in the UK, while expanding activities outside the UK, with a particular focus on the Asia Pacic region.
We continue the innovation which is vital to any company in our 92,600 sector we led 62 patent applications over the past year.
People worldwide Brand and reputation full-time equivalent employees When we develop our relationships with customers, when we make innovative and useful products, we build our reputation.
BT is proud to be one of the UKs most trusted brands our latest research shows that consumers engagement with our brand has c. 120m km gone up 4.5% over the past year.
Being a responsible and Length of copper cable on our network sustainable business leader contributes to this.
Our brand values underpin how we like to get things done at BT.
They outline the behaviour our employees can expect from each other and what our customers can expect from us.
684m trustworthy: we do what we say we will Investment in global research helpful: we work as one team and development inspiring: we create new possibilities straightforward: we make things clear heart: we believe in what we do.
16,700 As the ofcial communications partner to the London 2012 Olympic Games and Paralympic Games, we are providing the critical Suppliers communications infrastructure to power the Games.
The partnership is already delivering real benets and it is also helping us to engage with local communities.
Six out of 10 BT people who were surveyed as part of our annual employee survey say the 8,400 partnership makes them feel proud to work here.
Properties worldwide As well as the Games themselves, the BT Paralympic World Cup in Manchester in May 2011 is in its second successful year.
Our Road to 2012 project with the National Portrait Gallery celebrates those who are collectively making the Games happen.
People Our people are a key resource and we are proud of what they achieve for our business.
We continually work on improving the engagement and motivation of our people as this leads to better business performance and higher levels of customer service.
We recognise the quality of our leadership is vital to the success of BT.
We ensure leaders at all levels understand what is expected of them in leading and developing their teams.
Part of valuing our people is to recognise our responsibility when the requirement for various skills changes over time.
We have a successful track record of redeploying people by helping them learn new skills and nd jobs within BTs growth areas or while seconded to another organisation.
We have people on different types of working arrangements including part-time, term-time and job share.
Our resources at 31 March 2011 were equivalent to 75,660 full-time employees in the UK, and around 16,940 outside the UK.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 2011 19 BUSINESS REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW OUR RESOURCES Employee engagement is measured on a five point scale We continue to support an inclusive working environment where people can develop their careers and expect to be treated fairly, regardless of their race, sex, religion beliefs, disability, marital or civil partnership status, age, sexual orientation, gender or caring responsibilities.
We also work with specialist recruitment agencies to enable the recruitment of people with disabilities and 3.61 3.58 3.59 we run a retention service to ensure that people can stay with us even if their capabilities change.
Diversity of the BT workforce 2009 2011 2010 Target 2012 2011 2010 2009 BT will maintain a top 10 Reward and recognition position in four of five major diversity benchmarks: four UK Because we value our people, we ensure that the reward they based, and one global receive is fair for the job done against external market comparisons.
We conduct a market review of salaries every year.
In 2010 we agreed with the CWU a three-year pay deal which provides We look to improve customers experiences of BT by giving our considerable stability for both employees and the business.
people the up-to-date skills, tools and experience needed to do their Discussions with Prospect reached an agreement for 2011 and jobs.
This starts with our  apprentice schemes, more recent discussions have concluded a further two-year pay which recruited nearly 500 engineers during 2011, and continues deal, also providing stability through to 2013.
The same principles with opportunities to learn and develop throughout an employees of fair pay for the work done are similarly applied in all other career.
In BT Retail, we ran two programmes to provide apprentice countries in which we operate.
qualications in job-related skills: customer service and business administration for our advisors and leadership for our managers.
Our managers are rewarded with bonuses linked to the success of During the year 8,100 people successfully completed these the business and their personal contribution to it.
managers are also eligible for long-term incentives, but again, payment is related to business success measured by BTs corporate In order to help deliver super-fast broadband, Openreach has performance over a three-year period.
For more information see recruited 200 ex-armed forces personnel, who will become part of a the Report on directors remuneration on page 69.
They will be bringing their experience arrangements apply to the most senior managers in Openreach of complex engineering tasks, their skills and technical expertise to but remain entirely related to business performance.
bear on one of the UKs largest infrastructure projects.
We also provide savings-related share option plans in 25 countries.
BT people are also encouraged to participate in their local Under the BT employee share investment plan we enable communities.
We run a formal volunteering programme to help them employees in the UK to participate in a tax and national insurancedo this.
In 2011 BT people volunteered over 49,000 days, the value efficient share purchase scheme.
We are pleased that more than of which we estimate at 13.8m.
The community benets from this 50% of BT people participate in one or more of these share plans.
involvement and the business gains from the opportunity given to our people to enhance their existing skills or acquire new ones.
Pensions People engagement and communication Key parts of the reward package are the pension and retirement benets for our people.
In addition to statutory retirement Keeping our people informed of what is happening in BT is arrangements, BT provides retirement plans for staff in over important.
We use a range of communications channels including 50 countries.
The largest of these plans is the BT Pension Scheme a daily online news service, a quarterly magazine, podcasts and BTPS, a dened benefit plan in the UK.
The BTPS has around web chats.
We have a record of stable industrial relations and 51,000 contributing members, 188,000 pensioners and constructive relationships with the recognised unions in the UK 88,500 deferred members.
The BTPS was closed to new members and works councils elsewhere in Europe.
In the UK we recognise on 31 March 2001.
Benets are based on pensionable salary two main trade unions the Communication Workers Union CWU, and service.
which represents the engineering, administrative and clerical population and Prospect, which represents managerial and We also offer the BT Retirement Saving Scheme BTRSS, a dened professional employees.
We also operate a pan-European works contribution plan for eligible UK employees, which has around council, the BT European Consultation Committee.
It is a contract based, dened contribution arrangement provided by Standard Life, a leading UK insurance We measure how engaged BT people are through a quarterly survey company.
The scheme members receive benets at retirement and we ask 50,000 people each time to tell us how they feel about linked to contributions paid, the performance of each individuals their job, their team, their manager, senior leaders and BT.
Last chosen investments and the annuity rates at retirement.
year, despite challenging economic conditions, we held engagement steady.
This year we have seen improvements in how motivated people feel to do their best work.
We use this regular and extensive feedback to let line managers know more about their teams, how engaged they feel and what makes BT people feel proud about what they do.
20 BUSINESS REVIEW OUR RESOURCES Health and safety Our next generation access technologies Exchanges Homes Businesses The health and safety of our people remains of paramount FTTC importance and we continue to seek improvements by focusing on Cabinet behavioural and or lifestyle changes to reduce risk and improve Copper health.
Details of time lost to injury and sickness and their cost to BT are shown in the table below.
The rise in lost time injuries is Fibre largely attributable to accidents associated with the extended period of ice and snow in the UK winter and some contribution FTTP from an increased overtime requirement in the eld engineering Copper workforce.
Fibre Lost time injury rate lost time injury cases expressed as a rate per 100,000 hours worked on a 12-month rolling average BTs deployment of FTTC and FTTP will underpin the Non financial performance communications infrastructure for the future UK economy.
In so Target 2012 2011 2010 2009 doing, the enhanced internet speeds made possible by super-fast bre-based broadband increase the ability of our customers to Reduce to 0.200 cases 0.225 0.209 0.160 work from home and access services without travel, yielding Financial performance environmental benets.
In addition to facilitating lower carbon Cost to the business arising alternatives for customers, we continue to look for ways to reduce from injuries resulting in time the energy consumption associated with delivering super-fast off work 6.1m 5.6m 7.0m broadband.
For business customers, we have also continued to extend our bre Ethernet footprint, from 600 nodes in 2009 to 1,000 nodes in Sickness absence rate - percentage of calendar days lost to sickness 2011.
Ethernet is a next generation data connectivity service absence expressed as a 12-month rolling average offering high-speed, lower cost connectivity for large volumes of Non financial performance data between sites.
Target 2012 2011 2010 2009 For non-domestic customers requiring international services, our Reduce to 2.29% 2.41% 2.46% 2.17% international MPLS network provides coverage and support around the world.
It provides the performance, reliability, and security of a Financial performance leased-line network with the scalability and exibility of an internet BT sick pay costs 90.1m 95.4m 85.2m protocol IP network.
The BT MPLS service allows customers to prioritise trafc based on application, ensuring essential data Networks and platforms applications are served irrespective of the growth of competing, lower priority trafc.
One of our most valuable resources is our xed-line communications network, which is the most comprehensive in the UK with around 5,600 exchange areas, 670 local and 120 trunk Global research capability processor units.
Creating attractive and competitive propositions for customers is critical to the future of BT.
We operate an open innovation model, We own and maintain the last mile of the UKs local access whereby our research and development team works with network the copper wires and bre connecting homes and customers, partners and universities around the world.
They do so businesses to the core network operating approximately 120m in partnership with our dedicated innovation scanning teams in the kilometres of copper.
In addition, our plans for deploying superUS, Asia, Europe and the Middle East, which identied more than fast broadband in the UK will result in the installation of over 400 new technologies, business propositions and market trends 50,000 kilometres of bre.
BT continues to invest in broadband in the UK, offering a range BT also seeks to drive agility and efficiency in the development of services delivered over copper and bre.
Our copper wire process through our global development centres, which are located broadband service offers speeds of up to 8Mbps ADSL and up in the UK, US, Europe and India.
In so doing, we bring our to 20Mbps where we have upgraded service to ADSL2.
Already, innovation scanning and research teams closer to our customers, around 99% of UK premises can receive ADSL service.
We aim to designers and product development teams, so that we can quickly make ADSL2 services available to around 80% of properties by capitalise on the opportunities they uncover.
684m 2010: 789m in global research and development to Our super-fast bre-based broadband offers speeds of up to support our drive for innovation.
This investment comprised 40Mbps FTTC and 100Mbps FTTP.
We aim to deploy super-fast capitalised software development costs of 295m 2010: 345m broadband to two thirds of UK premises by the end of 2015.
Our and research and development operating costs of 389m 2010: FTTC product links roadside cabinets to telephone exchanges and 444m.
our copper local loop is used to deliver super-fast broadband to This year, we have applied our research and innovation capability customer premises.
FTTP involves installing bre into homes or to a number of strategic areas for the business in particular premises, superseding the copper local loop.
Our bre services are enhancing BT Vision and the delivery of other information and competition ready from the day they are installed other CPs can entertainment to customers.
We have also supported BTs wibuy access to the bre on wholesale terms and then sell to service with the development of BTs first smartphone application.
customers in competition with BT Retail.
In 2011 we led patent applications for 62 inventions 2010: 63.
We routinely seek patent protection in different countries including BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 2011 21 BUSINESS REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW OUR RESOURCES the US and China, and we currently maintain a total worldwide Payment of suppliers portfolio of around 5,600 patents and applications.
In normal circumstances, BTs payment terms for contracted suppliers will be to pay each due, valid and undisputed invoice Suppliers between 60 and 73 days from date of receipt from the supplier.
BT works with around 16,700 suppliers across the world, spending There are variations to this policy.
For example interconnect payments to other telecommunications operators, low value approximately 11.3bn per annum with them, with the top 100 suppliers accounting for more than 65% of this spend.
spend, various customer-specified requirements and rates are paid in shorter timescales.
In 2011 the average number of days We source products and services from across the world and have between the invoice date and the date of the payment run for the procurement professionals located in 25 countries.
We operate a strategic sourcing process for the vast majority of In the UK, BT provides access to a supplier nancing scheme which spend to derive maximum value and to meet BTs cost offers contracted suppliers the opportunity to obtain payments in transformation goals.
We ensure that appropriate suppliers are advance of the agreed terms of between 60 and 73 days from engaged, underpinned by a set of purchasing principles which receipt of a valid and undisputed invoice.
In addition, BT subscribes ensure we act in an ethically and commercially responsible way in to the Better Payment Practice Code, details of which can be found our business dealings with our global supply base.
co. uk We work with our suppliers to ensure the goods and services we procure are made, delivered and disposed of in a socially and Property portfolio  manner.
Sustainability factors such as At 31 March 2011 we occupied around 6,500 properties in the UK, energy usage, environmental impact, and labour standards are and around 1,850 properties in the rest of the world.
The majority embedded in our sourcing and adjudication process, and influence of the UK properties are owned by and leased from Telereal supplier and product selection.
Trillium, which is part of the William Pears Group.
Approximately 89% of the UK portfolio consists of operational Supplier relationships a measure of the overall success of BTs relationship telephone exchanges which contain exchange equipment and are with suppliers, based on our annual supplier survey needed as part of our continuing activities.
Other general purpose properties consist chiey of ofces, depots and computer centres.
Non financial performance Approximately 87% of the properties in the rest of the world are Target 2012 2011 2010 2009 operational sites.
To achieve a rating of 80% or 86% 86% 85% In recent years, our strategic focus on cost transformation has led more based on a response of excellent or good to the to significant reductions in our total labour resource.
This has question: How would you resulted in vacant space and under-utilisation of buildings within describe the quality of your our UK property estate.
Accordingly, in 2010 we initiated a companys relationship with BT?
property rationalisation programme to consolidate ofce space within the estate which has continued in 2011.
See page 57 of the Financial performance Financial review for further details.
Total spend with external supply 11.3bn 12.0bn 13.0bn base Our group property team has instigated a number of initiatives to reduce waste to landll, including changing contracts on its general waste to a recycling-led company and implementing new recycling schemes at many sites.
Ethical trading a measure of the application of BTs supply chain human rights standard Non financial performance Waste to landll and recycling a measure of BTs use of resources Target 2012 2011 2010 2009 Non financial performance To achieve 100% follow up 70 risk 180 risk 78 risk UK only within three months for all assessments assessments assessments Target 2012 2011 2010 2009 suppliers identied as high with 100% with 100% with 100% or medium risk, through our follow up follow up follow up BT Group will reduce the tonnage 69% 15% 17% ethical standard questionnaires of waste sent to landll by reduction reduction reduction 20% from 2011 levels in waste to in waste to in waste to Financial performance landll from landll from landll from Value of spend where our suppliers 86% of 86% of 83% of 2010 2009 2008 agree that BT ensures its purchases supplier supplier supplier Financial performance are made, delivered, used and spend spend spend disposed of in a socially and a a Net benefit to the business of the 2.03m 2.86m 3.79m environmentally responsible manner waste programme extrapolated from supplier survey a responses 2010 and 2009 gures are restated following a review of expenditure categorisation.
