BUSINESS REVIEW OUR LINES OF BUSINESS Business overview BT Global Services is a global leader in the provision of managed BT Global Services networked IT services for large corporate and public sector customers.
We provide services to around 7,000 large corporate and public sector customers with operations across the world in a During 2011 we consolidated our position as a wide range of sectors such as banking and financial services, global leader in networked IT services.
Order consumer packaged goods, logistics, pharmaceuticals and intake in the year grew by 10% as we signed manufacturing.
We serve customers in the public sector in the UK, including central Government and local councils, as well as public contracts with major corporate and public sector organisations in countries outside the UK.
We have implemented a new We operate domestic businesses in key markets in Europe such as global operating model and industry sector Italy, Germany, and Spain, where we serve both multinational strategy, and have achieved our operating cash corporations and SME customers, and have local network ow target a year ahead of plan.
infrastructure including high-speed bre networks in key cities.
We have operations across the Americas, and a strong business in Latin America based on an extensive satellite network.
In 2010 we announced, and started to deliver on, a strategic investment plan to strengthen our business in the Asia Pacic region.
8,047m Our customers benefit from BTs global scale and operating model.
Products are sold globally, and customers are served locally by our Revenue teams in their own countries and sectors who understand their specic business challenges and create locally relevant solutions.
We call this operating globally and delivering locally.
We make this possible through our assets and skills.
These include 593m our global IP network, data centres, solution design and integration professionals and IT security experts.
By combining network, IT and EBITDA professional services we create managed solutions that help our customers to operate more efficiently.
BT Global Services revenue by sector 3% Products and services 8% Corporate customers Networked IT services Public sector UK & overseas 19% Financial institutions We connect our customers to their customers through our Virtual 46% Transit Private Network VPN, connectivity and value added services.
We Other global carrier provide a range of products and services to do this such as BT MPLS, BT Etherow and BT Application Assured Infrastructure services to optimise application performance over networks.
24% Unied communications We provide a range of communication services to enable organisations to collaborate and communicate better.
This spans from the provision of PSTN and ISDN services, to our global managed services for IP telephony, and collaboration tools, either hosted on the customer site or as a cloud-based service.
119m Customer relationship management CRM Operating cash ow Through the combination of our professional services, cloud platforms and global inbound voice services, we offer a suite of CRM tools that give our customers the exibility and value they require when dealing with their end customers.
7.3bn Security Order intake We provide a range of security and risk management products from professional services to assess risk and vulnerability, through to a suite of proactive managed security services.
Data centre services World Communication With our global estate of data centres across the world, we provide a Awards 2010 range of hosting and managed services.
With the launch of our virtual BT Global Services data centre offering, BT Virtual Data Centre VDC, we have a new Best Global Operator generation of cloud-based services, giving our customers the exibility and agility that comes from a cloud computing environment.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 2011 23 BUSINESS REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW OUR LINES OF BUSINESS Mobility Notable contracts signed in the year include: We provide a range of value-added services to help customers Customer Contract exploit the benets of mobile computing, from exible working Unilever A four-year extension to our solutions through to services to enable customers to improve the existing contract to supply efficiency of both their supply chains and workforces.
managed services in over 100 countries.
Operating review UBS A new five-year contract for the Last year our focus was on improving the business through better provision of global voice and data financial and operational execution and the implementation of a network services, including a strengthened controls environment.
In 2011 we have reshaped and videoconferencing network and refocused our business to serve our customers better and audio conferencing services.
established a signicantly more competitive cost base.
Network Rail A two-year extension of our We have continued to improve the efficiency of our operations, and networked IT services contract.
reduce costs, helping to deliver a 7% reduction in net operating costs.
We achieved this through: Defence Fixed A three-year extension to our Telecommunications DFTS agreement with the UK improving service levels to take out cost of failure Service DFTS Ministry of Defence.
working with our external suppliers to improve contract terms Southwest One working in Provision of a high-speed reviewing our network and changing our network topography partnership with Somerset network to 269 schools and rationalising our network assets and our operations County Council, Taunton educational establishments improving the service we get from suppliers around the world.
Deane Borough Council, in Somerset, UK.
We have made changes to our global delivery model to improve Avon and Somerset Police contract execution.
We improved our bid management processes and IBM and created three global bid management centres to standardise Ministerio fide Defensa Provision of internet access, processes and share best practice.
We have continued improving fide Espaa, Spain security platform, and on-site the start-up of major contracts, including standardised and professional services to the Spanish accelerated start-up processes to improve contracts in the early government.
DigitPA Agency for the A seven-year contract to connect During 2011, as part of our commitment to global customers in key Digital Public Administration, 340 ofces in 125 countries, industry sectors, we created four global strategic sector teams to sit Italy  services alongside our four regions: Banking & Financial Markets: Commerce and managing a global network.
comprising manufacturing, logistics and pharmaceuticals: Consumer Packaged Goods: and Government & Health.
Customers in these sectors will benefit from a range of industry focused During the year we continued to execute on our larger customer products, solution design and infrastructure, as well as sector contracts, for example working with other London 2012 Olympic specic customer management and service teams.
and Paralympic Games technology partners, under the direction of the London 2012 Organising Committee, BT is building the communications infrastructure that will support the GLOBAL GLOBAL COMMERCE GLOBAL GLOBAL BANKING & MANUFACTURING, CONSUMER GOVERNMENT communications needs of the event.
FINANCIAL LOGISTICS & PACKAGED & HEALTH We have made good progress on our large NHS contracts.
Our work MARKETS PHARMACEUTICALS GOODS delivering clinical information systems at 80 NHS organisations across London and the South of England is now enabling around 170,000 healthcare professionals to provide better, safer patient care.
N3, the secure national broadband network built and UK managed by BT for the NHS, now serves over a million NHS users.
The Spine, the secure database and messaging service delivered by EMEA & LATIN AMERICA BT, continues to support the increased use of key transformational services, such as Choose and Book, the electronic appointment UNITED STATES & CANADA booking system, which saw the number of appointments booked electronically recently exceed 25m.
ASIA PACIFIC During the year the UK Government announced a review of all public sector spending and BT entered into discussions with the During the year we signed contracts with a total order value of Government on new arrangements designed to deliver efficiencies.
The market environment In October 2010 BT announced the signature of a Memorandum of continues to be challenging with fewer very large deals, longer lead Understanding with the UK Government under which all of BTs times and pricing pressure all having an impact.
central Government contracts remained in place.
During 2011 we launched new products and service enhancements, such as virtual data centre offerings, and a series of enhancements to our OneVoice collaboration and communications tools.
New industry specic products and services were also launched, such as the collaboration suite for financial markets which includes a next generation range of trader voice and collaboration services.
24 BUSINESS REVIEW OUR LINES OF BUSINESS Revenue from networked IT services remained broadly at 2010: We have also launched a range of products and services which broadly at.
Excluding the impact of around 100m in the prior help our customers reduce their environmental footprint including: year from the early delivery of contract milestones, revenue increased by 2%.
our sustainability practice and carbon impact assessment offer a professional services smart grid offering in the US.
Calls and lines revenue decreased by 14% 2010: 9% decrease reecting the impact of the continuing trend of customers In May 2010 we announced a strategic investment plan to migrating to alternative IP based services.
strengthen our business in the Asia Pacic region.
We are recruiting up to 300 additional people in the key customer markets of Transit revenue decreased by 20% 2010: 10% decrease largely Australia, China, Hong Kong, India, Japan and Singapore, in order due to the impact of mobile termination rate reductions in to build up our sales and professional services teams, bid and Continental Europe and the continuing trend of lower wholesale project management, and service operations teams.
This will allow call volumes.
Other global carrier revenue decreased by 10% BT to provide enhanced service delivery capabilities as customers 2010: 3% decrease due to lower volumes.
Our continued commitment to the Broadband and convergence revenue decreased by 5% 2010: 4% region and our customers was recognised through us winning the increase.
Other revenue, principally comprising global product Telecom Asia Best Managed Services Provider award for the revenues, decreased by 18% 2010: 7% increase partially due to second consecutive year.
foreign exchange movements and lower global demand.
During the year we made steady improvements in managing Net operating costs decreased by 7% 2010: 4% decrease or 6% customer service we had fewer abandoned calls, order accuracy excluding transit.
This improvement reects further progress with improved and we reduced customer faults by 11%.
our cost efficiency initiatives during 2011 as set out on page 24.
We were pleased to see our achievements recognised by external Our progress in addressing the cost base is demonstrated by the industry commentators, for example at the World Communication 30% increase in EBITDA 2010: 75% increase to 593m.
Awards where we won Best Global Operator and in our placements in key reports such as the March 2011 Gartner Magic Depreciation and amortisation decreased by 10% 2010: 5% a Quadrant for Pan-European Network Services, and IDC increase reecting the reduction in capital expenditure over the MarketScape: Asia Pacic Next-Generation Telecom Services 2010. last two years.
The operating loss was 141m, a significant improvement Financial performance compared with losses of 358m and 515m in 2010 and 2009, 2011 2010 2009 respectively.
m m m Capital expenditure reduced by 17% 2010: 32% decrease due to Revenue 8,047 8,513 8,628 the timing of capital expenditure across certain of our large Net operating costs 7,454 8,056 8,367 customer contracts, the application of more stringent investment EBITDA 593 457 261 return criteria and improved procurement and programme delivery.
Depreciation and amortisation 734 815 776 Operating cash was an inow of 119m, a significant improvement Operating loss 141 358 515 from an outow of 482m in 2010 and 912m in 2009.
The Capital expenditure 498 599 886 improvement was achieved through higher EBITDA, improved Operating cash ow 119 482 912 working capital and lower capital expenditure.
We expect to generate around 200m of operating cash ow in 2012.
In 2011 revenue decreased by 5% 2010: 1% decrease.
Excluding the negative impact of foreign exchange movements and the reduction in low-margin transit revenue, underlying revenue excluding transit decreased by 4%, reecting reduced UK calls and lines revenue.
In addition, last year included revenue of around 100m from the early delivery of contract milesetones.
2011 2010 2009 m m m Products and services ICT and managed networks 5,310 5,281 5,273 Calls and lines 822 956 1,055 Transit 623 782 869 Broadband and convergence 318 334 321 Other global carrier 206 229 237 Other products and services 768 931 873 Total 8,047 8,513 8,628 a The Magic Quadrant is copyrighted 2011 by Gartner, Inc. and is reused with permission.
The Magic Quadrant is a graphical representation of a marketplace at and for a specic time period.
It depicts Gartners analysis of how certain vendors measure against criteria for that marketplace, as dened by Gartner.
Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in the Magic Quadrant, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors placed in the Leaders quadrant.
The Magic Quadrant is intended solely as a research tool, and is not meant to be a specic guide to action.
Gartner disclaims all warranties, express or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or tness for a particular purpose.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 2011 25 BUSINESS REVIEW
