REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS DIRECTORS INFORMATION appointment in January 2011, Nick Rose and Jasmine Whitbread Election and re-election have met with the Operating Committee members.
They have also All directors are required by BTs Articles of Association to be had a series of meetings with other key senior executives across the elected by shareholders at the first annual general meeting AGM company and in relation to committee memberships, specic after their appointment, if appointed by the Board.
A director must briengs have taken place.
subsequently retire by rotation at an AGM at intervals of not more than three years.
The director may seek re-election.
Directors are continually updated on BTs business, the competitive and regulatory environments in which it operates, technology and Nick Rose and Jasmine Whitbread, having been appointed as corporate responsibility matters and other changes affecting BT and directors by the Board, will retire at the 2011 AGM and will be the communications industry as a whole, by written briengs and proposed for election.
In line with the New Code, the Board has meetings with senior BT executives.
The Board has an annual decided that all other directors except Clay Brendish, will be strategy meeting, with regular reviews during the year.
Clay, whose appointment will end on are also advised on appointment of their legal and other duties and 31 August 2011 will then retire from the Board.
Details of these obligations as a director of a listed company, both in writing and in directors contracts letters of appointment are included in the face-to-face meetings with the Company Secretary.
They are Report on directors remuneration.
reminded of certain obligations each year and they are also The chairman reviewed the performance of each director and updated on changes to the legal, accounting and governance found that each of them makes an effective contribution to the requirements affecting the company and themselves as directors.
deliberations of the Board and continues to demonstrate During the 2011 financial year, for example, the Board received commitment to the role.
The Chairmans performance was briengs on changes to UK company law and on various corporate reviewed by the senior independent director.
governance matters through regular Secretarys Reports.
The Chairman also sends a weekly email to non-executive directors Meetings attendance which includes topical sector highlights and updates on key business activities.
The following table shows the attendance of directors at meetings of the Board and Audit & Risk, Nominating & Governance and Guidelines govern the content, presentation and delivery of papers Remuneration Committees during the 2011 financial year.
for each Board meeting, so that the directors have enough information to be properly briefed sufciently far ahead of each Nominating & Audit & Risk Governance Remuneration Board meeting and at other appropriate times, and to take account Board Committee Committee Committee of their duties as directors.
Number of meetings held 1064 6 Number of meetings attended maximum possible Independent advice a Sir Michael Rake 9 10 4 4 1 1 The Board has a procedure for directors, in carrying out their duties, Ian Livingston 10 10 to take independent professional advice if necessary, at BTs Tony Chanmugam 10 10 expense.
All directors also have access to the advice and services of Gavin Patterson 10 10 the Company Secretary.
Clay Brendish 9 10 6 6 4 4 Carl Symon 10 10 6 6 6 6 Directors and ofcers liability insurance and Phil Hodkinson 9 10 6 6 3 4 indemnity Patricia Hewitt 8 10 6 6 3 4 6 6 For some years, BT has purchased insurance to cover the directors Eric Daniels 9 10 4 4 6 6 and ofcers of BT Group plc and its subsidiaries and the BT Tony Ball 10 10 4 4 b nominated directors of associated companies and joint ventures Nick Rose 2 2 against defence costs and civil damages awarded following an c Jasmine Whitbread 2 2 action brought against them in that capacity.
The insurance a Sir Michael Rake ceased to be a member of Remuneration Committee on 31 May 2010. b Nick Rose was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2011. operates to protect the directors and ofcers directly in c Jasmine Whitbread was appointed to the Board on 19 January 2011. circumstances where by law BT cannot provide an indemnity and also provides BT, subject to a retention, with cover against the cost The Board keeps under review the level of attendance, and of indemnifying a director or officer.
One layer of the programme is contribution by directors at Board meetings and the Chairman ringed-fenced for the directors of BT Group plc.
The cover has been meets with non-executive directors on an individual basis.
extended to provide limited cover for civil fines and penalties.
At the date on which this report was approved, and throughout the Service agreements 2011 financial year, the companys wholly owned subsidiary, British Telecommunications plc, has provided an indemnity in respect of a The Chairman and executive directors have service agreements, the similar group of people who would be covered by the above terms of which are approved by the Remuneration Committee.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnity provides cover Information about the periods of these contracts is in the Report on where the person has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Interest of management in certain transactions Training and information During and at the end of the 2011 financial year, none of BTs On appointment, directors take part in an induction programme directors was materially interested in any material transaction in when they receive information about BT, the role of the Board and relation to the groups business and none is materially interested in the matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and any presently proposed material transactions.
membership of the main Board committees, and the powers delegated to those committees, BTs corporate governance policies and procedures, including the powers reserved to the groups most senior executives, and the latest financial information.
