BUSINESS REVIEW OUR LINES OF BUSINESS BT Innovate & Design BT Operate BT Innovate & Design is responsible for the innovation, design, BT Operate manages BTs IT and network infrastructure platforms development and delivery of the processes, networks and platforms as a single converged operation, providing a seamless on behalf of the customer-facing lines of business.
These are run by IT infrastructure.
BT Operate also runs parts of other CPs networks BT Operate.
on behalf of the customer-facing lines of business, and is responsible for delivery of the products and services BT sells to its BT Innovate & Design has an operating model focused on delivery, customers.
with strong cost and quality management, which includes the whole lifecycle of both the network and associated software.
In We monitor the reliability of BTs networks and systems, and during addition, by having the innovation, design and development skills 2011 we had challenges but in the fourth quarter we saw an within one team we are able to bring innovation closer to the improvement in performance.
A key driver to the improvement is customer, bringing new ideas, products and services to market due to uplifts on our core network platforms and systems faster, cheaper and more effectively for our customers.
supported through the use of global development centres in the Q4 2011 Q4 2010 UK, US, Europe and India which improve collaboration, agility and efficiency in network and software development by bringing Reliability 28.2% 10.8% Reliability is measured as performance improvement improvement the reduction in frequency together the development teams and customers.
measure over fourth over fourth and duration of network We continue to reduce our cost base through a combination of cost quarter of quarter of and system outages for controls and efficiency measures.
In 2011 we reduced our unit 2010 2009 certain product journeys.
costs by 12% 2010: 31% through a quality delivery process, which focuses on re-use, consolidation and standardisation, by We establish and manage security policy and processes throughout developing software which can be used to guide decisions about BT, enabling us to meet the requirements of our customers, both in development, and supplier management.
We embed sustainability into our current innovation and design BT Operate manages the groups energy strategy which aims to approach by including energy usage as a design criteria in our reduce consumption, establish security of supply and reduce network and service architectures both for BT internal use and to carbon emissions.
Networks and data centres managed by BT enable our lines of business to offer low carbon products and Operate account for a significant amount of BTs energy services to customers.
For example, in 2011 we developed an ADSL consumption in the UK.
technology called Cool Broadband that congures ADSL lines to This year, BT has reduced global energy consumption by 2.5% be always available rather than always fully on and has the compared with 2010.
This is the second consecutive year that BT potential to reduce energy consumption by around 30% per line has reduced overall energy consumption, despite additional energy without affecting the customers experience.
During 2011 we required for business growth and expansion of networks.
In the UK, successfully conducted customer trials and we are working with energy consumption has reduced by 2.6% compared to 2010. suppliers towards a development plan.
To ensure our focus on being a sustainable and responsible business BTs UK energy consumption leader well into the future, we have a dedicated research team GWh a focused on developing opportunities for future gains in energy and 2,500 Electricity carbon management and on using cutting edge technologies to Gas improve accessibility and inclusion for the hearing, sight and 2,000 physically impaired.
1,500 1,000 500 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Our energy consumption reductions have been achieved by driving key initiatives including Smart Energy Control by delivering building energy management systems to many sites with further sites planned for 2012.
They have also been achieved by replacing energy-inefficient equipment, and decommissioning and rationalising our estate.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 2011 35 BUSINESS REVIEW
