REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND OPERATING COMMITTEE Sir Michael Rake Ian Livingston Tony Chanmugam Gavin Patterson Andrew Parker Tony Ball Clayton Brendish Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Chief Executive Company Director BT Retail Secretary Gavin Patterson Chairman a, e Chief Executive, BT Retail Sir Michael Rake Gavin Patterson was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2008 as d, e, f Chairman Chief Executive BT Retail and is a member of the Operating Sir Michael was appointed to the Board as Chairman on Committee.
He is also a member of the Committee for Sustainable 26 September 2007.
He also chairs the Nominating & Governance & Responsible Business.
He was formerly Managing Director, Committee and the Committee for Sustainable & Responsible Consumer Division, BT Retail.
He is a non-executive director of Business and is a member of the Pension Scheme Performance British Airways.
Before joining BT, he was managing director of the Review Group.
He was formerly chairman of KPMG International consumer division of Telewest.
Aged 43. from 2002 to 2007, and previously held other roles in KPMG from 1972.
Company Secretary He is chairman of easyJet, a non-executive director of Barclays, where he chairs the audit committee, McGraw Hill and the Financial Andrew Parker Reporting Council.
Sir Michaels other appointments include viceAndrew Parker, formerly General Counsel, BT Retail from 2004, was president of the RNIB, membership of the board of the appointed Company Secretary on 1 April 2008.
A solicitor, he has TransAtlantic Business Dialogue, the CBI International Advisory worked for BT since 1988 in a number of legal, regulatory and Board and the National Security Forum.
He is an employer-nominated trustee director of he was knighted in 2007 for his services to the accountancy the BT Pension Scheme.
Andrew previously worked in the City in profession.
Executive directors Operating Committee Ian Livingston a, f Chief Executive Ian Livingston, Chief Executive Ian Livingston was appointed as Chief Executive on 1 June 2008.
Tony Chanmugam, Group Finance Director He chairs the Operating Committee and is a member of the Pension Sally Davis, Chief Executive, BT Wholesale Scheme Performance Review Group.
He was formerly Chief Jeff Kelly, Chief Executive, BT Global Services Executive of BT Retail from 7 February 2005 and Group Finance Roel Louwhoff, Chief Executive, BT Operate Director from April 2002.
Before joining BT, he was group finance Gavin Patterson, Chief Executive, BT Retail director of Dixons Group from 1997.
He joined Dixons in 1991 after Clive Selley, Chief Executive, BT Innovate & Design working for 3i Group and Bank of America International.
His experience at Dixons spanned a number of operational and Key to membership of Board committees: financial roles, both in the UK and overseas.
He is a non-executive a Operating director of Celtic and chairman of the audit committee.
He is a b Audit & Risk Chartered Accountant.
Aged 46. c Remuneration d Nominating & Governance Tony Chanmugam e Sustainable & Responsible Business a Group Finance Director f Pension Scheme Performance Review Group Tony Chanmugam was appointed to the Board on 1 December g Equality of Access Board 2008 as Group Finance Director and is a member of the Operating Committee.
He was formerly Chief Financial officer of BT Retail and Managing Director of BT Enterprises and, from 1997 to 2004, he was Chief Financial officer and then Chief Operating officer of BT Global Solutions.
Tony was appointed a non-executive director and chairman of the audit committee of Barnet and Chase Farm Hospital Trust in April 2010.
He is a Chartered Management Accountant.
