Board of Directors Hamish N Buchan Chairman of the Board and Nomination & Remuneration Committee A Director since 2000.
Last reappointed to the Board: 2011.
Currently Chairman of Personal Assets Trust plc and a Director of Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc, The Scottish Investment Trust plc and Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Mr Buchan has been involved in the investment trust sector for more than forty years, mainly as an investment trust analyst and was formerly Chairman of the Association of Investment Companies.
Shared directorships with other Directors: None.
Chairman of the Association of Investment Companies and a Director of St. Jamess Place plc, New India Investment Trust plc, Witan Pacific Investment Trust plc, Polar Capital Technology Trust plc and Development Securities plc.
Mrs Bates is also Chairman of the Stena Line UK Pension Scheme, of Rutley Russia Property Fund and the Kings Corner Project and sits on or is advisor to various pension fund and charitable investment committees.
She publishes a guide to investment jargon and was formerly CEO of Invescos UK Institutional including investment trusts business.
Last reappointed to the Board: 2009.
Until June 2005 Director of Corporate Communications at Cazenove & Co. Mrs Bolsover was previously Managing Director of Signature Financial Group.
She is Deputy Chairman of Tomorrows People Trust Limited and a Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Fidelity Asian Values plc.
20 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 James G Fox Chairman of the Audit Committee A Director since 2003.
Last reappointed to the Board: 2010.
A Director of Miton Worldwide Growth Investment Trust plc.
Mr Fox has more than forty years experience of investment management and is a former Deputy Chairman of the Association of Investment Companies.
Mr Williams has been professionally involved in the investment management industry for over 35 years.
He retired from Baring Asset Management in 2002, where he was Chief Investment Officer and head of global investment strategy.
He is a Director of Investors Capital Trust plc and Prosperity Russia Domestic Fund plc.
Shared directorships with other Directors:None.
Member of the Audit Committee.
All Directors are considered independent by the Board and are members of the Nomination & Remuneration Committee.
JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
