Investment Managers Report Market Review Simply put, 2011 was a year in which investors lost their appetite for taking risk, amidst plenty of evidence that the debt crisis that has dominated the past few years is still very much with us.
The causes of this all-pervasive risk aversion are not very hard to identify: the effects of the disasters of 2008 are still impacting economic growth around the world and the addition of the European sovereign debt crisis are giving investors plenty of reasons to be cautious.
Against this backdrop, investors in the US stock market actually fared relatively well compared with most other major markets with the major large capitalisation indices creeping into positive territory: these returns looked much better than the 15-20% losses suffered in many European, Asian and Latin American markets.
Within the US market, growth again beat value, as has been the outcome since the beginning of the financial crisis in 2007.
But the most notable trend was the persistent outperformance of companies seen as more likely to do well in a tough economic environment.
The healthcare and consumer staple sectors recorded double digit gains for the year, with tobacco stocks especially in demand.
As long term Treasury Bond yields fell to unprecedentedly low levels, dividends were especially sought after in a world starved of income.
The utility sector for example gained 20% and across the market companies with a high yield considerably outperformed their peers with a less generous approach to paying dividends.
At the other end of the scale, investors continued to shy away from companies likely to struggle in a more difficult economy, especially those with high financial leverage.
A special level of distaste was reserved for the financial sector, where many companies combine both economic sensitivity and high leverage, all compounded by the continued uncertainty over the eventual impact of the many new regulations enacted over the past four years and the, perhaps, unintended consequences of a zero interest rate policy from the Federal Reserve.
For the year, the financial sector lost another 17% and is now over 60% below the pre-crisis highs, with even sharper declines in some of the investment banks.
Basic industry companies also performed poorly, with growing doubts over the continuing strength of the Chinese economy weighing on steel, aluminium and copper stocks, although the much bigger energy sector actually made modest progress.
The Companys net asset value total return rose by 0.5%, a 2.1 percentage points underperformance against our benchmark, the S&P 500 Index.
Overall Asset Allocation and Performance The investment management team is responsible for managing the allocation between the large and the small cap portfolios, together with the levels of cash and gearing.
In 2011, the Companys gearing ranged between 92% and 104% of shareholders funds, with the level at the year end being 97%.
The level of gearing has been adjusted at regular intervals within the gearing guidelines laid down by the Board to reflect the outlook on risk and return for both equities and bonds.
We maintained a relatively low level of gearing throughout most of 2011 due to our concerns over the challenging economic and political backdrop.
Our cautious stance was, however, a negative factor in that the Company held a relatively high cash weighting in September and October 2011 when the market recovered sharply which contributed to the 2.1 percentage points of underperformance.
6 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 The weighting in the smaller companies portfolio ranged between 3.0% and 5.6% of the Companys total assets less current liabilities and ended the year at 3.2%.
We believe that our ability to move between the two segments enhances returns to shareholders and helps to balance our overall risk.
Attribution data for 2011, in the table opposite, shows that there was a small positive contribution from the larger companies portfolio and a small negative contribution from the smaller companies portfolio.
Large Companies Portfolio Our investment methodology continues to focus on investing in high quality, reasonably valued companies.
This style leads us to invest in companies that exhibit good growth characteristics with growing earnings, strong cash flows and reasonable valuations.
The large companies portfolio generated a small positive return for the period under review.
In terms of where we were successful in the period under review, the portfolios energy and materials & processing exposures added the most value.
Within energy, overweight positions in Williams and Exxon Mobil added the most value as their earnings surged thanks to higher oil prices and improved refining margins.
Within the materials & processing sector, a lack of exposure to the commodity names such as Freeport-McMoRan, Alcoa and US Steel, helped performance as investors rotated away from the more cyclical stocks.
MasterCard was the top contributor within the portfolio overall as the card issuers share price rose following strong earnings growth from increased credit and debit card spending.
Sector Weightings of the Large Cap Portfolio versus S&P 500 as at 31st December 2011 Large Company Overweight Portfolio S&P 500 Underweight Sector %%% Technology 21.7 17.1 4.6 Health Care 15.2 11.7 3.5 Energy 14.5 12.3 2.2 Financial Services 11.8 14.6 2.8 Consumer Discretionary 11.8 12.5 0.7 Consumer Staples 9.4 10.1 0.7 Producer Durables 7.8 11.0 3.2 Utilities 6.6 6.9 0.3 Materials & Processing 1.2 3.8 2.6 Source: Wilshire.
Based on the Russell Global Sector Classification For the sector analysis of the overall portfolio see page 15.
The largest detractor from performance was weak stock selection, with the portfolios consumer discretionary and producer durables holdings inflicting the most damage.
Within consumer discretionary, our exposure to General Motors proved disappointing.
The car manufacturers earnings were hindered by the European sovereign debt crisis as it negatively impacted global sales.
We like General Motors due to its leverage to cyclical secular factors, as well as its strong JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 7 American pp01 21 American pp01 21 26 03 2012 15:32 Page 8 Investment Managers Report continued balance sheet.
Regarding our performance in the producer durables sector, our Performance attribution for the exposure to Oshkosh for part of the period was the biggest detractor within the year ended 31st December 2011 sector as well as the portfolio overall.
Shares of the manufacturer of speciality Year ended Year ended vehicles declined on concerns about future defence spending.
We sold our position 31st December 31st December 2011 2010 during the period under review.
%% Contributions to total returns The table below shows the largest positive and negative stock contributors to Net asset value portfolio performance in 2011: total return in sterling terms 0.5 17.8 Price Performance Contribution Benchmark total return in sterling terms 2.6 18.3 Stock Action %% Excess return 2.1 0.5 Positive Contributors Contributions to total returns MasterCard D 66.7 0.6 Largecapportfolio 0.1 2.1 WilliamsI 37.1 0.5 Allocation effect 0.5 0.3 IBM D 27.4 0.4 Selection effect 0.4 2.4 J P Morgan Chase & Co#20.0 0.3 Smallcapportfolio 0.3 1.6 Philip Morris I 39.8 0.3 Allocation effect 0.3 1.6 Gearing cash effect 2.1 1.1 Negative Contributors Currency hedge 0.8 0.4 Oshkosh S41.3 0.5 Management fee expenses 0.7 0.7 Shares issued 0.1 Bank of America D58.1 0.3 MetLife I28.3 0.2 Total 2.1 0.5 McDonalds 34.7 0.2 Source: JPMAM and Morningstar.
All figures are on a CenturyLink I13.1 0.2 total return basis.
Performance attribution analyses how I Position increased:D Position decreased:S Position sold.
the Company achieved its recorded Not held or underweighted in the portfolio at year end performance relative to its benchmark #Not held as Company barred from having an investment in this security index.
Contribution figures are based on stock selection relative to the total contribution return, in US$ A glossary of terms and definitions is Smaller Companies Portfolio provided on page 63.
For the first time since 2007 smaller companies did not outperform larger companies and our exposure therefore detracted from overall performance against our benchmark.
In analysing the performance of the smaller companies portfolio against the Russell 2000 Index, the market rewarded stocks of higher quality with slower expected growth and our bias towards faster growing stocks served as a headwind.
Stock selection, primarily in the consumer discretionary sector, hindered relative performance the most.
In particular, our exposure to OfficeMax, for some of the period under review, hindered performance.
The office products retailers share price tumbled, after declining sales to large business customers and lower store traffic led to a much bigger than expected decline in its first quarter profits.
We sold our position during the period under review.
In terms of where we added value, stock selection in the technology and health care sectors was positive.
Amongst individual stocks, HealthSpring, was the top 8 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
To expand its Medicare and senior care business, Cigna announced its acquisition of HealthSpring at a 37% premium.
HealthSpring has been a strong contributor to quarterly and yearly performance, however, we sold our shares as the share price neared Cignas offer price.
We remain positioned for a continuation of the muted economic recovery currently underway in the US and remain focused on companies in the small cap portfolio that we think are high quality and have the greatest potential to grow in this environment.
Fundamentals still look very attractive with strong secular growth drivers in place, along with the potential for the added tailwind of a cyclical recovery.
Outlook Will investors recover their appetite for risk taking in 2012?
We think that with many attractive valuations, there is a strong incentive to position portfolios for a better year.
We still face a now familiar tension between healthy corporate fundamentals and a lengthy list of intractable macro issues hanging over the market outlook.
Significantly these are led by the on-going European sovereign debt problems and a possible slowdown in China.
But economic activity in the US appears to be picking up and although consensus forecasts for this year have slipped somewhat since last summer, most of the corporate sector is still fundamentally in excellent financial shape.
Profit margins are already very high, although there is still room for recovery in places, with financials and housing related companies being the most obvious examples.
So our research suggests that profits should continue to rise, albeit at a much slower level in 2012.
Meanwhile, dividend payments are rising strongly, as payout ratios are still quite modest by longer term standards, and companies are responding to the clear desire from investors for yield.
Most importantly, we think that markets are very much priced in favour of those willing to take risk.
With a price earnings multiple of 12 and a risk premium over 10 Year Treasury Bonds of around 7%, almost twice the average for the past 25 years, there is a very strong incentive to be patient through what may still be more difficult times ahead.
As has been the case for most of 2011 and the early part of 2012 the environment will likely continue to be a daily battle between improving fundamentals and the constant barrage of macro news that can negatively impact investor confidence.
While confidence surveys have turned higher in recent months, investor sentiment remains quite low.
We expect the markets to remain volatile and would use any meaningful market weakness to increase our equity exposure.
As long term equity investors, we believe low valuations and poor investor sentiment could be a potentially powerful combination for equity markets.
Garrett Fish Investment Manager 23rd March 2012 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
