Investment Managers Report Market Review The twelve months to 30th September 2011 have been one of the most challenging periods for Asian equities in the past decade.
The MSCI AC Asia ex Japan Index fell by 13.6% in sterling terms over this period, compared to the MSCI Worlds 5.9% decline.
In Asia, particularly in India, Indonesia and China, the main drivers of growth remained domestic consumption and domestic investment rather than the export sector.
Gearing at government, corporate and personal levels remained low throughout the period.
Nonetheless, inflation across Asia remained high, leading to monetary policy being tightened throughout the year.
This had a negative effect on investor sentiment during the period under review.
Joshua Tay Asian markets were largely directionless for the last quarter of 2010 and the first quarter of 2011, as persistently strong inflation and tighter monetary policy neutralised continued strong economic and corporate earnings growth.
In March, markets seemed to have reached a bottom earnings were strong, inflation and monetary tightening appeared to have peaked across Asia, and the China National Peoples Congress meeting reaffirmed the Chinese governments commitment to harmonious growth in the countrys twelfth Five-Year Plan.
In particular, the FiveYear Plan aimed to address rising inequality and create an environment for more sustainable growth by prioritising more equitable wealth distribution, increased domestic consumption, and improved social infrastructure and social safety nets.
This included a target to build 36 million social housing units over the next five years.
This gave rise to renewed optimism that, having underperformed regional and global Pauline Ng markets for over eighteen months, Chinese equities, which were then trading at one of the lowest valuation levels in the region, had bottomed.
After a generally firm period from mid-March until the end of June, Asian markets then collapsed by over 20% in the third quarter of 2011.
The principal reason was continued concern over sovereign credit in the developed world, as illustrated by a spike in Italian bond yields, and consequent concerns over the European banking system.
The reactive nature of policy response in Europe and brinksmanship over the debt ceiling in the US turned sentiment sharply negative amidst signs of slowing growth and concerns over a potential double dip recession.
Asian companies linked to the global economy, particularly in Taiwan and Korea, saw their earnings forecasts revised down sharply.
Most importantly for Asia, concerns about China not being able to bail out the West were transformed into worries about a potential hard landing for its economy.
This caused a major sell-off in cyclical and policy-related sectors such as property and commodities.
As a result, China underperformed the region during this period.
Corporate earnings in India were revised down from early in the year thanks to persistent high inflation of 9% which led to the Reserve Bank of India increasing interest rates by 2.25% over the past twelve months.
In addition, political paralysis weighed heavily on investment, particularly in infrastructure.
Outperforming markets over the review period were the other more domesticoriented countries, such as Indonesia, and the more insulated defensive countries such as Malaysia.
The election in Thailand in July was decisive and there were encouraging indications that the new Thaksin government would act prudently.
Performance Over the twelve months ended 30th September 2011, the Companys portfolio returned 21.1%, net of management fees and expenses, underperforming the benchmark index by 7.5 percentage points.
Over the course of the year we employed JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 7 Investment Managers Report continued gearing of approximately 102% on average.
Both asset allocation and stock selection Performance attribution for the detracted from performance, with stock selection in China accounting for year ended 30th September 2011 approximately 80% of the underperformance.
On the asset allocation side, our %% average overweight position in China and India, coupled with our underweight position in Malaysia, were the main negatives.
However, our overweight in Thailand Contributions to total returns and Indonesia contributed positively to performance.
Benchmark 13.6 At the stock level, selection was strongest in Korea.
In particular, our overweight in Stock selection 6.4 Samsung Engineering was one of the top contributors to performance.
Its earnings Currency effect 0.3 were boosted by strong order books throughout the year.
Our overweight in Korea Gearing cash 0.1 Kumho Petrochemical benefited from strong product pricing due to supply discipline, Dividends residual 0.6 and our holding in OCI Co. a manufacturer of polysilicon a material used in solar Investment manager cells, was boosted by incremental order growth and favourable industry trends contribution 6.6 earlier in the year.
Several of our Korean consumer names, such as tobacco stock Portfolio total return 20.2 KT&G and cosmetics company Amorepacific, also contributed strongly to Management fee performance over the year.
other expenses 0.9 The positive contributors were however heavily outweighed by the negative Portfolio total return, net contribution from stock selection in China and Hong Kong.
Our holdings in property of fees and expenses 21.1 Poly Hong Kong, China Resources Land, building materials China National Building Share buybacks 0.1 Material, BBMG, and in banks Agricultural Bank of China were the major detractors Exercise of from performance.
Positions in these companies were bought early in 2011 on the Subscription basis of attractive relative valuations and expected strong earnings growth.
shares Other effects 0.1 We had a strong preference for cement companies because of consolidation in the sector and supply pricing discipline.
We believed this would feed through to stronger Undiluted return on net assets 21.0 earnings, despite the perceived cyclical nature of these stocks.
As an example of the Subscription share volatility in the market, cement and building materials stocks almost doubled dilution 0.9 between March and June of 2011, before dropping by over 60% in the third quarter of Structural effects 0.9 2011.
For the year under review, they ended up as net detractors to performance.
Diluted return on net assets 20.1 We were also hurt by stock selection in Singapore, where our overweight in Midas Effect of movement in Holdings, a producer of aluminium parts used in train carriages in China, hurt discount over the year 2.3 performance after a spate of rail accidents in China led to speculation that China Return to Ordinary shareholders 17.8 would slow its rail expansion.
Otto Marine, a shipbuilder, was also affected by the global slowdown as fears grew of slowing orders and reduced shipping rates.
Source: FactSet, JPMAM and Morningstar.
All figures are on a total return basis.
Portfolio Activity and Positioning Performance attribution analyses how the Company achieved its recorded Enduring problems in Europe and the US made us enter the year very cautious about performance relative to its benchmark the developed world and with a firm belief that Asian growth and the absence of index.
systemic debt problems in Asia would see the region outperform.
Accompanying that belief was the view that domestic consumption would remain vibrant, particularly in A glossary of terms and definitions is China, and that domestic consumption stocks would make positive contributions.
We provided on pages 66 and 67. were particularly sensitive about valuations believing that, against the negative world backdrop, cheap valuations would be rewarded and cheap underperformers would be bought by the cautious.
We believed such stocks would be defensive in the event of further periods of selling.
China had underperformed for three consecutive years, was very cheap and had the expected catalyst of an imminent we believed end to the tightening cycle and soft landing ahead for its economy.
Corporate earnings were still growing and the market continued to see upgrades to these during the first half of this year.
Within China, banks and properties were the two sectors where we saw the highest pessimism amongst investors and thus the best value.
We also took the view that inflationary pressures would decline going into the third quarter, which would allow policy to be eased.
For these reasons we raised our weighting to China in July and 8 JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 added more to property names to take advantage of an anticipated recovery in the market as inflation peaked.
Inflation did, indeed, peak in July coming in at 6.5% versus 6.1% in August.
This should have provided a boost to China equities.
However, the coincidence of this slowdown in China with concerns over OECD growth and funding simply lead to investors fide-risking their portfolios.
The absence of any policy response in the quarter, and the evident determination of the Chinese leadership to focus on cooling continued property speculation, led to China underperforming the region.
Performance has clearly been disappointing.
Our strategy has been to continue to focus closely on domestic names where we see good fundamental value.
We have also maintained a low exposure to small cap stocks.
With the benefit of hindsight, our overweight in China was premature and our optimism about appetite for Asias growth advantages outweighing risk aversion misplaced.
We have taken advantage of the dislocation in the market to sell outperformers such as our consumer staples holdings in Korea KT&G, Amorepacific and have added more to banks, property and cement stocks in China following the sell-off.
Market Outlook Valuations in Asia are slightly below historic averages but not yet at extreme levels.
Without a major change in global sentiment and consequent upward revisions to Asian corporate profits, it is currently hard to imagine any catalyst for Asian markets trading materially above historic averages.
A 15% correction from current levels would however put valuations into stressed territory where one would expect to see upside opportunity.
Deleveraging will continue in the developed world.
Government deficits will continue to gain attention and will allow limited fiscal flexibility.
Hence asset markets are likely to remain both volatile and rotational, for which reason we expect to be both cautious and flexible.
In response to tighter fiscal policy, monetary policy will have to remain accommodative.
For Asia, muted growth in the OECD suggests that again export growth will not be the primary driver and this will remain a headwind for overall growth and sentiment in the region, with GDP trimmed but still comfortably stronger than in the OECD.
Export markets, such as Taiwan, will remain vulnerable to weak consumption in the West.
Until recently, concerns in Asia have been almost the opposite of the developed world.
With healthy balance sheets, Asian governments were able to stimulate their economies post the global financial crisis in 2008 and households and corporates were willing to increase leverage in response to falling interest rates.
Demand in most Asian economies recovered quickly.
However, this brought with it a rebound in inflation and policy tightening, particularly in India and China, which has been a drag on markets.
We see this tightening phase ending and the structural growth advantage of domestic Asia coming to the fore.
We will therefore continue to prefer  businesses in markets such as China, India, Indonesia and Thailand.
The exact weighting and balance between these markets will very much depend on valuations.
The global backdrop reinforces our conviction in the investment case of Asia.
We believe that 2012 will provide us with attractive entry points into equities in Asia which will lead to strong performance for our shareholders in the longer term.
Joshua Tay Pauline Ng Investment Managers 20th December 2011 JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
