Board of Directors James Long TD Chairman Joined the Board in 1997 and appointed Chairman in 2003.
Previous roles included Director of Risk and Compliance for AstraZeneca Europe, Corporate Finance Director of Inchcape plc and Managing Director, Asia and Emerging Markets for the ESAB Group.
Mr Long is a Director of British Assets Trust PLC.
Alun Evans CMG Joined the Board in 2001 and appointed Senior Independent Director in 2008.
Mr Evanss main career was with the Foreign and Commonwealth Office where he rose to senior management level with responsibility, latterly, for Far Eastern issues.
He then spent thirteen years in the civil aviation industry as international affairs adviser first to British Airways and subsequently to Cathay Pacific Airways.
He is also Deputy Chairman of the British-Iranian Chamber of Commerce.
Mr Evans will be retiring at the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
Ronald Gould Joined the Board in 2005.
Mr Gould is Managing Director and head of the Promontory Financial Group in China.
He was previously CEO of Chi-X Asia Pacific, Senior Advisor to the UK Financial Services Authority, CEO of investment bank ABG Sundal Collier and Vice Chairman of Barclays Bank asset management activities.
JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 17 Board of Directors continued James Strachan Joined the Board in 2009.
Mr Strachan is currently a non-executive director of the Financial Services Authority, Welsh Water Limited, Towergate Insurance Group, Sarasin and Partners LLP and Social Finance Limited.
Former roles include: Chairman of the Audit Commission, Non-Executive Director of the Bank of England, Legal and General plc, Care UK plc and Ofgem, and Executive Board Member of Merrill Lynch International.
He is also a Visiting Senior Fellow at the London School of Economics risk and regulation.
Andrew Sykes Joined the Board in 2004 and appointed Audit Committee Chairman in 2008.
Chairman of Absolute Return Trust Limited and Invista Foundation Property Trust Limited, Deputy Chairman of Smith & Williamson Holdings Limited, Director of Record plc and SVG Capital plc.
Until March 2004, Mr Sykes was a Director of Schroders plc, with responsibility for private banking and alternative investments.
Linda Yueh Joined the Board in 2011.
Dr Yueh is a Fellow in Economics at St Edmund Hall, Oxford University, where she is also Director of the China Growth Centre.
She is Adjunct Professor of Economics at the London Business School and Associate of the Centre for Economic Performance and of the IDEAS International Affairs, Diplomacy and Strategy research centre, both at the London School of Economics.
Dr Yueh previously practised as an international corporate litigation lawyer in New York, Hong Kong and Beijing.
She then obtained a Doctorate in Economics at Oxford University.
Member of the Nomination Committee.
18 JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
