Investment Managers Report Results During your Companys financial year ended on 30th June 2011, the portfolio produced a total return of 22.3%, after fees and expenses: the total return from the share price was 20.1%: if the Subscription shares issued two years ago are taken into account, that return increases slightly to 21.9%.
For reference, the MSCI Emerging Markets Index gave a return of 19.1% over the year.
As usual, the various effects contributing to these results are detailed in a table on page 5, below: this shows that the differential investment returns from the portfolio have been entirely a result of stock selection.
The Past Year The numbers above make this look like a good year for equity markets, but the two months since the Companys financial year ended in June have put the year in a rather different light.
For much of the 12 months after June 2010 the central case implied by the behaviour of markets seemed to be a weak and slow recovery for Western economies, but not a second major downturn.
The travails of Greece and the euro area as a whole gave rise to periodic concern, but not a complete loss of confidence.
In emerging markets, investors worried mostly about inflation, the unintended consequence of loose global monetary policy, and about the possibility of another spike in oil prices following the political revolutions in parts of the Middle East.
But in the last two months, political antagonism in the USA and the appearance of continued disarray in European economic policy have brought renewed concerns about the prospects for Western economies.
It is beginning to look as though the great financial crisis of 2008 was not resolved by government action, merely nationalised, transferring the issue to sovereign bond markets.
More thoughts on the future and on the positioning of your Companys portfolio are offered below.
Within emerging markets, both India and China fared relatively poorly this past year, producing returns close to zero in sterling terms.
In both cases there have been salutary reminders of some of the risks of emerging markets.
In India, corruption and an apparent inability of government to make progress have become something of a leitmotiv in our discussions with companies.
In China, state intervention continues to loom large over the equity market: the state is omni-present in the corporate sector, as, variously, owner, supplier, customer, regulator and competitor: like most, if not all other governments, it tends to see economic stability and control of inflation as a higher priority than the earning of profits to reward private capital.
In Latin America, Brazil has been a relatively difficult place to make money: the currency has been very strong, domestic prices for goods and services are extremely high and there is little sign of the deregulation and liberalisation of the economy that will be required to drive efficiency and productivity gains.
Without it, the lack of investment that has been a feature of the economy in recent decades seems set to continue and this means that temporary rises in demand are likely to produce inflation.
4 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 But elsewhere there have been better conditions for investment returns: markets in Performance attribution for the year South East Asia have remained largely unaffected by external conditions and indeed ended 30th June 2011 many of the smaller markets in Latin America and Europe have also performed well, %% though it is hard to generalise about the causes: Chile, South Africa, Thailand, Korea, Contributions to total returns and Poland were among the best places in which to be invested during the last year.
Benchmark 19.1 In reality, however, most of our time is spent concentrating not on countries, but on individual companies and their share prices, where the picture is infinitely more Asset allocation 4.1 Stock selection 11.1 varied.
For the managers whose companies we own, the rest of the world is Gearing cash 0.3 sometimes a distant concern: they are concerned with finding new sites for Currency 1.9 expansion, with negotiating with suppliers, with increasing productivity and controlling costs, or battling against competitors.
Two examples in the next section Investment Manager contribution 4.8 may serve better to illustrate the nature of really stock-specific investing which remains our principal activity.
Portfolio return 23.9 Management fee The Portfolio Today Other expenses 1.3 Performance fee 0.3 A trained eye should, I think, be able to read most of what you might want to know Portfolio return net of fees about an investment manager, and his or her approach and opinions, merely by and expenses 22.3 looking at a portfolio over time.
What would such an observer notice when looking at your Companys portfolio today?
I would suggest three major characteristics.
Exercise of Subscription shares 0.9 The first attribute is continuity: the portfolio does not change much: I wrote at length Undiluted return on net on this aspect in last years annual report.
During the last twelve months we changed assets 21.4 18% of the investments by value, a fairly typical level of activity.
We continue to try to Dilution effect of find and own the kind of companies about whose long term prospects we can have potential exercise most confidence and thereby avoid the need to keep changing the portfolio.
As a of remaining Subscription company observed to me recently, one thing you can control is your operating costs, shares 0.4 and in investment, transaction-related expenses are simply a type of operating cost Diluted return on which detracts from the eventual return.
net assets 21.0 The second feature is a continued bias towards stock-specific investing, often in Impact of change in companies linked to domestic demand and the longer term evolution of emerging discount 0.9 economies.
There are, very broadly speaking, four economic sectors that we invest Return to Ordinary in: consumer businesses: financial services: industrial and manufacturing companies: shareholders 20.1 and commodity producers.
The first two have certain characteristics in common Source: Xamin Datastream Morningstar.
they are by their very nature highly localised you do not bank in another country, or All figures are on a total return basis.
buy food far from home : they are to some extent protected by local factors, including Performance attribution analyses how regulation in the case of financial services, and arguably the need to be able to meet the Company achieved its recorded local preferences.
The second two sectors are more globalised: commodities are sold performance relative to its benchmark.
across borders, are subject to a large extent to global pricing trends and as the term A glossary of terms and definitions is commodity indicates, are not easily differentiated.
The industrial sector in emerging provided on page 62. markets is far from homogenous, but significant parts of it are still concentrated on producing products for export, largely to the developed world.
It is not an accident that the portfolio is biased towards the first two sectors especially when compared to our benchmark, which accounted for over 60% of its overall value at the end of June.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 5 Investment Managers Report continued It would be too simplistic to say that this is all stems from an overwhelming macro-economic view of the world: rather, we find it much easier to identify companies whose value can rise sustainably over the long term in some places than in others.
Growth in intrinsic value requires several factors, but two of the more important are a rising desire to purchase and a rising ability to pay for goods and services, leading to growth in an industry overall: and the ability to outperform other companies and thereby outgrow the industry as well.
The developed world does not, at least for a while, look likely to produce much of the first of these, while the emerging countries mostly can.
Moreover, the corporate landscape is still very immature in many parts of the world that we look at, and should offer major market share opportunities for the winners.
We are especially interested in companies where the investment case rests on factors which are highly specific to the individual company, rather than exogenous to it: these features, I would argue, are generally easier to identify in fragmented industries and harder to find in businesses whose value is driven by significant external factors, like commodity prices or currency rates, which are wholly outside the control and influence of management : such investments are truly diversified, because their success or failure is unrelated to all other opportunities.
Two examples from the portfolio may illustrate what we mean.
One of the consumer companies we own is Wumart Stores, the leading supermarket retailer in the Beijing area of China: its sales in 2010 were just under 2 billion US dollars, while Chinese retail sales in total were well over one trillion dollars.
Wumart is a truly private sector Chinese company: if it remains the competently managed business that we judge it to be, it is hard to see why this company cannot become significantly larger in the long run as incomes in China rise and the retail industry continues to consolidate.
Wumart is expanding its store network steadily, and has approached the challenge of moving beyond its core market with due caution: in 2010 its sales were 20% higher than in 2009, a growth rate that has continued in the first part of 2011, with profits moving in tandem.
Our discussions with this company reveal an organisation that is completely focused on competitiveness: for its managers, the opportunity is never in doubt: what matters is to run a company that can match or better the competitors: the daily challenges of recruitment and training, of inventory management, IT systems and efficiency are what command attention.
A second example which serves to illustrate the point about immaturity is United Breweries.
This company is the leading beer producer in India, with a market share exceeding 50% and a higher share of industry profits.
Its sales in the last financial year were 600 million US dollars and its profit margin is still well below the industry norm because it has yet to achieve economies of scale.
Beer is not an easy business to run in India and the effects of government regulation and involvement have suppressed the industrys development in the past: yet when we first invested in this company it was valued at less than one billion dollars: today it is valued at roughly twice that.
Again, if the company executes competently the presence of Heineken as a significant shareholder is encouraging, it is hard to believe that in one of the worlds most populous countries, half of the beer market will not be worth much, much more eventually.
The current profitability of the company seems unrelated to its potential earnings because so many factors, from the cost of bottles to the size of 6 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 individual breweries work to the detriment of profits today.
Growth in demand and output can eventually deal with these challenges, and in a country where 120 million people reach legal drinking age in the next five years, it seems hard to imagine that demand cannot rise in the long run.
Only an unusual level of access to detailed information would reveal the third characteristic, which relates to the businesses owned on a look through basis.
We want to own good businesses without paying too much for them.
Through the portfolio, you as shareholders own portions of companies whose underlying performance is not immediately visible: the change in the net asset value of the portfolio tells the story of their share prices every year, but not of their underlying results.
At a time of uncertainty, the exercise of looking through to the underlying businesses should I hope provide shareholders with reassurance about the degree of risk being run by these companies, and about the valuations we are paying for them.
What follows is not a comprehensive analysis, but an attempt to draw out some of the more salient features of the portfolio today on a look-through basis.
In financial services the portfolio has 17 investments in 11 countries, accounting for 28% of the total.
Most of these are banks and other lending businesses: at a time of stress for the global banking system, shareholders should note that our investments in lending businesses make, collectively, over 25% returns on equity: we are paying a small premium above the average bank valuation for this, but well-capitalised balance sheets and strong profit generation are characteristics that remain very desirable over the long term: as the recent crisis has shown, survival is all in banking.
In the consumer sector we have 24 investments spread across nine countries: they are very diverse, ranging from beer producers to pharmacy retail and from carmakers to tobacco.
Profitability, steady growth and free cash flow are the key features that we look for: our food and beverage companies have no debt and make returns on equity of more than 30%: the general retailers that we own make 24% returns, also without any aggregate debt.
Such companies do not come cheap, though their average price-earnings ratio of 21x should be seen in the context of a future that we expect will see continuing growth in consumer incomes a larger pie, supplemented by a consolidation trend that has many years to run a bigger slice for successful companies.
In the industrial and manufacturing sectors, we own four capital goods producers valued at 10x earnings and yielding 3.4%, and six companies whose business is related to the technology industry, either through software services and production, or through hardware manufacturing: these technology companies are again debt free and all saw double digit growth in earnings per share during the last year.
We do not hold many investments in the primary commodity sectors: the portfolio contains two oil companies and two mining companies: one of our oil investments is an exploration company just breaking into profit: the three other primary producers yield over 4% and trade at multiples that are low enough to suggest peak profitability may be occurring.
In the materials sector, where we also own steel and cement companies, our investments yield 3.7% and trade at 7.5x earnings.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 7 Investment Managers Report continued The above is not an exhaustive analysis by any means and does not cover the whole portfolio: but an overall perspective can be gained by looking at a summary of the portfolios underlying characteristics.
In aggregate, the companies owned have little debt: net borrowings account for 15% of shareholders funds of the non-financial businesses: taken as a whole, the companies you own through this portfolio make a return on equity of 23%.
The dividend yield on the portfolio at the time of writing is 2.5%, covered more than three times by profits: I expect that dividends paid by these companies will continue to grow in the future more or less regardless of the general global background.
Twenty Years in Emerging Markets Finally, a brief word to mark the fact that this annual report is the twentieth one that we have produced since your Companys inception in July 1991.
Over that period the share price has risen by 535%, and the net assets by 611%, an annualised rate of 10.5%.
These numbers already include the effects of share issuance and costs: the overall gross investment return has been 11.9% annualised.
As long term shareholders will know, these returns have not come in a smooth way: there have been times when the value of your Companys assets has fallen sharply in a couple of months and others when it has risen just as quickly.
Our ability to produce returns ahead of the benchmark index is not consistent either: sometimes we struggle to match it, sometimes we do significantly better.
I have tried over the years to make good returns while diversifying risk across the portfolio: others will judge the extent to which this has been achieved.
I would like to conclude this years commentary by thanking all who have contributed to this over the years and in particular in by thanking shareholders for their willingness to look at the long term in an asset class that has been through enough volatility to satisfy the most hardened risk-taker.
Over the last twenty years, emerging market equities have produced returns that are higher than both the MSCI World Index, and the UK stock market: and our efforts have managed to add something more on top.
The challenge now, as ever, is to continue this.
Austin Forey Investment Manager 4th October 2011 8 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
