Directors report The directors present their Annual Report on the affairs of the Group, together with the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011.
Principal activities and business review The principal activity of the Group is as an international specialist healthcare company, developing and commercialising products targeting critical care, cancer and other disorders.
The Group is building a sustainably profitable business financed by revenues from sales of critical care and interventional oncology products, and from royalties and milestone payments on partnered products.
The results of the Group are set out in detail on pages 74 to 78 and the accompanying notes.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the business review, including a review of the business, the principal business risks, key performance indicators and likely future developments, can be found in the Chief Executive Officers review on pages 16 to 19, the business review on pages 20 to 29 and the corporate responsibility report on pages 30 to 35.
These are incorporated into this report by reference.
Further information on the Group is available on the Companys website: www.
com Results and dividends The results for the year and the financial position at 31 March 2011 are shown in the consolidated income statement on page 74 and the consolidated statement of financial position on page 76.
The directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend for the year 2010: nil.
The results of the Group for the year are explained further on pages 21 to 24.
Directors and their powers and interests The directors of the Company at the date of this report, together with their biographical details and dates of appointment, are shown on pages 38 to 39.
The Board confirms that each of the directors who served during the year has been formally appraised during the period and that they continue to demonstrate commitment to the Group, the Board and to their role.
The Board has decided that all the directors of the Company will stand for election or re-election annually in future in accordance with the new UK Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2010.
The Board is proposing the election of Melanie Lee and Ian Much, who have been appointed to the Board since the last AGM, and the re-election of the other directors.
Colin Blakemore, who joined the Board in 2007, retired at the time of the AGM on 13 July 2010.
William Jenkins, having been a director since 2002, retired from the Board on 4 February 2011.
In accordance with the Companys articles of association, throughout the year the Company has maintained cover for its directors and officers and those of its subsidiary companies under a directors and officers liability insurance policy as permitted by sections 232 to 235 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company has entered into separate Deeds of Indemnity in favour of each of its directors to the extent permitted by law.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnities provide cover where the relevant director or officer has acted fraudulently or intentionally breached the law.
Information on directors remuneration, contracts, options and their beneficial interests, including those of their immediate families, in the shares of the Company are shown in the remuneration report on pages 57 to 68.
None of the directors had an interest in any contract of significance to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries was party during the year.
Corporate governance A report on corporate governance may be found on pages 44 to 51.
40 Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors and governance Corporate responsibility Information on the Companys social, environmental, health and safety and ethical considerations, charitable donations and policies regarding its employees may be found in the corporate responsibility report on pages 30 to 35.
Acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc On 19 November 2010, the Board of BTG announced that it had agreed the terms of a recommended offer with the board of Biocompatibles International plc to acquire the entire issued and to be issued share capital of Biocompatibles.
The acquisition was effected by a Scheme of Arrangement under Part 26 of the Companies Act 2006.
Under the terms of the Scheme, Biocompatibles shareholders who were on the register of members at 6pm on 26 January 2011 were entitled to receive 1.6733 new BTG shares and 10p cash for every Biocompatibles share they held at that date.
The acquisition became effective on 27 January 2011 and the new BTG shares were admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange at the start of business on 28 January 2011.
They were credited as fully paid and ranked pari passu in all respects to the existing BTG shares.
As an alternative to receiving the 10p cash element of the consideration, Biocompatibles shareholders were entitled to elect to receive an entitlement to a contingent right to payment of the Sterling equivalent of 0.56 per Biocompatibles share in cash the Partial CVN Alternative by participating in value that may potentially be achieved from part of Biocompatibles programme to develop the GLP-1 Compound, which it has partnered with AstraZeneca.
If they opted for the Partial CVN Alternative they received one Contingent Value Note CVN for every Biocompatibles share they held at 26 January 2011.
The CVNs are not listed on any stock exchange and are only tradable on a matched bargain basis.
Those non-UK shareholders who were not entitled to opt for the CVN received the 10p cash element.
See note 38 on pages 125 to 127 for further information.
The Company announced on 13 May 2011 that AstraZeneca had terminated the development and option agreement relating to CM-3, a GLP-1 analogue being developed by BTGs CellMed subsidiary for use in type 2 diabetes and other indications.
As a result of AstraZenecas decision to terminate the development and option agreement, it is highly unlikely that any payment will be made in relation to the CVNs.
The payment obligation would only now arise if BTG enters into another form of licence, sale or other disposal of the GLP-1 asset to AstraZeneca prior to 31 December 2012.
In light of AstraZenecas decision to terminate the development and option agreement, the BTG Board does not believe that there is any realistic possibility that this will occur.
As a result of the termination of this option agreement, BTGs results for the year ending 31 March 2012 will include non-cash accounting charges in relation to the CVNs and the impairment of the intangible book value ascribed to CM-3 at the time of BTGs acquisition of Biocompatibles in January 2011 totalling approximately 8m see note 39 on page 127 for further information.
BTG will now review options for this programme as part of the ongoing portfolio review following the acquisition of Biocompatibles.
Share capital and shareholders During the year 68,723,244 ordinary shares were issued pursuant to the acquisition of Biocompatibles referred to above.
A further 365,086 were released to employees and former employees of BTG as a result of the exercise of share awards under the Companys employee share schemes.
There are no restrictions on voting rights or on the transfer of securities.
Share capital is comprised solely of ordinary shares and all have the same voting rights.
The BTG Employee Share Trust holds shares in the Company which may be used for the benefit of employees.
The shares held by the Trust have the same rights as those held by all other shareholders.
Further details of the Trust are set out in note 31 to the financial statements on page 117.
41 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors and governance Directors report continued Details of outstanding share options and awards are set out in note 30 to the financial statements on pages 113 to 116.
Details of the movements in the Companys share capital are shown in note 24 to the financial statements on pages 107 and 108.
Further details of shareholdings and company reporting dates may be found on page 138.
At the date of this report the Company had been notified of the following interests held, directly or indirectly, in 3% or more of the Companys issued share capital.
Shareholding % holding Invesco Asset Management Ltd 91,567,192 28.03 M&G Investment Management Ltd 45,952,581 14.06 Schroder Investment Management Ltd 18,858,959 5.77 AXA Framlington Investment Management Ltd 13,169,129 4.03 Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 11,323,186 3.47 Aviva Investors Global Services Ltd 11,103,133 3.40 Standard Life Investments Ltd 11,012,639 3.37 Hunter Hall Investment Management 9,855,644 3.02 Norges Bank 9,810,443 3.00 Articles of association The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the provisions of relevant statutes, the Companys articles of association the Articles and any directions given by a special resolution of the shareholders.
The Articles, for instance, contain certain specific provisions and restrictions regarding the Companys power to borrow money.
Powers relating to the issuing and buying back of shares are included in the Articles and are subject to such authorities being approved annually by shareholders at the AGM.
There is no current intention of requesting the authority to buy back shares of the Company.
The rules for the election and re-election of directors are set out in the Articles however, as reported on page 46 of the corporate governance report, the directors propose to stand for re-election at each AGM as from this year, in accordance with the new UK Corporate Governance Code.
Change of control There are a number of agreements that take effect after, or terminate upon, a change of control of the Company, such as commercial contracts, bank facility agreements, guarantees, property agreements and employee share plans.
None of these are considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
Furthermore, the directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company and its directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss of office or employment that occur because of a takeover bid.
Policy on payment of creditors It is the BTG Groups policy to abide by the terms of payment agreed with suppliers.
In many cases, the terms of payment are as stated in the suppliers own literature.
In other cases, the terms of payment are determined by specific written or oral agreement.
At 31 March 2011 the total owed to trade creditors by the Group was equivalent to 33 days average purchases 2010: 41 days.
The Company had no trade creditors at that date 2010: nil.
Going concern On the basis of current financial projections and cash resources and facilities available, and after making enquiries, the directors believe that the Company has adequate resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
42 Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors and governance Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 10.30am on 20 July 2011 at the offices of Stephenson Harwood, 1 Finsbury Circus, London EC2M 7SH.
Matters to be considered at the meeting include resolutions to receive the Annual Report and Accounts, to re-appoint the auditor and elect or re-elect the directors.
Further details are set out in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting which is enclosed with this report.
Disclosure of information to the auditor The directors who held office at the date of approval of this report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Auditor Resolutions will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor and to authorise the directors to determine its remuneration.
By order of the Board Paul Mussenden Company Secretary 24 May 2011 43 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors and governance
