Bumi plc | Governance 62 Annual Report 2011 Other Statutory Information This section contains additional information which the Directors are required by law and regulation to include within the Annual Report.
Company registration restrictions as the Company may by ordinary Bumiplc is domiciled in England and incorporated resolution determine or, subject to and in default of and registered in England and Wales with the such determination, as the Board may determine.
Its registered office is Board may issue shares which are to be redeemed or 2ndFloor, 4Grosvenor Place, London SW1X 7HJ.
are liable to be redeemed at the option of the Company or the holder.
Subject to the Companys Articles of Principal activities Association and to the Companies Act, the unissued Bumiplc is a leading FTSE listed thermal coal group shares of the Company whether forming part of the with interests in the largest coal-producing assets in original or any increased capital are at the disposal Indonesia through its 85% holding in PTBerau and of the Board.
Voting Ordinary Shares Business review Holders of Voting Ordinary Shares are entitled to A detailed review of the Groups performance attend, speak and vote at general meetings of the and future prospects is presented in the Chairmans Company, and to appoint proxies to exercise their Statement on pages 6 to 7, the Chief Executive rights.
Holders of Voting Ordinary Shares may Officers Statement on pages 8 to 9 and the receive a dividend and on a winding up may share Business Review on pages 16 to 35. in the assets of the Company.
Share Capital Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares The Company has three classes of ordinary shares For the purposes of the rights and restrictions which carry no right to xed income: Voting Ordinary attaching to the Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares: Shares, Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares and acting in concert shall have the meaning given Redeemable Deferred Shares.
At the date of this in the City Code as applied by the UK Panel on Annual Report, the issued share capital of the Takeovers and Mergers, and references to acting Company comprised 180,514,285 Voting Ordinary in concert shall be construed as acting in concert Shares of 0.01 each representing approximately in relation to the Company, but references to acting 74.90% of the total issued share capital, 60,442,782 in concert with the Sellers or either of them or any Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares of 0.01 each Affiliate shall not include any member of the Issuer representing approximately 25.08% of the total issued Concert Party Group: share capital and 50,000 Redeemable Deferred Shares Affiliate shall mean, in relation to the Sellers, i any of 1.00 each representing approximately 0.02% person that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled of the total issued share capital.
by, or is under common control with either Seller but excluding the Company and any person or entity During the year the Company undertook a court controlled by the Company, ii any person holding approved reduction of capital involving a reduction shares as nominee for either Seller or any of their in the nominal value of the Companys Voting Affiliates but only in relation to the shares so held Ordinary Shares and Suspended Voting Ordinary and iii any person holding shares which represent an Shares to create additional distributable reserves identiable, distinct partnership interest of either Seller for the Company going forwards.
On 6 July 2011, or any of their Affiliates but only in relation to the the High Court issued an order sanctioning the shares so held, and, for the purposes of this denition, reduction in the nominal value of the Companys control, when used with respect to any person, means voting ordinary shares and suspended voting the power to direct the management and policies of ordinary shares from 6.00 to0.01.
such person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise Share rights and controlled shall be construed accordingly : The rights and obligations attached to the Group means the Company and its subsidiary Companys ordinary shares are set out in the undertakings and parent undertakings and any Articles of Association, copies of which can be subsidiary undertakings of any such parent obtained from Companies House in the UK or undertakings for the time being and Group member by writing to the Group General Counsel and shall be construed accordingly for these purposes, Company Secretary.
Subject to the provisions of subsidiary undertaking and parent undertaking shall the Companies Act, and without prejudice to any have the meanings given to them in section 1162 of rights attached to any existing shares or class of the Companies Act 2006 : shares, any share may be issued with such rights or Governance 63 Issuer Concert Party Group means each Non-Seller Affiliate, to appoint an administrator or to Director, the Company and each other Group member present a petition for the appointment of an and any person acting in concert with a Non-Seller administrator in relation to the Company, Director or a Group member other than the Sellers, or to approve any arrangement with the any Seller Nominated Director and anyAffiliate: Companyscreditors, Maximum Voting Percentage shall mean such c proposed by the Board of Directors of the percentage as would, in the event of either Seller or Company, to sell all or substantially all of the any Affiliate subsequently acquiring one additional undertaking of the Company provided that Voting Ordinary Share, result in one of the Sellers such resolution is not in connection with a or any Affiliate being required to make a mandatory transaction to which the UK City Code on offer for the Company under Rule 9 of the City Code: Takeovers and Mergers City Code applies, Non-Seller Director means a Director of the d proposed by the Board of Directors of the Company who is not a Seller Nominated Director: Company for the purposes of, or in connection Seller Nominated Director means any director with, any scheme of arrangement of the of the Company appointed at the request of the Company under the Act under which a Sellers, or either of them: body corporate Newco will acquire the Sellers Voting Shareholding shall mean the Company and the holdings of the members of Voting Rights for the time being of the Sellers and Newco following the scheme becoming effective any Affiliates in the aggregate being expressed as will be substantially the same as the holdings a percentage of the total Voting Rights at such time: of the members of the Company immediately Voting Rights shall mean, in relation to the before the scheme becoming effective:or Company, rights attaching to shares in the Company e proposed by any person other than the Sellers to vote at general meetings of the Company on all, or either of them or any Affiliate or any person or substantially all, matters.
acting in concert with either Seller or any Affiliate, in accordance with the articles of Except as set out below, the Suspended Voting association of the Company, to vary, modify Ordinary Shares shall rank pari passu with the Voting or abrogate any of the class rights attaching Ordinary Shares in all respects and no action shall be to the Suspended Voting OrdinaryShares, taken by the Company in relation to, or offer made by in any which case each holder of Suspended the Company to the holders of, the Voting Ordinary Voting Ordinary Shares on a show of hands shall Shares unless the same action is taken in respect of, or have one vote, and on a poll shall be entitled to vote the same offer is made to the holders of, the Suspended on the resolution on the basis of one vote for each Voting Ordinary Shares.
Subject to this, the rights Suspended Voting Ordinary Share held.
For the and restrictions attaching to the Suspended Voting purposes of any resolution of a type referred to in Ordinary Shares are set outbelow.
paragraphs a to d above, the Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares shall be treated for all purposes 1.
On a distribution of profits whether by cash as being of the same class as the Voting Ordinary dividend, dividend in specie, scrip dividend, Shares and any other suspended voting ordinary capitalisation issue or otherwise, the Suspended shares issued on substantially equivalent terms to Voting Ordinary Shares shall rank pari passu the Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares and no with the rights to distributions of profits attaching separate meeting or resolution of the holders of to the Voting Ordinary Shares.
the Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares shall 2.
On a return of capital, whether on a winding up be required to be convened orpassed.
or otherwise, the Suspended Voting Ordinary 4.
The rights attaching to the Suspended Voting Shares shall rank pari passu with the rights to the Ordinary Shares shall not be, and shall not be deemed assets of the Company attaching to the Voting to be, varied or abrogated in any way by the creation, OrdinaryShares.
allotment or issue of any Voting OrdinaryShares.
A holder of Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares 5.
Upon a transfer of Suspended Voting Ordinary shall be entitled to receive notice of, and to attend Shares by either Seller or an Affiliate to a person and speak at, any general meeting of the Company, who is not an Affiliate or a Seller, such Suspended but shall not be entitled to vote in respect of any Voting Ordinary Shares shall convert into Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares held, except Voting Ordinary Shares on a one for one basis on any resolution: automatically upon, and contemporaneously a proposed by any person other than PTBakrie with, registration by the Company or its registrar & Brothers Tbk and Long Haul Holdings Ltd of the transfer in the register of members of the Sellers or either of them or any Affiliate or Company following receipt of a duly executed any person acting in concert with either Seller stock transfer form and the share certicates in or any Affiliate, to wind up the Company or to respect of such Suspended Voting OrdinaryShares.
present a petition to wind up the Company, 6.
Upon: other than for the purposes of a reconstruction a a transfer of Voting Ordinary Shares by either or amalgamation whilstsolvent, Seller or an Affiliate to a person who is not an b proposed by any person other than the Sellers Affiliate or a Seller: or or either of them or any Affiliate or any person acting in concert with either Seller or any Bumi plc | Governance 64 Annual Report 2011 Other Statutory Information continued b any issue of further shares by the Company 1.
The Redeemable Deferred Shares shall not as a result of which the Sellers Voting betransferable.
Shareholding is reduced below the Maximum 2.
The holders of the Redeemable Deferred Shares Voting Percentage, such number of Suspended are not entitled to receive notice of, or to attend Voting Ordinary Shares as, immediately or vote at, any general meeting of the Company.
following conversion, will result in the 3.
Subject to the Companies Act, any Redeemable Sellers Voting Shareholding being equal Deferred Share shall be redeemed on the next to the Maximum Voting Percentage, shall business day following written notice requesting convert into Voting Ordinary Shares on a such redemption being given by either one for one basis automatically upon, and the Company or the relevant holder of the contemporaneously with, registration by Redeemable Deferred Share to the other.
the Company or its registrar of the transfer 4.
On redemption of any Redeemable Deferred in the register of members of the Company Share, the Company shall pay to the holder in following receipt of a duly executed transfer full the amount paid up or credited as paid up form and the share certicates in respect of on such Redeemable Deferred Share.
such Voting Ordinary Shares or the issue 5.
On a return of capital, holders of Redeemable of such further shares.
In any such case, Deferred Shares shall be entitled only to the a proportionate number of each holders payment of the nominal amounts of those shares, holding of Suspended Voting Ordinary after repayment to the holders of any and all Shares, also taking into account the Voting Ordinary Shares and Suspended Voting conversion into Voting Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares then in issue of the amount of any other suspended voting ordinary shares paid up or credited as paid up on those Voting issued on terms substantially equivalent to Ordinary Shares and Suspended Voting the terms of the Suspended Voting Ordinary Ordinary Shares held by them respectively.
Shares, shall be so converted in each case 6.
The holders of the Redeemable Deferred Shares rounded up or down to the nearest whole have no right to receive any dividend or other number as determined by any Director distribution whether of capital or income other in his absolutediscretion.
At any time, either Seller or any Affiliate shall be entitled but shall not be bound to require the Voting rights Company to convert Suspended Voting Ordinary Subject to any rights or restrictions attached to any Shares into Voting Ordinary Shares, on a one shares, on a show of hands every member who is for one basis, so long as such conversion does not present in person shall have one vote and on a poll result in the Sellers Voting Shareholding being every member present in person or by proxy shall more than the Maximum Voting Percentage.
have one vote for every share of which he is theholder.
Within 21 days after the conversion of any Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares into Voting No member shall be entitled to vote at any general Ordinary Shares, the Company shall forward meeting, either in person or by proxy, unless all to the relevant Seller or Affiliate as the case may moneys presently payable by him in respect of be, at its own risk, free of charge, a denitive shares in the Company have been paid.
certicate for the appropriate number of fully paid up Voting Ordinary Shares and a new If at any time the Board is satisfied that any member, certicate for any unconverted Suspended Voting or any other person appearing to be interested in Ordinary Shares comprised in the certicate shares held by such member, has been duly served surrendered by it.
Pending the despatch of with a notice under section 793 of the Companies denitive certicates, transfers shall be certied Act 2006 and is in default for the prescribed period against the register of members of theCompany.
in supplying to the Company the information 9.
The Company shall use best endeavours to thereby required, or, in purported compliance with procure that the Voting Ordinary Shares arising such a notice, has made a statement which is false or on conversion of the Suspended Voting Ordinary inadequate in a material particular, then the Board Shares are admitted to the Official List and to may, in its absolute discretion at any time thereafter trading on London Stock Exchange plcs main by notice to such member direct that in respect of market for listed securities.
the shares in relation to which the default occurred, 10.
No admission to listing or admission to the member shall not be entitled to attend or vote trading shall be sought for the Suspended either personally or by proxy at a general meeting Voting Ordinary Shares whilst they remain or at a separate meeting of the holders of that class Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares.
Redeemable Deferred Shares Restrictions on transfer of shares The rights and restrictions attaching to the There are no specic restrictions on the transfer Redeemable Deferred Shares are as set out below.
of shares in the Company other than: Governance 65 i the Redeemable Deferred Shares shall not Articles of Association betransferable: The Articles themselves may be amended by special ii the right of the Board to refuse to register the resolution of the shareholders.
transfer of a certicated share that is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not prevent Powers of the Directors dealings in shares in the Company from taking Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, place on an open and proper basis.
The Board the Companys Articles of Association and to any may also refuse to register the transfer of a directions given by special resolution, the business certicated share unless the instrument of of the Company shall be managed by the Board, transfer a is lodged, duly stamped if applicable, which may exercise all the powers of the Company.
at the office or at another place appointed by the Board accompanied by the certicate for the Directors share to which it relates and such other evidence The Directors of the Company are listed on as the Board may reasonably require to show pages 38 and39.
the right of the transferor to make the transfer: b is in respect of only one class of shares: and Sir Julian Horn-Smith and Lord Renwick were c is in favour of not more than fourtransferees: appointed as Directors on 22 February 2011. iii pursuant to the Companys share dealing code whereby the Directors of the Company require, Capita Trust Corporate Services Limited and and employees require, approval to deal in ColinBenford, the first Directors of the Company, Bumiplcs shares: resigned on 22 February 2011. iv certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations: and Indra Bakrie, Nathaniel Rothschild, Ari Hudaya, v where a person whose shares represent at least a Andrew Beckham, James Campbell, Rosan Roeslani, 0.25% interest in Bumiplcs shares has been served Sir Graham Hearne, Steven Shapiro, Amir Sambodo, with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide Philip Yeo and Sony Harsono were appointed as the Company with information concerning interests Directors on 11 April 2011. in those shares, except as provided in theArticles.
Badung Tariono was appointed a Director of the The Company is not aware of any agreements Company on 1 July 2011. between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or On 26 March 2012, Samin Tan, Nalin Rathod and on votingrights.
Scott Merrillees were appointed as Directors of the Company and Chairman, Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to the terms of certain arrangements entered and Chief Financial Officer respectively.
Andrew into at the time between Long Haul Holdings Ltd Beckham resigned as a Director of the Company: and PTBukit Mutiara, on closing of the Companys Indra Bakrie became Co-Chairman of the Company: acquisition of 25% of the issued share capital of and Nathaniel Rothschild and Ari Hudaya became PTBumi, 24,524,851 Voting Ordinary Shares were non-independent .
issued by the Company to Long Haul Holdings Ltd.
Under the terms of those arrangements, the Company It was further agreed at the Board meeting on understands that as at 31 December 2011 those shares 26March 2012 that Alexander Ramlie, Graham were the subject of an unexercised right of re-transfer Holdaway and Jean Mizrahi would be proposed to PTBukit Mutiara.
as Directors of the Company at the 2012AGM.
No person has any special rights of control over the James Campbell and Badung Tariono will retire Companys share capital and all issued shares are as Directors of the Company at the 2012 AGM fullypaid.
Appointment and replacement Directors interests of Directors The Board of Directors interests in shares in the The rules for the replacement and appointment of Company are detailed on page59.
Directors are set out in the Articles of Association.
Under the terms of a relationship agreement entered Directors indemnities into by the Company and the Bakrie Group on The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity with 16June 2011 and a relationship agreement entered each of its Directors which are qualifying indemnity into by the Company and PTBukit Mutiara provisions for the purpose of the Companies Act 2006.
Mutiara on 16 June 2011, the Bakrie Group can nominate up to three Directors, to hold the positions Directors insurance of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Directors and officers liability insurance is provided Financial Officer respectively, and Mutiara can for all Directors of the Company.
nominate one Non-Executive Director, subject to each of the BakrieGroup and Mutiara retaining Directors share options if relevant control of 15% of the votes able to be cast at general Details of Directors share options are provided meetings of theCompany.
in the Directors Remuneration Report on page59.
Bumi plc | Governance 66 Annual Report 2011 Other Statutory Information continued Employment policies Stock Exchanges main market for listed securities: The Group is an equal opportunities employer and and b the Bakrie Group together with its associates bases all decisions on individual ability regardless in the case of the Bakrie Relationship Agreement or of race, religion, gender, sexual orientation, age Mutiara together with its associates in the case of the ordisability.
Mutiara Relationship Agreement ceasing to be entitled to exercise or control the exercise of 10% of more of Applications for employment by disabled persons the votes available to be cast on all or substantially will always be fully considered, having regard to their all matters at general meetings of theCompany.
Should any employee become disabled, every practical effort is made to Pursuant to the terms of the Relationship Agreements, provide continued employment.
Depending on their it has been agreed, among other things, that: skills and abilities, they will enjoy the same career prospects and scope for realising their potential as other i the Bakrie Group and Mutiara in respect of employees.
Appropriate training will be arranged for the applicable Relationship Agreement, the disabled employees, including retraining for alternative Relationship Party will, and will procure work for those who become disabled, to promote so far as it is reasonably able to do so that each their career development within theorganisation.
of its associates will a conduct all transactions and relationships with Supplier payment policy any member of the Group, and ensure that The Group does not follow any specified code or all arrangements and agreements between standard on payment practice across its businesses.
the Relationship Party or any of its associates Businesses aim to adopt fair practises, which reect and the Company or any other member of local and industry norms.
The Group values its the Group are entered into, on arms length suppliers and recognises the benets of maintaining terms and on a normal commercial basis: good relations including the maintenance of payment b not take any action which precludes or terms.
It is the Groups policy to agree the payment inhibits any member of the Group from terms with each supplier at the start of business and carrying on its business independently of to ensure that they are aware of the terms of payment.
the Relationship Party and its associates: The Group had 44days purchases outstanding at c not exercise any of its voting rights or other 31December 2011 2010: nildays based on the rights and powers to procure any amendment average daily amount invoiced by suppliers during to the Articles of Association of the Company theyear.
which would be inconsistent with or breach any provision of the applicable Relationship significant Agreements Agreement or the ability of any member of the The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company Group to carry on its business independently to disclose the following significant agreements of the Relationship Party and its associates: that contain provisions entitling the counterparties d when paragraph 11.1.
7R 3 of the Listing to exercise termination or other rights in the event Rules applies to the Company, abstain from of a change of control of the Company: voting on any resolution required by paragraph 11.1.
7R 3 of the Listing Rules to approve Relationship Agreements a related party transaction as dened The Company has entered into i a relationship in paragraph 11.1.
5R of the Listing Rules agreement with members of the Bakrie Group dated involving the Relationship Party or any 16June 2011 the Bakrie Relationship Agreement of its associates as the relatedparty: and ii a relationship agreement with Mutiara dated e comply with all provisions of the Listing Rules, 16June 2011 the Mutiara Relationship Agreement.
the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the The Bakrie Relationship Agreement and the Mutiara requirements of the London Stock Exchange Relationship Agreement are together referred to and the Financial Services and Markets Act herein as the Relationship Agreements.
2000, that apply to it in connection with the Company: and The principal purpose of the Relationship Agreements f not to do anything within their power to cause is to ensure that the Company is capable at all times or authorise to be done anything which would of carrying on its business independently of the Bakrie prejudice either the Companys status as a Group and of Mutiara and their respective associates listed company or its suitability for listing, or and that all transactions and relationships between listing on the premium listing segment of the the Company and either members of the Bakrie OfficialList: Group or Mutiara are at arms length and on a ii provided that the Relationship Party and its normal commercial basis.
Each of the Relationship associates are entitled to exercise or control the Agreements will terminate on the earlier of: a the exercise of 15% or more of the votes able to be Company ceasing to have any of its ordinary shares cast on all or substantially all matters at general listed on the Official List and traded on the London meetings of the Company, the Relationship Party Governance 67 shall be entitled to nominate for appointment to iii individuals who on 8 July 2010 constituted the the Board of Directors of the Company: in the Board of Directors of PTBerau, together with case of Mutiara, one Director to hold the position any new Directors whose election was approved of Non-Executive Director and, in the case of by a vote of at least a majority of the Directors the Bakrie Group, three Directors one to hold then still in office who were either Directors the position of Chairman, one to hold the or whose election was previously so approved, position of Chief Executive Office and one to cease for any reason to constitute a majority holder the position of Chief Financial Officer, of the Board of Directors then in office: or in each case by giving notice to theCompany: iv the adoption of a plan relating to the liquidation iii pursuant to the Bakrie Relationship Agreement, or dissolution of PTBerau.
provided that the Bakrie Group and its associates are entitled to exercise or control the exercise of The acquisition by the Bumi Group of its interest 15% or more of the votes able to be cast on all or in PTBerau the Berau Transaction constituted substantially all matters at general meetings of a change of control under the indentures governing the Company, the Bakrie Group shall be entitled the 12.5% Guaranteed Senior Secured Notes.
Berau to nominate for appointment the President Capital made a change of control offer for all of such Commissioner and the President Director and notes at 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued a majority of the Board of Commissioners and and unpaid interest within the requisite 30day period.
directors of PTBumi and the Company shall At the end of the acceptance period for that offer, no take all such steps as are available to it under noteholder had accepted theoffer.
Indonesian law to seek to appoint the President Commissioner and or President Director of PTBerau Senior Secured Credit Facility PTBumi, as the case may be, in accordance On 23July 2010, PTBerau and Rognar HoldingsBV with the nomination of the Bakrie Group: and entered into a $400m senior secured credit facility iv the Relationship Party will be restricted from the Berau Senior Secured Credit Facility with voting on transactions where there is a conict Credit Suisse AG, Singapore Branch as lead manager, of interest between it and the Group.
facility agent and security agent and the financial institutions listed therein as lenders.
The PTBerau 12.5% Guaranteed Senior Secured Notes Group drew down the entire $400m available under On 8 July 2010, Berau Capital Resources Pte.
The facility comprised two Berau Capital, a wholly owned finance subsidiary of tranches: i tranche A in a principal amount of $300m PTBerau, issued $350m aggregate principal amount of and ii tranche B in a principal amount of $100m.
Berau Capital Interest for the tranche A loan was payable quarterly also issued an additional $100m aggregate principal and accrued at the rate of LIBOR plus a margin of amount of 12.5% guaranteed senior secured notes 4.75% per annum.
The tranche A loan was scheduled on 29July 2010 together with the $350m aggregate to amortise in 13quarterly instalments on the last day principal amount of 12.5% guaranteed senior secured of each calendar quarter from 31March 2011 through notes, the 12.5% Guaranteed Senior Secured Notes.
31March 2014 plus one final instalment on 23July PTBerau Capitals obligations under the 12.5% 2014.
The repayment amount of each instalment varies Guaranteed Senior Secured Notes are guaranteed by and is set forth in the facility agreement.
Interest for the PTBerau and certain of its subsidiaries and subsidiary tranche B loan was payable quarterly and accrued at undertakings collectively known as the PTBerau the rate of LIBOR plus a margin of 5.75% per annum.
The maturity date of the notes is 8July 2015.
The tranche B loan was scheduled to amortise in three The notes bear interest from 8July 2010 at the rate equal instalments on 30September 2014, 31December of 12.5% per annum, payable semiannually every 2014 and 23April 2015.
The lenders also had the right 8January and 8July commencing on 8January2011.
to require the PTBerau Group to prepay the loans in full together with accrued interest and an amount Berau Capital must make an offer to repurchase equal to the margin that would have accrued on the all of the 12.5% Guaranteed Senior Secured Notes loans from the day of prepayment to 23July 2011 outstanding at a purchase price equal to 101% of immediately following a change of control of PTBerau their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid or PTBerauCoal.
interest, no later than 30 days after a change of control.
For these purposes, a change of control PTBerau was the borrower under the PTBerau is the occurrence of any of the following events: Senior Secured Credit Facility and its obligations under this facility ranked pari passu with its i the merger, amalgamation or consolidation obligations under its guarantee of the 12.5% of PTBerau with or into another entity or the Guaranteed Senior SecuredNotes.
merger or amalgamation of another entity with or into PTBerau, or the sale of all or substantially Prior to the completion of the acquisition of 75% of all the assets of PTBerau to another entity, other PTBerau by Bumiplc the PTBerau Transaction, than PTRecapital Advisors and its affiliates: PTBerau received a waiver from the lenders under ii PTRecapital Advisors and its affiliates are the the PTBerau Senior Secured Credit Facility of certain beneficial owners of less than 50.1% of the total rights, including any prepayment rights thereunder that voting power of the voting stock of PTBerau: would have arisen as a result of the PTBerauTransaction.
Bumi plc | Governance 68 Annual Report 2011 Other Statutory Information continued The PTBerau Senior Secured Credit Facility was The Group made no political donations during repaid in full upon the issue of the 7.25% Guaranteed theyear.
Senior Secured Notes described below.
Substantial shareholdings 7.25% Guaranteed Senior Secured Notes The table below shows those shareholders who have On 13 March 2012, PTBerau issued $500m aggregate been notied to the Company as holding substantial principal amount of 7.25% guaranteed senior secured shareholdings amounting to more than 3% of the notes the 7.25% Guaranteed Senior Secured Notes.
issued share capital of the Company, as at the date PTBeraus obligations under the 7.25% Guaranteed of this report.
Senior Secured Notes are guaranteed by certain other members of the PTBerau Group.
The maturity Annual General Meeting date of the notes is 13March 2017.
The notes bear The Annual General Meeting AGM will be held on interest from 13March 2012 at the rate of 7.25% per 14 June 2011 at the Institute of Directors, 116Pall Mall, annum, payable semiannually every 13March and London SW1Y5ED.
Full details about the AGM, 13September commencing on 13September 2012. including explanatory notes, are contained in the AGM Notice which will be sent to shareholders with the PTBerau must make an offer to repurchase all of the Annual Report for the year ended 31December 2011.
7.25% Guaranteed Senior Secured Notes outstanding The AGM Notice sets out the resolutions to be proposed at a purchase price equal to 101% of their principal at the AGM and an explanation of each resolution.
amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, no later All documents relating to the AGM are available than 30 days after a change of control.
For these on the Companys website at www.
purposes, a change of control is the occurrence of any of the following events: Auditors The auditors,  LLP, have i the merger, amalgamation or consolidation indicated their willingness to continue in office, and a of PTBerau with or into another entity or the resolution that they be re-appointed will be proposed merger or amalgamation of another entity with attheAGM.
or into PTBerau, or the sale of all or substantially all the assets of PTBerau to another entity, other Statement of disclosure of information than Bumiplc and its affiliates: to the auditors ii Bumiplc and its associates are the beneficial Each of the Directors who held office at the date of the owners of less than 50.1% of the total voting approval of this Annual Report confirms that, so far as power of the voting stock of PTBerau: they are aware, there is no relevant audit information iii individuals who on 13March 2012 constituted of which the Companys auditors are unaware and each the Board of Directors of PTBerau, together with Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have any new Directors whose election was approved taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of by a vote of at least a majority of the Directors any relevant audit information and to establish that then still in office who were either Directors or the Companys auditors are aware of thatinformation.
whose election was previously so approved, cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the By order of the Board Board of Directors then in office: or iv the adoption of a plan relating to the liquidation or dissolution of PTBerau.
Paul Vickers Group General Counsel and Company Secretary Charitable and political donations 12 April 2012 During the year the Group made charitable donations of $8,801 to local charities in Indonesia.
Substantial shareholdings Number of Voting Percentage of Name of holder Ordinary shares voting rights % PT Borneo 54,154,285 29.99 PT Bukit Mutiara 23,667,250 13.11 Nathaniel Rothschild 21,524,918 11.92 BlackRock Inc 9,907,542 6.36 Abu Dhabi Investment Council 7,500,000 4.15 Schroder Investment Management Ltd 7,197,288 3.99 Taube Hodson Stonex Partners LLP 5,703,919 3.16
