Bumi plc | Governance 38 Annual Report 2011 Board of Directors from 26 March 2012 Samin Tan Indra Bakrie Nalin Rathod Scott Merrillees Chairman Co-Chairman Chief Executive officer Chief Financial officer Samin Tan was appointed to Indra Bakrie was Chairman of Nalin Rathod was appointed Scott Merrillees was appointed the Board on 26 March 2012 the Company until 26 March to the Board on 26 March 2012 to the Board on 26 March 2012 and became Chairman of the 2012 and is now Co-Chairman and became Chief Executive and became Chief Financial Company replacing Indra Bakrie.
Over the officer, replacing Ari Hudaya.
officer, replacing Andrew He is the President Director of past 20 years, he has helped He is currently President Beckham.
Prior to that he Renaissance Capital.
Between numerous businesses succeed Commissioner of KPC and served as Director of Corporate 2007 and 2011 Samin headed in diverse sectors such as Arutmin and a Commissioner of Finance and Investor Relations PT Borneo as its President plantations, oil and gas PT Bumi, BRM and PT Gorontalo at PT Borneo.
Prior to this, he was exploration and trading, real Minerals.
He was also managing served as South East Asia Head Deputy Managing Partner of the estate, and infrastructure.
Indra director of Capital Managers of Natural Resources for ANZ Indonesian consulting practice graduated from the University Asia Pte Ltd, a financial advisory Bank and President Director of Deloitte Touche and Head of of Southern California in 1976 rm operating in Asia.
Nalin has for BNP Paribas Securities the Indonesian tax practice of with a major in Business over 20 years experience in the Indonesia.
Other roles have Deloitte Touche.
included Research Director for UBS Securities Ltd in Indonesia.
Rosan Roeslani James Campbell Ari Hudaya Nathaniel Rothschild Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Rosan Roeslani is President James Campbell is co-founder Ari Hudaya was Chief Executive Nathaniel Rothschild is one of Director of PT Berau and of the Company alongside officer of the Company until the founders of the Company currently serves as President Nathaniel Rothschild.
Ari has been and was Co-Chairman of the Director of Recapital and 2001 to 2008, James was President Director of PT Bumi Company until 26 March 2012.
Commissioner of PT Mahaka Chairman of Australian listed since 2001, and has much He is also a Non-Executive Media.
He is also on the Board nickel producer Minara experience in the Asian natural Director of Genel Energy plc of Commissioners for PT Lativi Resources.
Prior to this, he resources sector.
Previously and Barrick Gold Corporation.
Mediakarya, PT Lupita Amanda, held a variety of operational he was President Director Nathaniel is a member of the PT Saratoga Investama Sadaya roles and Board appointments of both KPC and Arutmin, Belfer Centers International and several other multinational within the Anglo American as well as Enercorp.
He is a Council at the John F. Kennedy companies based in Indonesia.
James was Managing Director of IndoCoal Resources, School of Government at Director of fide Beers Industrial Kalimanatan Coal and Sangatta Harvard University and Diamond Division, Chairman Resources.
Ari graduated from holds an MA in History of AngloCoal, Chairman of Institut Teknologi Bandung from Oxford University.
AngloBase, an Executive with a degree in Mechanical Director of Anglo American plc, Engineering in 1983. a Director of AngloGold, AngloPlatinum, Richards Bay Coal Terminal Company and of fide Beers Centenary.
Governance 39 Board Committees Audit Nomination The Board is supported by Conicts Remuneration the following committees: Health, Safety, Environment Chairman of Committee and Communities Independent Non-Executive Directors Sir Julian Horn-Smith Sony Harsono Sir Graham Hearne Lord Renwick Deputy Chairman and Senior Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Independent Director Sir Julian Horn-Smith is the Sony Harsano has been a Sir Graham Hearne is Chairman Lord Renwick is currently Deputy Chairman and Senior professional business adviser for of Catlin Group Limited and Vice Chairman of Investment Independent Director of the over 30 years.
He was previously Braemar Shipping Services Banking at J. P. Morgan Europe Company.
He has more than Chairman for one of Indonesias Group Plc.
Prior to this he was and Vice Chairman of J. P. 25 years experience in the biggest accountancy rms.
He Chairman of Enterprise Oil plc Morgan Cazenove.
He also telecommunications sector now serves as CEO of Harsono until 2002.
He is also a Nonserves as a Non-Executive and joined Vodafone Group Hadibroto Consulting and is Executive Director of Genel Director and Chairman of at its foundation.
Prior to this Chairman of the IndonesiaEnergy plc.
the Remuneration Committee he held positions at both Phillips Japan Economic Committee of Kazakhmys plc, Chairman and Mars GB.
In 2005 Sir Julian of the Indonesian Chamber of Fluor Limited and is became CEO of Vodafone.
He is a Director of Compagnie currently acts as a senior adviser also a member of the Board of Financiere Richemont AG.
to investment bank UBS and Advisers to the United StatesHe has previously served as CVC Capital Partners, and is on Indonesia Society USINDO.
a Director of BHP Billiton plc, the Board of Directors of Lloyds British Airways plc, Fluor Banking Group plc and fide La Corporation and SABMiller plc.
Amir Sambodo Steven Shapiro Badung Tariono Philip Yeo Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Amir Sambodo is currently Steven Shapiro is a member of Badung Tariono was appointed Philip Yeo is Chairman of the President Director of the Board of Directors of Barrick to the Board as a Non-Executive SPRING Singapore and a PT Tuban Petrochemicals Gold Corporation and El Paso Director with effect from 1 July member of the United Nations Industries, one of the biggest Corporation.
He is currently Head of Committee of Experts in Public petrochemical producers as Executive Vice President Private Equity at Trimegah Administration CEPA.
He founded and Chief Financial officer of Securities in Jakarta, and also Chairman of SingBridge Indonesian business technology Burlington Resources Inc. and has worked at UBS OConnor International Investments Pte magazine PT Teknopreneur as Senior Vice President, Chief Limited in London where he Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary Indonesia and is President Financial officer and a Director specialised in the energy, metal of Temasek Holdings: Chairman Commissioner of PT Tekno at Vastar Resources, Inc. and mining sectors.
Previously, of Accuron Technologies Pte Ventura.
Amir is also the Steven has also spent 16 years he was a Senior Portfolio Ltd: Chairman of Medical current Special Adviser to in various roles of increasing Manager at ABN AMRO Asset Technologies Investment the Coordinating Minister for responsibility with Atlantic Management and Finance and Company Holdings Pte Ltd: Economic Affairs in Indonesia.
Business Performance Advisor Chairman of Ascendas Property at Shell International Exploration Fund Trustee Pte Ltd: and and Production EP, both Chairman of i-Globe Partners, based in the Netherlands.
a Singapore based venture capital fund.
Philip is also a member of the Board of Directors of United Overseas Bank and City Development Ltd CDL.
