Bumi plc | Governance 48 Annual Report 2011 Nomination Committee The members of the Committee are all INEDs Meetings Members attended and free of any relationship that would affect their Sir Julian 3 3 impartiality in carrying out their responsibilities.
Horn-Smith The secretary to the Committee is the Group Chairman General Counsel and CompanySecretary.
Philip Yeo 3 3 Lord Renwick 3 3 The Chairman of the Committee reports to Amir Sambodo 1 3 subsequent meetings of the Board and the Board receives a copy of the minutes of each meeting once these have been approved by the Committee.
The full terms of reference of the Committee can be Sir Julian Horn-Smith found on the Companys website, www.
com, Chairman or can be obtained from the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Activities during the year Role of the Committee During the year under review, the Nomination The Nomination Committee is responsible for Committee met three times.
reviewing the structure and composition of the Board: identifying, evaluating and recommending candidates Its activities included reviewing the composition to join the Board and making recommendations of the Board: recommending to the Board the regarding their election and re-election by shareholders.
appointment of Badung Tariono as Non-Executive The Committee also oversees succession planning Director: recommending that all Directors should for the Directors and other senior executives and, retire at the 2012 AGM and all future AGMs and, with the SID, the annual evaluation of the Board where appropriate, stand for re-election: and and itsCommittees.
overseeing the evaluation of the Board and the Audit and Remuneration Committees which was led by the Chairman of those Committees.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committees principal Directors and Executive management.
Full details responsibility is for the setting, reviewing and of the Committees responsibilities, and a report recommending to the Board for approval Bumiplcs of its activities during the year, are set out in the overall remuneration policy and strategy, and the Remuneration Report on pages 50 to 61. setting of remuneration arrangements for Executive Conicts Committee Role of the Committee Meetings Members attended The Conicts Committee assists the Board to oversee Steven Shapiro 3 3 any conicts of interest concerning Directors including, Chairman but not limited to, potential conicts arising from Sony Harsono 3 3 personal investment activities and other professional Lord Renwick 3 3 activities such as directorships with third parties and Philip Yeo 3 3 related party transactions involving the Company, its shareholders or any Director.
The members of the Committee are all INEDs and free of any relationship that would affect their impartiality in carrying out their responsibilities.
Steven Shapiro The secretary to the Committee is the Group Chairman General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Governance 49 The Chairman of the Committee reports to subsequent Activities during the year meetings of the Board and the Board receives a copy The Conicts Committee met three times during of the minutes of each meeting once these have been the year under review.
In addition to overseeing the procedure for the The full terms of reference of the Committee can be identication and monitoring of Directors existing found on the Companys website, www.
com, or potential conicts, during 2011 the Conicts or can be obtained from the Group General Counsel Committee developed a Group wide process for and Company Secretary.
the monitoring and, where appropriate, approval of related party transactions, the implementation of which will be reviewed in 2012.
Health, Safety, Environment and Communities Committee the HSEC Committee has also appointed PwC, Meetings Members attended a recognised leader in this eld, to support the Amir Sambodo 2 2 HSEC Committee in the delivery of its objectives.
Chairman Philip Yeo 2 2 The members of the HSEC Committee are all Sony Harsono 2 2 independent and free of any relationship that Tony Redman 2 2 would affect their impartiality in carrying out their Technical advisor responsibilities.
The secretary to the Committee is the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.
The Chairman of the Committee reports to subsequent meetings of the Board and the Board Amir Sambodo receives a copy of the minutes of each meeting once Chairman these have been approved by the Committee.
The full terms of reference of the Committee can be found on the Companys website, www.
com, Role of Committee or can be obtained from the Group General Counsel The Committee assists the Board to oversee and Company Secretary.
management processes, standards and strategies designed to manage risks regarding health, Activities during the year safety, the environment and relationships with Under its terms of reference, the HSEC Committee communities together referred to as HSEC.
meets not less than three times a year.
As the Board was not established until April 2011 only two meetings To enhance its effectiveness and ensure objectivity were held in the remainder of 2011, but a further in the delivery of its key responsibilities, one of the meeting was held prior to the issue of this Annual members of the HSEC Committee, Tony Redman, Report, and not less than three meetings will be is a technical advisor with extensive mining experience held in2012.
having worked in the mining industry for nearly 40years with Anglo American plc latterly as Group A report on HSEC in2011 is set out on pages 30 to 35.
Technical Director before his retirement.
