Bumi plc | Introduction 4 Annual Report 2011 What We Do Bumi plc is a FTSE listed thermal coal producer with one of the largest organic expansion plans in thermal coal.
Strategy optimising its coal asset base to attain best in class Bumiplc is a leading thermal coal company, performance across all operations.
An operational with interests in the largest coal-producing assets benchmarking study across all the coal businesses, in Indonesia, the worlds biggest exporter of thermal including a review of contractor performances, coal.
The Wider Groups key assets are PTBerau, is underway.
The aim of the benchmarking study which is the countrys fifth largest coal producer, is to unlock value from existing assets through and a 29% interest in PTBumi, which is the biggest cost and productivity improvements which will coal producer in Indonesia.
Both PTBerau and further drive shareholdervalue.
PTBumi have cost competitive positions in thermal coal, with all mining operations situated in the lower PT Berau half of the cost curve.
Bumiplcs strategy is to create PTBerau is the fifth largest coal producer in a leading thermal coal champion with a focus on Indonesia.
PTBerau has three principal open cut executing one of the largest organic expansion plans mining operations in its concession area of northeastern in thermal coal.
The Wider Groups coal mined is Kalimantan, namely Lati, Binungan and Sambarata.
forecast to increase from the current level of 85m Production of thermal coal is blended to adjust the tonnes to 140m tonnes by2014.
overall quality grade of the coal, with caloric values ranging from 5,000kcal kg to 5,700kcal kg on A key focus of the strategy is simplifying Bumiplcs a gross as received basis for use in coal red structure, reducing levels of indebtedness and funding powerplants.
costs across the Wider Group, and integrating and PTBeraus coal mined in 2011 amounted to 19.4m tonnes, an increase of 12% over 2010.
Its key markets are all located in Asia and its customers are mainly Seaborne thermal coal market utility companies and coal trading entities.
Indonesia Rest of the world In million tonnes In 2011, PTBerau derived 15% of its total revenue 854 815 from domestic sales and the balance from export 760 sales.
PTBerau subcontracts all of its mining, barging, 714 655 646 629 drilling and blasting operations.
This allows it to 43% 605 41% minimise capital expenditures and working capital 524 36% 31% 31% 30% requirements and to focus on exploration, mine 25% planning, supervision and sales and marketing.
69% 57% 69% 70% 64% 59% PTBerau works closely with its mining contractors, 75% including BUMA and Saptaindra Sejati, which undertake land clearing, overburden removal, coal excavation and haulingactivities.
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012F 2013F Once the coal is mined, crushed and stockpiled, Source: Barclays Capital contractors transport the coal by barge to a transhipment area at Muara Pantai in the Sulawesi Historical coal spot price FOB Newcastle Sea located approximately 50 to 100kilometres from US$ tonne the ports at Lati, Suaran and Sambarata.
At Muara Pantai, higher energy coal from the Sambarata mine is 200 blended with coal from the Lati and Binunganmines.
68.1% 150 PTBeraus level of production is set to increase 73.2% signicantly in the near term.
A number of expansion 78.7% projects are underway including a new overland 100 conveyor and the upgrading of existing coal handling facilities such as its barge loaders and crushers at 50 31.9% the Lati coal handling facilities.
Construction of 26.8% a new crushing line and stockpile were completed 21.3% in May2011.
PTBerau is forecast to increase coal 2001 2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 mined by 50% to 30mtonnes per annum by 2014.
Source: Bloomberg Coal mined in 2012 is forecast to be 23m tonnes.
Introduction 5 PT Bumi expected to increase over the near term from 41m PTBumi is the largest thermal coal producer in tonnes to 70m tonnes, a 70% increase.
Its principal coal operations are Kaltim will be achieved by stepping up owner operated and Prima Coal KPC and Arutmin, both located contractor mining activities, the construction of a inKalimantan.
new coal crusher, three 18MW power stations and a new overland beltconveyor.
The largest operation within PTBumi is KPC, which operates in East Kalimantan.
KPCs two principal At Arutmin, three expansion projects involving mining areas are Sangatta and Bengalon.
The Sangatta construction of port facilities, overland belt conveyors mining area is close to the port facilities at Tanjung and coal processing plants will see coal mined Bara, which is linked to the mine by an overland increasing from 25m tonnes to 40m tonnes over conveyor.
The Bengalon mining area is also close to the the near term.
coast, being linked to its port facilities by a haul road.
Coal mined for PTBumi in 2012 is expected to be PTBumis second largest operation, Arutmin, 75mtonnes.
operates in a concession area in the southeast of Kalimantan and has seven mines, namely the Senakin, Bumi Resources Minerals BRM Satui, Mulia, Asam Asam, Batulicin, Sarongga and BRM is an exploration company with an interest Kintap mines, all strategically located near Arutmins in one operating mine and a number of exploration port facility, North Pulau Laut CoalTerminal.
BRM is listed on the Indonesia Stock Exchange and is 87% owned by PTBumi.
PTBumi mines a substantial portion of the coal For more information please refer to page21.
it produces through mining contractors.
At KPC, approximately 60% of production is mined through three contractors, Pamapersada PAMA, Thiess and DarmaHenwa with the balance mined by KPC BUSINESS MODEL itself.
At Arutmin all the production is mined through contractors, including Thiess, BUMA, DarmaHenwa, We aim to become the leading UK listed thermal coal producer PAMA and Cipta Kridatama.
Around 88% of with world class coal mining assets which will deliver superior production for PTBumi is exported, primarily shareholder returns over the long term.
Our focus is on assets to Asia, with the balance going to domesticsales.
which have advantaged cost positions, clear expansion proles and long lives.
Through our subsidiary, PT Berau, we are PTBumis caloric values range from 4,200 pursuing a model that drives sharing of best practice and the 6,700kcal kg on a gross as received basis.
pursuit of synergies across the Wider Group such as benchmarking and integrating our supply chain.
The use of a Both KPC and Arutmin have competitive number of mining contractors allows for efficient use of capital transportation costs with the majority of operations and diversies our mining risk prole.
We invest significant located within 30 kilometres of the coast.
As a result amounts of expansionary capital into developing new mines and infrastructure to further exploit our reserves, at the lowest of this and its competitive cost base, all operations cost, and extend the mine life.
We also regard our performance are situated in the lower half of the cost curve.
The in health, safety, the environment and community affairs as a proximity of primary coal markets in Asia provides key element of our operational performance.
We believe PTBumi with an additional freight cost advantage thermal coal prices are forecast to remain strong over the over competitors in Australia and SouthAfrica.
medium term with continued high levels of demand from Asia where the overwhelming majority of our customer base is PTBumi is set to increase production signicantly concentrated.
These attributes, together with strong governance over the near term.
The largest portion of the higher and risk management, allow us to support the creation of long output will come from KPC, where production is term value for all our stakeholders.
