Bumi plc | Introduction 12 Annual Report 2011 Market Overview Thermal coal prices are forecast to remain strong over the medium term, with continued high levels of demand from Asia.
Asia driving demand for thermal coal The Wider Group also sells a significant amount of Coal is the cheapest and most easily accessed energy coal domestically to the local Indonesian powerutility.
Coal currently provides around 40% of the worlds electricity and is projected to The international coal markets are highly competitive.
supply over half of the worlds electricity needs by Principal competitors in Asia include large coal 2030.
China is the worlds largest consumer of thermal producers from Australia, South Africa and China.
coal, accounting for nearly half of the worlds coal The Wider Group has competitive advantages over production.
Coal accounted for 71% of Chinas energy its Australian and South African competitors for its needs in 2008 more than three times the share of the primary customers in Asia given its proximity to these US.
Chinas rapid pace of urbanisation and growing customers.
The Wider Group also competes against middle class has fuelled this growth.
Yet on a relative other Indonesian producers.
The global coal markets basis the US consumes almost four times the amount and in particular, Asian coal markets, are expected of electricity per capita than China.
In India, coal to become increasingly competitive as a number of accounts for around two thirds of electricity generation.
new mines and processing facilities are developed in The demand for Indian electricity has grown at a differentcountries.
However, the positive demand faster rate than investment in coal production capacity.
conditions over the medium term are expected to As a consequence Indias level of coal imports have support the Wider Groups production prole almost tripled in five years.
The Wider Group is one of the largest exporters of Pricing thermal coal in the world.
The overwhelming majority The long term pricing trends for internationally traded of the Groups customer base is concentrated in Asia, in coal are cyclical and subject to uctuations.
Unlike the form of power utility and coal trading companies.
most other major commodities, there is no single global The new overland conveyor at KPCs Sangatta mine has been successfully installed, which will increase capacity by 32m tonnes per annum.
Introduction 13 pricing standard for coal.
As a result, the prices vary signicantly in different geographical markets and according to product type.
Each brand of thermal coal has distinctive features, mainly in terms of caloric value, moisture, ash and sulphur content.
These features, and overall quality, dictate selling prices.
Across all markets, the Wider Group employs international marketing agents to sell its coal products.
For PTBerau, this is Noble.
PTBumi uses Glencore as its marketing agent and Mitsubishi for its Japanese sales.
Global economic summary and outlook In 2011, sovereign debt issues loomed large, principally in Europe and the US.
Governments in these regions have been faced with difficult decisions on how to reduce budget deficits.
The Eurozone, in particular, faced signicantly higher borrowing costs, with bond yields rising in certain countries.
The emerging market economies have not been left unscathed as levels of INDIA AND CHINA: demand weakened, and China in particular saw KEY DRIVERS FOR THERMAL COAL slower levels of growth.
In India and China, coal fuelled power generation provides Thermal coal prices are forecast to remain strong the majority of electricity to the grid.
Recent power shortages over the medium term, with continued high levels of in China have underlined the need for further investment demand from Asia.
India is expected to increase its in coal red power generating capacity, with Chinese local levels of thermal coal imports over the next few years, producers struggling to meet demand.
In India, persistent shortages of electricity have resulted in new capacity and Chinas electricity demand is also expected to additions, with greater levels of thermal coal imports.
Coal consumption by geography % India imports m tonnes have grown at a steady pace over the last five years 10 9 1.
China 48% 8 Thermal Coal Coking Coal 2.
