Board of Directors Pamela Idelson Smith Chairman A Director since 2002.
Last reappointed to the Board: 2011.
She is currently a Director of Baring Hedge Select Fund Limited.
She was formerly chairman of RSI Securities S. A. a Swiss financial company and Sirius Fund a Luxembourg SICAV.
Shared directorships with other Directors: Baring Hedge Select Fund Limited with James Nicholson.
He was formally the head of European equities at UBS Investment Bank and managing director responsible for UBS Brunswick Russia.
Shared directorships with other Directors: None.
Patrick Gifford Chairman of the Nomination Committee A Director since 2002.
Mr Gifford will be retiring at the Companys forthcoming AGM.
He is Chairman of Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc, Martin Currie Pacific Trust plc and Murray Income Trust plc, and a director of AlphaGen Aldebaran Fund Limited and Tapestry Investment Company PCC Limited.
He is also Chairman of Vtesse Networks Limited.
He was formerly Chairman of Fleming Investment Trust Management Limited and a Director of Robert Fleming Holdings Limited.
Connections with Manager: He was employed by a predecessor company of the management group until 1999.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Robert Jeens A Director since 2011.
Appointed to the Board: 14th October 2011.
Remuneration: 1,015 for the year to 31st October 2011.
Following 12 years with Touche Ross & Co where he was audit partner, Mr Jeens moved to Kleinwort Benson Group plc, becoming Finance Director in 1992, before becoming Group Finance Director of Woolwich plc for three years until 1999.
Since then he has developed a significant knowledge of closed-end funds having previously been on the board of Gartmore Fledgling Trust plc until this year and his current appointments as a director of TR European Growth Trust PLC since 2002 and Henderson Group plc since July 2009.
He is the founder and Group Chairman of Denholm Hall Group Limited.
He has also been financial adviser to several eastern European cities including Krakow, St. Petersburg and Moscow.
James Nicholson Chairman of the Audit Committee A Director since 2002.
Mr Nicholson will be retiring at the Companys forthcoming AGM.
He is a Director of Baring Hedge Select Fund Limited.
From 1976 to 1997 he was successively a Director of Robert Fleming & Co, Jardine Fleming Holdings Limited and Fleming Investments Limited.
Shared directorships with other Directors: Baring Hedge Select Fund Limited with Pamela Idelson Smith.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 17 Board of Directors continued Gill Nott A Director since 2011.
Appointed to the Board: 17th November 2011.
Remuneration: Nil for the year to 31st October 2011.
Mrs Nott spent the majority of the first 27 years of her career working in the energy sector.
In 1994 she became CEO of ProShare.
Due to her work in the retail savings sector, she spent six years on the Board of the FSA from 1998 to 2004.
Mrs Nott has held a portfolio of non-executive positions, particularly in the closed-end fund sector, over the last 15 years.
She is currently chairman of Witan Pacific Investment Trust plc and a non-executive director of Martin Currie Global Portfolio Trust plc and BlackRock Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc.
Mrs Nott is also Deputy Chairman of the Association of Investment Companies.
Shareholding in Company: 3,000 Lysander Tennant A Director since 2002.
He was formerly a fund manager at BZW Investment Management Limited, and portfolio manager at American Express Asset Management Limited investing in Russian securities.
All Directors are members of the Audit and Nomination Committees and are considered independent of the Manager.
