Investment Managers Report Market Review and Performance Having enjoyed a strong recovery in assets during 2009 and 2010 we saw a substantial fall in the net assets of your Company in the financial year to 31st October 2011.
The Companys net asset value fell by 17.0% and underperformed the benchmark index which fell by 2.9% in the corresponding period.
The Russian stock-market in 2011 started off with three quarters of gently rising share prices followed by a sharp setback in August and September.
The markets initial strong performance was on the back of a rising oil price, which is consistent with past patterns.
The sharp falls experienced in the last three months of our financial year Oleg I. Biryulyov were unusual in that the oil price stayed strong whilst the market, particularly in the consumer and financial sectors fell.
This is the first time we have witnessed this and it obviously affects the valuation of the energy dominated Russian equity market.
Long-standing Shareholders will know our investment stance but we think it would be worthwhile to re-iterate our position.
Our fundamental philosophy is: We are long-term investors in structural growth companies with robust corporate governance and strong balance sheets.
We believe these companies will outperform cyclical companies with weak balance sheets, poor free cash flow and poor governance.
We believe that Russia will normalise, taking into account a range of factors such Vitaly N. Kazakov as the development of the legal system, the efficiency and transparency of trading and settlement, the role of local investors and the attitude towards minority investors.
We have reviewed in detail the market events of the last few months and believe that our investment stance is still appropriate.
We want to invest for the long-term in high quality companies, which we believe will deliver the growth we and Shareholders expect.
This position has lead us to hold a lower position in the energy sector than the benchmark index as we continue to have concerns over free cash flow in a number of Russian energy stocks.
Correspondingly we have positioned the portfolio in a number of quality consumer and financial stocks where we have confidence in their future performance.
There were three major reasons for the underperformance of the company as compared to our benchmark index: A contraction of valuation multiples across small and medium cap companies.
Examples of this in our portfolio include Mostotrest, a transport and infrastructure company and Cherkizovo, the meat and poultry producer.
Earnings disappointments, although minor and temporary, led to a big fide-rating of some consumer names.
Examples of this would be Magnit, the discount supermarket operator and the second largest holding in the portfolio and Mobile Telesystems.
The global sell-off in markets and underperformance of materials, Novolipetsk Iron and Steel and Magnitogorsk Iron and Steel were prime examples of this.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 We had previously believed that the most significant risk for the company was the large underweight position in the energy sector.
However, it was the very weak performance of our active positions in some of our chosen portfolio companies that weighed heaviest on performance this year.
On a positive note the biggest contribution to performance came from Kalina Concern.
We have held a large position in this cosmetics company for a number of years and have now been rewarded with an agreed take-over by Unilever plc.
The stock price rose from Rub 2,200 to Rub 4,000 on this news.
We have agreed with the Board of Directors that we will seek to improve portfolio construction and control risk in the future by limiting the amount by which sectors in the portfolio can deviate from the benchmark index.
We have also introduced a maximum overweight stock position against the benchmark index.
In the current uncertain economic environment, we believe it is paramount to maintain a longer-term view on Russian equities.
This makes it possible to see the real potential of an investment, rather than being influenced by short term market issues.
With this in mind, we have set out our long-term outlook for the Russian market.
Long-term Russian Outlook Over the last decade, Russia has been transformed into one of the worlds leading economies and markets.
Total GDP has risen from USD300 billion in 2001 to USD1.7 trillion in 2011.
Government debt to GDP is down to 10%, foreign exchange reserves have been built up, inflation has been running for an extended period at under 10% and the banking sector has assets of over USD800 billion.
A political elite surrounding Mr Putin, many linked to the security services, has established control over the political system and many oligarchs have been jailed or have left the country.
While some aspects of the outcome may be debatable, Russian society had undoubtedly been looking for greater political stability and was supportive of a leader with a strong hand.
Russia has adopted new technology, such as mobile phones and the internet, and now has the largest number of subscribers in Europe for both of these.
The Russian equity market has reached a capitalisation of nearly USD1 trillion and trades USD6 billion a day.
Almost all listed companies now meet international financial reporting standards on their accounts and dividend yields are nearly at the same level as in the rest of the emerging markets.
Russia has come a long way over the last decade.
However, it clearly still faces many challenges.
In our view the key goal for Russia over the next decade is to reduce its oil dependency and increase the economys natural growth rate.
In order to accomplish this, we believe Russias policymakers will increasingly need to focus on four key challenges: JPMorgan Russian Securities plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 7 Investment Managers Report continued Reduce the size of the state: In our view the size and the structure of the Russian state are heavy ballast for the economy.
The simple and straight forward solution, reducing the size of the state, requires decentralisation and privatisation.
The transfer of state assets into private ownership is currently hindered by the lack of a functioning legal system which is able to guarantee property rights.
Allow debate: Society has to change its passive status and demand more scrutiny of state policy.
This is a normal evolution for young societies, and Russia is a very young state if you consider it was only reincarnated in 1992.
A more powerful opposition would reduce social tensions and encourage an improvement in the operations of government.
A powerful and free media would provide the much needed feedback to the state from citizens.
As we write, Russia is experiencing a wave of political protests and it will be fascinating to see how this movement develops.
Invest in infrastructure: Russias vast geographic scale is more of a liability than an asset for the state today.
Upgrading infrastructure is a huge task.
However, these changes could be powerful drivers for growth as they would unlock the countrys potential and create opportunities for business as well as individuals.
The development in the Far East and Black Sea area of Russia has demonstrated the potential of such large projects to the government: as such we expect to see more projects in future.
Reform the savings system: Trust is an important issue for the pension and banking system.
Russia has a painful legacy from the 1990s, when the old Soviet savings system was dismantled.
Building trust will take time, but it is crucial for the stability of economic growth.
Development of the savings industry will provide support for privatisation reduce the size of the state and provide long-term funds for investment in infrastructure.
We believe Mr Putin is the most likely candidate to succeed Mr Medvedev as president in May 2012.
While we believe in the evolutionary development of the political system, we acknowledge that reforms along the lines above are likely to take a lot of time and effort.
Ultimately, the framework for the evolution of the Russian system will be heavily influenced, as it was in the past decade, by the commodity markets.
With oil prices currently at around USD100 bbl, the need and pressure for reform is clearly lower than if prices were to drop below USD50 bbl.
We cannot know the exact trajectory of oil or any other commodity over the next decade, but we believe prices will be volatile, and reforms and developments in Russia will mirror that volatility.
The outlook for the future is therefore significantly dependent on the direction of the oil price which will itself influence the likelihood of economic and political reforms.
If the reforms discussed above take place over the next decade we have no doubt that Russia will secure its place amongst the most powerful economies in the world and it will have been a fascinating period to observe.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Conclusion Changes in Russia have and will continue to open up opportunities for investors in the Russian equity market.
We continue to believe that investing in structural growth themes is a better approach than trying to outsmart the commodity cycle.
This is the belief which drove the success of the company over the last ten years and we believe it will deliver superior performance over the coming ten years.
We are confident in the ability of the companies in the portfolio to achieve this.
Timing the Russian market is very difficult, if not impossible, owing to its volatility.
We believe that the solution to this issue has three parts: understand the risks, understand valuations and extend the investment horizon.
The closed-ended structure of the company addresses the last point, and having a global player with local expertise and presence addresses the first two.
We believe the Russian market is currently attractively priced and offers compelling opportunities for long-term investors.
Oleg I. Biryulyov Vitaly N. Kazakov Investment Managers 16th December 2011 JPMorgan Russian Securities plc.
