8 Value creation, strategy and performance Delivering investment outperformance to clients, combines with a focused product range distributed across a scalable platform, to provide attractive returns for shareholders.
Our business model Beating the market Investment Effective outperformance distribution Investment Effective distribution outperformance Packaging our Value Providing our clients investment expertise creation for with the value added into products that clients and returns after fees match our clients shareholders over the long term requirements, and that are key to our distributing them overall business effectively through proposition.
Efficient operations Efficient operations Providing a scalable platform that equips our team with appropriate tools with which to carry out their roles effectively at both current and future business levels.
Investment philosophy Our view is that talented fund managers perform best if they are have established a positive culture in which our fund managers given the freedom to invest as they see fit, within the parameters work together as a team but have individual responsibility for their of individual fund objectives.
As such, we have no investment portfolio performance.
We believe this philosophy has driven our committee process or house view on market direction: rather we record of consistent long-term outperformance.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Business review 9 Delivery against objectives Our focus on delivering value to clients and shareholders over the long term translates into our strategic objectives.
Strategic objectives KPIs Investment outperformance 3 year investment performance Value creation for clients As at 31 December 2011 Our business is centred on the strength of our investment team and is reliant on the quality and reputation of our fund managers.
We are 17% 41% focused on preserving a culture of investment freedom, individual responsibility and accountability.
The key metric in this regard is 15% 9% three year investment performance.
27% 22% 1st quartile 37% 2nd quartile 3rd quartile 33% 4th quartile Effective distribution Net inflows outflows by product 2011 2010 Delivering our expertise to clients Our investment expertise is provided to clients under a single brand m m through a range of products and a variety of distribution channels.
Mutual funds 528 1,886 We seek to offer and develop products that are suited to the Segregated mandates 96 359 distribution channels and markets in which we have, or can establish, Private clients 122 121 a strong presence.
Our goal is to capture net inflows by building out Investment trusts 46 our market position in the UK retail mutual fund market and developing our international distribution capabilities.
TOTAL 746 2,320 EBITDA margin Efficient operations Capturing the rewards of growth Our business model benefits from economies of scale, resulting in attractive EBITDA margins.
Our existing platform is capable of 2010 54% supporting significantly higher levels of AUM at proportionately lower levels of incremental cost.
To grow the business substantially over the long term, we will selectively invest in developing our people, 2011 54% brand and operations according to market conditions and income levels at the time.
Value creation DPS year on year Returns to shareholders Our dividend policy is progressive.
We look to balance the requirements of delivering a long term return to shareholders 2010 4.7p alongside deleveraging our balance sheet and investing for future growth.
The level of dividend paid per share DPS measures the immediate return of value to shareholders for the year under review.
2011 7.8p Source: Financial Express: pie chart in centre: performance weighted by number of funds: ring around pie chart: performance weighted by AUM.
2010 shows final dividend only as no interim dividend was paid in 2010.
