28 Awards We have built a reputation for outperformance and meeting the needs of our clients.
Our reputation has enhanced our position as one of the biggest Miles Geldard, who joined Jupiter in 2010 achieved significant brands in the UK asset management sector.
Our fund managers recognition in the Sauren awards, winning the coveted Golden Award continue to achieve independent recognition for their capabilities, for Comeback of the Year, with a further three medals in the both in the UK and increasingly, in international markets.
Convertibles category and two gold medals in the Absolute Return category.
In addition, Philip Gibbs won three gold medals in both the In February 2012, fund analysts Financial Express announced that Absolute Return and Financial Equities categories while Elena 12 Jupiter managers had been awarded alpha manager status, Shaftan won one gold medal in the Emerging Europe category.
more than any other UK asset manager.
In October, our private client team won the Best Medium-sized Firm The managers of the Jupiter Merlin fund of fund portfolios won in the Citywire Wealth Manager Investment Performance Awards several accolades during the year, including the Money Marketing 2011 the second year in a row.
This followed their award for Best Best Multi-manager multi-asset provider award the third year in a Growth Manager in the FT Investors Chronicle Wealth manager row they have achieved this.
The team also won the Best Multi Asset awards.
Provider in the Professional Adviser awards and were recognised as OBSRs outstanding investors of 2011 an award that can only be Our communications team was also recognised during 2011, winning won once in an individuals career.
the CorpComms Financial and Business Media award for successfully transitioning from a predominantly retail investmentOur European equity team won several awards during 2011, both in focused PR team to a fully-fledged corporate communications the UK and Europe.
Cedric fide Fonclare won the Morningstar Cash department following our Listing in June 2010.
Fund Awards Europe Small & Mid Cap Equity award, the Lipper Equity Europe award five years and was awarded two gold medals These awards underpin our reputation as a highly respected and by Sauren for his management of the Jupiter European Growth fund world class investment management business.
The strength of our SICAV.
He also won the Morningstar European Equities Fund investment culture and our ability to attract and retain some of the Manager of the Year award and the Lipper Equity Europe ex UK most talented fund managers in the UK ensures our focus remains award over 10 years for his management of the Jupiter European on delivering significant value to our investors and shareholders.
Alexander Darwall, head of the European equities team at Jupiter also picked up a number of awards.
He won both the Investment Week Investment Trust of the Year award and the Moneywise Investment Trust award for his management of the Jupiter European Opportunities Trust.
He also won two gold medals in the 2011 Sauren awards.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Governance 29 30 Risk management and internal controls report 33 Directors responsibility statement 34 Directors profiles 36 Corporate governance report 40 Remuneration report 50 Audit Committee report 52 Nomination Committee report 53 Directors report
