12 Market review 2011 saw both the long term savings market and the wider economy facing significant headwinds from the Eurozone crisis and a declining propensity to save.
Given the indebtedness of many Western governments and the Financial markets impact of inflation, it has become a subject of debate as to how safe these bonds are.
Even so, the yield on US Treasuries fell below During 2011, financial markets suffered some of their worst performance since the height of the financial crisis as a series of two per cent.
during the year while yields on UK gilts at one point fell below those of Germany, making them one of the best investments geopolitical issues impacted on already fragile economies and volatility increased sharply in the second half of the year.
Equities struggled to maintain the positive tone of late 2010 as the Most equity markets ended the year in negative territory with the FTSE 100 at 5,572.3 six per cent.
below 2010s close of 5,900 Arab Spring took hold in February and suffered sharp, albeit temporary, falls after Japans devastating earthquake and tsunami and the MSCI World Index falling seven per cent.
However, the US ended the period up, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average rising ruptured supply chains in March.
Both events caused the oil price to climb.
Concerns about the European sovereign debt crisis re-emerged in The US dollar appreciated 0.44 per cent.
against sterling during the year while the euro fell 2.73 per cent.
Brent crude rose 13 per cent.
to the spring, but it was only in late July, when Greece was forced to accept a second bail out, that sentiment took a sharp decline, as close the year at $107.4.
investors questioned the ability of Western leaders to grapple with state and banking insolvency problems.
Sovereign debt concerns also impacted the US where political wrangling over the raising of the Savings environment debt ceiling led to the countrys first ever downgrade.
Historically, there have been attractive dynamics in the long-term After such a turbulent summer, renewed optimism in October that EU savings markets of the UK, Europe and many other economies.
leaders could solve some of the Eurozones problems caused one of Individuals are increasingly aware that demographic changes mean the sharpest rallies seen since 2009.
However, this soon ebbed that governments and corporates cannot continue to fund pension away, as bond markets systematically repriced the sovereign debt of provision at todays levels.
These structural changes have been the single currencys members, particularly in Italy and Spain, highlighted in the UK during the past year by the UK governments leading to further concerns over the stability of Europes banking attempts to reform public sector pensions resulting in a significant sector.
The European Central Bank reacted by injecting large backlash from union members, and its admission that the timetable amounts of liquidity into the frozen banking system while Europes for raising the state pension age to 67, currently scheduled for 2036, politicians hammered out a new treaty in a bid to improve is too slow.
In the corporate sector, Shell announced the closure of confidence.
its final salary pension scheme to new members the last FTSE 100 company to do so.
of final salary pensions in the Amid heightened investor nervousness, emerging markets suffered UK are now open to new members, down from 88 per cent.
in 2000. disproportionately in 2011 from higher interest rates and investors switching out of these perceived riskier assets into supposedly safer Despite these increased indicators of the need to save, the financial areas such as government bonds.
crisis and resulting economic slowdown in Western economies have delayed the development of this trend, particularly over the past year, as households have grappled with the impact of higher inflation, The key trends continuing to influence longFTSE 100 and MSCI World Indices during 2011 term savings behaviours are: Demographics 15 10 State withdrawal from pension provision 5 Move from DB to DC pension provision 0 Shift towards transparent products -5 Pressure on insurance products -10 -15 Inflation protection -20 Tax changes Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec FTSE 100 MSCI World Source: Bloomberg Jupiter Fund Management plc % Growth B usiness review 13 particularly in key consumables such as oil and foodstuffs.
Spending cuts, tax increases and rising unemployment in the UK and in the UK: net sales by asset class bn Eurozone, combined with low interest rates and stock market 10 volatility have contributed significantly to the reluctance inability of households to increase their savings.
8 Looking at the actual levels of savings during 2011, deposits from households remained at historically low levels, with an increase of 6 30.6bn over the year, down from the pre-crisis peak of 77.0bn in 2007.
4 Net sales of mutual funds in the UK and Europe were also under 2 increased pressure.
In Europe, investors withdrew some 90bn of assets from UCITS funds during 2011 2010: invested 172bn, 0 according to EFAMA, with the last net monthly inflow seen in May.
The turnaround in flows was particularly dramatic in 2011.
In contrast -2 to the first half, where steady inflows were seen, the second half of Q1 10 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 11 Q2 Q3 Q4 the year saw substantial withdrawals across all asset classes.
Equities Balanced Absolute return UK retail investors proved more resilient than their European Bonds Property Other counterparts for most of the year, investing 18bn in unit trusts and OEICS during 2011 compared with 29bn for 2010, according to the Europe: net UCITS sales by asset class bn Investment Management Association.
However, there was a marked retrenchment in fund sales in the second half of the year, as shown 120 below with November recording net retail sales of 267m the lowest monthly net sales since October 2008.
90 In the second half of 2011, there was a fall off in amounts being 60 saved, with equity products seeing negative flows.
This was partially compensated by the continued popularity of balanced and bond 30 products.
This pattern was similar in Europe, where equities were the major source of outflows across the industry.
0 In the UK, equity funds saw their largest outflow on record in -30 November, with net outflows of 864m in November, compared to a monthly average inflow of 506m for the previous 12 months.
Private -60 investors also sold direct equity investments in late 2011.
-90 Q1 10 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 11 Q2 Q3 Q4 Equities Balanced Bonds Other UK net retail sales by month bn 3.5 3.0 2.5 H1 average 2.0 1.5 1.0 H2 average 0.5 0 -0.5 2008 2010 2009 2011 -1.0 Jan Mar May Jul Sep Nov Jan Mar May Jul Sep Nov Jan Mar May Jul Sep Nov Jan Mar May Jul Sep Nov Source: IMA Annual Report & Accounts 2011 14 Distribution trends Europe Although UCITS products can be sold across Europe, each country Across the geographies we operate in, there are a variety of ways in has different investor behaviours and buying patterns.
However, the which consumers access our products.
typical European consumer is generally less financially aware than their UK counterpart and used to buying products through their bank.
UK The equity culture is less embedded on the Continent and there is a In general, the UK consumer is financially literate but dependent on distinct pattern of pro-cyclical behaviour by investors.
This is usually provided by independent financial advisors, with only 13 per cent.
of mutual fund sales derived directly from Demographic projections and fiscal trends across Europe are largely investors.
IFAs predominantly recommend their clients use online unfavourable.
Although governments are still grappling with the fund supermarkets, as this provides the customer with an aggregated consequences, this may well drive later retirement ages and an portfolio view and the advisor with consolidated commission increased need for self-provision by consumers.
We believe this is payments.
As a result, fund platforms have enjoyed substantial helpful for mutual fund companies as it should raise levels of financial growth in the UK during the past decade.
knowledge and confidence in using a wider range of products and asset classes over the long-term.
The UK government encourages long-term savings by enabling mutual funds to be bought in a number of tax-advantaged forms.
Independent advice and platforms are already present across Examples of this are Individual Savings Accounts ISAs or SelfEurope however, and there are considerable assets controlled and managed by private banks and discretionary managers.
These have Invested Pension Plans SIPPs, which allow individuals access to a wide range of investment products and control over their portfolio enabled a number of independent and foreign fund management decisions.
The allowances for these products are considerable, with companies to access higher net worth investors successfully and individuals able to make annual post-tax contributions of up to build scale within Europe.
10,680 into ISAs and annual pre-tax contributions of up to 50,000 into pension plans.
Increases in the ISA allowance are now linked to inflation and the ISA limit will rise to 11,280 for the 2012 13 tax year.
The UKs Retail Distribution Review RDR is due to be implemented on 1 January 2013.
Its stated objectives are: to improve the clarity with which firms describe their services to consumers: address the potential for advisor remuneration to distort consumer outcomes: and increase the professional standards of investment advisors.
As a result, IFAs will no longer be able to accept trail commission on new sales or advice and will have to agree their fees upfront on every transaction with their customers.
However, despite the imminent effective date, a number of rules are still to be finalised.
This lack of clarity has resulted in considerable uncertainty about RDRs exact impact.
However, many commentators expect distribution consolidation, with smaller IFAs either leaving the industry or joining larger networks.
This will increase further the use of platforms and is likely to result in greater focus on fund managers with recognised brands and strong performance track records.
Use of ETFs or passive products will rise over time, but we believe that there will continue to be demand for fund managers offering high-alpha, active funds that deliver demonstrable outperformance after fees.
