34 Directors profiles Jamie Dundas Lorraine Trainer Edward Bonham Carter Matteo Dante Perruccio John Chatfeild-Roberts Michael Wilson Jon Little Philip Johnson Liz Airey Richard I. Morris Jr. Jupiter Fund Management plc Governance 35 35 Jamie Dundas Lorraine Trainer R, N R, A Non-executive Chairman Independent non-executive Director Jamie Dundas was appointed as non-executive Chairman of the Lorraine Trainer was appointed as a non-executive Director of the Group in January 2008.
Jamie is a non-executive Director of Company in May 2010 and has been a non-executive Director of the Standard Chartered plc and is Chairman of its Board Risk Board of Aegis Group plc since August 2005.
She has held a number Committee.
He was a non-executive Director of J Sainsbury plc of human resource leadership roles in international organisations, between 2000 and 2007 and of Drax Group plc between 2005 and focusing on performance and development.
After being called to the Bar, Jamies early career was in NA, the London Stock Exchange and Coutts, then part of the banking at Morgan Grenfell, where he became Head of Corporate NatWest Group.
She currently runs a business in Board advisory and International Banking.
He was subsequently Finance Director work and development.
of the Hong Kong Airport Authority and Chief Executive of UK-based property company, MEPC.
He is deputy President formerly Matteo Dante Perruccio R Chairman of Macmillan Cancer Support.
Independent non-executive Director Matteo Dante Perruccio was appointed a non-executive Director of Edward Bonham Carter the Company in October 2008.
He started his career in financial Group Chief Executive services in 1986, spending six years at San Paolo IMI before moving Edward Bonham Carter joined Jupiter in 1994 as a UK fund manager to American Express Bank in 1992 as executive Director, Head of after working at both Schroders 1982-1986 and Electra Investment EMEA.
In 2000, he moved to Pioneer Investment Management to Trust 1986-1994.
Edward was appointed Chief Investment Officer in head up the firms international business before moving to work in 1999 and Joint Group Chief Executive of Jupiter Investment Milan, a posting that culminated in his appointment in 2005 as Management Group Limited in May 2000.
Edward became Group CEO International CEO Pioneer Investment Management SGR, Chief Executive of the Company in June 2007 and relinquished his Milan.
Matteo left Pioneer in 2006 to take up the role of Co-Chief role as Chief Investment Officer in February 2010.
Executive at Olympia Capital Management in Paris and left in 2008 to found Hermes BPK Partners LLP, where he is currently Chief John Chatfeild-Roberts Executive and Founding Partner.
Chief Investment Officer John Chatfeild-Roberts joined Jupiter in March 2001 to establish and Michael Wilson R, N lead the team running the Jupiter Merlin portfolios: he also managed Non-executive Director the Jupiter Global Managed Fund from November 2001 to November Michael Wilson was appointed a non-executive Director of the 2010.
He started his fund management career at Henderson Company in 2007 having been nominated by TA Associates, L. P. Administration plc 1990-1995 where latterly he ran the fund of funds He is a managing Director of TA Associates, L. P. and formerly unit.
This was followed by a move to Lazard Brothers Asset served on the Boards of Advisory Research, Chartered Marketing Management: here he established their multi-manager team before Services, EYP Mission Critical Facilities, K2 Advisors and United Pet joining Jupiter.
John was appointed Chief Investment Officer in Group.
Prior to joining TA Associates, L. P. in 1992, Michael worked February 2010. in Morgan Stanleys Telecommunications Group.
In 1994, he joined Affiliated Managers Group, a TA-backed asset management platform Jon Little company, as Vice President and a member of the founding A Independent non-executive Director management team.
Michael currently also serves on the Board of Jon Little was appointed a non-executive Director of the Company Numeric Investors.
He started his asset management career at Fidelity from 1991 until 1997, when he joined JP Morgan Investment Philip Johnson Management as Vice President, Head of International Funds and Chief Financial Officer European Sub-advisory.
In 2000 he joined Mellon Financial and, Philip Johnson joined Jupiter as Chief Financial Officer in October following the merger of Mellon with Bank of New York in 2007, he 2009, with responsibilities for finance, tax, treasury, compliance, risk became Vice Chairman of BNY Mellon Asset Management.
He started his career at Coopers & Lybrand, 2007 and 2008 Jon was Chairman of West LB Mellon Asset where he qualified as a chartered accountant.
He left in 1996 to work Management BNY Mellons Joint Venture with West LB and, from in Prudential plcs group head office before transferring to M&G January 2007 to 2008, he was also Chairman of the Dreyfus Limited in 2000.
He spent eight years at M&G, with the last five as Corporation in New York, a BNY Mellon subsidiary.
Jon is a partner Group Finance Director, after which he worked at Marshall Wace and founder of Northill Capital, a private investment business backed LLP as Finance Director for a year, before joining Jupiter.
by one of Europes largest family offices.
Jon is also a non-executive Director of Alpha Strategic plc an AIM listed investor in hedge fund Richard I. Morris Jr. managers.
Non-executive Director Richard Morris, Jr. was appointed a non-executive Director of the Liz Airey Company in 2007 having been nominated by TA Associates, L. P. A, N Senior non-executive Independent Director He was previously Chief Operating Officer, President, and finally Liz Airey was appointed as the non-executive senior independent Vice Chairman of Putnam Lovell Securities Inc. now part of Jefferies Director of the Company in May 2010.
She served as Finance International which he joined in 1997.
Prior to joining Putnam Lovell, Director of Monument Oil and Gas plc from 1990 to 1999, when it Richard served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Cursitor was sold to Lasmo plc.
She is currently a non-executive Director and Alliance LLC, a unit of Alliance Capital Management LP now Chairman of the audit committee of Tate & Lyle plc and Dunedin AllianceBernstein LP.
Richard is currently a non-executive Director Enterprise Investment Trust plc and Chairman of the Unilever UK of Arrowstreet Capital LP, DNCA Finance SA and serving as an Pension Fund.
adviser to TA Associates, L. P. R Member of the Remuneration Committee A Member of the Audit Committee N Member of the Nomination Committee Annual Report & Accounts 2011
