DIRECTORS REPORT The directors have pleasure in submitting their annual report which includes this Directors report and the audited financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings for the year ended 31 December 2011.
The Directors report incorporates by reference, to the extent indicated below, certain information included elsewhere in the Annual Report and should be read in conjunction with that information.
The Corporate governance report on pages 36 to 39 also forms part of the statutory directors report.
pRinCipAl ACtivity AnD buSineSS Review The principal activity of the Group is providing value added distribution and outsourcing services in the Americas, Europe and Australasia.
Details of the Groups activities, developments and performance for the year, the main trends and factors likely to affect its future development and performance and information which fulfils the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 relating to the production of a business review are set out in the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review, the Financial review and the Corporate responsibility report on pages 8 to 29 and in the section below entitled Principal risks and uncertainties.
The Company uses a number of key performance indicators to measure progress towards its objectives.
These are set out in the form of bar charts on page 7. pRinCipAl RiSKS AnD unCeRtAintieS There are a number of potential risks and uncertainties which could have a material impact on the Groups business, financial condition or results of operations.
The Group has specific policies and procedures which are designed to identify, evaluate, manage and mitigate business risk.
The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group and the steps taken by the Group to mitigate such risks and uncertainties include the following: Risk mitigating factors Economic environment The Groups business is partially dependent on general economic The Groups operations and its customer base are diverse, with a conditions in the US, the UK, France and other important markets.
variable and flexible cost base, and many of the sectors in which it A significant deterioration in these conditions could have an adverse competes are traditionally, by their nature, relatively resilient to effect on the Groups business and results of operations.
Competitive pressures The Group operates in highly competitive markets and faces competition The Group seeks to remain competitive by maintaining high service from international companies as well as national, regional and local levels and close contacts with its customers to ensure that their needs companies in the countries in which it operates.
Increased competition and demands are being met satisfactorily, developing a national and unanticipated actions by competitors or customers could lead to presence in the markets in which the Group operates and maintaining an adverse effect on results and hinder the Groups growth potential, strong relationships with a variety of different suppliers thereby either through pressure on margins or loss of customers.
enablingthe Group to offer a broad range of products to its customers.
Product price changes The purchase price and availability of products distributed by the The Group endeavours, whenever possible, to pass on price increases Group can fluctuate from time to time, thereby potentially affecting from its suppliers to its customers and to source its products from a the results of operations.
Adverse economic conditions resulting in a number of different suppliers so that it is not dependent on any one period of commodity price deflation and increased levels of imported source of supply for any particular product.
Increased focus on the products may lead to reductions in the price and value of the Groups Groups own import programmes and brands, together with the products.
If this were to occur, the Groups revenue and, as a result, reinforcement of the Groups service and product offering to its profits, could be reduced and the value of inventory held in stock customers, helps to minimise the impact of price deflation.
may not be fully recoverable.
The Group mitigates against the risk of holding overvalued inventory in a deflationary environment by managing stock levels efficiently and ensuring they are kept to a minimum.
Foreign exchange The majority of the Groups sales are made and income is earned in The Group believes that the benefits of its geographical spread US dollars, euros and other foreign currencies.
As a result, movements outweigh the associated risks.
in exchange rates may have a material translation impact on the Groups reported results.
The majority of the Groups transactions are carried out in the functional currency of the Groups operations.
As a result, transaction The Group may also be subject to transaction exposures where exposures are usually limited and exchange rate fluctuations have products are purchased in one currency and sold in another and minimal effect on the quality of earnings unless there is a sudden and movements in exchange rates may also adversely affect the value significant adverse movement of a foreign currency in which products of the Groups net assets.
are purchased which may lead to a delay in passing on to customers the resulting price increases.
The Groups businesses, reported results and net assets could similarly be affected by the exit from the eurozone of countries Although the consequences of a country leaving the eurozone, where the Group has operations.
and the resulting impact this will have on other countries both within andoutside the eurozone, are difficult to predict, the Groups operations in those countries most likely to do so at the current time are relatively small.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 31 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Risk mitigating factors Acquisitions A significant portion of the Groups historical growth has been achieved The Groups acquisition strategy is to focus on those businesses which through the acquisition of businesses and the Groups growth strategy operate in sectors where it has or can develop competitive advantage includes additional acquisitions.
Although the Group operates in a and which have good growth opportunities.
The Group continually number of fragmented markets which provide future acquisition reviews acquisition targets and has established processes and opportunities, there can be no assurance that the Group will be able procedures with regard to detailed pre-acquisition due diligence to make acquisitions in the future or that any acquisitions made will and post-acquisition integration.
The Group endeavours to maximise the performance of an acquisition In the longer term, if an acquisition consistently underperforms through the recruitment and retention of high quality management compared to its original investment case, there is a risk that this combined with effective strategic planning, investment in resources will lead to a permanent impairment in the carrying value of the and infrastructure and regular reviews of performance by both intangible assets attributed to that acquisition.
business area and Group management.
Financial liquidity and debt covenants The Group needs continuous access to funding in order to meet its The Group arranges a mixture of borrowings from different sources trading obligations, to support investment in organic growth and to and continually monitors net debt and forecast cash flows to ensure make acquisitions when appropriate opportunities arise.
There is a risk that it will be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due and that the Group may be unable to obtain the necessary funds when that sufficient facilities are in place to meet the Groups requirements required or that such funds will only be available on unfavourable terms.
in the short, medium and long term.
The Groups borrowing facilities include a requirement to comply with Compliance with the Groups biannual debt covenants is monitored certain specified covenants in relation to the level of net debt and on a monthly basis based on the management accounts.
A breach of these covenants could result in a significant analyses using various scenarios are applied to forecasts to assess proportion of the Groups borrowings becoming repayable immediately.
Business continuity The Group would be affected if there was a significant failure of The Group seeks to reduce the impact of facilities failure through its major distribution facilities or information systems.
the use of multi-site facilities with products stocked in more than one location and the impact of information systems failure through the adoption of detailed back up plans which are periodically tested and which would be implemented in the event of any such failure.
Laws and regulations The international nature of the Groups operations exposes it to Although the Group does not operate in particularly litigious market potential claims as the Group is subject to a broad range of laws sectors, it has in place processes to report, manage and mitigate and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
against third party litigation using external advisers where necessary.
In addition the Group faces potential claims from customers in relation The use of reputable suppliers and internal quality assurance to the supply of defective products or breaches of their contractual and quality control procedures reduce the risks associated with arrangements.
The sourcing of products from lower cost countries defective products.
increases the risk of the Group being unable to recover any potential losses relating thereto from the relevant supplier.
The Financial review on pages 22 to 24 and Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements include information relating to the Groups risk management policies so far as they relate to financial instruments.
The Internal control and risk management section of the Corporate governance report on page 39 includes further information on the specific procedures designed to identify, manage and mitigate business risk.
GOinG COnCeRn strong, converting 110% of the operating profit before intangible As indicated in the section above entitled Principal activity and business amortisation and acquisition related costs into operating cash in 2011. review, details of the Groups activities, developments and performance Compliance with the Groups biannual debt covenants is monitored on are set out on pages 8 to 29.
In addition, information relating to the amonthly basis and sensitivity analyses using various scenarios are financial performance, financial position and cash flows of the Group applied to forecasts to assess their impact on covenants and net debt.
is set out in the Financial review on pages 22 to 24.
Note 13 to the During 2011 all covenants have been complied with and based on consolidated financial statements includes the details of the Groups current forecasts it is expected that such covenants will continue to debt profile, capital management policy, treasury policies and controls, be complied with for the foreseeable future.
hedging activities and financial instruments and its policies and exposures to liquidity, interest rate, foreign currency and credit risks.
The Group has sufficient financial resources, a well established, fragmented customer base, strong supplier relationships and a diverse The Group continually monitors net debt and forecast cash flows geographic presence.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the to ensure that sufficient facilities are in place to meet the Groups Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite requirements in the short, medium and long term and, in order to do the current uncertain economic outlook.
so, arranges a mixture of borrowings from different sources comprising multi-currency credit facilities and US dollar and sterling bonds.
As at The directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have a reasonable 31December 2011 the Group had net debt of 652.9 million and expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in undrawn committed facilities of 621.5 million.
During the next 12 operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the months 230.0 million of the committed facilities mature and thereafter directors believe it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern the facilities will mature at various times over the period up to 2023.
The basis in preparing the financial statements.
Group is highly cash generative and its cash flows have historically been 32 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 DiviDenDS ReStRiCtiOnS On tRAnSFeR OF SHAReS An interim dividend of 8.05p was paid on 3 January 2012 in respect of Dealings in the Companys ordinary shares by its directors, persons 2011 and the directors recommend a final dividend of 18.3p, making a discharging managerial responsibilities, certain employees of the total for the year of 26.35p per share 2010: 23.35p.
Dividend details Company and, in each case, their connected persons, are subject to are given in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements.
Subject the Companys dealing code which adopts the Model Code of the Listing to approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on Rules published by the Financial Services Authority.
18 April 2012, the final dividend will be paid on 2 July 2012 to those shareholders on the register at the close of business on 11 May 2012.
Certain restrictions, which are customary for a listed company, apply to transfers of shares in the Company.
The Board may refuse to register an SHARe CApitAl instrument of transfer of any share which is not a fully paid share and of The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided a certificated share at its discretion unless it is: 1 into ordinary shares of 32 7p each which rank pari passu in respect of participation and voting rights.
The shares are in registered form, lodged, duly stamped or duly certified, at the offices of the Companys are fully paid up and are quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
registrar or such other place as the Board may specify and is In addition, the Company operates a Level 1 American Depositary accompanied by the certificate for the shares to which it relates and Receipt programme with the Bank of New York Mellon under which such other evidence as the Board may reasonably require to show the Companys shares are traded on the over the counter market in the right of the transferor to make the transfer: the form of American Depositary Receipts.
in respect of only one class of shares: and Details of changes to the issued share capital during the year are set out in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.
in favour of not more than four transferees.
RiGHtS AnD ObliGAtiOnS AttACHinG tO SHAReS Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share may be refused Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and without in the circumstances set out in the uncertificated securities rules, prejudice to any rights attached to any existing shares, the Company and where, in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of may resolve by ordinary resolution to issue shares with such rights and joint holders to whom the uncertificated share is to be transferred restrictions as set out in such resolution or if there is no such resolution exceeds four.
or so far as it does not make specific provision as the Board may decide.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and of In addition, no instrument of transfer for certificated shares shall be any resolution of the Company passed pursuant thereto and without registered if the transferor has been served with a restriction notice prejudice to any rights attached to existing shares, the Board is duly as defined in the Companys Articles of Association the Articles authorised to issue and allot, grant options over or otherwise dispose of after failure to provide the Company with information concerning certain the Companys shares on such terms and conditions and at such times interests in the Companys shares required to be provided under the as it thinks fit.
If at any time the share capital of the Company is divided Companies Act 2006, unless the transfer is shown to the Board to be into different classes of shares, the rights attached to any class may be pursuant to an arms length sale.
The Board has the power to procure varied or abrogated by special resolution passed at a separate general that uncertificated shares are converted into certificated shares and meeting of such holders.
Subject to the rights attached to any existing kept in certificated form for as long as the Board requires.
shares, rights attached to shares will be deemed to be varied by the reduction of capital paid up on the shares and by the allotment of The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders further shares ranking in priority in respect of dividend or capital or that may result in any restriction of the transfer of shares or voting rights.
which confer on the holders more favourable voting rights than the first-mentioned shares, but will not otherwise be deemed to be varied ReStRiCtiOnS On vOtinG RiGHtS by the creation or issue of further shares.
A member shall not be entitled to vote, unless the Board otherwise decides, at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of any pOweR tO iSSue AnD AllOt SHAReS shares held by them if any call or other sums payable remain unpaid.
The directors are generally and unconditionally authorised under the Currently, all issued shares are fully paid.
In addition, no member shall authorities granted at the 2011 Annual General Meeting to allot shares be entitled to vote if he has been served with a restriction notice after or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares of failure to provide the Company with information concerning certain the Company up to i a maximum nominal amount of 35.4 million: interests in the Companys shares required to be provided under the and ii to allot ordinary shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert Companies Act 2006.
Votes may be exercised in person or by proxy.
any securities into shares in connection with a rights issue to existing The Articles currently provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms shareholders in proportion or as nearly as may be practicable up to of 48 hours before the relevant meeting, 24 hours before a poll is taken an aggregate nominal amount equal to 70.8 million or as reduced by if such poll is taken more than 48 hours after it was demanded or during the nominal value of any ordinary shares allotted under i above.
At the the meeting at which the poll was demanded if the poll is not taken same meeting authority was also granted to the directors to allot the straight away but is taken not more than 48 hours after it was demanded.
Companys shares for cash, up to a maximum nominal amount of approximately 5.7 million, without regard to the pre-emption provisions bunZl GROup GeneRAl emplOyee beneFit tRuSt of the Companies Act 2006.
No such shares were issued or allotted Bunzl Employee Trustees Limited is trustee of the Bunzl Group General under these authorities in 2011, nor is there any current intention to do Employee Benefit Trust the EBT which holds shares in respect of so, other than to satisfy the consideration payable for businesses to be employee share options and awards that have not been exercised or acquired.
If the directors do exercise the authority under ii above the vested.
The current position is that the EBT abstains from voting in directors intend to follow ABI recommendations concerning its use.
The trustee has agreed to waive the right to dividend payments on shares held within the EBT.
Details of the shares These authorities are valid until the conclusion of the forthcoming so held are set out in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.
The directors again propose to seek equivalent authorities at such Annual General Meeting.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 33 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED puRCHASe OF Own SHAReS Directors interests in ordinary shares are shown in Note 19 to the At the 2011 Annual General Meeting, shareholders gave the Company consolidated financial statements.
None of the directors was materially authority to purchase a maximum of 33,015,000 ordinary shares.
interested in any contract of significance with the Company or any of During the year ended 31 December 2011 the Company did not its subsidiary undertakings during or at the end of 2011.
Information purchase any of its own shares pursuant to this authority or the authority relating to the directors service agreements and their remuneration for granted at the 2010 Annual General Meeting and no shares have been the year and details of the directors share options under the Companys purchased between 31 December 2011 and 27 February 2012.
The share option schemes and awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan total number of ordinary shares currently held in treasury is 23,325,000. and Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme are set out in the Directors The Company is therefore currently authorised to buy back 33,015,000 remuneration report on pages 40 to 52. of its own shares pursuant to the existing shareholders authority which is due to expire at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General pOweRS OF tHe DiReCtORS Meeting.
The directors again propose to seek the equivalent authority Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and any directions at such Annual General Meeting.
given by the Company by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board who may exercise all powers of the DiReCtORS Company.
The Board may, by power of attorney or otherwise, appoint Directors may be elected by ordinary resolution at a duly convened any person or persons to be the agent or agents of the Company for general meeting or appointed by the Board.
Under the Articles, the such purposes and on such conditions as the Board determines.
minimum number of directors shall be two and the maximum shall be 15.
In accordance with the Articles, each director is required to retire DiReCtORS inDemnitieS at the Annual General Meeting held in the third calendar year in which As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under which the he or she was elected or last elected and any director who has held Company has agreed to indemnify the directors and the Company office with the Company, other than employment or executive office, Secretary, in addition to other senior executives who are directors of for a continuous period of nine years or more at the date of the Annual subsidiaries of the Company, to the extent permitted by law and the General Meeting is subject to annual re-election.
The Board may also Articles in respect of all losses arising out of, or in connection with, the appoint a person willing to act as a director during the year either to fill execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as a director or a vacancy or as an additional director but so that the total number of officer of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
directors shall not at any time exceed 15.
However such appointee shall only hold office until the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
AmenDment OF ARtiCleS Notwithstanding the retirement by rotation provisions in the Articles, Any amendments to the Articles may be made in accordance with the each of the directors will be standing for re-election at the forthcoming provisions of the Companies Act 2006 by way of special resolution of Annual General Meeting in accordance with the provisions of the UK the Companys shareholders.
Following the implementation of the final Corporate Governance Code.
parts of the Companies Act 2006 and the coming into force of the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations in 2009, new Articles In addition to any power to remove a director from office conferred by of Association were adopted by shareholders at the 2010 Annual company law, the Company may also by special resolution remove a General Meeting.
director from office before the expiration of his or her period of office under the Articles.
enviROnmentAl AnD SOCiAl ReSpOnSibility The directors recognise that the Company is part of a wider community The office of a director shall also be vacated pursuant to the Articles and that it has a responsibility to act in a way that respects the if the director: environment and social and community issues.
Further information relating to the Companys approach to these matters is set out in the resigns by giving notice to the Company or is asked to resign by all Corporate responsibility report on pages 25 to 29. of the other directors who are not less than three in number: or emplOyment pOliCieS is or has been suffering from mental or physical ill health and the The employment policies of the Group have been developed to meet Board resolves that his or her office be vacated: or the needs of its different business areas and the locations in which they operate worldwide, embodying the principles of equal opportunity.
The is absent without permission from Board meetings for six consecutive Group has standards of business conduct with which it expects all its months and the Board resolves that his or her office be vacated: or employees to comply.
Bunzl encourages involvement of its employees in the performance of the business in which they are employed and becomes bankrupt or compounds with his or her creditors aims to achieve a sense of shared commitment.
In addition to a regular generally:or magazine and the Companys intranet, which provide a variety of information on activities and developments within the Group and is prohibited by law from being a director: or incorporate half year and annual financial reports, announcements are periodically circulated to give details of corporate and staff matters ceases to be a director by virtue of any provisions of company law together with a number of subsidiary or business area publications or is removed from office pursuant to the Articles.
dealing with activities in specific parts of the Group.
Eugenia Ulasewicz was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2011 and It is the Groups policy that disabled applicants should be considered for Charles Banks retired from the Board on 20 April 2011.
All of the other employment and career development on the basis of their aptitudes and current directors served throughout the year.
Biographical details of the abilities.
Employees who become disabled during their working life will current directors are set out on page 30. be retained in employment wherever possible and given help with rehabilitation and training.
34 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 SubStAntiAl SHAReHOlDinGS AnnuAl GeneRAl meetinG As at 31 December 2011 the directors had been notified by the The Annual General Meeting will be held at The Park Suite, The following shareholders that they were each interested in 3% or more Dorchester, Park Lane, London W1K 1QA on Wednesday 18 April 2012 of the issued share capital of the Company.
The Notice convening the Annual General Meeting is set out in a separate letter from the Chairman to shareholders which explains the items of business which are not of a routine nature.
Date of Number % of issued Shareholder notification of shares share capital exteRnAl AuDitOR INVESCO plc 20.05.10 32,571,686 9.9 Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report confirms that: Blackrock, Inc. 23.03.11 16,491,628 5.0 Lloyds Banking Group plc 27.05.10 16,425,039 5.0 so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information Aviva plc 13.10.11 16,149,582 4.9 of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and Newton Investment Management Ltd 07.03.11 13,864,410 4.2 Cascade Investment, LLC 12.12.11 13,484,960 4.1 the director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken as Legal & General Group Plc 12.11.09 13,069,891 4.0 a director in order to make the director aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware The directors were notified on 23 February 2012 that Aviva plc no of that information.
longer held a notifiable interest in the issued share capital of the Company.
As at 27 February 2012 no further notifications have This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance been received since the year end.
with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
SiGniFiCAnt AGReementS Resolutions are to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General The Companys wholly owned subsidiary, Bunzl Finance plc, has a Meeting for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the number of bilateral loan facilities with a range of different counterparties, Company at a rate of remuneration to be determined by the directors.
all of which are guaranteed by the Company, are in substantially the same form and are prepayable at the option of the lender in the event of On behalf of the Board a change of control of the Company.
Similar change of control provisions in relation to the Company are included in the syndicated bank loan and paul Hussey the US dollar bonds which have been entered into by Bunzl Finance plc Secretary and the Company and are also guaranteed by the Company.
27 February 2012 COntRACtuAl ARRAnGementS Pages 31 to 35 inclusive consist of a directors report that has been The Group has contractual arrangements with numerous third parties drawn up and presented in accordance with, and in reliance upon, in support of its business activities, none of which are considered applicable English company law and any liability of the directors in individually to be essential to its business and, accordingly, it has not connection with this report shall be subject to the limitations and been considered necessary for an understanding of the development, restrictions provided by such law.
performance or position of the Groups business to disclose information about any of those third parties.
The Annual Report contains certain statements about the future outlook for the Group.
Although the Company believes that the expectations are CReDitOR pAyment pOliCy based on reasonable assumptions, any statements about future outlook Group operating companies do not follow any specific published may be influenced by factors that could cause actual outcomes and code or standard on payment practice but are instead responsible results to be materially different.
for agreeing the payment terms when agreeing all other terms and conditions under which business transactions with their suppliers are conducted.
It is Group policy that suppliers are made aware of these terms and that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with them provided that suppliers also comply with all other relevant terms and conditions.
The number of days billings from the Companys suppliers outstanding at the end of the year was 30 2010: 30.
DOnAtiOnS During 2011, amongst other worldwide charitable donations, the Groupcontributed 220,000 to UK charities 2010: 215,000.
Nocontributions were made for political purposes.
