BURBERRY GROUP OVERVIEW A diversified business model Burberry is a global luxury brand with a distinctive British heritage, core outerwear and large leather goods base, and some of the most recognised icons in the world.
Burberry designs and sources apparel and accessories, selling through a diversified network of retail, digital, wholesale and licensing channels worldwide.
The business is managed by channel, region and product, supported by corporate functions.
Evolving channel mix Burberry sells its products to the end consumer through both retail including digital commerce and wholesale channels.
For 2010 11, retail accounted for 64% of revenue and wholesale 29%.
Burberry also has licensing agreements in Japan and globally, leveraging the local and technical expertise of its licence partners.
Revenue by channel Excluding the results of the discontinued Spanish operations.
Underlying is calculated at constant exchange rates.
64% 29% 7% Retail Wholesale Licensing Includes 174 mainline stores, 199 Includes sales to department stores, Includes royalty income received from concessions within department stores multi-brand specialty accounts and Travel Burberrys licensees in Japan, its global and 44 outlets, as well as digital commerce Retail, as well as sales to its franchisees licensees for fragrance, eyewear and around the world who operate 56 Burberry stores, mainly timepieces, and a small European in Emerging Markets childrenswear licensee 32% underlying growth 20% excluding 16% underlying growth 4% underlying decline impact of China acquisition 25% excluding impact of Growth in global product licences offset 11% comparable store growth China acquisition by termination of Japanese leather goods Net 26 mainline store openings Strength from Asia Pacific and the licence in 2010 and the final regional in the year, including Beijing, Americas, particularly Asia Travel Retail menswear licences So Paulo and Mumbai and US department stores Greater integration between Entered four new markets with strategy, product development franchise partners Armenia, Egypt, and digital marketing Israel and Mongolia 22 Broad geographic portfolio Burberry operates in four regions: Europe, Asia Pacific, Americas and Rest of World.
Retail and wholesale revenue by destination Excluding the results of the discontinued Spanish operations.
27% 34% 33% 6% Americas Europe Asia Pacific Rest of World Includes US, Canada, Excluding the results of the Includes China and the Japanese Up 43% underlying Central and South America discontinued Spanish operations non-apparel joint operation Indian joint operation opened three stores in Delhi, Mumbai Up 16% underlying Up 15% underlying Up 53% underlying and Hyderabad Good progress in US Double-digit comparable China acquisition completed Burberry Middle East opened wholesale: expansion of real store sales growth: first Brit acquired stores comparable first two department store estate in department stores trial store in Europe opened growth about 30% in the concessions in Harvey in Milan second half Three store openings in Nichols and Bloomingdales Latin America Brasilia and Continued focus on key Flagship store opened So Paulo, Brazil and department store customers in Beijing Puebla, Mexico and rationalisation of small, non brand-enhancing speciality accounts in wholesale 23 BURBERRY GROUP OVERVIEW CONTINUED pRODUCTS Within the Burberry offering, there is a product hierarchy each collection with unique branding and a distinct Burberry identity.
At the top is Burberry Prorsum, the most fashion forward collection centred around catwalk runway shows each year.
Prorsum, the Latin BURBERRY word for moves forward, provides the design PRORSUM inspiration for the brand.
In the centre of the pyramid is Burberry London or what a customer wears on weekdays for BURBERRY LONDON work tailored ready to wear.
And at the base of the pyramid is Burberry Brit what a customer wears on the weekend casual wear, including Burberry Sport.
BURBERRY Collections are distinctly designed and BRIT merchandised across the pyramid to drive the brands revenue and profitability.
Outerwear and non-apparel span all levels as Burberry continues to innovate and diversify these core categories.
Diversified offering Retail and wholesale revenue by product Excluding the results of the discontinued Spanish operations.
40% 33% 23% 4% Non-apparel Womenswear Menswear Childrenswear Up 32% underlying Up 21% underlying Up 29% underlying Up 23% underlying About 40% is outerwear: Spring Summer 2011 Large leather goods About 60% is outerwear: Prorsum and London first season managed by handbags about half Prorsum and London collections outperformed London-based team of revenue collections outperformed Spring Summer 2011 the Foundation built from Small leather goods and Growth balanced between first collection designed mens and womens scarves outperformed continued innovation entirely in-house proven strategies and replenishment 24
