DIRECTORS report The directors present their Annual Report together with the the directors service agreements and letters of appointment are audited financial statements for the year to 31 March 2011. given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 76 to 85. Business review Directors share interests Burberry Group plc is required to set out in this report a fair review Interests of the directors holding office at 31 March 2011 of the business of the Group during the year to 31 March 2011 in the shares of the Company are shown in the Directors and of the position of the Group at the end of the financial year Remuneration Report on page 85.
There were no changes and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing to the beneficial interests of the directors during the period the Group known as a business review.
The purpose of the 31 March 2011 to 25 May 2011. business review is to enable shareholders to assess how the directors have performed their duty under section 172 of the Directors insurance and indemnities Companies Act 2006 to promote the success of the company.
The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance The Strategy and Group Overview sections on pages 22 to 40 which gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against and the Business and Financial Review including Group Financial its directors.
In accordance with section 236 of the Companies Act Highlights on pages 44 to 50 report on the activities and results 2006, qualifying third-party indemnity provisions are in place for the for the year and give an indication of the Companys future directors and Company Secretary in respect of liabilities incurred developments.
The Corporate Responsibility Report is set out as a result of their office, to the extent permitted by law.
A description of the principal risks and insurance and indemnities applied throughout the financial year uncertainties facing the Group is included on pages 54 to 56. ended 31 March 2011 and as at the date of this report.
The Corporate Governance statement is set out on pages 71 to 75.
The sections of the Annual Report referred to above fulfil Share capital the requirements of the business review and are incorporated Details of the issued share capital, together with details of by reference and shall be deemed to form part of this report.
movements in the issued share capital of the Company during the year, are shown in note 22 which is incorporated by reference and Principal activities deemed to be part of this report.
Burberry Group plc is a holding company.
The Group designs, The Company has one class of ordinary share which carries no sources, and markets luxury mens, womens and childrens right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote at clothing and non-apparel accessories globally through a general meetings of the Company.
The ordinary shares are listed diversified network of retail, wholesale, franchise and digital at 31 March 2011, the Company had 435,811,738 ordinary commerce channels worldwide.
Burberry also licenses third shares in issue, of which 77,215 were held as treasury shares.
parties to manufacture and distribute products using the Burberry trademarks.
In order to retain maximum flexibility, the Company proposes to renew the authority granted by ordinary shareholders at the Revenue and profit Annual General Meeting in 2010, to repurchase a maximum of Revenue from the continuing business during the period 10% of its issued share capital.
Further details are provided in amounted to 1,501.3m 2010: 1,185.1m.
The attributable the Notice of this years Annual General Meeting.
At the Annual General Meeting in 2010, shareholders approved resolutions to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal value of Dividends 72,000 and to give directors authority to allot shares for cash The directors recommend that a final dividend of 15.0p per other than pro rata to existing shareholders.
Resolutions will ordinary share 2010: 10.5p in respect of the year to 31 March be proposed at this years Annual General Meeting to renew 2011 be paid on 4 August 2011 to those persons on the Register these authorities.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys An interim dividend of 5.0p per ordinary share was paid to share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
There are no shareholders on 28 January 2011 2010: 3.5p.
This will make specific restrictions on the size of holding nor on the transfer of a total dividend of 20.0p per ordinary share in respect of the shares which are both governed by the general provisions of the financial year to 31 March 2011.
The aggregate dividends paid Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The directors are and recommended in respect of the year to 31 March 2011 total not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys 87.1m 2010: 60.8m.
shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
The directors have no current plans to issue shares Directors other than in connection with employee share schemes.
The names and biographical details of the directors holding office at the date of this report are set out on page 67 and are incorporated Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 27. by reference into this report.
The Burberry Group plc ESOP Trust has waived all dividends payable by the Company in respect of the ordinary shares held At the 2011 Annual General Meeting, the Company will adopt by it.
In addition, the Burberry Group plc SIP Trust has waived early the provisions of the new UK Corporate Governance Code all dividends payable by the Company in respect of the that relate to the annual re-election of directors.
All of the directors unappropriated ordinary shares held by it.
will retire and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
The total dividends waived in the year to 31 March 2011 were The Notice of this years Annual General Meeting, and the in aggregate 0.05m 2010: 0.2m.
Corporate Governance section on pages 71 to 75, set out why the Board believes the directors should be re-elected.
Details of 68 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2010 11 DIRECTORS report continued With regard to the appointment and replacement of directors, Health and safety the Company follows the UK Corporate Governance Code and The Group has a health and safety policy approved by the Board is governed by its Articles of Association and the Companies and a Global Health and Safety Committee which is chaired by Act 2006. the Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer.
Each region has a local committee which reports to the Global Committee.
Substantial shareholdings There have been a number of internal and external audits carried As at 25 May 2011, the Company had been notified under Rule 5 out to provide assurance.
There has been no enforcement action of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following major following a routine visit by inspectors.
interests in its issued ordinary share capital: Further information regarding the Groups employment policies Number of % of total is provided in the Corporate Responsibility report on pages 58 ordinary shares voting rights to 63.
Blackrock Inc. 43,198,349 9.92 FMR LLC 22,145,417 5.08 Employee involvement Employee communication Capital Research and The Group believes that employee communication is important Management Company 22,016,085 5.05 in building strong relationships with, and in motivating and Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 21,771,730 5.01 retaining, employees.
The Group makes use of various methods Schroders plc 21,666,352 4.99 and channels, all of which are implemented globally, including JP Morgan Chase & Co 21,578,580 4.99 face-to-face briefings, open discussion forums with senior Massachusetts Financial management, email and a corporate intranet to ensure that Services Company 20,073,645 4.61 matters of interest and importance are conveyed to employees quickly and effectively.
In addition, quarterly updates which Legal and General Group plc 17,544,824 4.02 highlight the Groups performance and its ongoing strategic initiatives are webcast globally to every employee.
Furthermore, Interests in own shares development of content such as videos and digital webpages to Details of the Companys interests in its own shares are set out communicate key initiatives, events and other brand messages in note 22 to the financial statements.
has further enhanced internal communication.
Charitable donations Employee share ownership During the year to 31 March 2011, the Group donated 3m The Group recognises the importance of good relationships with 2010: 1.4m for the benefit of charitable causes.
These donations employees at all levels and runs incentive schemes and share principally comprised cash.
Further information regarding the ownership schemes for the benefit of employees.
Further details charitable donations made during the year are contained in the of these schemes are set out in the Directors Remuneration Corporate Responsibility report on pages 58 to 63.
The Group again intends, where possible, to invite employees Political donations to take part in sharesave schemes.
The Group also intends to The Company made no political donations during the year in line with grant free share awards or cash based awards to all employees its policy.
In keeping with the Companys approach in prior years, during 2011 12. shareholder approval is being sought at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, as a precautionary measure, for the Company and Further details of the Groups approach to employee involvement its subsidiaries to make donations and or incur expenditure which and communications are provided in the Corporate Responsibility may be construed as political by the wide definition of that term Report on pages 58 to 63. included in the relevant legislation.
Further details are provided in the Notice of this years Annual General Meeting.
Financial instruments The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies Employment policies are set out within note 26 to the financial statements on pages Equal opportunities 119 to 121.
Note 26 also details the Groups exposure to foreign The Group is committed to ensuring the consistent profitable exchange, price, interest, credit and liquidity risks.
These notes growth of its business and a policy of equal opportunity in are incorporated by reference and are deemed to form part employment is integral to this commitment.
The aims of the of this report.
Groups policy are to ensure that the most capable job applicants are recruited and the most competent employees in the Group progress, irrespective of sex, race, ethnic origin, nationality, marital status, age, religion, disability and sexual orientation.
We are committed to making the necessary adjustments to support the employment of people with disabilities and provide training and development to ensure they have the opportunity to achieve their potential.
In the situation where an employee becomes disabled during their employment, the Group will endeavour to assist the employee by offering additional training, adapting the job if appropriate or by offering a transfer to another position.
Burberry Group PLC annual report 2010 11 69 DIRECTORS report continued Creditor payment policy The Groups auditors are  LLP.
For all trade creditors, it is the Companys policy to: A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as auditors to the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming agree and confirm the terms of payment at the commencement Annual General Meeting.
of business with that supplier: Note 31 in the financial statements states the auditors fees for pay in accordance with contractual and other legal obligations: both audit and non-audit work.
and continually review the payment procedures and liaise with Going concern suppliers as a means of eliminating difficulties and maintaining The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely a good working relationship.
to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business and Financial Review on pages 44 to 50, The Company had no trade creditors at 31 March 2011 2010: nil.
along with details of the Groups cashflows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities.
Financial risk management objectives, details Significant contracts change of control of financial instruments and hedging activities, and exposures to Pursuant to the Companies Act 2006, the directors disclose that credit risk and liquidity risk are described in note 26, pages 119 in the event of a change of control in the Company the Groups to 121.
300m Revolving Credit Facility dated 28 March 2011 could become repayable.
The directors have reviewed the Groups forecasts and projections.
These include the assumptions around the Groups In circumstances of change of control of the Company, Angela products and markets, expenditure commitments, expected Ahrendts may terminate her employment.
Her entitlement in cashflows and borrowing facilities.
Taking into account reasonably respect of remuneration is set out on page 79 of the Directors possible changes in trading performance, and after making Remuneration Report where Burberry terminates her service enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the agreement in circumstances where the Remuneration Committee Group has adequate resources to continue in operational determines that Angela Ahrendts performance does not meet existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly they consider it the financial expectations of the Board or shareholders.
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the In circumstances where the Companys shares cease to be listed, annual report and accounts.
Stacey Cartwright may, within three months from the cessation of listing, terminate her employment on three months notice and Annual General Meeting would be entitled to her base salary for a period of nine months The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the following termination.
offices of Slaughter and May, One Bunhill Row, London, EC1Y 8YY commencing at 9.30am on Thursday, 14 July 2011.
The Details of the service agreements of the executive directors are Notice of this years Annual General Meeting will be available to set out on page 79 of the Directors Remuneration Report.
view on the Groups website www.
The provisions of the Companys employee share plans and The directors consider that all of the proposed resolutions to be awards may cause options and awards granted under such considered at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests plans to vest upon a change of control.
of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and are most likely to promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its Essential contracts shareholders as a whole.
The directors unanimously recommend The Group has a number of contractual arrangements with that shareholders vote in favour of each of the proposed suppliers both of goods and services, wholesale customers, resolutions, as the directors intend to do in respect of their licensees who manufacture and distribute products using the own beneficial holdings.
In addition, the Group occupies leasehold premises for the purpose of conducting its By order of the Board business.
Whilst these arrangements are important to the business of the Group, individually none of them is essential to the business of the Group and does not require disclosure under Michael Mahony section 417 5 c of the Companies Act 2006.
General Counsel and Secretary 25 May 2011 Auditors Registered Office: In accordance with section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006, Horseferry House each of the Companys directors in office as at the date of this Horseferry Road report confirms that: London so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit SW1P 2AW information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and Registered Number: 03458224 he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
70 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2010 11
