STRATEGY BRAND AND BUSINESS From its founding in 1856, Burberry has become the leading British luxury brand globally.
The brand is defined by: The business is driven by: The culture is distinguished by: Britishness Design, marketing and Core values: to protect, retail-led strategies explore and inspire Authentic outerwear heritage Digital focus and integration Democratic and meritocratic Historic icons: the trench coat, ethos trademark check and Prorsum Channel diversity: retail, knight logo digital commerce, wholesale Collaboration and and licensing connectedness Democratic luxury positioning Multi-category competency: Contributing to its communities, Innovation and intuition non-apparel, womenswear, including through the menswear and childrenswear Burberry Foundation Global reach and balance: across core regions and emerging markets Unified and passionate teams are responsible for maintaining the integrity and vitality of this extraordinary brand while continuing to develop a business which remains relevant to ever-evolving markets and consumer tastes.
The following pages outline the Groups strategy under each of its five key themes.
oUR STRATEGIc ThEmES INvESTING LEvERAGING INTENSIfYING AccELERATING pURSUING IN UNDERThE NoN-AppAREL RETAIL-LED opERATIoNAL pENETRATED fRANchISE DEvELopmENT GRowTh ExcELLENcE mARkETS 28 STRATEGY coNTINUED LEvERAGING ThE fRANchISE Through more coordinated use of brand assets and greater integration of its global organisation, Burberry has the opportunity to enhance consumer responsiveness and operate more efficiently and effectively.
This potential lies both in the front and back-of-house operations.
In 2010 11 Burberry was again included in Interbrands Continued transformation of fashion shows Top 100 Global Brands: was awarded the 2010 British Burberry continued to break new ground in the reach Graduate 100 Award for Where Fashion Graduates Want and impact of its fashion shows.
Previously closed to Work: and was recognised as the 13th most innovative door events for invited guests, the use of livestream company in the world by Fast Company magazine, as well technology allowed Burberry to take these key brand as receiving the Inaugural Innovation Award at the 2010 moments to an ever-wider audience over the course of British Fashion Awards.
the year, culminating with the livestream of the Burberry Spring Summer 2011 womenswear show, which has Product and marketing excellence underpin this brand been watched by over one million people across more momentum.
Key highlights in 2010 11 include: than 180 countries around the world.
The introduction of retail theatre technology allowed the livestreaming Marketing innovation of shows directly to flagship stores globally, while the Launched new Burberry.
com site development of instant digital commerce purchase The rollout of the new Burberry.
com website began capability, supported by supply chain innovation, has in the fourth quarter of 2010 11, with the site live in allowed customers for the first time to buy directly six languages and transactional across 45 countries from the runway for delivery in seven weeks.
The site, known as Burberry World, is innovations, such as the streaming of the September the ultimate expression of the Burberry brand, allowing 2010 womenswear show in 3D to five locations around customers globally in many cases for the first time the world, and the hosting of the Autumn Winter 2011 to connect with all its aspects, from heritage, to music womenswear show on the iconic video screens in and video, to the full product offer.
Through the use of Piccadilly Circus, London, have continued to broaden dynamic audiovisual content the site becomes a place reach and awareness.
to engage, entertain and interact, as well as providing the ultimate online luxury shopping experience through Further digitisation of the brand a personalised customer service offer that includes the Continued investment and an intense focus on ability to Click to Chat and Click to Call in real time and infrastructure development meant the Group was able in 14 languages.
The site provides a powerful locus to accelerate the digitisation of the brand.
In 2010 11, for ongoing efforts to build the Burberry community the Group further bolstered its world-class creative around the world.
and IT teams to remain at the forefront of innovation and excellence in the creation and distribution of Extended luxury leadership position in social media digital assets.
Engaging with social media is a further critical part of the Groups strategy to connect customers with the Burberry brand.
In 2010 11, Burberry further built its leadership position amongst luxury brands on Facebook, ending the year with approaching five million fans, as well as almost 200,000 followers on Twitter and over four million channel views on YouTube.
A key milestone in late 2010 11 was the launch of the brand on Chinese social media sites Sina Weibo, Kaixin001, Douban and YouKu, having launched country-specific Twitter accounts in Brazil, Mexico, Japan, Turkey and Korea earlier in the year.
The Groups own social media site, artofthetrench.
com, continued to inspire people around the world and across generations to share their experiences of the iconic trench coat.
By the end of the year, the site had received more than 11 million page views since its launch in November 2009.
30 STRATEGY coNTINUED LEvERAGING ThE fRANchISE coNTINUED Product excellence Further built childrenswear Building childrenswear remains a key focus for Key apparel categories outperformance the Group.
Childrenswear was formally integrated Outerwear remains the core of the Burberry apparel into the global business in 2010 11, with the division business, from timeless iconic pieces to innovative now located in the Groups London headquarters contemporary styles.
A key growth driver, outerwear and its product aligned with core design and accounted for over half of mainline retail apparel sales merchandising strategies.
At the top end of the pyramid, fashion outerwear drove outperformance from Prorsum, the runway collection that creates the halo for the 2010 11 also saw the intensification of ongoing efforts entire Burberry brand.
to correct those legacy issues that are inconsistent with Integrated menswear the global luxury positioning of the Burberry brand.
SS11 saw the launch of the first fully in-house global A key focus of this effort has been to upgrade the menswear collection.
Historically a licensed business, brand positioning with wholesale partners.
A number the Group exited all 11 licences between 2006 07 of Japanese non-apparel licences were also terminated and 2010 11, enabling the relaunch and repositioning during the year and the restructuring and transformation of this category.
This first pure collection drove of the Spanish business were succesfully completed, outperformance in menswear during the year, with the global collection rolled out across all channels with reported growth of 31%.
for the first time from SS11.
measuring our progress Total revenue growth Year to March measures the appeal of the brand to consumers, be it through Burberry stores or those of its department store or specialty retail customers.
2007-2009 and 2010 include the result of the discontinued Spanish operations.
2010 has been represented to exclude the discontinued Spanish operations.
In 2010 11, Burberrys revenue was 1,501m a 24% underlying increase on the previous year.
China, which transferred from wholesale to retail on 1 September 2010 following the acquisition of the former franchisees operations, contributed 5% to this underlying growth.
32 STRATEGY coNTINUED INTENSIfYING NoN-AppAREL DEvELopmENT Intensify and focus on under-penetrated non-apparel categories to leverage further Burberry design and merchandising expertise and iconic branding through investment in product development, marketing and supply chain.
Non-apparel remains a key driver of growth, contributing Licensing 40% of retail wholesale sales during the year.
In 2010 11 Beauty it was again the Groups fastest growing product category.
In June 2010, the Group launched its first cosmetics Large leather goods line, Burberry Beauty, with its fragrance licensee Large leather goods remain the backbone of the Interparfums.
Reinforcing the brands core trench Burberry non-apparel business, representing about and outerwear heritage through its focus on natural, 50% of revenues in this category.
effortless beauty, Burberry Beauty was first introduced as a test format through a limited number of wholesale Mens accessories partners globally and later directly to customers on Mens accessories was amongst the strongest burberry.
Supported by digital assets and used in performing categories within non-apparel, albeit from all Burberry advertising campaigns and runway shows, a small base.
Strong growth across wholesale and Burberry Beauty is enjoying a strong early response retail channels was driven by a significantly expanded from consumers and press as it approaches its assortment servicing increased demand.
global growth in this category was complemented by a particularly strong performance in certain markets Global licences such as China, where the predominantly male Burberry has three global licensing agreements: luxury consumer responded very positively to the fragrance Interparfums, timepieces Fossil and accessories offer.
During the year, Burberry strengthened its organisation to manage these Shoes relationships more intensively, more closely aligning Womens shoes represent an important growth strategies to unlock the potential of licensed products opportunity for Burberry, reaching 7% of mainline in line with owned categories.
Boots, a natural complement to the Burberry outerwear offer, performed particularly strongly.
measuring our progress Growth in non-apparel revenue Year to March measures the success of Burberrys initiatives to expand in this category, which includes handbags, small leather goods, scarves, shoes, belts and jewellery.
Growth rate is year-on-year underlying change i. e. at constant exchange rates.
In 2010 11, non-apparel revenue increased by 32% underlying compared to 24% for Burberry as a whole.
Non-apparel accounted for 40% of retail wholesale revenue, compared to 38% last year.
Handbags are core to non-apparel, representing about half of revenue.
34 STRATEGY coNTINUED Accelerating RETAIL-LED GRowTh Shift company culture and processes from a static wholesale model to a dynamic retail model.
Retail-led growth refers not only to the operation of Burberrys own stores, but also to a fundamental shift in the Groups operating structure.
2010 11 saw strong progress in building the brands retail Productivity gains presence globally.
A continued focus on driving store productivity led to the achievement of 11% comparable store sales Retail expansion and optimisation growth in the year.
Average unit retail prices rose in A record number of new Burberry stores opened the period, while product flow and replenishment around the world in 2010 11.
A net 26 mainline stores capability improved.
The Groups ongoing investment were opened during the year, including a new flagship in customer service standards was a key driver in in Beijing, while a net 34 concessions were added.
In improving productivity, evolving to cover customer line with the Groups flagship cluster strategy, half of the interactions across all channels to deliver a consistently new stores were opened in existing high profile markets, high quality experience.
A global Customer Service while store renovations included major upgrades in team was established during the year to offer 24 7 Boston and Las Vegas.
tailored support to customers in 14 languages, by telephone, email and through the new Click to Call Digital integration and Click to Chat functions on Burberry World.
Client 2010 11 saw investment in in-store Retail Theatre Services, which provides a personalised luxury service technology to connect and leverage innovative content to the Groups most important clients, expanded to 30 across all platforms.
This technology enabled Burberry locations across the world, and the Burberry Experience to synchronise completely consistent messages sales and service programme was successfully to customers across all mediums for the first time, extended from the Americas, Asia and Europe to and offered an unrivalled audiovisual experience for Emerging Markets including China.
iPads were also introduced to selected stores globally, allowing access to increased New concept tests inventory through Burberry World.
The Brit store concept was rolled out further in 2010 11, following the opening of the first test store in New York in late 2009.
Five new stores showcasing this casual, contemporary expression of the Burberry brand were opened over the course of the year, including the first outside the US in Milan.
measuring our progress Growth in retail revenue Year to March includes comparable store Number of stores As at March measures the reach of Burberry sales growth measuring growth in productivity of existing stores, directly-operated stores around the world.
plus revenue from new space.
32% in 2010 11 417 as at March 2011 11 32% 11 417 10 10 15% 312 09 10 440 14% 08 20% 09 419 07 24% 08 368 07 292 Comparable stores New space China Mainline Concessions Outlets Growth rate is year-on-year underlying change i. e. at constant exchange rates.
2007-2009 and 2010 include the stores of the discontinued Spanish operations.
Comparable store sales growth is dened as the annual percentage increase in sales 2010 has been represented to exclude the discontinued Spanish operations.
from stores that have been opened for more than 12 months, adjusted for closures and refurbishments.
Excluding the discontinued business in Spain, the number of Total retail sales increased by 32% underlying in the year.
Comparable stores directly operated by Burberry increased by 105 in 2010 11. store revenue growth increased by 11% H1: 9%: H2: 13%, average These included a net 26 new mainline stores, a net 34 new selling prices increased again in mainline stores and trafc benefited concessions around the world including 20 concessions in Spain from digital marketing initiatives.
The transfer of China revenue from opened in Q4 to sell the global collection as well as the acquisition wholesale to retail from 1 September 2010 following the acquisition of 50 stores in China.
of the franchisees operations contributed 12%, with the balance from new space.
36 STRATEGY coNTINUED INvESTING IN UNDER-pENETRATED mARkETS Focus on and invest in under-penetrated markets.
For Burberry, these consist of both developed markets like the United States and emerging markets including China, India and the Middle East.
All distribution channels and a variety of business models are used to optimise these opportunities.
Key highlights in 2010 11 include: with related PR and marketing activity introducing the brand to this young, digitally-aware customer base.
China acquisition In Latin America, the Group opened its first store in The acquisition of the Burberry business in China was a the key city of So Paulo, and now has three stores clear highlight of the year.
In September 2010, for about operating in Latin America.
A total of 25 stores were 65m, the Group acquired 50 stores across 30 cities, opened in Emerging Markets over the course of which had previously been operated by its Hong Kong 2010 11.
Through franchise partners, the first Burberry based franchisee.
This acquisition gives the Group stores were opened in Armenia, Egypt, Israel and control of the Burberry brand in the fastest-growing Mongolia during the year.
luxury market in the world.
Ten new stores have already been opened since the acquisition, including the Building wholesale brands most digitally-advanced flagship in the world The Group continued to invest in its wholesale in Beijing.
Merchandising and inventory initiatives have presence globally, building separate London, Brit and successfully driven productivity in existing stores, with childrenswear corners in department stores, exiting comparative store sales up about 30% in the second generic outerwear departments and adding real half of the year.
A focus on building in-season replenishment capability supported growth.
2010 11 Extended presence in Latin America, India and also saw a continued focus on building the Burberry new markets Travel Retail business.
Following the establishment of a joint operation in India and the establishment of regional offices in So Paulo and Dubai in 2009 10, the Group continued to extend the Burberry presence in these high growth markets.
A major brand event in Mumbai in December 2010 marked the opening of the brands fifth store in India, measuring our progress Number of stores in Emerging Markets As at March measures the reach of the Burberry brand in these high potential countries.
136 as at March 2011 11 136 10 111 09 91 08 79 07 58 Emerging Markets include: China, the Middle East, Eastern Europe, Russia, Brazil, India and other parts of South East Asia, South Africa and Latin America.
Burberry added a net 25 stores in Emerging Markets, of which a net seven stores were in China, five in the Middle East and three each in India and Latin America.
Of the 136 stores, 80 are directly operated, of which 57 are in China, three in Latin America, 15 in the Burberry Middle East joint operation and five in the Burberry India joint operation.
38 STRATEGY coNTINUED pURSUING opERATIoNAL ExcELLENcE Burberry continues to pursue its goal to be recognised as much for operational expertise as for product and marketing excellence.
A continued focus on, and investment in, operational Continued SAP implementation excellence has driven improvements across all business The Group took further steps towards the completion of functions, and has been a key enabler for front-end innovation.
its implementation of SAP, with 80% of stores covered by the end of the year and the incorporation of China and Enhanced capabilities Burberry Middle East scheduled for 2011 12.
In addition, Reinforcing and refining core back-end disciplines between April and November 2010, Burberry successfully was a central focus again in 2010 11, specifically implemented a new, single SAP HR database for the in replenishment, planning, logistics and sourcing.
employee records of 6,500 employees in 25 countries Replenishment practices were enhanced across across Europe, the Americas and Asia.
This is allowing all product categories, resulting in a nearly 50% the Group to align its global HR processes and structures, contribution of replenishment styles to mainline and is providing global visibility for the first time.
Enhancing planning capabilities enabled better execution and inventory management Prioritised organisational effectiveness and 2010 11 also saw the development of a global Closer collaborative relationships within the business pricing architecture.
Improvements in sourcing drove have been critical to the successful development and savings during the year and quality programmes were implementation of Group initiatives.
Further senior level introduced to factories and distribution centres globally.
governance structures have been established during the Logistics enhancements enabled the execution of year to leverage operating best practice globally and to monthly deliveries and fulfilment of in-season reorders.
co ordinate all capital investments.
For example, IT has become an integral partner to key marketing and retail Introduced monthly flow initiatives including Burberry World and Retail Theatre, In 2010 11 the Group began to execute a synchronised while supply chain innovation has been a key enabler monthly flow of new product and floorsets across its in allowing customers to purchase directly from the physical and virtual real estate, featured in tailored runway.
The foundation was also set during the year for digital assets.
Requiring a co-ordinated and integrated the establishment of a global shared services team to approach across the business, from Design, to drive efficiencies and enhance financial control across Merchandising, to Buying and Retail, this new approach the business, while global strategy teams have been introduces a refreshed offer each month, while providing established to build detailed medium to long-term views a strong platform from which to connect customers for all regions.
Externally, partnership working continues more regularly with the Burberry brand.
to bring benefits in key areas such as corporate responsibility.
Burberry joined the Ethical Trading Initiative during the year, making it the first luxury brand to do so.
measuring our progress Retail wholesale gross margin Year to March measures, among Adjusted retail wholesale operating profit margin Year to March other things, how efficiently Burberry sources its products.
measures how Burberrys initiatives and its investment to improve its business processes, including sourcing, IT and logistics are impacting its profit margin.
Gross margin in retail wholesale increased by 390 basis points to 64.9% in 2010 11 compared to the 61.0% margin the prior year Burberrys adjusted retail wholesale operating profit margin increased excluding the discontinued Spanish operations due to the shift from 12.7% in 2009 10 excluding the discontinued Spanish from wholesale to retail and increased replenishment.
Regional cost leverage was achieved despite the shift from wholesale to retail and investment in new ventures.
