AMENDS TO DIGITALS 77122 5.1 LawDeb R&A 2011 13 03 2012 23:36 Page 7 Investment managers review 7 Review The overseas holdings bring to the portfolio the type of The global economy expanded as the emerging companies we cannot find in the UK market and which economies continued to outperform the more developed we believe are good value.
An example of this approach ones.
However, global trade was disrupted by natural was the purchase during the year of Microsoft.
disasters such as the Japanese tsunami and by political The holdings in collective funds were left untouched.
events in the Middle East and North Africa.
These holdings allow us to access different areas of The price of oil and other commodities fell during 2011, investment expertise.
For instance, the holding in Herald suggesting that the sharp rises in inflation that were Investment Trust gives the portfolio exposure to a reported during the year will subside, although any diversified range of smaller technology and media stocks continued political instability in the Middle East might that we could not replicate by direct investment.
lead to oil price increases.
Problems in Western The overall shape of the portfolio has not altered and countries where indebtedness of both governments currently no change is envisaged.
We continue to have and consumers will take a long time to resolve led to very limited exposure to banks as their earnings outlook further strain and even some concern about the possible remains murky they are attempting fundamental break-up of the euro.
The uncertainty created by these change, but the return on capital that their new business worries led to the falls in the equity market experienced models will achieve remains uncertain.
Our financial during the summer and early autumn.
sector exposure therefore comes mainly through life This was frustrating for the observers of individual stocks assurance companies and general non-life insurers, because companies operating performances have which have shown their strength over the last year as generally been better than expected.
Corporate debt has they have dealt with high levels of natural disasters and been dramatically reduced by substantial cash generation yet have held or increased their dividend payments.
flowing from improved profitability and strict cost control.
Good dividend growth has been achieved and historically Outlook high levels of dividend cover are being recorded.
It is a There is a tension among investors between those who pity therefore that the macroeconomic concerns have believe that the global economy is in a fragile state and meant that so far this has not led to improved valuations therefore advocate a very cautious investment approach for equities.
and those who believe that the worries are overstated.
Companies are generally in Portfolio activity good health, but I see no sign of complacency from Growing concern about the viability of the euro and the management.
The global economy overall is likely to general financial background led to a decision to remove show some growth, so the potential remains for the gearing in early September.
This was done by substantial corporate cash generation and improving reducing holdings in a large number of individual equities operating margins.
The biases in the portfolio, and some 35 million of sales were carried out, with the particularly the weighting in manufacturing industry, proceeds being placed in short dated UK government should mean it is well placed to benefit from any upturn.
The object during the selling was to maintain the balance and diversity of the portfolio and retain the bias towards capital goods companies.
This area is seen as James Henderson being a beneficiary of the growing global economy, and Henderson Global Investors Limited companies held in the portfolio should thrive if they are producing excellent products.
Aerospace businesses such as Rolls Royce and Senior are examples of companies achieving this objective, with sales and profit performance that show no sign of being impacted by recessionary concerns.
On the other hand, consumer-related stocks were reduced and in some cases, such as Carnival Corporation, sold altogether.
This reflects my view that the consumer area in both the US and Europe will remain difficult while debt is being paid down and wage growth remains muted.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c.
