AMENDS TO DIGITALS 77122 5.1 LawDeb R&A 2011 13 03 2012 23:36 Page 5 The board 5 John Kay Douglas McDougall OBE Non-executive director Chairman Appointed to the board in September 2004. Business Chairman of The Independent Investment Trust plc, economist, writer and broadcaster.
Visiting Professor The European Investment Trust PLC and Scottish at the London School of Economics.
Founded London Investment Trust plc and a director of The Monks Economics, Britains largest independent economic Investment Trust, Pacific Horizon Investment Trust consultancy.
Director of Value and Income Trust plc and Herald Investment Trust.
Former joint senior and Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust plc.
partner of Baillie Gifford & Co, investment managers, and former chairman of IMRO, of the Association of He writes a weekly column for the Financial Times.
Investment Trust Companies and of the Fund Member of the audit, remuneration and nomination Managers Association.
Joined the board in 1998, committees and chairman of L. D. Pension Plan becoming chairman in 2000.
Chairman of the Trustee Limited.
remuneration and nomination committees, and a member of the audit committee.
Christopher Smith Non-executive director Caroline Banszky Appointed to the board on 1 March 2009.
Former Managing director Partner, Cazenove & Co and Managing DirectorAppointed to the board in January 2002.
Former chief Corporate Finance for J. P. Morgan Cazenove.
Over operating officer of SVB Holdings PLC now called 30 years experience in corporate finance and equity Novae plc, a Lloyds listed integrated vehicle, and former capital markets.
He is a director of CG Asset finance director of N. M. Rothschild & Sons Limited.
Management, Allchurches Trust and Helperby Therapeutics Group plc.
He is chairman of the audit Armel Cates committee, a member of the remuneration and Non-executive director nomination committees, chairman of L. D. C. Trust A former partner of Clifford Chance and appointed to Management Limited and chairman of Law Debenture the board in February 2001.
Wide experience of capital Trust Company of New York Inc. markets transactions including medium term note programmes, securitisations and repackagings.
Director of Fatburen Investment BV and of  Trustee Company.
A member of the remuneration, nomination and audit committees and a director of the L. D. C. Trust Management Limited board.
Armel will not be offering himself for re-election this year and accordingly retires as a director at the 2012 AGM.
Investment manager James Henderson Joined Henderson Global Investors in 1983 and has been an investment trust portfolio manager since 1990, managing Lowland Investment Company plc since then and Henderson Opportunities Trust plc since January 2006.
He first became involved in the management of Law Debentures portfolio in 1994 and took over sole management of the portfolio in June 2003. www.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c.
