OUR GROUP OUR PERFORMANCE OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 83 OTHER STATUTORY AND REGULATORY INFORMATION.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION Detailed explanatory notes to these resolutions are The Companys Articles of Association may only be setout in the Notice of AGM.
amended by a special resolution at a general meeting ofshareholders.
The Articles of Association are Other than the above, the directors have no current availableon the Companys website.
intention of issuing further share capital and no issue will be made which would effectively alter control of CONFLICTS OF INTEREST theCompany without prior approval of shareholders In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Board inageneral meeting.
has adopted a policy and procedure for the disclosure and authorisation if appropriate of conicts of interest, INTERESTS IN VOTING RIGHTS and these have been followed during 2011.
As at 1 March 2012, the Company had been advised of the following significant direct and indirect interests POWERS OF DIRECTORS inthe issued share capital of the Company: The directors may exercise all powers of the Company Number subject to applicable legislation and regulation and the ofordinary Nature of Companys Articles of Association.
sharesof 2.5p % of capital holding Schroders Plc 295,651,535 5.03% Indirect interest SHARE CAPITAL Blackrock Inc. 297,086,901 5.06% Indirect interest As at 31 December 2011, the Companys issued share AXA S. A. and capital comprised 5,872,166,893 Ordinary shares each its group of Direct & companies 252,871,605 4.31% indirect interest with a nominal value of 2.5p.
Details of the Ordinary Swiss share capital can be found in Note 28 to the Financial Reinsurance Statements on page 141.
Company Ltd 230,838,770 3.93% Direct interest Using the voting rights gure announced to the London Stock Exchange At the 2011 AGM, the Company was granted authority on 1 March 2012 of 5,872,569,987. byshareholders to purchase up to 586,956,997 Ordinary shares, being 10% of the issued share capital of the DIVIDEND Company as at 7 April 2011.
In the year to 31 December The Company may, by ordinary resolution in a general 2011, no shares were purchased by the Company.
meeting, declare dividends in accordance with the Thisauthority will expire at this years AGM.
As such, respective rights of the members, but no dividend can aspecial resolution is proposed in the Notice of AGM exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
The seeking shareholder approval to renew this authority.
directors propose a final dividend for the year ended 31December 2011 of 4.74p per Ordinary share which, At the 2011 AGM, the directors were given the power together with the interim dividend of 1.66p per share toallot shares up to an amount of 48,913,083, being paid to shareholders on 3 October 2011, will make a total 33% of the issued share capital of the Company as at dividend for the year of 6.40p 2010: 4.75p.
This authority will also expire at this years shareholder approval at the AGM, the final dividend will AGM.
As such, a special resolution is proposed in the be paid on 23 May 2012 to shareholders on the share Notice ofAGM seeking shareholder approval to renew register on 20 April 2012. thisauthority.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS A further resolution is proposed, as set out in the Notice Details of related party transactions are set out in of AGM, that will, if approved by shareholders, authorise Note40 to the Financial Statements on page 163. the directors to issue shares up to the equivalent of 5% of the Companys issued share capital as at 23 March 2012 for cash without offering the shares first to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings.
84 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 OTHER STATUTORY AND REGULATORY INFORMATION.
RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS ATTACHING Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, all or TOSHARES any of the rights attaching to an existing class of shares The rights and obligations relating to the Companys may be varied from time to time either with the consent Ordinary shares are set out in the Articles of Association.
in writing of the holders of not less than three-fourths A copy of the Articles of Association can be requested innominal value of the issued shares of that class from the Company Secretary at the Companys excluding any treasury shares or with the sanction registered ofce.
ofaspecial resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of those shares.
Holders of Ordinary shares are entitled to attend, speak and vote at general meetings.
In a vote on a show of Shares acquired through the employee share schemes hands, every member present in person or every proxy rank equally with all other Ordinary shares in issue.
present, who has been duly appointed by a member, Barclays Private Bank & Trust Isle of Man Limited, willhave one vote and on a poll every member present astrustee of the Legal & General Employees Share in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every Ownership Trust, holds 0.64% of the issued share capital Ordinary share held.
These rights are subject to any of the Company as at 1 March 2012 in trust for the special terms as to voting upon which any shares benefit of the executive directors, senior executives maybeissued or may at the relevant time be held and andmanagers of the Group.
This includes shares held toanyother provisions of the Companys Articles of asnominee on behalf of Legal & General Share Scheme Association.
Under the Companies Act 2006 and the Trustees Limited, as trustee of the Legal & General Articles of Association, directors have the power to Employee Share Trust, which is in the process of being suspend voting rights and, in certain circumstances, wound up.
The voting rights in relation to these shares theright to receive dividends in respect of shares where are exercised by the trustee.
The trustee may vote or the holder of those shares fails to comply with a notice abstain from voting, or accept or reject any offer relating issued under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006. to shares, in any way it sees t, without incurring any liability and without being required to give reasons The Board can decline to register a transfer of any share foritsdecision.
which is not a fully paid share.
In addition, registration ofa transfer of an uncerticated share may be refused in Under the rules of the Legal & General Group Employee the circumstances set out in the uncerticated securities Share Plan Plan, eligible employees are entitled to rules and where the number of joint holders exceeds acquire shares in the Company.
Plan shares are held four.
The Board may also refuse to register the transfer intrust for participants by Capita IRG Trustees Limited, of a certicated share unless: which holds 0.46% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 1 March 2012.
Voting rights are exercised a the instrument of transfer is duly stamped and is by the trustees on receipt of the participants instructions.
left at the Companys registered ofce or such other If a participant does not submit an instruction to the place as the Board may from time to time determine trustees, no vote is registered.
In addition, the trustees accompanied by the certicate for the share to do not vote on any unawarded shares held under the which it relates and such evidence as the Board Plan as surplus assets.
may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: The Company is not aware of any agreements between b the instrument of transfer is in respect of only one shareholders which may result in restrictions on the class of share: and transfer of securities and or voting rights.
c the number of joint holders does not exceed four.
OUR GROUP OUR PERFORMANCE OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 85 CHANGE OF CONTROL CHARITABLE DONATIONS There are no agreements between the Company and During the period, the Group made charitable donations itsdirectors or employees for compensation providing amounting to 3.4 million.
Details of the Companys for loss of ofce or employment whether through charitable activities are set out on pages 46to 49. resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise in theevent of a takeover bid, except for those relating POLITICAL DONATIONS tonormal notice periods.
The rules of the Companys No political donations were made during 2011. shareplans contain provisions under which options and awards to participants, including executive directors, FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS may vest on a takeover or change of control of the The Directors Report is prepared for the members Company or transfer of undertakings.
oftheCompany and should not be relied upon by anyother party or for any other purpose.
Where the The Company has a committed circa 1bn bank Directors Report includes forward-looking statements, syndicated credit facility which is terminable if revised these are made by the directors in good faith based on terms cannot be agreed with the syndicate of banks the information available to them at the time of their ina30 day period following a change of control.
As at approval of this report.
Such statements should be 13March 2012, the Company has no borrowings under treated with caution due to the inherent uncertainties thisfacility.
There are no change of control conditions in the terms INSURANCE ofany of the Companys outstanding debt securities.
The Company has arranged appropriate Directors Theterms of the Companys agreements with its andOfcers Liability insurance for directors.
This is banking counterparties, under which derivative reviewed annually.
transactions are undertaken, include the provision for termination of transactions upon takeover merger if the INDEPENDENT AUDITORS resulting merged entity has a credit rating materially The Companys auditors have expressed their willingness weaker than the Company.
There are no other committed to continue in ofce and the Audit Committee has banking arrangements either drawn or undrawn that recommended their reappointment tothe Board.
incorporate any change of control conditions.
Resolutions to re-appoint  LLP asauditors to the Company and to authorise the directors USE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS to determine their remuneration are proposed for the Information on the Groups risk management process forthcoming AGM.
More details on risk management and the financial instruments used are set DIRECTORS INTERESTS out in Note 48 of the Financial Statements on page 178.
The Directors Report on Remuneration on pages 64 to82 provides details of the interests of each director, INDEMNITIES including details of current incentive schemes and The Company has agreed to indemnify, to the extent long-term incentive schemes, the interests of directors permitted by law, each of the directors against any in theshare capital of the Company and details of their liability incurred by a director in respect of acts or share options, as at 31 December 2011 and the changes omissions arising in the course of their ofce.
Qualifying in those interests that have occurred between 1 January pension scheme indemnities as dened in section 235 2012 and 13 March 2012 being the date of approval of the Companies Act 2006 have been granted, to the ofthe Directors Report on Remuneration.
extent permitted by law, to certain trustees of the Companys pension schemes.
The indemnities were inforce throughout 2011 and remain so.
Copies of the deeds of indemnity are available for inspection at the Companys registered ofce and will also be available atthe AGM.
86 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 OTHER STATUTORY AND REGULATORY INFORMATION.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES TOTHECOMPANYS AUDITORS The directors are responsible for preparing the Directors In accordance with section 418 2 of the Companies Act Report, including the Directors Remuneration Report, 2006 each of the directors who held ofce at the date and the Group and parent company financial statements ofapproval of this Directors Report confirms that, so in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
faras they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware Company law requires the directors to prepare financial and each of the directors has taken all reasonable steps statements for each financial year.
Under that law the they ought to have taken as directors to ascertain any directors have prepared the Group financial statements relevant audit information and to ensure that the in accordance with International Financial Reporting Companys auditors are aware of such information.
Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and the parent company financial statements in accordance GOING CONCERN STATEMENT with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting The Groups business activities, together with the factors Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and likely to affect its future development, performance and applicable law.
In preparing the Group financial position in the current economic climate are set out in statements, the directors have also elected to comply the Directors Report on pages 1to43 and 50 to 87.
The with IFRS issued by the International Accounting financial position ofthe Group, its cash ows, liquidity Standards Board IASB.
position and borrowing facilities are described in the Group Results on page 10.
Principal risks are detailed on Under company law, the directors must not approve pages 42 and 43.
Inaddition, the financial statements thenancial statements unless they are satisfied that include, amongst other things, notes on the Groups they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs objectives, policies and processes for managing its oftheGroup and the Company and of the profit or capital Note 46 page170, its financial risk management lossof the Group and the Company for that period.
objectives Note 48page 178, details of its financial Inpreparing these financial statements, the directors instruments and hedging activities Notes 22 and 23 arerequired to: pages 125 to 136 and its exposures tocredit risk Note 48 page 192 and liquidity risk Note 48 page182.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: The 2012 economic climate remains uncertain.
However, make judgements and estimates that are reasonable based on the available information on the future, the and prudent: directors consider that the Group has the plans and state whether IFRS as adopted by the European resources to manage its business risks successfully, Union and IFRS issued byIASB, and applicable UK asithas a diverse range of businesses and remains Accounting Standards have been followed, subject nancially strong.
to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and Company financial statements After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable respectively: and expectation that the Company and the Group have prepare the financial statements on the going concern adequate resources to continue their operations for basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the theforeseeable future.
For that reason, they continue Company will continue in business.
toadopt the going concern basis in preparing theaccounts.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held at 11:00am on Wednesday 16 May 2012 at The Honourable Artillery Company, Armoury House, City Road, LondonEC1Y 2BQ.
OUR GROUP OUR PERFORMANCE OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 87 The directors are responsible for keeping adequate Each of the directors who held ofce at the date of accounting records that are sufficient to show and approval of this Directors Report confirms that, so far explain the Company and the Groups transactions as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information anddisclose with reasonable accuracy at any time of which the Companys auditors are unaware and each thenancial position of the Company and the Group of the directors has taken all reasonable steps they andenable them to ensure that the financial statements ought to have taken as directors to ascertain any and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with relevant audit information and to ensure that the theCompanies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Companys auditors are aware of such information.
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Thisconrmation is given in accordance with section They are alsoresponsible for safeguarding the assets 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006. ofthe Company and the Group and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and By order of the Board otherirregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ fromlegislation in other jurisdictions.
G J TIMMS COMPANY SECRETARY RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT 13 March 2012 Each of the directors listed in the Board of Directors section confirms that to the best of their knowledge: a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the Group as a whole: and b the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and Group as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks anduncertainties that they face.
88 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GROUP CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EUROPEAN EMBEDDED VALUE BASIS Independent auditors report 89 Consolidated income statement 197 Consolidated income statement 91 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 198 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 92 Consolidated balance sheet 199 Consolidated balance sheet 93 Notes to the supplementary financial statements 200 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 94 Independent auditors report 220 Consolidated cash ow statement 96 Notes to the financial statements 97 1.
Basis of preparation 97 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
Segmental analysis 106 Independent auditors report 221 4.
New business gross of reinsurance 111 Company balance sheet 222 5.
Fees from fund management and Company statement of total recognised investment contracts 112 gains and losses 223 6.
Investment return 112 Company reconciliation of movements 7.
Net claims and change in insurance liabilities 113 in total shareholders funds 223 8.
Other operational income and expense 113 Notes to the Company financial statements 224 9.
Foreign exchange and exchange rates 115 12.
Disclosure of tax effects relating to each component of other comprehensive income 118 16.
Acquisitions of private equity investment vehicles 121 18.
Purchased interest in long term businesses PILTB and other intangible assets 122 19.
Share capital, share premium and employee scheme treasury shares 141 29.
Value of in-force non-participating contracts 149 34.
Long term insurance valuation assumptions 150 35.
Payables and other financial liabilities 162 38.
Net asset value attributable to unit holders 163 40.
Contingent liabilities, guarantees and indemnities 164 42.
