44 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 OUR PURPOSE OUR SOCIAL ROLE We aim to ensure that we relate to the day-to-day lives and concerns of our customers, and as a shareholder we MAKING aim to set new and higher standards of stewardship and engagement with the businesses in which we invest.
A POSITIVE Insurance products help to protect individuals and businesses against ECONOMIC the financial consequences of a wide range of risks everything from poor health and natural disasters to the IMPACT.
risk of outliving savings in old age.
By reducing the impact of these problems, the insurance industry allows people to bear risks with greater peace of mind and reduces potential reliance on the state when individuals with these products nd themselves in times of financial difficulty.
In addition to delivering returns for Our products can also help to facilitate our shareholders and fair outcomes household budgeting and longfor our customers we believe that as term saving, enable people to get through the financial consequences a business, we have a responsibility of unfortunate or catastrophic events to take a position ofleadership in and also to plan and prepare for the more enjoyable things in life.
Our core purpose as an industry is toprovide our customers with safety in numbers, enabling the pooling of premiums and sharing of risks to spread the financial impact of the negative events that will inevitably happen to some of them.
Without our industry each of those individuals would have to provide for their own future independently, without the benets of sharing the burden of the risk with others.
For the majority, this just would not bepossible.
Not enough people in Britain are privately insured against accidents, ill health or loss of income.
People expect the Government to provide them with some level of financial protection against these events and OUR GROUP OUR PERFORMANCE OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 45 this is wholly appropriate.
The private areas that have an impact on the work could help the Department of sector can, however, provide advanced majority of thepopulation.
Work and Pensions DWP to provide welfare services that can help families more effective services at reduced to better protect themselves.
The insurance industry has the expense.
Put simply, if we can help a expertise and the capacity to help the family keep most of their income when The Government held a large state increase the quality of welfare times are hard, they are less likely to number of consultations in 2011 provision and save money by growing need to rely on the welfare system.
that were relevant to our industry a complementary private sector safety and the products and services we net with well-designed tax incentives The broader principles of riskoffer.
In total we responded to over and simpler regulations.
One example sharing also apply to pensions and 55 consultations in 2011, including would be to focus on the potential potentiallylong-term care.
Our pension reforms, regulatory changes, to maximise the benets of Group industry already assists people in social care and welfare reform.
This is an area where we planning for their retirement.
This have been able to share our experience is another area that has seen much We have a great deal of expertise and expertise with Government in the focus from Government.
across Legal & General, which we have debates around early intervention and been able to share with Government rehabilitation and our success in helping as they look to improve the pensions individuals back into the workplace.
OUTLOOK and social care systems in the UK and We will continue to contribute to thesediscussions in 2012, and reduce the costs of welfare provision.
Legal & General has been providing We contributed to the debates income replacement and other social endeavour to provide accessible and stable ways for individuals toprotect around auto enrolment, early access protection products since 1836.
We to pensions, long-term care, simple believe that our skills in rehabilitation themselves and their families and financial products and several other and enabling individuals to return to prepare for the future.
OUR PURPOSE Our product range is designed to reect the risk, savings and investment needs of our customers at various key stages of their lives.
In return, we provide benets to our customers and wider society as a whole.
Our third-party relationships reect our business needs and objectives.
CUSTOMERS BUSINESSES PRODUCTS BENEFITS TO CUSTOMERS PUBLIC POLICY BENEFIT INDIVIDUALS RISK SAFEGUARDING Customers pay up Deliver on our promise The provision of these AND CORPORATES CUSTOMERS AGAINST front premiums in to customers and pay all benets reduces the FINANCIAL RISKS return for insurance, valid claims that enable likelihood of people having individual protection individuals to cope with to fall back on the state as and annuities.
the financial consequences a result of loss of income, of unforeseen events, such homelessness or poverty as bereavement, illness, in retirement.
This in turn damage to property and benets society by reducing running out of savings pressure on strained in old age.
As a large investor we are SAVINGS FINANCIAL Customers invest Our products enable people significant contributors to PLANNING, SAVINGS funds through to save for the medium UK Plc.
AND INVESTMENTS unit trusts, ISAs, and long term, either investment funds, individually or through INVESTMENT pensions, index employer schemes, and MANAGEMENT funds and other to build funds to provide a INVESTING ON BEHALF savings products.
OF INSTITUTIONAL AND We act as asteward of our RETAIL CUSTOMERS customers money.
