Marketplace trends 21 Lloyds Banking Group Business model and strategy 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 21 Delivering our action plan 26 Relationships and responsibility 30 Our London 2012 partnership 42 Summary of Group results 44 Divisional results 54 Other financial information 86 Five year financial summary 98 1 Risk management 99 171 205 355 MARKETPLACE TRENDS The external macro economic and regulatory environment in which we While the Group welcomes the increased clarity provided by the operate remains uncertain but we have endeavoured to outline below Governments initial response, significant uncertainty remains over some of the key regulatory, economic and social factors impacting our key elements of the reforms, including what activities could be allowed markets.
inside the ring-fenced bank, the extent of depositor preference of other creditors and measures that could see some categories of wholesale funding bailed-in in the instance of resolution.
Regulation The Government has announced that it will be producing a formal Stringent UK capital and liquidity standards White Paper in the spring and we would anticipate that this paper More focus on consumer protection and transparency will provide additional clarity, while still leaving some issues open to consultation.
The Group continues to work to assess the impact Recovery and resolution mechanisms and Retail ring-fencing that the reforms may have on its business and continues to play ICB final recommendations a constructive role in the debate with the Government and other stakeholders.
The quantum of regulatory change remains high and the regulatory Capital Requirements Directive IV environment remains challenging but we are starting to see greater Evolving capital and liquidity requirements continue to be a priority clarity in a number of areas.
There are however a number of different for the Group.
Separate to the capital recommendations laid out by issues that are likely to have a fundamental impact on the business the ICB, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision has put forward going forward including the recommendations arising from the proposals for a reform package which changes regulatory capital Independent Commission on Banking, future capital and liquidity and liquidity standards, the definition of capital, introduces new requirements, and the changes to the UK banking supervisory structure definitions for the calculation of counterparty credit risk and leverage Independent Commission on Banking ratios, additional capital buffers and development of a global liquidity In 2010 the UK Government appointed an Independent Commission standard.
Implementation of these changes is expected to be phased on Banking ICB to review possible structural measures to reform in between 2013 and 2018 and the fourth round of changes to the the banking system and promote stability and competition.
The ICB European Capital Requirements Directive IV is currently in draft form published its final report on the 12 September 2011 putting forward and progressing through the European legal framework towards proposals that require ring-fencing some of the retail and SME activities finalisation.
of banks from their investment banking activities and additional capital requirements beyond those required under Basel III.
UK Banking Supervisory Structure The recent ongoing difficulties in global financial markets have On 19 December 2011 the Chancellor delivered the Governments prompted a review and alteration to the banking supervisory structure first formal response to the ICBs Final Report of 12 September.
In April 2011, the FSA commenced an internal reorganisation response endorsed many of the key recommendations contained in as a first step in a process towards the formal transition of regulatory the ICBs Final Report, including the ring-fencing of commercial and and supervisory powers from the FSA to the new Financial Conduct retail operations, higher capital requirements and a 7-day current Authority FCA and Prudential Regulatory Authority PRA in 2012. account switching service.
Importantly for the Group, the Government Until this time the responsibility for regulating and supervising the also supported the principle of a flexible ring fence, which allows activities of the Lloyds Banking Group and its subsidiaries will remain banks to choose where to place some but not all services.
However, the reorganisation could lead to changes in how the Group is regulated and supervised on a day-to-day basis.
In addition, the European Banking Authority, the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority and the European Securities and Markets Authority as new EU Supervisory Authorities are likely to have greater influence on regulatory approaches across the EU.
Greater clarity on the Independent Commission on Bankings recommendations was given during the year but uncertainty over key elements of the reform proposals still remain.
Overview r Business review Governance r Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 MARKETPLACE TRENDS Based on data for the first three quarters of 2011, the Irish economy The economy appears to have grown in 2011 for the first time since 2007, and the The global economy was split in 2011 between relatively strong growth unemployment rate appears to be stabilising.
Strict austerity measures in emerging markets, and economies struggling to recover from in recent years targeted at improving international competitiveness recession in much of the Western world.
Indeed, the extent of the UK are beginning to pay off falling domestic demand is now being economic recovery has now fallen behind even the weak recovery after more than offset by increasing net exports.
Property markets remain the late 1970s recession.
very weak, however: house prices fell by over 16 per cent in 2011 and CRE prices by 11 per cent.
Despite the large fall in prices already, an Chart 1: UK GDP, real terms overhang of vacant property continues to weigh on market prices.
Early 70s Early 90s Future economic developments in the UK and Ireland are highly Late 70s Current Source: ONS contingent on how successful political leaders are at stemming the 115 Eurozone crisis, to what extent the private sector can offset shrinking of the public sector, and how the implementation of new regulation 110 on banks impacts their ability to supply credit whilst meeting tighter 105 capital and liquidity criteria.
The recent weakening in the Eurozone 100 economy and the balance of risks make double-dip recession there in early 2012 the most likely scenario indeed this is now the consensus 95 view Chart 2.
90 85 Chart 2: Consensus forecasts for 2012 GDP growth -12-8-40 48 12 16 20 24 UK Quarters from peak Eurozone Source: Consensus Economics Inc. 2.5 The stark difference is due to the high levels of indebtedness that many developed economies accumulated prior to 2008, which are holding 2 back economic growth through deleveraging of initially the private 1.5 sector, but now governments too.
In the Eurozone, countries with % 1 particularly high government debt or deficit levels have lost market confidence as they struggled to achieve the necessary fiscal tightening 0.5 to bring their public finances onto a sustainable trajectory without 0 damaging economic growth prospects too severely.
Ireland, Portugal -0.5 and Greece have received further IMF and EU financial support in J F MA MJ JA SO ND J F return for accepting even more stringent austerity programmes, and 2012 2011 at the time of writing it looks likely that private creditors will suffer Date of forecast effective haircuts of significantly more than 50 per cent on their Greek debt.
Italy and Spain have also tightened public budgets further, The current consensus view for 2012 UK GDP growth is not yet that and given their much greater size this is dragging down Eurozone weak, at 0.4 per cent.
The low level of imbalances in the economy economic growth more significantly.
In the US, public finance concerns relative to the 2008 position suggest that weak growth should not are less immediate, but the unsustainable long term trajectory of debt deteriorate into significant recession provided the Eurozone moves on current policies has led to political stalemate, raising the risk of quickly towards a solution to the sovereign debt crisis.
Bank Rate sudden fiscal tightening as previous loosening measures expire, and is likely to stay at or close to current low levels for some time, and in turn hurting businesses and consumers confidence.
Global growth property prices are expected to be broadly stable.
Unemployment is was also hampered in 2011 by natural disasters, including the floods in likely to rise further, however, as estimates of public sector job cuts have Australia and the earthquake and tsunami in Japan, the latter causing increased.
The current consensus view for 2012 Irish GDP growth is significant disruption to global manufacturing supply chains.
broadly flat, and the unemployment rate there is expected to be stable.
First estimates suggest the UK economy grew by 0.9 per cent in Property prices are expected to fall further, but by less than in 2011.
2011, well below the long term average of 2.3 per cent.
The economy However, whilst a definitive solution to the Eurozone crisis remains is currently estimated to have shrunk slightly in the final quarter of lacking there continues to be a high risk that ongoing uncertainty the year as consumers and businesses confidence fell, the result around the Eurozone economic outlook, the survival of the Euro of relatively high inflation reducing consumers spending power, a currency and the availability of credit could cause a significant recession faster than expected reduction in public sector employment, and in the UK and Ireland.
Such a scenario would likely result in higher the worsening outlook for the Eurozone which caused companies UK corporate failures, a second leg of falling property prices, albeit to postpone investment spending and recruitment.
Unemployment by less than during the 2008-9 recession, and rising commercial rose from 7.7 per cent in the first quarter of 2011 to 8.4 per cent by tenant defaults.
Irish property prices would also fall by more than December.
Company failures in England and Wales rose from a low currently expected.
In turn, this would have a negative impact on the point of 3,973 in the final quarter of 2010 to 4,260 by the fourth quarter Groups income, funding costs and impairment charges.
of 2011, although the failure rate remained steady over that period at just 0.7 per cent of companies, close to its pre-recession trough.
Property prices were broadly flat through the year, however house prices on average fell marginally by 2 per cent in the year to December 2011, and commercial property prices rose on average by just 1 per cent.
Pre-recession peak 100 Marketplace trends 21 Lloyds Banking Group Business model and strategy 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 23 Delivering our action plan 26 Relationships and responsibility 30 Our London 2012 partnership 42 Summary of Group results 44 Divisional results 54 Other financial information 86 Five year financial summary 98 1 Risk management 99 171 205 355 The impact on our markets Customer drivers, including competition The weak economic recovery has kept growth in our markets subdued.
Want simplicity and transparency With the economy expected to grow weakly at best in 2012, our central Demand a quality, multi-channel customer service experience expectation is that growth in our markets will remain weak in 2012.
Growing demand for advice to plan save for retirement For the market as a whole, net new mortgage lending has amounted to just 0.7 per cent of outstanding balances during 2011, very similar to Increasingly demand better value for their money 2010.
Consumers made net repayments of unsecured debt excluding student loans of around 2 per cent of outstanding balances for the In the competitive open market in which we operate there is an third consecutive year in 2011.
Household deposits rose by 2.6 per cent increasing range of products and services available to customers, and in 2011 similar to the rate of increase in the previous two years but well with the current public scrutiny of banks the expectations and demands down from the 8-9 per cent growth per year pre-recession.
of customers continue to increase.
Similarly, companies have been focused on paying down existing debt, Access to convenient branches remains important for many customers for the third successive year in 2011.
Non-financial companies made but demand for a quality multi-channel banking proposition is now net repayments of 3.7 per cent of sterling lending from banks and more prevalent and the provision of effective telephone, digital and building societies in 2011, after repayments of 3.5 per cent in 2010 and mobile channels is increasingly important.
Service remains one of the 2.2 per cent in 2009.
Company deposits with UK banks rose by 1.1 per key drivers of customer satisfaction and customers are less accepting cent in 2011, slower than the 1.8 per cent rise in 2010 and the 4.5 per of poor service given the competitive nature of the market.
Although companies have held back investment spending and prioritised cashflow, much of this has fed into lower In the current low interest environment many customers are demanding borrowing rather than higher deposits.
better value for money but security and reputation remain important factors.
Customers want clear and transparent products delivered with In Ireland, continued falls in house prices, despite the already steep good service and access to helpful, relevant, expert advice when they reductions prior to 2011, have kept impairments high and we expect need it.
Customers are demanding basic banking services to be property prices to remain subdued.
delivered well but there is also an increasing demand for advice in more We expect that another weak year for the UK economy in 2012 will complex areas such as help in planning and saving for retirement.
be accompanied by weak customer deposit growth and a continued Product innovation is also important for some whereas longstanding period of declining demand for borrowing, particularly from relationships remain important for others.
The continuation of low interest rates, and the substantial As highlighted above, there are some clear customer trends emerging adjustments that many companies and households have already made but we recognize that every customer, whether they be retail or to their indebtedness, is likely to minimise any deterioration in arrears.
corporate, has their own personal needs and has to be treated Our central expectation of broadly flat property prices in the UK in 2012 individually.
It is clear that different customer segments have different is consistent with the subdued market expected.
demands and the opportunity exists to differentiate service for varied segments but fundamentally the customer has a choice and will select the provider that can most effectively service their personal needs.
The financial services market remains competitive.
We are seeing a number of new entrants including Virgin Money and Metro Bank looking to make inroads into the market and the disposal of the Verde branches along with the improved switching process will further enhance competition.
Our strategy, as outlined on the next few pages, reflects the market conditions and the changing needs of customers.
Above all it recognizes that we operate in a competitive market where additional challengers continue to emerge and the only way of ensuring success is by focusing on the changing needs of every customer.
Marketplace trends Key opportunities Key challenges Economic environment: Significant progress in reducing the Groups Economic environment: a weak, short term outlook for the UK risk profile and strengthening the balance sheet in recent years along economy, along with continuing economic uncertainty in the Eurozone with strategic actions taken in 2011 means we are better positioned to and ongoing pressure on the Euro currency.
benefit as the economy recovers.
Regulatory environment: Uncertainty remains over key elements of Customer requirements: Our strategic assets, including a the ICB reforms, particularly recovery and resolution mechanisms and comprehensive multi-channel distribution network, strong customer retail ring fencing, and future capital and liquidity requirements arising relationships, well recognised brands and high quality people mean we from CRD IV remain unclear.
are positioned to address the customer trends.
Competition: Increasingly competitive market for lending and Regulatory environment: Greater clarity emerging deposits creates margin pressure.
Overview r Business review Governance r Financial statements r Other information r
