Marketplace trends 21 Lloyds Banking Group business model and strategy 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 31 delivering our action plan 26 Relationships and responsibility 30 our london 2012 partnership 42 summary of Group results 44 divisional results 54 other financial information 86 Five year financial summary 98 1 Risk management 99 171 205 355 RelAtionships And Responsibility Customers only by focusing on customers needs and addressing those needs can we expect to deliver benefit to our stakeholders.
Summary Aim the strategy for the Group is built on being the best bank for our aim is to be the best bank for customers.
becoming the best customers, and to create value by investing where we can make a real bank for customers means being the best bank for families, for difference for these customers.
the Customer is therefore at the heart businesses and for our communities.
We will achieve this by of everything we do, whether it be our branches, our brands or our focusing on: people and is a key driver for our Group values.
UK customers and those connected to the UK We have over 30 million personal, commercial and corporate simplifying processes, policies and systems customers and operate the largest retail bank in the UK.
in 2011 we investment in growth initiatives made great progress towards our goal of being the best bank for An appropriate risk appetite customers with a number of notable product launches, a significant reduction in customer complaints and numerous system and process ensuring the business has the strength in funding and capital to improvements whilst continuing to support our customers and the meet the most challenging of headwinds.
We also received a number of external awards recognising the quality and consistency of delivery to our customers.
Performance in 2011 our Corporate and Commercial businesses won the best bank of the year award for the seventh consecutive year at the Real Customer complaints Customer satisfaction % Fd Cbi excellence awards, while in Retail we were named best overall FSA complaints per 1,000 a c net promoter score Mortgage lender for the tenth year running in the your Mortgage Magazine Awards and in insurance we were named as britains 2.4 44 141 most popular home insurance provider by the independent market 2.1 38 researchers GFK nop for the tenth year in a row.
1.7 1.5 our customer focus is increasingly driving key business decisions and the and our commitment to keep our branch network at the same level for the next three years excluding Verde and not to close a branch if it is the last in the community demonstrates our commitment to do the H1 H2 H1 H2 2010 2010 2011 2011 2010 2011 right thing for customers.
Through our simplification programme We have developed a comprehensive and continued focus on becoming the customer experience program Supporting our customers and the UK best bank for customers, our FSA measuring customer service at key reportable banking complaints touch points and likelihood to economic recovery continued to fall.
recommend through the cross industry Net Promoter Score metric.
As part of our strategy to be the best bank for customers, and as a Excluding PPI leading financial services provider in the UK, the Group continues to actively support sustainable growth in the UK economy through the Priorities for 2012 focused range of products and services we provide to our business and personal customers, as well as through partnerships we have built with Further simplify our systems, processes and products, making industry and government.
it easier and more convenient for customers to bank with us, thereby improving the overall experience despite the challenging environment the Group exceeded its full year contribution to the Merlin lending commitments which were agreed Continue to improve our complaint handling performance in February with the UK government, both for sMes and in total.
in the reducing FSA reportable banking complaints per 1,000 accounts full year we provided 45.3 billion of committed gross lending to UK to 1.3 by the end of 2012 businesses of which 12.5 billion was to sMes.
in the same period the Maximize the use of our customer relationships and insight to Group supported the start up of nearly 124,000 new sMe businesses.
enable us to engage more effectively with our customers and the Group actively looks at all opportunities to support UK businesses become more responsive to customers needs and we continue to innovate in the market to meet our customers needs.
Overview r Business review Governance r Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 RelAtionships And Responsibility Customers sMes are a particularly important source of job creation and growth Delivering Innovative products and services in the UK.
our Commercial business is focused on serving these our strategy recognises our customers needs for product simplicity customers, and we demonstrated our support for sMe customers in and transparency, access through multiple channels and value for 2011 with year on year net lending growth of 3 per cent in this business money products and services.
We have worked hard to ensure we are area.
this compared favourably with the negative growth in sMe offering products and services that respond to customers evolving lending across the industry reported in the latest available market needs and as a result a number of new and innovative products have statistics from the bank of england.
As part of this growth we increased been launched in 2011 such as the halifax savers prize draw.
in our advances to manufacturing businesses through invoice finance by addition, customers told us they wanted better ways of managing their 30 per cent net.
in 2012, we have pledged to make at least 12 billion money, so we launched lloyds tsb Money Manager, an easy-to-use of gross new lending available to sMes, with a further pledge to deliver internet banking service that helps customers understand how they are positive net lending growth, to help stimulate growth and improve spending their money and using their account.
We also understand confidence in the sector.
We support corporate and commercial that people want to be able to access their accounts and balances customers throughout the economic cycle to ensure their financial on the move our new mobile banking applications have been health, viability and growth and our business support Unit bsU downloaded 1.5 million times and reached the number one spot in the specifically helps businesses in financial difficulties.
since 2009 the bsU Apple App store free apps.
has restructured facility for around 10,000 businesses and has protected We have enhanced our internet banking offering to enable our retail more than 250,000 UK jobs.
We are also simplifying processes and customers to do more online, and extended the innovative lloyds improving transparency for the benefit of customers.
We have tsb lend a hand Mortgage to help customers purchase a home with successfully piloted a re-egineering of our lending processes, halving the help of their local authority.
to strengthen our strategy of being the time to fulfil lending to customers, and intend to roll this out by the the best bank for sMes, we launched our best for business campaign, end of 2012 and launched simpler fixed charge money transmission reaffirmed our continued support for the sMe Charter to respond to Monthly price plan tariffs.
90 per cent of lending appeals within 15 days which will exceed the For our Retail customers, the Group completed 28 billion of new industry standard of 30 days, and maintained our leading part in the mortgage business in 2011, achieving a market share of approximately business Growth Fund which is the latest initiative from the business 20 per cent of gross new residential mortgage lending.
committed to supporting the UK housing market and first-time buyers in developing innovative and quality products and services the bank in particular.
We advanced more than 5.6 billion of new lending to liaises closely with internal and external suppliers to access and best first-time buyers in 2011, helping over 52,000 customers own their use their expertise.
external suppliers are very important in a number own homes.
our market share of new first-time buyer business was of areas and enable the Group to provide the best products & services approximately 24 per cent by value in 2011. in total, we advanced more to our customers.
engaging with them, and the wider supply market, than 15.5 billion of new mortgages to over 124,000 customers buying in a way that adds mutual value is a key part of our sourcing strategy to their home in the UK in 2011. ensure we gain the best value for our customers across price, quality & social impacts.
Complaint handling As part of our strategy to become the best bank for customers we Customer service and simplification publicly committed to reduce the level of FsA reportable banking by putting customers at the heart of our business, and listening to their complaints, excluding ppi, we receive by 20 per cent.
We achieved a needs we have managed to simplify and enhance our systems and reduction from 2.1 complaints per 1,000 accounts in the second half of processes to help serve our customers more quickly and efficiently.
We aim to reduce this further integration programme has given us a single set of integrated systems in 2012 to 1.3 complaints per 1,000 accounts, and to 1.0 complaint per which provides a great base for further development but we have also 1,000 accounts in 2014. the progress to date has been accomplished rolled out a number of initiatives to help make banking quicker and through the success of our phone-a-friend service, a specialist team easier for customers.
in fact we have made over 100 changes to simplify which branch staff can refer to, and the training we have provided to our systems and processes including the introduction of immediate our 40,000 front line colleagues.
As a result of these initiatives, we are deposit Machines and slip free transactions.
We have also reviewed now resolving over 90 per cent of complaints at first touch.
We are branch roles and opening times to ensure we can meet our customers the first financial services organisation to roll out to all our complaint needs and are open when they expect them to be.
handling staff an externally accredited complaint handling qualification.
in addition we have extended the opening hours of the specialist Customer satisfaction is assessed through the net promoter score teams so they can deal with complaints 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, nps, which measures the likelihood of customers recommending us ensuring customers get the right outcome faster.
to others and all of our high street brands made significant headway in 2011, achieving their highest ever nps scores, with the group wide We have also introduced a group wide team that focuses on listening score rising from 38 in 2010 to 44 in 2011. the Group monitors nps to customers and making improvements to remove the cause of across a range of touch points to ensure that the customer experience customers complaints.
this has reduced complaints received from improves across the board.
the process gives insight for specific customers by more than 30,000 per month in 2011.
All these changes channels, such as a branch or telephony network, product experiences, have been driven by listening to our customers.
such as opening a new account, and other key events such as handling of complaints.
this insight allows us to adapt our colleague training and processes in order to give customers an increasing quality of service.
our halifax brand also received the highly coveted best Customer service award at the Consumer MoneyFacts awards 2012, evidencing the real progress thats being made.
Marketplace trends 21 Lloyds Banking Group business model and strategy 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 33 delivering our action plan 26 Relationships and responsibility 30 our london 2012 partnership 42 summary of Group results 44 divisional results 54 other financial information 86 Five year financial summary 98 1 Risk management 99 171 205 355 Treating Customers fairly Financial Inclusion Central to our aim of building deep and lasting customer relationships We aim to lead the banking sector in reaching those who are financially is our determination to treat customers fairly and ensure we are excluded and equip them with the confidence and capability to transparent in dealings with them.
We conduct regular monitoring manage their money effectively to check that we are complying with our robust customer treatment As the UKs biggest provider of social bank accounts, we make a policies and are achieving fair outcomes for customers.
Customer significant investment in helping to bring people into the financial outcomes are an important component in colleague reward and system.
We currently provide over 4.2 million such accounts and in remuneration.
our approach to fair customer treatment takes into 2011 opened around 250,000 new accounts.
We are also the only bank consideration product, sales and after sales: to offer basic banking facilities to prisoners, in conjunction with the products: we have strengthened our framework for developing and national offender Management service.
Almost as importantly, we can managing our product range, including the introduction of new help our customers move to a full facility current account.
in 2011 over product governance processes and a comprehensive risk assessment 100,000 customers who previously had a social bank account either tool that centres on fair customer treatment.
upgraded to or opened a mainstream bank account.
We have recently made a number of improvements to make it easier for social bank sales: our sales processes consider affordability and are designed to account customers to upgrade.
minimise the risk of customers buying products they do not need or cannot afford.
We review these processes continuously and update them as necessary.
Supplier relationships After sales: we listen carefully to customer feedback, and take having strong relationships with our suppliers is key to the delivery of a proactive stance to after sales.
our strategy and ensuring both the banks and our customers needs are effectively met.
the Group looks to build and develop strong collaborative relationships and engage in regular dialogue, meaning we can better understand the environment in which we operate and help access and drive the continuous improvement and innovation in our value chain.
through working with our suppliers, we also get the opportunity to leverage their unique specialist knowledge in order to drive increased value and proactively optimise our supply chain.
We consider our suppliers social, ethical and environmental performance as a standard part of our procurement process.
We are also a signatory to the prompt payment Code which requires us to provide clear guidance on payment procedures and encourage similar good practice amongst our suppliers and other businesses.
We are committed to making lloyds banking Group the best bank for Customers.
the image shows how our customers are at the heart of everything we do in our retail business.
the wheel brings together how well make the most of our brands, the investment were making in our branch network, and whats needed from colleagues to bring this to life for our customers.
Overview r Business review Governance r Financial statements r Other information r
