Lloyds Banking Group 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 RelAtionships And Responsibility Colleagues our colleagues deliver the experiences that will make us britains best bank for customers.
Building long lasting relationships through people Aim lloyds banking Groups continued success depends on our colleagues.
our ambition is for a more diverse, better engaged and stimulated our colleagues aim to provide excellent service everyday and spend employee group to help us achieve our goals.
At lloyds banking time listening to customers to understand what is important to them.
Group, we want the diversity of our employee base to more building valued relationships with customers enables our teams to accurately reflect the diversity in our society: the better we reflect our support customers in getting the most from their money.
marketplace the better we can serve it.
to make this happen our organisation aims to attract, retain and Growing talent is a key priority, we need to motivate and nurture develop the best talent in the industry and embraces diversity.
a developing pool of talent that drives our business in a way that is At lloyds banking Group, we are committed to making a significant sustainable and realistic in the current climate.
life here is fast-moving and full of challenges: All of this goes hand in hand with giving people equal access to a its also incredibly rewarding.
our rewards and benefits packages, which variety of opportunities and making our business work closely with go beyond salary and bonus, are designed to keep our employees our surrounding communities to build relationships and share skills.
motivated to deliver excellent customer service.
As a leader in financial services, we are committed to professional development and creating outstanding learning opportunities that Performance in 2011 enable people to reach their potential.
We invest in our people, offering the best coaching and training.
learning@lloyds banking Group Staff engagement score % Staff training days is one of the largest corporate learning facilities in europe.
UK industry average We also encourage our people to contribute to our leading corporate 69 6.9 63 and social responsibility practices: a strong part of our culture.
61 employees raised 1.4 million for save the Children, a partnership 5.4 52 that will run until June 2012. during 2011 we set out our new strategy to achieve our vision of becoming the best bank for customers.
to help make that vision a reality, we consulted with colleagues from across the business to EEI PEI 2011 2011 2010 2011 identify the things that will be important in achieving our vision.
this led us to our three lloyds banking Group values putting Customers The Employee Engagement Index EEI Colleagues received an average of First.
measures the individual motivation of 6.9 days formal learning in 2011 colleagues whilst the Performance reflecting ongoing commitment to Excellence Index PEI measures how learning and development.
strongly colleagues believe the Group is committed to improving customer service.
Priorities for 2012 Making our customer-facing teams more successful, by ensuring those colleagues who come into direct contact with our customers are equipped with the necessary skills and expertise to provide a positive customer experience Growing great leaders Simplifying the way we work Marketplace trends 21 Lloyds Banking Group business model and strategy 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 35 delivering our action plan 26 Relationships and responsibility 30 our london 2012 partnership 42 summary of Group results 44 divisional results 54 other financial information 86 Five year financial summary 98 1 Risk management 99 171 205 355 these values define what we stand for when we are at our best: Colleague engagement individually and as a team.
they will help shape decisions all colleagues in 2011, we launched a new Colleague survey across the Group.
make and the actions they take and are being woven in to the way the new survey supports our ambition to drive simplification across we do business across the Group, to help make us the best bank the business and will reduce the time colleagues spend giving for customers.
feedback and will provide them with more time to focus on the activities which will help us to achieve our vision.
Integration the new survey uses a proven engagement model, delivered through inevitably in bringing the two organisations together, there has been the means of a single focussed question set.
the outputs provide a requirement to rationalise and this has led to a reduction in roles.
two separate and measurable scores, the employee engagement Where possible we have redeployed colleagues to other areas of the index eei, which measures the individual motivation of colleagues, Group or reduced numbers through natural attrition.
Where it has and the performance excellence index pei, measuring how strongly been necessary for colleagues to leave the organisation, this has been colleagues believe the Group is committed to improving customer achieved by offering voluntary severance and using fewer contractors service.
these will be used to create national and local action plans that and agency colleagues.
Compulsory redundancies are always a prioritise the things that will make the Group a better place to work.
the question set was explicitly designed to support the outcomes of the focus has been on enabling the business to integrate, while also our strategic Review and to provide an early indication of the extent building foundations for the future to ensure the organisation can to which employees identify with our three new values putting attract, retain and develop the best talent.
people have been at the Customers First, Keeping it simple and Making a difference together.
heart of the change programme, and a robust communications process the results highlight strong levels of engagement in areas such as has been followed to ensure that colleagues were aware of the changes performance management and learning and development.
our pei before they happened.
We have four recognised Unions who have score of 69 is above the UK industry average, showing that nearly been consulted on all changes.
three quarters of colleagues believe their work gives them a sense of the year has seen an ongoing harmonisation process of different personal accomplishment and almost 9 out of 10 colleagues say they heritage employment policies, and the unions have been involved receive recognition for a job well done.
it also reflects our on-going in these discussions.
commitment to provide all colleagues with a promising career at this year we delivered a significant milestone in our integration when lloyds banking Group.
our eei score show that we need to do more to we harmonised terms and conditions for most employees in the engender trust in the leadership team and confidence in the future of Group.
in addition, over 83,000 employees selected benefits available the organisation, with a score of 52 versus a UK industry average of 61. through our Flexible benefits plan.
We implemented our new defined to demonstrate our strong commitment to listening and acting on Contribution pension scheme, your tomorrow, which was awarded the issues that matter most to colleagues, we will: pension Quality Mark plus the highest quality mark available from the national Association of pension Funds.
Firstly, continue to deliver on our Group strategy to be the best bank for customers and colleagues.
We know this will improve confidence in the future of our organisation and result in growth, greater efficiencies, new business opportunities and real career prospects for colleagues across our business.
secondly, rebuild confidence and trust in our leadership by increasing the time leaders spend listening and talking to colleagues across all areas of our business.
thirdly, drive customer focus at all levels in our organisation to stimulate ongoing quality and improvement.
to do this, we must ensure we keep telling our colleagues about the changes that will be implemented as a result of the survey and continue to do all we can to make lloyds banking Group a great place to work.
integration training A strong focus has been to support the success of the exercise was a colleagues through the changes tribute to the way in which colleagues needed to successfully complete our throughout the Community banks integration programme, the largest worked together.
the branch one in european banking history.
this experience involved colleagues from has included providing training to over halifax and bank of scotland working 16,000 colleagues in our branches, to in lloyds tsb branches.
this practical ensure they are fully prepared to work hands-on experience saw communities with new customer systems.
working together, sharing knowledge and experience that was an essential the overriding principles of the training ingredient to colleagues learning.
approach were to ensure colleagues were confident, competent and that the in all, c800,000 hours of training was customer experience was consistent invested in colleagues, ensuring that the and smooth.
integration programme delivered for the business, colleagues and customers.
Overview r Business review Governance r Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 RelAtionships And Responsibility Colleagues in 2011 we recruited 167 people into the lloyds banking Group Talent, recruitment and retention Graduate leadership programme.
the strength of the programme has one of our uppermost priorities is recruiting, retaining and developing been externally acknowledged and the Group has been rated by the talented leaders.
identifying and developing leaders to strengthen times as one of the top 30 UK organisations for graduate recruitment.
succession planning is vital in supporting our strategic review initiatives.
in addition we have attracted 47 interns to the Group along with We have undertaken detailed organisational reviews centred on under privileged students aged 16-19 in our new 6 week career assessing our leaders performance and potential to undertake bigger academies programme.
roles as well as succession planning for our most senior leaders.
the approach led by Group executive Committee, incorporates a rigorous Performance and reward assessment of the performance, potential and development needs Managing performance plays a critical role in helping us to develop of the top three layers of leadership in the organisation and was our colleagues to build long term partnerships with customers presented to the board.
and strong relationships with each other.
this year has seen clear steps We are committed to ensuring that we offer clear career paths to retain taken to improve organisational performance.
our most able senior leaders.
in 2011 we made significant progress and Following the completion of the Group strategic Review in June, we 60 per cent of all senior leader vacancies were filled internally.
started to simplify and further integrate our approach by aligning earlier this year we had our succession planning and execution performance and reward for all colleagues.
Reflecting the new independently assessed as strong and in many instances, industryregulatory environment, 2011 also saw a strengthening of executive leading when compared with other Ftse 100 businesses.
succession performance management with the introduction of a new moderation to the Group executive Committee and divisional leadership teams process to assess risk stewardship by all our senior executives.
has materially improved year-on-year with 92 per cent of roles having at this year has seen the design and implementation of an award winning least one identified successor.
new defined Contribution pension scheme your tomorrow which We have brought greater focus to building strong talent pipelines gives considerable flexibility to employees to plan for retirement.
at middle and junior leadership levels.
A number of initiatives launched in 2011 include the MbA programme, lloyds scholars programme Learning and development and a new development programme for emerging executives and becoming the best bank for customers means our colleagues must middle managers.
have the capabilities to deliver excellent service.
Retaining our talent through difficult times continues to be a priority We have continued to shape and deploy our learning Academies and we have launched well-being initiatives across several teams this which provide easy access to clear learning maps for colleagues year which have proved popular and useful resources for colleagues providing further clarity on the technical and leadership capabilities at all levels.
nearly 100,000 colleagues have access to the academies which cover critical topics such as risk, relationship management and financial control.
Graduate development programme Following the Graduate development programme, graduates are choosing branch roles as their career choice.
last year i secured the opportunity of bank Manager at the new lloyds tsb olympic branch in europes largest shopping centre Westfield stratford City.
With a successful opening in september im delighted that we managed to deliver outstanding performance whilst providing high quality customer service.
Jeff Wilkinson, Bank Manager lloyds tsb stratford Westfield Marketplace trends 21 Lloyds Banking Group business model and strategy 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 37 delivering our action plan 26 Relationships and responsibility 30 our london 2012 partnership 42 summary of Group results 44 divisional results 54 other financial information 86 Five year financial summary 98 1 Risk management 99 171 205 355 A strong focus has been to support colleagues through the changes We received a technology4good award for our workplace adjustments needed to successfully complete our integration programme: this has programme, improving the way we support colleagues with disabilities included providing training to over 16,000 colleagues in our branches or long-term health conditions.
We have launched a new online to ensure they were fully prepared to work with the new customer disability awareness programme to ensure colleagues and line systems and applications following the biggest migration of customer managers have the support they need.
in our ethnic diversity strategy, we have launched a new Career We remain committed to supporting a range of programmes development programme for ethnic minority managers, targeted at linked to professional qualifications or relevant external certification those colleagues who are looking to achieve their first management and have reviewed our policy to ensure equality and consistency or senior management position.
the programme discusses barriers for all colleagues.
to progression, how to overcome them and supports participants to achieve their full potential.
our executive and leadership development approach in 2011 was driven by our strategy to create a high-performance culture within in 2011, we completed our second annual diversity & inclusion Week, the Group.
integral to this strategy, has been the need to develop a themed: Pride Through Inclusion.
this awareness raising campaign featured each member of the Group executive Committee, our Chief clear articulation internally and externally of the leadership behaviours and capabilities required to take our business from integration executive and our Chairman.
Colleagues were able to download a range of articles and tools including a guide to action planning.
during 2011, we have delivered the high-profile executive leadership We have also begun an unconscious bias programme, starting with our programme and a new group wide talent development programme.
the workshop raises issues in a meaningful way, embedded in both these programmes is the requirement for leaders to encouraging participants to draw links with their day-to-day work and take ownership in progressing our work around diversity and inclusion.
behaviours, and equipping them with tools and techniques to help our investment in developing leaders in 2011 included the launch combat bias in the workplace.
of 360 degree feedback to the top three layers in the organisation.
We will continue to build upon our progress during 2012 to ensure we reflect the diverse needs of our customers, colleagues in addition, our recently launched management licence programmes provide foundation line management and leadership skills to managers.
Diversity and inclusion A key element to achieving our vision is having a diverse and inclusive workforce: an area in which we have made positive progress during 2011. our gender strategy is led by members of our Group executive Committee and sir Win bischoff, our Chairman, and supports the recommendations of the lord davies Review whereby we aim to increase our female representation on the board by 25 per cent by 2015. in december we launched breakthrough: our new womens network which has over 600 members and we have established a series of development interventions, specifically targeted at women at various stages of their career to ensure they are equipped with the necessary skills and experience to successfully compete for senior positions.
the Stonewall 2011 Top 100 Employers for lesbian, gay and bisexual people, ranked the Group as the top private sector employer in the UK and as top scottish employer by stonewall scotland.
Rainbow network Marking a milestone Rainbow the Groups network for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender lGbt colleagues this year reached 1000 members, making it one of the largest employee networks of its kind in the UK.
Rainbow helps to engage and support lGbt colleagues promoting a positive working environment across the organisation.
Overview r Business review Governance r Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 RelAtionships And Responsibility communitiES by doing more through our responsible business strategy, we aim to help build thriving communities.
Embedding responsible business Aim We established a new Responsible business steering Group in 2011 to We have a presence in every community across the UK.
We recognise drive our new responsible business strategy.
it comprises the following that to be the best bank for customers, we must also be the best bank for communities.
business leaders from across the Group: in 2011 we developed a new responsible business strategy which aims Anita Frew, non-executive director to help build thriving communities, and, in so doing, rebuild trust and Matt young, director, Group Corporate Affairs pride in the Group.
our vision is to be recognised by shareholders, eva eisenschimmel, Managing director, Customers, brands, customers and colleagues as making a real difference.
digital and telephone banking We are investing in financial inclusion and projects to improve consumers stephen pegge, director, sMe Markets in Commercial financial capability: access to higher education for students from lower paul baker, director, Group property income families: sports for young people: and almost 30 million a year Kate Guthrie, hR director, insurance to the Groups Charitable Foundations to support grassroots charities philip Grant, Managing director, UK Wealth working with disadvantaged communities.
We are also working to reduce paul turner, director, Community & sustainable business our environmental impact by reducing our use of resources such as energy, water and paper and by investing in new sources of renewable energy.
We the steering Group meets every two months and will report to the are encouraging the companies we bank, and invest in, to do the same, board and Group executive Committee twice a year.
in 2012, we are using our influence as a large financial services organisation to deliver a also setting up an independent panel of experts and opinion formers positive impact for communities.
to provide thought leadership and challenge to the Group.
Community engagement Colleague volunteers Total community m lloyds banking Group is the UKs biggest corporate investor in UK investment communities.
last year, we invested over 85 million in communities, 160 85 including support for financial capability, higher education, sports for 16,000 85 76 74 young people and support to the Groups charitable Foundations.
Funding grassroots charities 7,300 in 2011, we donated almost 30 million to the lloyds tsb Foundations 600 and the bank of scotland Foundation.
the Foundations disburse 2009 grants to local, regional and national charities that operate at the 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 0 0 heart of communities.
2011 also marked the 25th anniversary of In 2011, the Group supported over We are the biggest corporate investor the lloyds tsb Foundations.
over the last quarter of a century, the 16,000 colleagues volunteering for in UK communities.
Last year, we charities and community groups.
The invested over 85 million to support lloyds tsb Foundations and bank of scotland Foundation have Foundations also provided Matched financial inclusion and financial invested more than 510 million supporting over 50,000 community Giving to some of these organisations capability, higher education, sports for for colleagues time spent volunteering young people and grassroots charities.
in addition to making grants, the Foundations work in partnership with the Group to champion colleague fundraising and volunteering efforts through their Matched Giving scheme.
Colleagues in the UK can claim Priorities for 2012 up to 1,000 in Matched Giving each year.
in 2011, over 6,200 applications Explore opportunities to improve our management of were made, totalling 2.3 million in matched giving for charity.
environmental, social and governance risks and increase transparency around our management of these Launch a Fund that will enable colleagues to help their chosen community organisation with financial support Launch a five year partnership that will support social entrepreneurs and create hundreds of jobs across the UK Marketplace trends 21 Lloyds Banking Group business model and strategy 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 39 delivering our action plan 26 Relationships and responsibility 30 our london 2012 partnership 42 summary of Group results 44 divisional results 54 other financial information 86 Five year financial summary 98 1 Risk management 99 171 205 355 in 2011, as in 2010, lloyds banking Group was the largest corporate Charity of the Year participant in business in the Communitys Give & Gain day the UKs our Charity of the year for 2011 2012 is save the Children.
We raised largest single day of volunteering.
over 2,000 colleagues took part, 1.4 million in 2011 for save the Children which will fund 46 FAst undertaking a variety of activities including renovating playgrounds, programmes across the UK.
FAst Families and schools together clearing conservation areas and hosting employability skills sessions for increases the life chances of children in the UKs most deprived schoolchildren.
in 2011 we also announced that we are sponsoring Give areas by supporting parents to improve their childrens learning and & Gain day for the next three years.
development at home, so they can reach their full potential at school.
over half of children in the most disadvantaged areas fall behind at Making a Difference Awards the age of five compared to just over a quarter of children from better our annual Making a difference Awards celebrate employees who off areas, and many never catch up.
teachers report a 10 per cent make an exceptional contribution to charities and community groups.
improvement in reading, writing and maths among children enrolled in 2011 we received nominations for 1,164 colleagues who had made a on FAst programmes, after just eight weeks.
As well as improving huge difference to their communities.
the 203 award winners received childrens academic performance, the programme has also been a contribution from the Group for their chosen charities.
the Group credited with improving childrens behaviour and bringing children and also donated 20 for every nomination received to our Charity of parents closer together.
the year, totalling 23,280 for save the Children.
in total the Group donated almost 100,000 through these awards to charities and Employee volunteering local communities.
our employees are our closest link with the communities in which we operate, and, as one of the biggest employers in the UK, our colleague Lloyds Scholars volunteering initiatives can make a real difference.
our day to Make lloyds scholars, the Groups flagship higher education programme, a difference volunteering programme enables colleagues across the was launched in 2011 for students attending the University of sheffield UK to spend one day a year volunteering for a charity or community and University of bristol.
the programme aims to encourage and project of their choice.
in 2011, over 16,000 colleagues volunteered, support young people from families with below average income to compared with 7,300 in 2010. however, we know there is more we can attend some of britains top universities.
We believe lloyds scholars is do to support colleagues in connecting with their communities.
We are the only corporate social mobility programme of its kind in the UK.
redesigning our volunteering programme to make it simpler and more rewarding for colleagues to participate and hope to engage even more lloyds scholars provides students with support for their academic and colleagues in 2012. vocational development, offering a complete financial and support package.
this includes bursaries to help with living costs and study materials: performance-related cash awards for good grades: hands-on work experience through paid summer internships with the Group: and access to advice and support from a dedicated mentor.
in return for these benefits, we ask scholars to champion the scheme to future applicants and take part in at least 100 hours volunteering in their local communities each year.
in the 2011 2012 programme we have thirty students participating from the University of sheffield and University of bristol.
We are expanding the programme to six universities and 120 students for the next intake of students.
lloyds scholars, our unique social mobility programme the national Union of students has always been supportive of business contributing to the cost of higher education, so its great to see lloyds banking Group starting the lloyds scholars scheme.
of course higher education is massively beneficial to the public, as well as to the student, but business also benefits from students who have a higher level of education and an enriched world-view.
As well as widening participation to higher education, were particularly pleased that this scheme seeks to deepen participation through volunteering at university, ensuring that students not only receive the appropriate support through their mentoring scheme but are given opportunities to get further involved in their free-time.
Liam Burns, National President national Union of students Overview r Business review Governance r Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 RelAtionships And Responsibility Communities Financial wellbeing Environmental responsibility We take seriously our responsibility to do more to raise levels of in 2011, we introduced a set of market leading long-term general financial understanding amongst the communities we serve.
environmental targets under our environmental Action programme in addition, we make a very significant investment in helping to bring to significantly reduce our environmental footprint.
We aim to reduce those who are excluded into mainstream financial services.
our paper, water and business travel by 20 per cent: ensure that less than financial inclusion work is covered in more detail on page 33.
20 per cent of waste is sent to landfill: and reduce energy use by 30 per cent by 2020.
We publish a standalone, data-driven Climate and environment Report on an annual basis which details progress we have Money for Life made against our targets, and this is available from the lloyds banking Money for life is lloyds banking Groups flagship 4 million financial Group website.
last year, we achieved the Carbon trust standard for capability and personal money skills programme, targeted at the our entire UK operations, which recognises our robust approach to Further education, Adult and Community learning sector.
We are measuring, managing and reducing our carbon emissions.
We also providing tutors and support workers with the skills they need to talk reduced our use of energy by 1 per cent, our use of water by 3 per cent confidently about money management, and to support their learners and paper use by 7 per cent in 2011 compared with 2010. our overall to stay out of debt and save for the future.
carbon footprint reduced by 1 per cent in 2011 compared with 2010. last year, we launched our teach Me, teach others financial education over the last year we have been the UKs most active provider of training programme.
We are providing 1,400 free places on the finance to renewable energy projects, having lent over 413 million programme for colleges and community groups, to enable them to across 13 renewable energy projects in the UK, Germany and the Us.
deliver quality financial education in their communities.
in addition, 100 our approach to environmental risk management is covered on pages lloyds banking Group employees have taken the teach others course 162 and 163. and are now volunteering in a wide variety of community organisations.
We are also encouraging businesses that bank with us to take action We also launched the Money for life Challenge in 2011, a national to address climate change.
We have trained over 650 colleagues on competition providing small grants for 16-24 year olds to run a money our business & environment programme, to enable them to guide and management project in their local community.
the most innovative and support our customers in recognising environmental risks and seizing impactful projects will be rewarded at national and UK finals in 2012. the opportunities.
We are the only major UK bank to provide this kind of support to its business customers.
We recognise that our influence extends well beyond the size of our organisation.
our asset management business, scottish Widows investment partnership sWip, has over 140 billion invested around the world and is committed to using its influence to encourage best practice in corporate governance and management of sustainability risks.
sWip has also launched a new sustainability strategy across its entire 8.5 billion property portfolio.
CO Emissions tonnes 2 2011 2010 total UK Co emissions 421,568 425,996 2 scope 1 emissions 52,179 60,302 scope 2 emissions 321,698 324,007 teaching others scope 3 emissions 42,691 41,687 Jeff McArthur, Regulatory and external Risk Manager at lloyds tsb, is a graduate We have improved the accuracy of energy data for the 2010 reporting years, replacing estimates with actual data.
We have also changed our method for reporting car travel data in of the Money for life teach others course.
he has delivered financial capability 2011 and have applied this method to historical data.
workshops at dress for success, a charity offering employment-based services and workshops to help disadvantaged women become economically independent.
Many of the women have recently returned to work after long-term unemployment and wanted to better manage their finances, Jeff explains.
i provided advice on basic budgeting and explained how they could use banking products and services to help them manage their money.
Marketplace trends 21 Lloyds Banking Group business model and strategy 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 41 delivering our action plan 26 Relationships and responsibility 30 our london 2012 partnership 42 summary of Group results 44 divisional results 54 other financial information 86 Five year financial summary 98 1 Risk management 99 171 205 355 We are launching a partnership with the school for social Tracking progress entrepreneurs that will over five years provide a support package to independent consultants verify our performance every year.
We 500 entrepreneurs to create new social enterprises and hundreds of jobs also measure our performance against our peers through external in communities across the UK.
social entrepreneurs are people who benchmarks.
in 2011, we were re-selected for the dow Jones use their entrepreneurial talent to address a social need or problem in sustainability index.
We were also ranked top UK bank in the their community.
their businesses are playing an increasingly important Ftse4Good index and were re-selected for the Carbon disclosure role in the UK economy with an estimated annual turnover worth leadership index.
We have a platinum ranking in business in the 25 billion and a workforce totalling one million.
the programme will Communitys Corporate Responsibility index and were awarded enable 100 entrepreneurs every year to go through the schools unique business in the Communitys CommunityMark, the national standard action learning programme and receive grants ranging from 4,000 that publicly recognises excellence in community investment.
We will also pilot a community fund that will enable colleagues to help Summary their chosen community organisation with financial support.
small the Groups strategic vision recognises that being the best bank for grants will be made available for community organisations that our customers also means being the best bank for communities.
We colleagues and customers have elected to support.
believe that, over time, our new responsible business strategy will help us rebuild public trust and colleague pride in the Group by making a difference to the UK.
We aim to set an example and demonstrate the highest standards of integrity in the way we do business.
in 2012 we will explore opportunities to increase transparency of our management of social, environmental and ethical risks.
We also plan to launch a new, group wide code of ethics, linked to the Groups values, setting out values, principles and commitments to stakeholders that underpin the way we do business.
Andrew Clark - services to the Community Andrew Clark, a Relationship director in As a volunteer for st. John Ambulance, our Commercial business and a Making Andrew is County staff officer for a difference Award winner, volunteers the operations department who are as a Community First Responder and also responsible for the management of all a st. John Ambulance member.
last year public duties, vehicles and logistics in the Andrew secured 8,000 for his responder county.
For a number of years Andrew team and attended 156 calls ranging from has also crewed an ambulance, having falls to strokes, chest pains, fitting, difficulty completed his ambulance service blue breathing and cardiac arrests, being on call light driving assessment and ambulance for a total of 600 hours.
in 2010 Andrew contributed 413 hours of voluntary service.
Overview r Business review Governance r Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 OUR LONDON 2012 PARTNERSHIP London 2012 In 2011 we continued to bring the London 2012 Games closer to people and communities across the UK.
Bringing the Games closer to communities Background With Lloyds TSB and Bank of Scotland branches on nearly every UK Lloyds Banking Group is proud to be the official banking and insurance high street we are in a unique position to bring the inspiration and partner for the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games, the biggest excitement of the Games closer to communities across the country, sporting event ever staged in the UK.
through programmes like National School Sport Week and our Our vision for our partnership, delivered through Lloyds TSB, Local Heroes programme, supporting the future of Team GB and Bank of Scotland and Scottish Widows, is to bring the Games even closer ParalympicsGB.
to communities and millions of people across the UK.
In 2011 we continued to realise this vision with a programme of inclusive, inspirational Giving customers the chance to get involved and engaging activities, resulting in us being seen as the sponsor doing We are creating as many opportunities as possible for our customers the most to support the Games.
and the communities we serve across the UK to get involved in the Games: In 2011, more than 200,000 people signed up to Trackside, our customer exclusive programme.
Trackside is just one of the ways we are giving customers the chance to win tickets to the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games.
Through Trackside, 1,500 personal banking customers will each win a pair of tickets to the Games.
We are also giving customers chances to win exclusive experiences with Olympians and Paralympians.
Lloyds TSB is the only Presenting Partner of both the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Torch Relays and in 2011 we gave our customers and the wider public the chance to become Torchbearers and carry the Flame in the Relay s. As the Official Partner of the London 2012 Ticketing programme, we are helping to ensure customers and communities have access National School to information about tickets to the Olympic and Paralympic Games.
Sport Week Our Official London 2012 Ticket Guides were available in all of our branches.
York High School York High School held a number Scottish Widows is Pensions and Investment Provider of the of events to celebrate National London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games and in 2011 we gave School Sport Week 2011, promoting the Olympic and Paralympic Values, customers the chance to be at the Games - more than 60,000 boosting participation in physical entered our exclusive competition.
activity and providing young people with leadership opportunities.
The week had a positive impact on the students attitudes towards sport and many particularly enjoyed trying new sports.
They developed team-working skills and created a great atmosphere around the school.
The students became accustomed to being physically active and made a pledge about their future level of physical activity, which will be monitored by the schools Young Ambassadors.
And, links forged with community sports clubs should encourage a higher uptake of sports outside of school hours.
Marketplace trends 21 Lloyds Banking Group Business model and strategy 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 43 Delivering our action plan 26 Relationships and responsibility 30 Our London 2012 partnership 42 Summary of Group results 44 Divisional results 54 Other financial information 86 Five year financial summary 98 1 Risk management 99 171 205 355 National School Sport Week Helping businesses benefit from London 2012 Delivered in partnership with the Youth Sport Trust, Lloyds TSB We are focused on supporting our business customers to maximise National School Sport Week with Bank of Scotland and sportscotland the opportunities of the Games and ensure a lasting legacy for in Scotland uses the excitement of the London 2012 Games to inspire UK businesses.
In 2011 we used the power of London 2012 to inspire more young people to do more sport.
businesses all over the UK: We provide resources to schools to help them plan activities leading up One in three of the 3 billion worth of London 2012 contracts to and during the week and in 2011 over 4 million young people took have been awarded to our business customers with more part.
48 per cent of secondary school pupils and 42 per cent of primary contract opportunities still available along the supply chain.
school pupils said they have joined or would like to join a new sports We developed a free, step-by-step guide, to help businesses team or club in school after taking part in National School Sport Week.
understand the various ways in which they can prepare for the Games and seize the business opportunities.
Local Heroes The Local Heroes programme helps some of the most talented emerging Our Pace & Power events brought together local business people athletes in the UK during one of the toughest stages of their career.
with Olympians and Paralympians and Local Heroes, who shared their thoughts on sporting success and how this can be translated In partnership with SportsAid, the UKs leading charity for identifying into the world of business.
and supporting young talented athletes, we committed to supporting more than 1,000 of these future stars of Team GB and ParalympicsGB As the chosen bank to the Olympic Delivery Authority and by the time of the London 2012 Games.
LOCOG, we are proud of our role in supporting the development of the Olympic Park and other Games venues.
2011 was the fourth year of the Local Heroes programme and we supported 324 athletes.
Local Heroes also attended a variety of internal Activation Programmes and customer-facing Group events and initiatives including sharing their experiences with young schoolchildren during National School Olympic and Paralympic Torch Relays Sport Week: attending events with Olympians and business customers In 2011 we ran public campaigns to find hundreds of people who have on the parallels between high performance in business and sport: and made a positive difference in their community to be Torchbearers and visiting branches with the London 2012 Olympic Torch to engage with carry the Flame in the London 2012 Olympic Torch Relay or Paralympic our colleagues, customers and their families.
We received thousands of nominations from customers and the public across the UK, many of whom had uplifting and London 2012 Trackside: inspirational stories to share.
Bringing London 2012 closer to our customers Trackside, launched in February 2011, is a customer exclusive We developed the Lloyds TSB London 2012 Olympic Torch Tour, which programme giving Lloyds TSB and Bank of Scotland personal travelled the UK during the summer of 2011.
The Tour gave people customers chances to win tickets to the London 2012 Games and the chance to get up close to the new Olympic Torch and learn more opportunities to meet Olympians and Paralympians, as well as ensuring about the history and excitement of the Relay.
The Tour visited 76 customers are the first to hear about our latest London 2012 news and communities over 84 days, directly engaging 56,000 people with our offers.
Registered customers receive regular e-newsletters and in 2011 London 2012 activity.
we gave away more than 1,100 pairs of tickets to the 2012 Games to these personal customers.
Golden Hopefuls Through Scottish Widows Golden Hopefuls Programme we are helping four of Britains new generation of world class sporting hopefuls who share the same goal of competing at London 2012.
Simon Brown Olympic Torchbearer Simon is 32 and from Morley, West Yorkshire.
In 2006 he was shot in the face saving the lives of six of his colleagues in Iraq.
Following months of rehabilitation and dozens of operations to rebuild his face Simon began to help young people come to terms with their own loss of sight at St Dunstans charity in Sheffield.
His nominator and friend, Eleanor Noakes said, Simon has not had an easy journey on his road to recovery and has battled with the impact of his injuries.
He now uses those experiences to help others overcome their own difficulties and is a true inspiration to his community.
Overview r Business review Governance r Financial statements r Other information r
