Lloyds Banking Group 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 BUSINESS MODEL AND STRATEGY Unlocking the groUps potential Our business model Lloyds Banking Group is a leading UK based financial services group providing a wide range of banking and financial services, primarily in the UK, to personal, commercial and corporate customers.
Our business model is designed around our distinctive capabilities in serving personal, commercial and corporate customers across the UK, with a focused range of banking, insurance, investment, debt financing and risk management products to meet customer needs.
In delivering these products to our customers we capitalise on our strong customer relationships, our iconic and distinct brands, our broad multi channel distribution and our customer focused people.
We have over 30 million customers and customer leadership driven by superior customer insight, tailored products, better service and relationship focus is the overriding priority.
We want to meet all the financial needs of our customers and help them succeed financially.
Only by successfully focusing on the needs of customers can we deliver sustainable value to our shareholders.
Though the UK financial services market remains one of the largest in the world our business model and strategy has been formulated in the Halifax is being repositioned as a leading context of a cautious outlook for the UK economy.
challenger brand in UK retail banking, with a value for money proposition and Fundamentally we remain a more conservative, through the cycle, innovative products.
relationship focused business and with a stronger balance sheet, a simpler and more efficient structure and the renewed customer focus we believe we can deliver strong, stable and sustainable returns for shareholders.
Marketplace trends 21 Lloyds Banking Group Business model and strategy 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 25 Delivering our action plan 26 Relationships and responsibility 30 Our London 2012 partnership 42 Summary of Group results 44 Divisional results 54 Other financial information 86 Five year financial summary 98 1 Risk management 99 171 205 355 Our strategy Our action plan for success The four key elements of our action plan to deliver our strategy are A UK focused strategy to be outlined on the next few pages: the best bank for customers, which will deliver strong, stable reshape our business portfolio to fit our assets, and sustainable returns for capabilities and risk appetite.
We are looking to create a more agile, efficient and responsive customer focused organisation with a real focus on operating simplify sustainably and responsibly.
We will reshape and simplify the business and invest a portion of the savings realised from the simplification the Group to improve agility and efficiency.
initiatives in customer related growth initiatives.
Whilst focusing on core markets which offer strong returns and attractive growth we will maintain a prudent approach to risk and further strengthen the Groups balance sheet and liquidity position.
invest We intend to reshape our business portfolio to fit our assets, capabilities and risk appetite.
We will further reduce the balance sheet through the to be the best bank for customers.
continued reduction of our non-core assets and reduce the risk in the business through the application of a conservative approach to, and prudent appetite for risk.
We will also reduce our international presence.
We believe we can unlock the potential in the franchise and deliver value to customers and shareholders by creating a simpler, more strengthen agile and responsive organisation.
Opportunities exist to increase the efficiency of operations and processes and reduce costs whilst still the Groups balance sheet and liquidity position.
addressing customer needs more effectively.
The creation of a simpler, more agile organisation will enable the Group to adapt more effectively to the external environment whilst addressing the changing needs of the customer base more effectively.
Our customer focus remains the key driver for strategy and business decision making and substantial customer related investment is planned.
Our strategy reflects our customers needs for product simplicity and transparency, access to credit, help in planning and saving for retirement, demands for access through multiple channels, value for money products and services and the importance of our staff in managing customer relationships.
The Bank of Scotland was founded in 1695 and over the years has developed long lasting, strong relationships with its customers.
Overview r Business review Governance r Financial statements r Other information r
