58 Governance Directors Report The Directors of the London Stock Principal Activities and Results The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries are the Exchange Group plc are pleased admission of securities to trading, the delivery of trading systems, clearing and settlement of trading in securities, the organisation to present their annual report to and regulation of markets in securities and the provision of real time data and other information products, together with a wide shareholders, together with the range of technology services from trading platform solutions through to connectivity to our markets.
The Group made a profit financial statements for the year before taxation, before impairment of goodwill, amortisation ended 31 March 2011. of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items, of 296.3 million 2010: 242.0 million.
After taking into account amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items, the profit of the Group before taxation for the year ended 31 March 2011 was 238.2 million 2010: 144.3 million and profit after taxation was 156.5 million 2010: 91.7 million.
Business Review The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business Review can be found in this Directors Report and in the following sections of the Annual Report which are incorporated into this Directors report by reference: Overview pages 2 to 14: and Business Review including the Financial Review pages 15 to 37.
Dividends The Directors are recommending a final dividend for the year of 18 pence 2010: 16.0 pence per share which is expected to be paid on 22 August 2011 to shareholders on the register on 29 July 2011.
Together with the interim dividend of 8.8 pence 2010: 8.4 pence per share paid in January 2011, this produces a total dividend of 26.8 pence 2010: 24.4 pence per share estimated to amount to 72.2 million 2010: 65.4 million.
Pursuant to the merger with TMX Group, the Company intends to pay shareholders a dividend equal to the full year dividend declared in respect of the year to 31 March 2011, prorated in respect of the period from 31 March 2011 to the date of completion of the merger in accordance with the Companys existing dividend policy.
Share Capital As at 31 March 2011 the Company had 271.1 million ordinary 79 shares in issue with a nominal value of 6 86 pence each, representing 100 per cent of the total issued share capital.
There were no changes to the Companys issued ordinary share capital during the year.
Share Rights The rights and obligations attached to the Companys ordinary shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Group Company Secretary.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend, speak and vote at general meetings of the Company.
Every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote on a show of hands and one vote for every ordinary share he or she holds on a poll.
Proxy appointments and voting instructions must be received by the Companys Registrars not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding a general meeting or adjourned general meeting if in hard copy or electronic form or, in either case, not less than 24 hours before London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2011 Overview Business Review Governance Group financial statements Other information Governance Directors Report 59 the time appointed for the taking of a poll where a poll is taken or at another place appointed by the Board accompanied by the more than 48 hours after it is demanded.
Proxy appointments certificate for the share to which it relates and such other evidence and voting instructions in hard copy form, where a poll is not as the Board may reasonably require to show the right of the taken forthwith but is taken not more than 48 hours after it transferor to make the transfer: b is in respect of only one is demanded, may be delivered at the meeting at which the class of shares: and c is in favour of not more than four poll was demanded to the Chairman, Secretary or any Director.
Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using the relevant system and the Board may refuse to Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: a the register a transfer of an uncertificated share in accordance Company may by ordinary resolution declare dividends in with the regulations governing the operation of the relevant accordance with the respective rights of the shareholders, system and in accordance with applicable statute.
but no dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by the Board: and b the Board may pay interim dividends if it There are no other limitations on the holding of ordinary shares appears to the Board that they are justified by the profits of in the Company and the Company is not aware of any agreements the Company available for distribution.
between holders of shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on voting rights.
If the Company is wound up, the liquidator may, with the sanction of a special resolution of the Company and any other Corporate Governance Statement sanction required by the Insolvency Act 1986: a divide among The Companys Corporate Governance Report is set out on the shareholders in specie the whole or any part of the assets pages 40 to 45 and is, together with the information on share of the Company and may, for that purpose, value any assets rights set out above, incorporated into this Corporate and determine how the division shall be carried out as between Governance Statement by reference.
the shareholders or different classes of shareholders: b vest the whole or any part of the assets in trustees for the benefit Articles of Association of the shareholders: and c determine the scope and terms The Companys Articles of Association adopted by special of those trusts.
No shareholder shall be compelled to accept resolution passed on 9 July 2008 in order to implement changes any asset on which there is a liability.
permitted under the Companies Act 2006 may only be amended Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, if at by special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
any time the capital of the Company is divided into different classes of shares, the rights attached to any class may unless Substantial shareholding otherwise provided by the terms of allotment of the shares of As at 13 May 2011 the Company had been notified of the that class be varied or abrogated, whether or not the Company following interests amounting to more than three per cent in is being wound up, either: the issued share capital of the Company in accordance with DTR 5 of the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules: a with the written consent of the holders of 75 per cent in nominal value of the issued shares of that class excluding Borse Dubai Limited 20.6% any shares of that class held as treasury shares : or Qatar Investment Authority 15.08% b with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of the shares Unicredito Italiano S. p. A.
5.95% of the class, but not otherwise.
5.33% The Board may, in its absolute discretion, notify a shareholder FIL Limited 5.02% that they are not entitled to attend or vote at a general meeting or to exercise any other shareholder rights if he or she, or any Legal & General Group plc 4.99% person with an interest in shares has been sent a notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 which confers upon Directors public companies the power to require information with respect Details of the Directors are set out on pages 38 to 39. to interests in their voting shares and has failed to supply the Company with the requisite information within the prescribed At each AGM, pursuant to the UK Governance Code, all of the period.
In certain circumstances, the direction notice may Directors will retire and be proposed for re-election.
additionally direct that in respect of the default shares, no dividend is payable and that no transfer of any default shares Powers of the Directors may be registered.
Shareholders rights to vote may also be Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Companys restricted where the shares that they hold are not fully paid.
Articles of Association and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company shall be managed by the Transfers of Shares Board which may exercise all the powers of the Company, including The Board may refuse to register the transfer of a certificated without limitation the power to dispose of all or any part of the share which is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not undertaking of the Company and to issue or buyback shares under prevent dealings in shares in the Company from taking place on the authorities described below.
No alteration of the Companys an open and proper basis.
The Board may also refuse to register Articles of Association and no such direction shall invalidate any the transfer of a certificated share unless the instrument of prior act of the Board which would have been valid if that transfer: a is lodged, duly stamped if stampable, at the office alteration had not been made or that direction had not been given.
For further information visit: www.
com 60 Governance Issue of shares Donations Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and without Charitable Donations prejudice to any rights attached to any existing shares or class of During the year the Group gave 384,000 2010: 506,000 to shares, any share may be issued with such rights or restrictions as charitable organisations, with a further 1,080,000 of London the Company may by ordinary resolution determine or, subject to Stock Exchange Fine Income donated to charity.
1,300,000 and in default of such determination, as the Board shall determine.
2010: 100,000 from LSEG of these combined donations were made to the London Stock Exchange Group Foundation.
Authority to Allot Shares Details of the Groups Charitable giving is contained in the The authority conferred on the Directors at last years Wider Responsibility report on pages 30 to 31.
AGM to allot the unissued share capital of the Company up to a maximum nominal amount of 6,500,000 representing Political Donations and expenditure approximately 33.3 per cent of the issued share capital of the The Group made no political donations and incurred no Company as at the date of the Notice of the Companys last political expenditure during the year.
The Board is proposing AGM or, in connection with a pre-emptive offer to existing that shareholders pass a resolution at the forthcoming AGM shareholders by way of a rights issue, up to a maximum in the same form as last year to authorise the Company to make nominal amount of 12,500,000 representing approximately political donations and or incur political expenditure as such 66.6 per cent of the issued share capital of the Company as at terms are defined in sections 362 to 379 of the Companies Act the date of the Companys last AGM, expires on the date of the 2006 in amounts not exceeding 100,000 in individual or forthcoming AGM.
Shareholders will be asked to give a similar aggregate, until the end of the Companys AGM in 2012.
It is authority to allot shares at the forthcoming AGM.
the Companys policy not to make political donations or incur political expenditure and the Board has no intention of using Authority to Purchase Shares this authority for that purpose.
However, the application of the The authority for the Company to purchase in the market up to relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006 is potentially 27 million of its ordinary shares, representing approximately very broad in nature and this authority is sought to ensure 10 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company, that the Group does not inadvertently breach these provisions as at the date of the notice of the Companys last AGM, granted as a result of the breadth of its business activities.
at the AGM held on 14 July 2010, expires at the end of the forthcoming AGM, at which shareholders will be asked to Supplier Payment Policy give a similar authority to repurchase shares.
It is the Groups ongoing policy to agree payment terms with suppliers when business transactions are negotiated and to At a separate general meeting of the Company to be held make payments in accordance with those terms when goods in connection with the merger, it is contemplated that and services have been satisfactorily supplied.
London Stock shareholders will be asked to give similar authorities in Exchange plc is an approved member of The Prompt Payment relation to the authorities to allot and purchase shares, set Code, part of a structured initiative devised by the UK Government, out above, with effect from completion of the merger, by with the Institute of Credit Management, to tackle the issue of reference to the issued share capital of the Company as late payment and help small businesses.
The Prompt Payment enlarged by the merger.
Conditional upon completion of the Code can be viewed at: www.
The merger, this authority will replace any authority granted at creditor days at 31 March 2011 based on the aggregate of the the forthcoming AGM.
amount which was owed to trade creditors and the aggregate of the amount in which the Group was invoiced by suppliers Directors Interests during the year was 24 days 2010: 16 days.
Directors interests in the shares of the Company as at 31 March 2011 according to the register maintained under the Companies Significant Contracts Act 2006 are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on The Company as borrower has entered into: pages 48 to 57.
No company in the Group was, during or at the i a revolving facility agreement with, among others, Barclays end of the financial year, party to any contract of significance Capital, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, HSBC Bank plc, in which any Director was materially interested.
the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd, Intesa Sanpaolo S. p. A. Lloyds TSB Bank plc and Unicredit Bank AG, London Employees Branch, dated 17 November 2010: and Information on the Companys employment policies is given on ii a revolving facility agreement with, among others, Lloyds page 31.
The Company provides an induction programme for new TSB Bank plc, Bayerische Hypound Vereinsbank AG, and employees, including training on health and safety, and a range Intesa Sanpaolo S. p. A. dated 24 July 2008. of development programmes for all staff to develop their skills and knowledge.
The Company encourages and assists the Both these Agreements contain a change of control provision employment, training and retention of disabled people.
Where which, if triggered, allows the relevant facility agent upon changes to working practices or structure affect staff, they are instructions from the majority lenders to cancel the relevant consulted and given the appropriate support.
All employees are facility and declare all outstanding loans under the relevant provided with information on matters of concern to them in their agreement, together with accrued interest and all other work, through regular briefing meetings and internal publications.
amounts accrued, due and payable.
London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2011 Overview Business Review Governance Group financial statements Other information Governance Directors Report 61 The Company has issued two sterling Notes due 2016 and Employee Benefit Trust 2019.
Both Notes contain a redemption upon change of control As at 31 March 2011 the trustee of the London Stock Exchange provision which, if triggered by the combination of a change Employee Benefit Trust, which is an independent trustee, held 1.9 of control and, within 120 days thereafter, a credit rating million shares 2010: 3.0 million under the terms of the trust for the downgrade to non-investment grade, allows Noteholders to benefit of employees and former employees of the Company and its exercise their option to require the issuer to redeem the Notes subsidiaries.
The trust is a discretionary trust and the shares are held and pay any accrued and unpaid interest due on the Notes.
to meet employees entitlements under the Companys share schemes.
Employees have no voting rights in relation to the shares while they The rules of the Companys employee share plans set out are held in trust.
The trustee has full discretion to exercise the voting the consequences of a change of control of the Company rights attaching to the shares or to abstain from voting.
Shares acquired on employees rights under the plans.
Generally such rights by employees through the Companys employee share plans rank will vest on a change of control and participants will become equally with the ordinary shares in issue and have no special rights.
entitled to acquire shares in the Company although in certain circumstances the Remuneration Committee has the discretion Contractual Arrangements Essential to the Company to defer vesting and to require rights to be exchanged for Under the UK Companies Act 2006 we are required to provide equivalent rights over the acquiring companys shares.
information about persons with whom the company has The Merger Agreement between TMX Group and the Company was contractual or other arrangements which are essential to the entered into on 9 February 2011 and is governed by the laws of the business.
The Group has contractual arrangements with LCH.
Province of Ontario and the laws of Canada applicable thereon.
Clearnet for clearing services to London Stock Exchange members and with SIA-SBB for the provision of technology to CC&G, Monte Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, the parties Titoli and MTS, which remain essential for the business.
Various have entered into certain non-solicitation covenants in respect Group entities are regulated and the Group attaches the highest of potential third party approaches, including approaches that priority to complying with local regulatory requirements.
may give rise to a change of control.
In addition, a termination fee of 39,000,000 Canadian dollars will be payable either from Financial Risk Management the Company to TMX Group or from TMX Group to the The use of financial instruments by the Group and the Groups Company in certain circumstances.
financial risk management have been specifically considered In particular, either party may receive payment of the by the Directors, and relevant disclosures appear in Principal termination fee in circumstances inter alia where: Risks and Uncertainties, on pages 32 to 37 of this report, and in the notes to the Financial Statements on pages 73 to 75. i the other party breaches its non-solicitation covenants in any material respect and the harmed party terminates Audit Information the Merger Agreement, or In accordance with Section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006, ii the other party terminates the Merger Agreement for the the Directors confirm, in the case of each Director in office at purpose of entering into a binding written agreement with the date the Directors Report is approved, that: respect to a superior proposal relating to that other party.
i so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant In addition, if either party terminates the Merger Agreement audit information of which the Companys auditors are because i there was a delay in the merger becoming effective unaware: and beyond the time agreed in the Merger Agreement, or ii either ii he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as partys shareholder approval had not been obtained, a a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant termination fee will be payable if: audit information and to establish that the Companys a prior to such termination, a bona fide acquisition proposal auditors are aware of that information.
which includes an acquisition of 50 per cent or more of the shares in the relevant party is made by a third party for a Auditors party, and A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as the b within 12 months following the date of such termination Companys auditors will be proposed at the AGM.
that party enters into a definitive agreement in respect of such acquisition proposal which is subsequently completed.
By Order of the Board In such circumstances, the termination fee will be payable by the party the subject of the subsequent acquisition proposal less the amount of any expense fee previously paid under the terms of the Merger Agreement in connection with the termination.
Lisa Condron Group Company Secretary 13 May 2011 For further information visit: www.
