22 Business Review Information Services Introduction The Information Services business delivers real time data and other Information products including reference data, indices and desktop solutions, ensuring efficient price discovery and extensive market intelligence for trading participants and investors.
Reliable and comprehensive market information enables businesses to make sound decisions in a fast-changing world.
In the past year, we continued to improve our information offering to a broad base of international clients.
The Groups Information Services Real Time Data The Groups Real Time Data business is a primary reference division provides a diverse range point for UK and Italian cash equities and other instruments, used by trading participants and investors at all levels.
of data and tools that enable The number of professional users accessing real time data, via our decision making and operational direct network and also via over 200 network service providers and market data vendor partners, remained stable at 93,000 efficiencies of our extensive, 2010: 93,000 for London Stock Exchange and 139,000 2010: international client base.
Reflecting the evolution in the way that real time data is distributed, during the year we introduced David Lester new pricing and service initiatives for direct reporting and Director of Information Services non-display and other application usage, updating for evolved data usage and reducing costs for a number of our clients.
In July 2010, we launched a new post trade market data service to professional users, offering real time post trade market data from both the London Stock Exchange and Borsa Italiana cash markets.
The offering has been designed to develop the availability of high-quality post trade market data in the multi-venue MiFID environment, to improve transparency of European trading data.
We were pleased to see that other exchanges have followed our lead by providing similar services.
Other Information We provide reference data and software solutions, helping clients with effective data management and straight through processing Strategy: STP.
In the past year, we further developed our services to Deliver information services that provide clients with enhanced secure and efficient data improve the efficiency of our industry management and connectivity through UnaVista and SEDOL.
UnaVista is the Groups secure, hosted platform for all matching, Leverage our flexible platform to validation and reconciliation needs.
UnaVista offers a range of expand scale and scope of product business solutions within three areas: Post Trade Services, Data offering across the Group Solutions and Reconciliations see case study on page 25.
Our Post Trade transaction reporting service enables customers to Tailor our offering to meet send information to multiple regulators, including the FSA UK customers needs and AFM Netherlands.
The newly launched Post Trade Confirmation Portal and Swaps Portal further streamline the post trade process and reduce risk exposure for our customers.
SEDOL is our global multi-asset class reference data service, providing unique identification codes for global securities.
SEDOL codes are a unique country level identifier and include both listed and unlisted instruments covering all asset classes.
The SEDOL Masterfile Service SMF database provides clients with access to query reference data on over 19 million instruments, up from 10 million last year, sourced from over 80 countries worldwide.
SMF is currently being upgraded on UnaVista Data Solutions to allow improved customer interaction with the data as well as the incorporation of new data sets.
London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2011 Overview Business Review Governance Group financial statements Other information Business Review Information Services 23 LSE professional terminals Borsa Italiana professional terminals 000s 000s 2011 93 2011 139 2010 2010 93 93 2010 2010 142 142 2009 2009 104 104 2009 2009 151 151 2008 2008 112 112 2008 2008 160 160 2007 2007 96 96 2007 2007 147 147 In addition to reference data services, our desktop solutions worldwide and services the worlds largest asset owners, fund provide front-end products for market data as well as order managers and investment banks.
FTSE revenues increased and execution management systems, all provided through 18 per cent during the year.
Proquote, in Italy and the UK.
During the year FTSE acquired the outstanding shares of Proquote provides financial services firms, listed companies FTSE Xinhua Index, now renamed FTSE China Index series, and retail investors with efficient access to a store of financial which is the leading index series designed to enable information including market quotes, news and security profiles.
international investment in the China market.
In Italy, we reached 35,000 screens by the year end, up 1,000 on Turquoise, our majority owned MTF offering trading in panthe previous year.
In the UK, the number of desktop users taking European equities on a range of markets, has successfully grown real time data from Proquote was 4,800.
In connecting brokers its share of trading.
As at the end of the year, Turquoise was the with Retail Service Providers RSPs, Proquote enjoys a leading third largest Multilateral Trading Facility for lit book trading position with a network of 36 RSPs: with order flow via the RSP with a 3.6 per cent share of pan-European secondary trading network for the fourth quarter increasing by 46 per cent on the and the second largest MTF mid-point, or dark, market with same period for the prior year to over 400,000 trades a month.
a 34 per cent share of pan-European MTF mid-point trading.
RNS is a leading service for real time UK regulatory news This year Turquoise successfully completed the migration of announcements.
Issuers, including a significant proportion its trading platform to the Millennium Exchange platform.
The of FTSE 100 companies, choose RNS to meet their disclosure new platform has increased the speed, capacity, functionality and obligations and communicate with professional investors with scalability of trading and provided enhanced access for customers.
a total of 180,000 announcements over the past year.
From 1 April 2011, Turquoise will be reported as part of Capital FTSE, our joint venture with The Financial Times Ltd, provides Markets following changes to the way the business is managed financial indices to international clients.
Since its establishment on the incorporation of EDX into Turquoise Derivatives.
in 1995, it has successfully developed the FTSE brand globally and today the majority of its revenues are generated outside the UK.
With over $5 trillion of assets estimated to be benchmarked to FTSE Indices globally, it is the third largest index provider Turquoise Derivatives Existing products New products Technology Clearing Transferred from EDX IOB Equity Derivatives Turquoise Derivatives SOLA Trading, TMX CC&G provides risk on Russian, Kazakhstan, emerging markets book Groups market-leading management, margin Egyptian, South Korean an equity derivatives ultra-low-latency derivatives calculation, netting and and Indian underlyings.
market focused on trading technology.
emerging markets Also used by the Groups Clearing handled Norwegian stock and index companies traded on the IDEM derivatives market.
Newly launched IOB Russian Turquoise Derivatives DR Dividend Futures.
launched May 2011 with FTSE 100 Index futures to commence trading in June 2011 subject to obtaining relevant licences.
For further information visit: www.
