06 Overview What we do business model We provide services to a broad set of clients across a range of asset classes and functions.
This section provides an overview of the Groups activities and their inter-connections.
Capital Markets Our central economic function is to bring together companies seeking capital with investors from around the world.
Primary market Our primary markets in London and Italy provide companies from around the globe with cost efficient access to some of the worlds deepest and most liquid pools ofcapital.
Initial Public Offerings Amounts raised IPOs 13.1 billion in new issues 99 2010: 50 2010: 3.9 billion 27.2 billion from further issues Companies on our markets 2010: 72.6 billion 2,938 2010: 3,046 ETFs and ETCs listed 1,345 2010: 861 Market capitalisation 2.4 trillion 2010: 2.3 trillion More information Information & Technology Services See the Segmental Review section pages 15 to 25 for an update on developments in each main Real time data business area.
We supply real time prices and trading data creating the transparency and liquidity that are essential for market Read the Financial Review users.
This data is of high value, used and referenced pages 26 to 29 for details by market participants and other trading services as it of business performance over is price forming information.
As well as providing feeds the past year.
directly to clients, we also distribute through providers such as Bloomberg and Thomson Reuters.
They incorporate our data with other information and sell to trading firms, investors and institutions around the world.
London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2011 Overview Business Review Governance Group financial statements Other information Overview What we do business model 07 Post Trade Services Secondary market The Group provides a Our systems provide fast and efficient trading, allowing investors and institutions access fullrange of Post Trade to UK and Italian equities as well as European and US equities through Turquoise, services.
Based in Italy, international depositary receipts on our International Order Book, European corporate CC&G provides clearing and Government bonds, and equity and index derivatives Italian, Norwegian and Russian.
services and Monte Titoli pre-settlement, settlement and custody services.
CC&G will provide clearing services for Equities Fixed income Derivatives Turquoise Derivatives.
Our systems allow our The Groups MTS and Our experience of running members to electronically MOT businesses provide our primary markets has More Post Trade trade equities listed on our platforms for the trading enabled us to develop information is provided markets.
The majority of Government and derivative markets for inMarket Structures, of trading takes place corporate bonds.
In the trading of emerging pages 102 to 103. on our Main and AIM February 2010, the market equity derivatives, markets bothin London Group launched a new particularly Russian.
Through UKelectronic order book is our derivatives market Turquoise acquired in forbonds, modelled on for Italian equities, and February 2010 traders the Italian MOT retail Turquoise will launch cannow alsoaccess bondmarket which pan-European derivatives pan-European and provides access for from June 2011.
Other information Technology To facilitate efficient trading on our markets, we have Electronic trading in London has developed significantly developed a number of other reference, desktop and since first introduced by Big Bang in 1986.
Now all of workflow products, which we make available to institutions, our businesses depend on technology that is secure, stable traders, retail brokers and market makers including: and performs to high levels of availability and throughput.
The trend towards high frequency, highly automated SEDOL unique security identifier numbering system trading continues and we are investing to increase the UnaVista trade matching and reconciliation service speed and capacity of our trading services, as well as RNS Regulatory News Service to provide new functionality, such as that required for Proquote market data system dark pool trading.
With the acquisition of MillenniumIT, FTSE index provider joint venture with The Financial we have an agile, efficient, in-house IT development Times Ltd capability that will serve the Groups capital markets businesses.
MillenniumIT also sells and licences exchange related technology and services tocapital markets businesses across the globe.
For further information visit: www.
