30 Business Review Our wider responsibility Working together with a wide array of Our business principles Integrity and trust are at the core of what we do.
As a Group we stakeholders, corporate responsibility have always operated under the banner of my word is my bond which is still most relevant to us today as a provider of trusted, to us means transparency, flexibility reliable, independent and user neutral services.
and innovation in all that we do.
In line with the growth of our business and increasingly international scale, our approach to corporate responsibility Through a wide range of initiatives, was upgraded this year consistent with our broader geographic presence and as an acknowledgement of the strategic role of from education to charity and from corporate responsibility in ensuring the Group acts to provide a positive contribution to the communities in which it operates.
fund-raising to volunteering, we look Corporate Responsibility within the Group is organised into to leverage our skills for the benefit four key pillars of activity: of the communities and markets 1.
People in which we operate.
Environment Each pillar is represented on a Group-wide Corporate Responsibility Committee by one or two skilled representatives.
Individual members of the Committee are drawn from across geography, market and discipline and are responsible for leading activities in their respective areas, defining our approach to each pillar of activity and co-ordinating through the Committee our overall corporate responsibility strategy and engagement.
At Board level, Corporate Responsibility is championed by our CEO, Xavier Rolet, with the exception of Environment, which is owned by our CFO, Doug Webb.
Donations by location of recipients % UK 42 Italy 29 Sri Lanka 29 1.
Community This year was marked by the launch of the London Stock Exchange Group Foundation.
Established as a corporate charitable trust through the Charities Aid Foundation CAF, the Foundation provides a single channel and point of focus for the Groups charitable giving, as well as a mechanism for staff involvement.
The Foundation is funded by: donations from the London Stock Exchange Group: fine income, i. e. the money that the Group collects as a result of disciplinary action: and from the fund-raising activities of our staff.
The initial endowment to the Foundation was 1 million from fine income, to which the Group contributed an additional 300,000.
London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2011 Overview Business Review Governance Group financial statements Other information Business Review Our wider responsibility 31 In the past year the Foundation has approved donations for a 3.
Ethics and governance total amount of 526,000 which will be directed towards charities As a business that is reliant on its reputation for honesty and in Italy, Sri Lanka and the UK.
Prior to the establishment of the fair-dealing, we recognise the importance of operating with Foundation but during the financial year, the Group donated a the highest levels of integrity, openness and respect at all further 164,000 directly to charities, of which 80,000 was levels within the organisation.
To this effect: donated from fine income.
Going forward, all charitable giving A Code of Business Principles is in place to set out the will be conducted through the Foundation.
behaviours that are expected of everyone within the Group: Full details of our community programmes can be found on our website at Underlying policies such as Whistleblowing, Gifts www.
com and Hospitality and Confidentiality help ensure understanding of, and compliance with, the Code: and 2.
People The Group is committed to supporting the objectives of the To continue to grow and develop our business in an increasingly new UK Bribery Act and we are implementing procedures complex and competitive market we need people with worldworldwide to fully comply with the Act.
class capabilities across all our key disciplines delivering world-class performance.
Environment We continually review our people strategy and during the year We are committed to managing our environmental impact developed and enhanced a number of key initiatives: across all the locations in which we operate through a process of review and improvement.
A new graduate programme was launched.
This resulted in recruitment of 10 high calibre international graduates who are This year, we have invested in improving energy efficiency: now being integrated into our Group and receiving extensive In our Milan offices, we are currently installing energy-efficient training and development.
We plan to extend the programme air-conditioning and lighting systems as part of a major next year.
We have also launched a new leadership refurbishment programme that has brought all Milan-based development framework to ensure that talented employees staff together under one roof in newly-designed surroundings.
are identified and given the right training and development We also continue to use electricity from renewable sources: and opportunities.
Our budget for training and development In the UK, we have installed new technology to optimise increased by 20 per cent for the year ending 2011 and spend the electricity used by ourselves and our tenants.
in this area will increase further in future years as the new development initiatives are rolled out across the Group.
The above measures, along with several others adopted across To reflect our increasingly global reach and to ensure that our the business, have resulted in a reduction in electricity usage strategy is executed consistently across all of our businesses, of eight per cent compared with the prior year.
our Group-wide Leadership Team was refreshed and the basis We have a number of initiatives to reduce water consumption of engagement changed.
Made up of over 50 of our most senior throughout the Group including the re-use of rain water in managers from each geography and discipline, it will meet Sri Lanka and the trialling of water management systems in twice a year to consider our strategy and developments in our 3 the UK which are targeted to save over 1,000 m of water a year.
industry and the opportunities and challenges that these present.
We have enhanced our internal communications efforts, We recycle over 44 per cent of our waste and are actively looking introducing webcasts, business presentations and feedback for ways to increase this percentage.
In the UK, we recently sessions throughout the year.
We have strengthened our received a gold award from the City of Londons Clean City scheme.
performance management process to reinforce the link We switched from a green to brown energy source for the UK, between our strategy and each employees responsibilities and increasing CO emissions by 69 per cent.
This decision was taken 2 performance.
Our reward and incentive systems are designed due to a lack of green energy in the UK marketplace and associated to provide a clear link between performance and reward, price rises due to high demand for low emission supplies.
40 per cent of employees in UK and Italy participate in share based reward and savings schemes.
We encourage open and The Groups environmental programme and performance are honest assessment of employee performance and behaviour regularly reviewed by senior management and we are committed through regular performance feedback and annual appraisals.
to encouraging all our employees to play a role in reducing their environmental impact.
Recent initiatives include investment in new After a period of stable employee turnover across our UK and audio visual equipment across the Group to limit business travel Italian businesses with voluntary turnover at eight per cent for and implementation of the UK Governments cycle to work scheme.
the years ending 31 March 2009 and 2010, the rate increased to Full details of our environmental policy, actions and key performance indicators 13 per cent this year in response to the upturn in the financial can be found on our website at www.
We are committed to providing a safe and healthy work environment.
This year there were no reportable accidents across the Group.
For further information visit: www.
