82 Man Group plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate Governance Report Board of Directors Jon Aisbitt Alison Carnwath Peter Clarke Phillip Colebatch Dugald Eadie Chairman of the Senior Independent Chief Executive Independent nonIndependent nonBoard and Chairman Director executive director executive director of the Nomination and Chairman of Committee the Remuneration Committee Biography Jon Aisbitt has 20 Prior to joining the Board, Peter Clarke joined Prior to joining the Board, Dugald Eadie has held years experience in Alison Carnwath spent Man in 1993 from the Phillip Colebatch was a a number of senior international corporate 20 years working in investment banking member of the Executive executive positions in finance and was investment banking and industry, having worked Boards of Swiss the fund management previously a Partner and was an Independent at Morgan Grenfell and Reinsurance Company industry.
He was Group Managing Director in Director of MF Global Citicorp.
He became and Credit Suisse Group.
Managing Director of the Investment Banking Holdings Limited until Head of Corporate Henderson plc until Division of Goldman August 2010.
Finance & Corporate his retirement in 1999, Sachs.
Affairs and was following its acquisition Company Secretary from by AMP.
He is an April 1996 to November Honorary Fellow of the 2007.
Faculty of Actuaries, and a Fellow of the CFA Society of the UK.
Term of office Jon was appointed to the Alison was appointed Peter was appointed Phillip was appointed Dugald was appointed Board as a non-executive to the Board as a to the Board in 1997 to the Board as a to the Board as a director in August 2003 non-executive director and became Finance non-executive director non-executive director and was appointed nonin January 2001.
He in September 2007. in January 2002.
He is executive Chairman in She was appointed was appointed Deputy Phillips current 3 year retiring from the Board at September 2007.
Jons Senior Independent Group Chief Executive term of office expires the 2011 AGM.
current 3 year term of Director in July 2009. in November 2005 and in July 2011.
Subject to office expires in July Alisons current term Chief Executive in March his reappointment by 2012. of office expires in July 2007.
Peter has no shareholders at the 2011.
Subject to her fixed term of office and 2011 AGM, his term of reappointment by his service contract is office will be renewed shareholders at the 2011 terminable on 12 months until July 2014.
AGM her term of office notice.
will be renewed until the 2012 AGM.
Jon is an Advisory Board Alison is Chairman of None.
Director of Celtic Pharma Land Securities Group executive director of appointments I and Celtic Pharma II plc, a non-executive Insurance Australia biotechnology and a Director of Barclays PLC Group and Lend Lease Director of New Forest and an Independent Corporation and is on Company Holdings Director of Paccar Inc. the Boards of Trustees African forestry.
of the LGT Group Foundation and the Prince of Liechtenstein Foundation.
Jon is Chairman of the Alison is a Member Peter regularly Phillip is Chairman Dugald is a Member Committee Nomination Committee of the Audit and attends Remuneration of the Remuneration of the Audit and membership and a Member of Risk Committee, Committee and Committee and Risk Committee and the Remuneration the Remuneration Nomination Committee a Member of the a Member of the Committee.
He attends Committee and the meetings by invitation.
Audit and Risk Committee Nomination Committee.
All directors appointments are subject to their retirement by rotation and reappointment by shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meetings AGMs.
As Alison Carnwath has served on the Board for more than 9 years, her reappointment is required to be confirmed by shareholders annually.
Man Group plc 83 Annual Report 2011 Kevin Hayes Ruud Hendriks Frdric Jolly Matthew Lester Patrick OSullivan Emmanuel Roman Finance Director Independent nonIndependent nonIndependent nonIndependent nonChief Operating executive director executive director executive director executive director and Officer Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee Kevin Hayes joined Man Ruud Hendriks Frdric Fred Jolly was Matthew Lester was Patrick OSullivan Emmanuel Manny as Chief Financial Officer was previously with Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director was previously Vice Roman joined Man as in March 2007 from Goldman Sachs Asset of Russell Investments of ICAP plc from 2006 Chairman of the Group Chief Operating Officer in Lehman Brothers, where Management where he Europe, Middle East and to 2010.
Prior to this he Management Board, as October 2010 following he served in a variety was a Managing Director Africa until the summer worked at Diageo plc in a well as Group Finance the acquisition of GLG.
of senior finance and and Co-Head of Sales of 2008.
Prior to this, number of senior finance Director, of Zurich He joined GLG in 2005 strategy positions based for Europe, Middle East Frederic was Head of roles, including Group Financial Services Group.
as Co-Chief Executive in New York and London.
Prior to this, Investment Consulting Financial Controller.
Officer after 18 years He was previously a Ruud was Global Head at The Wyatt Company, with Goldman Sachs Partner in the Financial of Institutional Sales Paris now Watson where he was Co-Head Services practice of Ernst for Robeco, a leading Wyatt.
of Worldwide Global & Young LLP in New international asset Securities and CoYork.
Head of the European Secretary of Man Group Securities Division.
Kevin was appointed to Ruud was appointed Fred was appointed Matthew was appointed Patrick was appointed Manny was appointed the Board as Finance to the Board as a nonto the Board as a nonto the Board as a nonto the Board as a nonto the Board in May Director in May 2007. executive director in executive director in executive director in May executive director in 2011.
Manny has no Kevin has no fixed term August 2009.
His current 2011 His current 3 year September 2007.
His fixed term of office and of office and his service 3 year term of office 3 year term of office term of office expires current 3 year term of his service contract is contract is terminable on expires in August 2012. expires in August 2012. in May 2014 subject to office expires in July terminable on 12 months 12 months notice.
He is seeking his appointment at the shareholder approval of 2011 AGM.
his appointment at the 2011 AGM.
Ruud is Chairman of Fred is founding Partner Matthew is Chief Finance Patrick is Chairman of Manny is a non-executive the Advisory Board of Lexam Partners, Officer of the Royal Old Mutual plc and a director of Grupo Prisa of Financial Assets an advisory business Mail Group.
He is on non-executive director of SA.
education, media a Dutch recruitment specialising in financial the main Committee of the Bank of Ireland and and entertainment.
the Hundred Group of COFRA Holding AG.
for the Netherlands, to Finance Directors.
Kohlberg Kravis, Roberts & Co. Senior Advisor to the Board of Syntrus Achmea and a Member of the Corporate Board of Taler Group a Dutch asset manager.
Ruud was appointed President of Man Investments SGR S. p. A in May 2011.
Kevin regularly Ruud is a Member Fred is a Member of Matthew is a Member Patrick is Chairman Manny regularly attends Audit and Risk of the Remuneration the Audit and Risk of the Audit and of the Audit and attends Audit and Risk Committee meetings Committee and Committee and Risk Committee and Risk Committee and Committee meetings by by invitation.
He a Member of the a Member of the a Member of the a Member of the invitation.
Committee meetings for certain items of business.
84 Man Group plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate Governance Report continued What are the key Board relationships?
Of critical importance to the effective working of the Board is my relationship with the Chief Executive, Peter Clarke.
While I am responsible for leading and running the Board, Peter leads and runs the business.
A summary of our clearly differentiated but complementary roles is given opposite.
Peter keeps me closely informed on developments in the business.
I regularly discuss with him the Boards thinking and concerns, challenging managements perspective where appropriate and identifying Chairman Chief Executive issues for further debate.
Together we explore Leads the Board and sets its agenda Leads the Executive Committee in ways in which we can best engage the Board including agreeing strategy and developing business strategy for Board on important issues and maximise nondetermining risk appetite.
approval and in managing risk.
Ensures the regular flow of accurate Runs the business, through the executive and relevant management information management, on a day to day basis and Senior Independent Director to enable the Board to make sound reports to the Board on performance and Another key figure on the Board is our Senior decisions and monitor business significant developments.
Independent Director, a role currently held by performance.
Builds and maintains an effective Alison Carnwath.
Alison provides a great source Ensures, with the support of the Executive Committee and management of advice and experience drawn from her broad Nomination Committee, effective Board team.
financial career and long service on the Man succession planning.
Communicates and instils throughout the Board.
I regularly use her as a sounding board Fosters effective Board relationships, business a shared purpose, culture and to test ideas and proposals before progressing evaluation of Board performance and set of values.
I know that she follow up action.
Maintains, in conjunction with the Finance would, if required, be a skilful intermediary Ensures effective communication Director and investor relations team, an with the non-executives and provide an with shareholders and that the Board effective dialogue with shareholders.
effective alternative channel of communication develops a clear understanding of their with shareholders if the Companys regular views.
Alison appraises my performance as Chairman on an annual basis in private discussion with the other non-executive To help give me a comprehensive view of Board performance.
The table below provides a directors, taking account of input from the activity and Board members contribution, I record of directors individual attendance executives.
I appreciate and greatly value the attend Audit and Risk Committee meetings at main Board meetings, in person or by direct and candid feedback she gives me from by invitation and Remuneration Committee telephone.
In addition, I am in frequent touch with Board members between Directors attendance at Board meetings What part does the Chairman play?
formal meetings to keep them updated or seek In addition to my regular dialogue with the their views on particular issues.
I am always Number of meetings held 14 Chief Executive on managements interface keen to preserve the immediacy and informality Number of meetings attended with the Board, I spend a lot of time working on of communication which I believe is one of the Jon Aisbitt 14 the Boards forward agenda and on detailed great strengths of our Board.
To supplement Alison Carnwath 11 preparation for meetings in conjunction with our formal Board programme, we meet for Peter Clarke 13 the Company Secretary.
Our aim is that dinner on the evenings before Board meetings Phillip Colebatch 12 Board meetings should allow full and free and as part of our annual strategy review.
Dugald Eadie 13 discussion, unburdened by time constraint These occasions provide the opportunity for Kevin Hayes 14 and over prescription, while still delivering further learning and the relaxed and creative Ruud Hendriks 13 proper governance and the timely addressing exchange of views on the business.
They also Frederic Jolly 13 of issues.
We keep non-executive Board allow private discussion between non-executive Patrick OSullivan 13 members updated on all important and topical Board members if required.
developments and give them the opportunity Owing to a potential conflict of interest, Alison Carnwath to raise any issues of concern.
Materials and What was on the Board agenda last year?
did not attend the meeting which approved the terms of the MF Global litigation settlement.
information presented by management are As mentioned in my Chairmans Review, the designed to facilitate well informed decision first part of the year was dominated by the making.
In chairing Board meetings I encourage Boards scrutiny and execution of the GLG the expression of the broadest range of acquisition.
This gave rise to an increased views, particularly those which may challenge number of meetings for which Board members management.
I seek to foster open and trusting were often required to make themselves relationships between executive and nonavailable at short notice.
The table on page executive Board members and am regularly 85 summarises the main business topics rewarded with robust, incisive and good addressed by the Board during the year in humoured debate.
addition to their regular review of business Man Group plc 85 Annual Report 2011 Summary of Board business 2010 April GLG Nov Interim results Analysis of strategic case for acquisition Approval of interim results, report and interim dividend Agreed negotiating mandate and price parameters Review of risk appetite statements Review of progress on actions arising from 2010 Board May GLG evaluation Review of transaction structure, pricing and due diligence Approval of change in accounting year and transitional Approval to proceed arrangements Year end results Dec Visit to Oxford-Man Institute of Finance Review of 2010 year end results and reporting Review of contribution of Institute research to AHL Year end review of risk management and internal controls Recommendation of final dividend Board Strategy Review Approval of notice of AGM Updates on progress in AHL and new and refocused Approval of additional funding for Oxford-Man business areas Institute of Finance Review of new sales opportunities and cost base Endorsement of Chief Executives delegation of Shaping of business over the next 18 months authority framework Debate on implications of longer term macro risks Update on reaction to GLG announcement and next steps Approval of settlement of MF Global litigation July GLG 2011 Review and approval of shareholder circular, prospectus and US Proxy Statement Initial review of integration plans Jan Visit to Pfaffikon office and meetings with local Approval of updated capital adequacy statement for FSA management Approval of disposal of stake in BlueCrest Funding and liquidity Approval to take 100% ownership of Ore Hill Approval of offer of exchange of the Companys Floating Approval of Remuneration Committee recommendations Rate Loan Notes for an alternative debt instrument on compensation Consideration of the adequacy of available liquidity in the light of future potential stress scenarios March Planning for 2011 Final approval of revised risk appetite statements Sept Risk day Review of liquidity and capital position and executive Review of the implications of a range of macro-economic proposals for change scenarios for Mans operating environment and Approval of 2011 Budget and three year Medium Term performance Plan Review of existing risk appetite statements and Consideration of new Board appointments agreement to change Review of the framework for the Boards governance of risk GLG Half day review of integration programme Endorsement of new governance framework for the integrated business Strategy update Update on workstreams agreed at the 2009 Board Strategy Review Review of the output from the product profitability and business efficiency workstream 86 Man Group plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate Governance Report continued What do the non-executives contribute?
We have discussed Alisons continuing appointment the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee.
Our Board benefits from a broad and rich with some of our key investors and they have Like Alison, Patrick brings extensive Board base of non-executive expertise.
Together our indicated their support for the benefit which long experience from outside Man to this role and will non-executives bring to Man a powerful mix serving directors bring to the Board provided that give me excellent support.
of experience in corporate finance, financial there is robust succession planning and regular services, institutional investment and client refreshment of the membership as a whole.
Induction for new directors development.
Some have worked at director We offer our new non-executive directors an level in large multinational organisations.
Others External interests induction tailored to their particular needs.
This have boutique experience and are proven All directors have a duty to avoid situations typically starts with a broad overview from the entrepreneurs.
Each has the global perspective which create or may create a conflict with the Chief Executive and is followed by meetings with and outlook required for the successful direction interests of the Company.
For this reason we ask each of our Executive Committee members, of Mans business.
our non-executive directors to notify us of their providing a thorough grounding across investment external business appointments and interests management, distribution, product structuring Time commitment prior to joining the Company and to keep us and operations, finance, legal and compliance Non-executive directors are appointed for advised of any changes on a continuing basis.
In addition, the firms an initial three year term, subject to their Any director wishing to take up a new external experts will lead sessions on specific corporate retirement by rotation and reappointment by appointment must first discuss it with me.
Any areas including funding and liquidity, capital shareholders at the Companys AGMs, after interests which are perceived to represent a planning, risk management and compliance, which a second term of three years may be potential conflict are reviewed and, if thought fit, corporate communications and investor relations.
Their annual time commitment authorised by the Board.
will vary according to their service on Board For directors who are unfamiliar with the UK Committees and the demands of the business.
Alison Carnwaths directorship of MF Global was listed company regime, the Company Secretary The minimum time expectation set out in their previously identified as representing a potential will provide guidance on directors individual letters of appointment is in the range of 24 to 33 conflict of interest.
For this reason Alison never duties and the legal, regulatory and governance days per annum.
Each director confirms at the took part in any Board discussion of MF Global obligations that are imposed on the Company time of their appointment that they have sufficient and did not receive any related Board minutes or and Board.
To meet the specialised requirements time to give to the role and their commitment is papers.
Following Alisons departure from the MF of Audit and Risk and Remuneration Committee reviewed as part of our annual Board evaluation.
Global Board in August 2010, this potential area members, we identify the principal technical The non-executive directors make every effort to of conflict no longer exists.
and regulatory areas which directors need to attend all scheduled and short notice meetings, understand and arrange appropriate briefings even if on occasion this requires them to join a What changes have there been to the with Committee chairmen, internal experts and meeting by telephone or via video conference Board this year?
We regularly review the composition of the Board and consider how its skill, knowledge and Directors indemnities and insurance cover Independence experience base could be enhanced to meet the On their appointment new directors are granted One of the key qualities required of nonneeds of the business.
This is the prime focus an indemnity by the Company, to the extent executives is that they should have the of the Nomination Committee and I report on its permitted by law, in respect of any third party independence of character and judgement work on page 90. liabilities which they may incur as a result of their which enables them to challenge their executive service on the Board.
The Company arranges colleagues constructively and dispassionately Earlier this month the Board appointed directors and officers liability insurance to cover and to carry our their broad governance role.
Emmanuel Manny Roman, who joined Man as certain liabilities and defence costs which the We recognise the importance of non-executives Chief Operating Officer last year following the Company indemnity does not meet.
Neither independence to our shareholders and it is one acquisition of GLG, as an additional executive the indemnity nor the insurance provides any of the issues we test in our annual evaluation of director.
Manny has a wealth of experience in protection in the event of a director being found directors effectiveness.
We are aware, however, trading, markets and business management.
to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly in that, for some investors, length of non-executive He played a leading role in the integration of respect of the Company.
service on the Board beyond nine years and in GLG and will continue to help the executive particular co-tenure over that period with the team realise the opportunities available to the How does the Board improve its same executive director will prejudice a noncombined business.
Continuing education and development We have also appointed Matthew Lester, a There is considerable emphasis on keeping the This seems to us to be an over prescriptive view.
former Group Finance Director of inter-dealer Boards knowledge of the business substantive We firmly believe that Alison Carnwath, who has broker ICAP, as a non-executive director and as and current.
Following the acquisition of GLG, now served on our Board for more than nine a member of the Audit and Risk Committee.
His the Board received presentations from GLGs years, continues to bring to her role the same broad financial and markets experience will be a Chief Investment Strategist and the managers rigorous enquiry and intellectual challenge from great asset to us.
of its Global Macro, Emerging Market and Long which the Board has always benefited.
Later in the year it visited the quick to test executive assertions and regularly Dugald Eadie, who has given the Company nine Oxford-Man Institute to explore the ongoing seeks direct feedback from staff on their years committed service as a non-executive contribution of the Institutes research to the perspective on the business and the impact director and as a former Chairman of the development of AHLs trading model and management is having.
Her continuity of service Remuneration and Audit and Risk Committees, discussed recent enhancements with AHLs brings the Board an in depth understanding will retire at this years AGM.
As part of the annual strategy review, the of Man which is of enormous value as the the refreshing of Board roles, Alison Carnwath Board received an update on the Man MultiCompany transitions to a broader stage with will step down as Senior Independent Director Manager strategy from the new CEO of that new players.
Her familiarity with the business after the AGM while remaining on the Board.
business and an overview of current market enhances rather than weakens her contribution.
Alison will be succeeded by Patrick OSullivan, opportunities across different geographies and Man Group plc 87 Annual Report 2011 sales channels from the Global Head of Sales Board Evaluation and Marketing.
The Board were also given an Areas identified for focus in 2010 Action taken introduction to the strategy, development and ambition of Man Systematic Strategies.
To Articulation of a clear strategic plan Clear workstreams established and keep in touch with business developments and and process for execution.
Substantive management overseas, the Board makes an annual visit to the Companys Swiss offices and delivery of diversification into holds meetings at other locations of strategic discretionary strategies through the importance for the business.
A visit to our Tokyo acquisition of GLG.
office is planned for later this year.
Of parallel importance is the need for directors Review of risk appetite and risk Full Board meeting dedicated to risk.
to keep up to date with relevant regulatory management oversight.
Approval of revised risk appetite developments, corporate governance trends statements.
Review of Board and and changes in investor expectations, some Audit and Risk Committee risk of which impact in particular on the nongovernance framework.
The Company Secretary researches and regularly circulates details of external programmes to facilitate this.
In Adequacy of senior executive Appointment of a COO, a new CIO of addition, all directors are aware that they may, if they consider it necessary, seek independent resource and succession planning.
Man Multi-Manager, a new Chief Risk professional advice at the Companys expense in Officer and a broad injection of GLG relation to the discharge of their role.
Board evaluation Every year the Board conducts a review of its Board insight into investor Chairmans meetings with top performance as a Board both collectively and as expectations and concerns.
Consultation by the individuals and identifies issues on which it needs Chairman of the Remuneration to work.
The table opposite lists the main issues Committee on new remuneration identified for attention in last years evaluation and a summary of actions taken during 2010. proposals.
Detailed reporting on investor response to GLG.
2011 evaluation Our 2011 review was led by an independent third party who interviewed each of the directors Areas identified for focus in 2011 and the Company Secretary and sought their assessment of the Boards performance Provision of more competitor information.
against key drivers of effectiveness including strategy development, the decision making Renewed work on succession planning for executives at and process, Board relationships, information immediately below Board level and the creation of a formal succession flows and succession planning.
also sought on the operation of the principal Board Committees and on the contributions of Review of the process for the timely submission of Board papers and individual directors.
This years review indicated that overall the Board and its principal Committees were operating effectively and to high standards of governance.
In particular, the Board had set a clear strategy and made a strong case for the acquisition of GLG.
The relationship between the Chairman and CEO was considered to be sound and it was felt that major issues were fully discussed before decisions were made.
The following table lists the main issues which were identified as warranting further consideration in 2011 and will be addressed by the Board collectively in the course of this year.
Feedback on individual directors contribution will be the subject of private discussion between the Chairman and those directors.
Feedback on the Chairman has been provided by the Senior Independent Director as noted earlier in this report.
88 Man Group plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate Governance Report continued How does the Board govern risk?
Operational risk and internal controls statement and balance sheet accounts.
The The Board is ultimately responsible for the Operational risk arises from the potential for system focuses on the financial reporting framework of the Groups risk governance and the Group to suffer losses due to failures in process over the most material financial risk management.
The Board is responsible for: processes or procedures in its business.
statement line items and is designed to maintain Operational risk is mitigated by the Groups proper accounting records and provide setting risk appetite: control environment.
The directors and senior assurance that financial information used within determining overall risk management managers of the Group are committed to the business and for publication is reliable.
strategy: maintaining high standards of control and a ensuring that risk is monitored and risk aware culture to safeguard the Groups Review of controls and risk management controlled effectively: and assets, reputation and franchise.
The Group systems the Groups systems of internal control.
pays particular attention to operational and The Board receives reports from line reputational risks relating to product suitability, management and Group Risk on the risks to Governance framework sales practices at intermediaries and the the achievement of the Groups operational and The Audit and Risk Committee of the accuracy of its valuation and investor reporting financial objectives, together with assurance Board provides independent oversight and processes.
Independent valuation service that the level of risk sustained is consistent with challenge in relation to internal control and risk providers are used for the valuation of fund and being managed in accordance with its risk management systems.
products and underlying third party managers appetite.
This includes reports on the current where a managed account is in place.
A and forward looking assessments of capital The Chief Executive has, through the authority dedicated team monitors the quality and and liquidity adequacy.
The Audit and Risk given to him by the Board, given delegated reliability of administration and valuation service Committee receives reports from RAC which authority for the oversight of risk from within the providers.
considers the effectiveness of risk controls business to two risk committees: through regular monitoring of risk scenarios, Significant resources are devoted to protecting key risk indicators and operational risk incident the Risk Assurance Committee RAC : and the resilience of the Groups information reports.
This is described in more detail in the the Finance Committee.
technology systems, including formal business Risk management section of the report from continuity plans and remote data back-up the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee.
These Committees comprise senior and disaster recovery facilities for each of Objective assurance on the operation and management from both line businesses and its key locations.
Business continuity for its effectiveness of internal controls is provided risk control functions and provide oversight core activities is regularly tested to maintain by Internal Audit whose audit programme is across all risks faced by the business.
An insurance programme targeted on the business areas and processes chaired by the General Counsel and oversees provided by a syndicate of third party insurers that are most significant in terms of the Groups the operational, regulatory and reputational is tailored to its risk profile and designed to risk profile and where there are key controls on risks faced by the Group and the internal control maximise breadth of cover and certainty of which the Group relies.
environment and other mitigating actions to response in respect of key third party liabilities, manage these risks.
Further information on the loss of Group assets, business interruption and In addition to its ongoing monitoring of risk operation of the RAC is contained in the Audit people-related exposures.
controls, the Board has conducted a specific and Risk Committee report on page 91.
The year end review of the effectiveness of the Finance Committee is chaired by the Finance The risk management processes and internal Groups system of internal control and risk Director and approves actual and contingent control systems described above have been in management during the year and for the use of the Group balance sheet and monitors place in respect of Mans business excluding period up to the date of this Annual Report.
the adequacy of economic and regulatory GLG throughout the year and up to the date of This process, which was also reviewed by capital and liquidity buffers in accordance with this Annual Report.
They have applied to GLGs RAC and the Audit and Risk Committee, the Boards risk appetite.
business since its acquisition on 14 October covered all controls operational, financial and 2010.
These systems have been regularly compliance and risk management systems.
Senior management in the businesses are reviewed by the Board.
The Companys It included a review of all significant operational accountable for all risks assumed in their systems of internal control aim to safeguard risk incidents and internal audit findings raised areas of responsibility and for the execution assets, maintain proper accounting records during the year.
It did not include the system of appropriate risk management discipline and provide assurance that the financial of internal control and risk management within the framework of policy and delegated information used in the business and published in place in respect of the business of GLG authority set out by the Board.
The principle of externally is robust and reliable.
The systems prior to its acquisition by Man.
No significant individual accountability and responsibility for are designed to manage key risks rather than weaknesses or material failings in the system risk management is an important feature of our eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business of internal controls were identified in this corporate culture.
objectives, and can only provide reasonable review.
Management does, however, have an and not absolute assurance against material ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and Day to day independent and objective misstatement or loss.
The systems comply with managing significant risks faced by the Group assessment and monitoring of risk is provided the guidance given in Internal Control: Revised and continually takes actions to improve internal by various control functions at the Group level Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code controls as a result of its own initiatives and and in the business.
These control functions the 2005 Turnbull guidance.
in response to reports from Internal Audit and include Group Risk, Finance, Legal and other internal and external reviews.
Compliance, Human Resources and Internal Financial reporting controls Audit.
In addition, risk management functions The financial reporting control system operating reside within each business unit, with formal across the Company requires certification of reporting lines and segregation of duties for the key controls over the financial reporting the key risk, compliance, legal and finance processes and certification of material income functions.
Man Group plc 89 Annual Report 2011 How does the Board engage with Last years AGM included a presentation Statement of compliance shareholders?
by the Chief Executive on the progress of with the Combined Code Institutional shareholders the business and an open question period Man undertakes a comprehensive programme allowing shareholders to ask about any areas The Company has, throughout the of meetings and events for institutional investors of the Companys performance as well as to year ended 31 March 2011, applied and research analysts which this year included discuss the specific resolutions proposed at the principles of and complied with over 200 meetings.
The Board were kept fully the meeting.
All our directors were available the provisions of Section 1 of the informed of the immediate market response to answer questions and many circulated Combined Code on Corporate to the proposed acquisition of GLG and later and talked to shareholders informally after received a detailed written report on the the meeting.
Voting on all the resolutions was Governance 2008 except in the feedback given to the Chief Executive and conducted by poll.
Some 61% of the shares in following respect: Finance Director in the course of their extensive issue were voted and all the resolutions were round of investor meetings.
2.2 of the Combined receives, as part of the Finance Directors Code requires that the Remuneration monthly reporting, updates on significant In September the Company held a general movements on the share register, analysts meeting to approve the acquisition of GLG and Committee should have delegated consensus forecasts, market sentiment and all of the executive directors attended.
During responsibility for setting the feedback from investor meetings.
the meeting shareholders were provided with remuneration of the Chairman.
an update on the progress of the acquisition At Man, the remuneration of I attend results presentations to analysts and an overview of the rationale behind the the Chairman is determined and hear at first hand their perceptions and transaction.
Shareholders were given the concerns about the business.
The Chairman of opportunity to ask questions formally during the by the Board based on the the Remuneration Committee has renewed our meeting and to continue their discussion with recommendation of the dialogue with institutional investors regarding directors after the meeting.
The This gives full transparency and Senior Independent Director is always available We are looking forward to welcoming allows the views of the executive to talk to shareholders about any issues of shareholders to our 2011 AGM and updating concern but has not had cause to do so during them on the significant changes to the business directors to be taken into account.
In addition, in response to requests made by shareholders at last years AGM, I Private shareholders and members of our investor relations team We are always pleased to hear the views of will be meeting separately with members of our private shareholders and to answer their The UK Shareholders Association for a queries by telephone or in writing through general discussion.
our shareholder mail box shareholder@ mangroupplc.
com We encourage them to make maximum use of our website to access Jon Aisbitt Company reports, notices of meetings and Chairman general shareholder and dividend information.
The website also provides a direct link to Shareview www.
co. uk which enables shareholders to view and manage their account online.
90 Man Group plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate Governance Report continued Nomination Committee report Role and membership Appointment of Emmanuel Manny Appointment of Matthew Lester as a The principal role of the Committee is to keep Roman as an executive director non-executive director under review the competencies, knowledge Later in the year the Committee discussed In March this year, after a prolonged search, and experience of the Board in the context of and gave their support to the Chief Executives the Committee was pleased to recommend to the challenges facing the business, to agree proposal that Manny Roman be appointed the Board the appointment of Matthew Lester.
the skills and profile specification for new an executive director of the Company.
Their This followed his interview by me, the executive appointments, to lead the search process and decision took account of the key role which directors and the Chairman of the Audit and to recommended suitable candidates to the Manny had played in the integration of the two Risk Committee.
We believe that Matthew, who Board.
The Committee is also responsible for businesses, his extensive trading, markets was previously Group Finance Director of ICAP, overseeing senior management development and business management experience and will bring substantial financial, markets and and succession plans to ensure that there is the contribution he could make to helping regulatory experience to both the Board and the continuity of appropriate executive resource the executive realise new opportunities.
The Audit and Risk Committee.
at and immediately below Board level.
The Committee also debated the impact that the Committees full terms of reference can be appointment might have on the dynamics of Renewal of non-executive appointments found on our website www.
com the Board and the balance of executive and In March the Committee reviewed the under About Man, Board of Directors.
Noting that the Board requirement for the retirement of directors had previously operated effectively with an at the 2011 AGM under the Companys The Committee comprises all the non-executive additional executive director, they were satisfied articles of association and the Combined directors.
Meetings are also attended by the that the current directness and candour of Code on Corporate Governance the Code.
Chief Executive and the Global Head of Human Board discussions would be sustained.
They noted that in future years, under the Resources.
The Company Secretary acts as new UK Corporate Governance Code, all Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee Conduct of non-executive search directors would be required to retire and held three meetings during the year at which As part of their review of non-executive seek reappointment by shareholders at every everyone was present.
succession and taking account of Dugald AGM.
For 2011 it was, however, agreed to Eadies proposed retirement in 2011, the recommend to the Board that the Company Work of the Committee during the year Committee identified the need for the should continue to adopt the retirement by Review of executive succession recruitment of a new non-executive director and rotation principle which currently applied to Midway through the year, as part of its oversight discussed the appropriate role specification.
of executive succession, the Committee It was agreed that this should include the received a presentation from the Chief requirement for recent and relevant financial The Committee noted the requirement under Executive on changes in top management expertise suitable for Audit and Risk Committee the Code for Alison Carnwath, who has served responsibilities and the establishing of an membership.
on the Board for more than nine years, to retire Executive Committee to run the combined and seek reappointment by shareholders business following the acquisition of GLG.
An independent consultant was appointed to at the AGM each year.
They discussed and They were kept updated on the search for conduct the search and a long list of names strongly supported the Boards view of Alisons a new Chief Investment Officer for the Man was shared with Committee members.
I continued independence, notwithstanding Multi-Manager business.
They endorsed the interviewed a number of shortlisted candidates her length of service, and proposed that the proposed appointment of Emmanuel Manny and some were further interviewed by both Board should recommend her reappointment Roman, former co-CEO of GLG, as Chief the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
to shareholders at the 2011 AGM.
They also Operating Officer and recommended that Although several had the capability to discharge proposed that the Board should recommend consideration be given to further developing his the role, it was felt that they were very similar the reappointment of Phillip Colebatch, who role in the combined business.
in experience, career profile and outlook was due to retire by rotation at the 2011 AGM, to existing Board members and might not, and that, subject to the reappointment of Review of senior management diversity therefore, bring sufficient diversity of thinking to Alison Carnwath and Phillip Colebatch by The Committee took time to review, in the the Board.
shareholders, the Board should renew their context of the current focus on the value terms of appointment for a further 12 months of gender diversity, Mans approach to the It was also disappointing, given our wish to and three years respectively.
diversity of its management and a specific capture value from gender diversity, that only analysis of the representation of women in 10% of the names put forward were female and As a further step in the refreshing of Board senior roles.
They discussed and endorsed, that one candidate with relevant experience roles, and taking account of Alisons wish to for implementation through the Executive withdrew from the process as she wished to stand down as Senior Independent Director Committee, a range of actions proposed to gain non-executive experience in a different while remaining on the Board, the Committee create an environment which would support sector.
endorsed, for Board approval, the proposal that the development of female talent and maximise Patrick OSullivan should be appointed as her womens contribution to the business.
successor in this role following the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
Jon Aisbitt Chairman Man Group plc 91 Annual Report 2011 Audit and Risk Committee report The Board relies on the Audit and Risk Committee to provide effective governance over risk management and external financial reporting and to report its findings and conclusions to the Board.
I am pleased to present my report on the work and operation of the Committee during the year with particular emphasis on the specific matters we have examined.
Patrick OSullivan Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee Role of the Chair of the Committee Other external providers of assurance over I work closely with the Finance Director, Legal our risk management and internal controls are Counsel, Chief Risk Officer, Head of Internal invited when applicable.
Audit, Committee Secretary and other senior management to create and maintain an agenda Has the Committees way of working for the Committee that examines emerging changed?
risks and issues within the wider context of The only significant change in the Committees providing overall assurance to the Board on formal remit in 2011 has been the closer Mans risk governance.
My recent and relevant working relationship required with the financial experience is essential to this.
The Remuneration Committee following the agenda is driven by Mans principal risks, implementation of the FSAs Remuneration as set out in Risk management on PG 48.
This has required a flow of additional In chairing each meeting, I aim to have the information to the Remuneration Committee necessary expertise from within Man, and on matters relevant to the compensation externally if necessary, to cover the topics pool principles and calculation, on correct under consideration.
I consider it important for identification of Code Staff roles and on any risk the Committee to be able to meet face to face or control matters relevant to the remuneration with key executives and challenge them on their of groups of staff or individuals.
I report formally opinions and conclusions.
The Committee has to the Remuneration Committee on these a full agenda, so the meetings are demanding matters in accordance with an agreed annual in terms of quality reporting from management timetable.
These changes are now reflected in and focused discussion and analysis.
I believe the Committees updated terms of reference.
that this is done well, as supported by this Risk governance has been further improved years independent review of the Committees by closer alignment of the Committee to risk effectiveness.
oversight performed by executive management.
A Risk Assurance Committee of senior Who attends the Committee?
executives has existed for many years, but in The Committee comprises four independent 2011 it was re-established with new terms of non-executive directors under my reference and revised membership to provide chairmanship.
It met six times during the a clearer mandate for risk governance.
All meetings were attended by the four was reinforced by the appointment of our non-executive members, Finance Director Legal Counsel as its Chair.
The appointment and Secretary to the Committee, who is also of a Chief Risk Officer during the year is also Head of Internal Audit.
Invited to attend each relevant in this context.
meeting were the Board Chairman, external audit partner, Head of Group Risk and Financial Governance over risk management Controller, who all attended all six meetings.
I aim to achieve an effective balance between Executive attendance at the Committee was the examination of new and emerging risks increased following the appointment of a alongside the management of existing risks.
Chief Operating Officer and Chief Risk Officer An essential part of the Committees work is during the year.
Our General Counsel also now to receive regular reports on risk, compliance attends meetings in his capacity, from October, and internal control.
However, most of the as Chairman of the executive level Risk Committees time is spent on specific risk Assurance Committee.
The Committees terms matters either presented through the Risk of reference have been updated to incorporate Assurance Committee process or direct to the these changes in attendees and can be found Committee.
The following specific matters were on our website www.
considered during the year: I also now invite Ernst & Young who provide an the proposed acquisition of GLG.
The independent assessment of internal controls Committee dedicated a majority of its within certain areas of Mans business to meeting in July 2010 to the consideration present their reports and management letters.
of the prospectus and shareholder circular, 92 Man Group plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate Governance Report continued with the working capital and regulatory The Head of Compliance reports six monthly and a report for AHL on its compliance with capital being particular areas of focus.
to the Committee on emerging trends in global the best practice standards of the Hedge Fund Integration risks were also examined, taking and local regulation and the potential impact Standards Board.
into account specific learning points from on the Group.
The Head of Technology reports previous transactions, and a mitigation plan annually on existing and emerging technology Governance over external financial agreed.
This was monitored at subsequent risks.
The Committee was pleased to note the reporting meetings: significant improvement in controls achieved by The Committee holds meetings ahead of a report in November providing a creation of Mans new global Data Centre and results announcements to consider reports comprehensive update on how IT aspects the significant benefits being achieved through from management and the external auditors of GLG integration were being managed.
rationalising Mans legacy IT systems.
on key areas of judgement in accounting for A particular focus here was effective and disclosing the Groups results and financial separation of GLG, AHL and Man MultiThe Head of Group Risk provides regular position.
For the annual financial statements, Manager businesses: reports to the Committee on recent market this review took place in March.
A similar an Internal Audit report on the results of conditions, the Groups risk profile and review was undertaken in January to assist an audit of key risks and controls in GLG prudential regulatory developments.
The the Remuneration Committee in determining Trading.
The Committee noted the effective Committee is provided with current position the pool available for performance bonuses to operation of trading limits: and forward looking assessments of capital be paid in February, and in September for the updates from management on progress in adequacy, liquidity adequacy, earnings interim results.
the appointment of global service providers risk, credit risk, market risk and operational for registrar and fund administration services risk.
Forward looking assessments include Topics reviewed by the Committee in these and presentations on the impact of the comparison between the Boards risk appetite focused meetings included impairment testing arrangements on Mans risk profile and and the results of various stress test scenarios.
of goodwill in the Man Multi-Manager business: internal controls: The Committees focus in 2011 has been the the value of GLG Investment Management results of an independent, external review of monitoring of the actual and expected level Agreements and related customer relationships the operational risks of trading in AHL.
No of regulatory capital surplus as required by as part of the assessment of goodwill arising significant concerns were highlighted: the Board, anticipating any constraints and on the acquisition of GLG: the recoverability a report in May from the Head of remediation planning.
Close attention continues of capitalised commission costs from future Compliance on our state of readiness for to be paid to the value at risk on investments in income on the related products: the valuation the Bribery Act 2010, coming into force funds.
of proprietary capital positions: and the impact from 1 July 2011.
The Committee were of the GLG acquisition on segmental reporting.
satisfied with the assessment of risk and Internal Audit provides the Committee Key sensitivities behind the accounting managements preparations: at each meeting with a 12 month rolling judgements were discussed with the Finance a presentation from management on the assessment, independent of the business, Director and external auditors.
newly formed business unit Man Systematic of the effectiveness of the Groups control Strategies, setting out the risk profile of environment within the context of the Groups All other aspects of the Companys annual and the business, mitigating internal controls risk management framework.
This is supported interim results announcements and financial and residual risks.
The reputational and by reports of Internal Audits key findings in the statements are considered at meetings of operational linkages with AHL and GLG period together with managements proposed the Committee held shortly before the Board were examined: actions.
Internal Audit tracks management meeting held to approve them.
Drafts are updates from management on updating actions and verifies them when reported by distributed sufficiently in advance of the the existing Ethical Policy for the management as complete.
The Committee Committee meetings to give directors the combined organisation, and the plans for receives a report at each meeting of overall opportunity to raise questions with the Finance communicating and embedding it: and progress on these actions and a more detailed Director and Financial Controller and for consequences of the proposed change analysis and explanation of risks that have resulting changes to be addressed in good of financial reporting date from March to not been quickly or adequately mitigated.
No significant obstacles were The Committee addresses any concerns envisaged.
direct with executive management on matters The Committee looks to the Groups Financial needing further attention.
From May, the Controls Framework to provide assurance that Regular risk and control reporting to the Committee considers at each meeting Internal internal controls over financial reporting are Committee Audits assessment of the key inherent risks adequately designed and operating in practice.
From October, a substantial agenda item of business areas scheduled for audit.
These Internal Audit provides independent assurance at each Committee meeting has been a assessments are also reviewed by the Risk over these controls, based on an audit plan presentation from the Chair of the Risk Assurance Committee.
Assurance Committee, review of its minutes, updates on the management of GLG post The external auditors management letter External financial reporting - the external transaction integration risks and focused reviews covering their internal control findings and auditors of specific operational risk scenarios.
The area conclusions for the year ended 31 March 2010 The Committee also discussed the planning, of focus in November was the risk of misselling, was considered at the July meeting of the conduct and conclusions of the external in March it was the risk of external fraud Committee and an initial report for the current auditors during the year as explained below.
including that risk within external managers and year was considered at the March meeting.
May the risk of internal fraud and unauthorised Also considered at the March meeting were The Committee approved the auditors group activities, such as rogue trading.
The close Ernst & Youngs reports on internal controls audit plan in November after discussion with alignment between the two committees is still within the Man Multi-Manager business and them.
The auditors explained the programme relatively new and we continue to improve the Man Valuation Services Limited, in accordance of work they planned to undertake to ensure quality of information being provided.
with Statement of Auditing Standards No.
70, that the identified risks did not lead to a material Man Group plc 93 Annual Report 2011 $000 2011 2010 misstatement of the financial statements.
Where they thought it would be effective to Fees payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of the do so, this work included the evaluation and Companys financial statements 1,991 1,013 testing of Mans internal controls.
They also Other services: explained where they planned to obtain direct The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 2,507 2,500 external evidence and were using experts to Other services pursuant to legislation 371 497 assist with their audit.
The external auditors Other services relating to taxation 646 873 shared their assessment of financial statement Services relating to corporate finance transactions 1,794 risks with the Committee.
The three key risks All other services 422 1,141 were the potential for misstatement of Mans Total auditors remuneration 7,731 6,024 financial performance through internal fraud: misstatement of goodwill in the Man MultiManager business: and as required by auditing of audit partner, each year and also assesses Man Multi-Manager business and the further standards a presumption that fee income is their independence.
As a safeguard to help steps necessary to provide comprehensive not correctly stated.
The Committee discussed avoid the objectivity and independence of the assurance to the Committee on Internal these risks with the auditors and considered the external auditors becoming compromised, Controls over Financial Reporting, both key related audit procedures.
the Committee has a formal policy governing priorities in the 2011 Internal Audit plan.
Man the engagement of the external auditors to and GLG resources, already merged within one The Committee discussed these issues with provide non-audit services this policy was team, have adopted Mans well established, risk them again at the time of their review of the reviewed and re-approved in January.
This policy based audit approach.
half year summary financial statements in precludes them from providing certain services September and again in March and May at including book keeping, financial IT system The Committee considers the effectiveness the conclusion of their audit of the financial design and implementation, financial appraisal of Internal Audit annually.
A review has statements for the year.
As they concluded the and valuation, and internal audit work and been carried out at least every five years by audit, they explained: permits other limited services which are subject an independent consultant and otherwise to low fee thresholds or which require prior annually by internal assessment.
Input is also The work they had done to test approval from the Committee.
The remuneration sought from the external auditors.
The internal managements assumptions and estimates paid to Mans auditors,  assessment completed in March included and how they had satisfied themselves that LLP and its worldwide associates is shown in the factors such as the successful management these were reasonable: table above.
of the action tracking process, successful They had reviewed the groups application of completion of the 2011 plan and contribution to its accounting policies: and The increase in the Companys audit fee specific areas of internal control improvement.
The results of their testing of the controls includes $510,000 for the GLG business An independent assessment is to be carried out and other procedures carried out in the acquired in the year.
Fees payable for the audit in Autumn 2011. major overseas locations and the issues of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to they had found there.
legislation comprise the fees for the statutory Committee evaluation audits of the subsidiaries.
Other services The Committee conducts an annual review of The external auditors also reported to the pursuant to legislation largely relate to services its performance and effectiveness.
This review Committee the misstatements that they had in relation to statutory and regulatory filings.
is facilitated externally at least every three found in the course of their work and the These include the review of Mans interim years.
For 2011 it was conducted externally by Committee confirmed that there were no such financial information under the Listing Rules of an independent consultant, selected by and material items remaining unadjusted in the the FSA.
Taxation services include compliance reporting to the Board.
The review concluded financial statements.
services and advisory services such as tax that the Committee was effective in carrying out advice relating to transactions.
The existing external audit partner for GLG was to corporate finance transactions primarily invited to attend part of the January and March concerned the requirements relating to the Actions agreed by the Committee in March meetings to discuss the audit plan for the prospectus and shareholder circular for the 2010 as part of the prior year review have been year ended 31 December 2010, progress and GLG acquisition.
Other services include work completed, although further steps are being matters arising from the audit.
in connection with Mans pension liability and taken to improve our training for new and corporate restructuring.
existing members of the Committee.
Relationship with the external auditors The Committee holds a private meeting with Relationship with Internal Audit the external auditors at least annually to provide The Head of Internal Audit attends all meetings Patrick OSullivan an additional opportunity for open dialogue of the Committee and on each occasion meets Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee and feedback from the Committee and the with the Chairman of the Committee ahead of auditors without management being present.
The Committee holds a private Matters typically discussed include the auditors meeting with the Head of Internal Audit each assessment of business risks and the quality year to provide an additional opportunity for of interaction with management.
The Chairman open dialogue and feedback without executive of the Committee meets with the external audit management being present.
partner prior to Committee meetings depending on the agenda.
Internal Audits plan for the nine months to 31 December 2011 was reviewed and approved in The Committee considers the reappointment January.
The Committee noted the successful of the external auditors, including the rotation integration of audit work with the SAS70 for the
