Man Group plc 107 Annual Report 2011 Directors Report The directors submit their report, together with the audited financial Substantial voting interests statements, for the year ended 31 March 2011 the year.
As at 26 May 2011 the following voting interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company disclosable under the FSAs Disclosure and Principal activities, business review and results Transparency Rules had been notified to the Company.
Man Group plc the Company is the holding company for the Man group % of companies the Group and is domiciled and incorporated in the United Kingdom.
4.15 To enable you, as our shareholders, to assess how the directors have Legal & General plc 3.70 performed their duty to promote the success of the Company, the G&S Trustees Limited Pierre Lagrange 3.41 Companies Act 2006 requires the directors to set out in this Report a fair review of the business of the Group during the year, the position of the Powers of directors Group at the end of the year and a description of the principal risks and The Board is responsible for the management of the business of the uncertainties facing the Group.
Information fulfilling these requirements Company and may exercise all the powers of the Company subject to the and those contained in the FSAs Listing Rules and Disclosure and provisions of relevant statutes and the Companys Articles of Association.
Transparency Rules can be found in the following sections of the Annual A copy of the Articles is available on request from the registered office of Report and are incorporated by reference.
The Articles may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
Page s Business review, including: 1 to 53 The Articles give the power to a director to appoint any person to be his Principal business activities and operating subsidiaries alternate subject to the appointment of such person who is not another Principal risks and uncertainties director being approved by the Board.
Key performance indicators Main trends and factors impacting on business performance Change of control Environmental factors Significant agreements Employee and corporate responsibility The agreement with Citi contains a provision which, upon a change in Audited financial statements 57, 59 to 75, control, allows for Citi to terminate the agreement.
The directors are not 113, 115 to 125 aware of any other significant agreements to which the Company and or Financial risk management and financial instruments 68, 70, 118 any of its subsidiaries is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a Research and development 33, 46 to 47 change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
Board of directors and directors biographical details 82 to 83 Statement of directors responsibilities 113 Share transfer restrictions Dividend 108 As at the year-end there are 125,423,940 shares, which were issued to Dividend waiver 124 certain principals of GLG as consideration for the acquisition of GLG Directors interests 104 to 106 Partners, Inc, which are subject to share lock up agreements.
Under the Directors indemnities 86 terms of such agreements, and with limited exceptions, the shares must Share capital and purchase of own shares 119 to 120 not be disposed of until 14 October 2013 the third anniversary of the Charitable donations 61 acquisition, subject to the right of each principal to dispose of up to one Political donations 53 third of the shares on or after 14 October 2012.
Directors appointments 90 Credit facilities 70 to 71 The Board can decline to register a transfer of any share which is not a Principal operating subsidiaries 125 fully paid share.
In addition, registration of a transfer of an uncertificated Credit payment policy 69, 128 share may be refused in the circumstances set out in the uncertificated Corporate Governance Report 80 to 93 securities rules and where the number of joint holders exceeds four.
Essential contracts Employee share incentive schemes Man has an agreement with Citi Global Transaction Services Citi under The Companys employee share incentive schemes contain provisions which Citi provides global shareholder and transfer agency services for whereby, upon a change of control of the Company, outstanding options AHL and Man Multi-Manager private investor products further details on and awards would vest and become exercisable, subject in the case of services provided are given in the Financial Review Note 5. certain schemes only to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time and any time pro-rating of options and awards.
Where shares Material contracts are held in trust, under the Trust Deed the trustees have discretion to vote At no time during the year did any director hold a material interest in or abstain from voting.
any contract of significance with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings other than in the service contracts between each executive By Order of the Board director and the Company.
Rachel Rowson Company Secretary 26 May 2011
