Man Group plc Report and accounts 10 102 2 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 Directors report Principal activities, business review and results Man Group plc the Company is the holding company for the Man group of companies and affiliated entities the Group and is domiciled and incorporated in the United Kingdom.
To enable you, as our shareholders, to assess how the directors have performed in their duty to promote the success of the The directors submit their report, together Company, the Companies Act 2006 requires the directors to set out in this Report a fair review of the business of the Group with the audited financial statements, for during the period, the position of the Group at the end of the the nine month period ended 31 period and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties December 2011 the period.
facing the Group in the future.
Information fulfilling these requirements and those contained in the FSAs Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency Rules can be found in the following sections of the Report and accounts for the 9 months ended 31 December 2011 which are incorporated by reference: Page s Business review, including: 1 to 47 Principal business activities Principal risks and uncertainties Key performance indicators Main trends and factors impacting on business performance Environmental factors Employee and corporate responsibility Audited financial statements 77 to 98, 107 109 to 121 Financial risk management and financial instruments 90, 92, 113 Research and development 34, 38 to 39 Board of directors and directors biographical details 50 to 51 Statement of directors responsibilities 107 Dividend 140 Dividend waiver 120 Directors interests 70 to 73 Share capital and purchase of own shares 115 to 116 Charitable donations 46 Directors appointments 61 Credit facilities 92 to 94 Principal operating subsidiaries 121 Credit payment policy 92, 136 Corporate governance report 48 to 61 Essential contracts The Group has agreements with Citibank, N. A. London Branch Citi and Citco Fund Services Cayman Islands Limited Citco to provide, inter alia, registrar, transfer agency and valuation services to AHL and Man Multi-Manager products further details on services provided are given in the Financial review Note 4.
Man Group plc Report and accounts 103 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 Material contracts Change of control At no time during the period did any director hold a material Significant agreements interest in any contract of significance with the Company or any Each of the agreements with Citi and Citco contain a provision of its subsidiary undertakings other than the service contracts which could allow Citi and Citco to terminate the agreements between each executive director and the Company.
upon certain pre-defined changes in control.
The directors are not aware of any other significant agreements to which the Substantial voting interests Company and or any of its subsidiaries is a party that take As at 1 March 2012 the following voting interests in the ordinary effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the share capital of the Company disclosable under the FSAs Company following a takeover bid.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules have been notified to the Company.
Employee share incentive schemes % The Companys employee share incentive schemes contain provisions whereby, upon a change of control of the Company, BlackRock Inc 10.69 outstanding options and awards would vest and become AXA S. A.
4.15 exercisable, subject in the case of certain schemes only to the TIAA-CREF Investments Management LLC and satisfaction of performance conditions at that time and any time Teachers Advisors, Inc 3.96 pro-rating of options and awards.
Where shares are held in Legal & General plc 3.70 trust, under the trust deed the trustees have discretion to vote G&S Trustees Limited Pierre Lagrange 3.41 or abstain from voting.
Royal Bank of Canada 3.07 Share transfer restrictions As at the period-end there were 125,423,940 shares that were Primarily relating to shares beneficially held by the Man Group plc Employee Benefit Trust of which Royal Bank of Canada are Trustees.
issued to certain principals of GLG as consideration for the acquisition of GLG Partners, Inc which are subject to share Directors lock-up agreements.
Under the terms of such agreements, and Details of the current directors, together with their biographies, with limited exceptions, the shares must not be disposed of can be found on pages 50 and 51.
Directors who served on the until 14 October 2013 the third anniversary of the acquisition, Board but left during the period are detailed below.
subject to the right of each principal to dispose of up to one third of the relevant shares on or after 14 October 2012.
Dugald Eadie retired 7 July 2011 Ruud Hendriks left 1 December 2011 In connection with the acquisition of the remaining interest in GLG Ore Hill Partners LLC formerly Ore Hill Partners LLC Ore Hill, Powers of directors Man shares were issued to the principals of Ore Hill and their The Board is responsible for the management of the business related trusts.
These shares are subject to the terms of share of the Company and may exercise all the powers of the lock-up agreements which restrict the transfer sale of shares until Company subject to the provisions of relevant statutes and the 31 December 2013, subject to the following exceptions: Companys Articles of Association the Articles.
1. one third of the relevant shares will be freely transferable in The Articles give the power to a director to appoint any person June 2013: and to be his alternate subject to the appointment of such person 2. some shares may also be unlocked earlier to satisfy certain who is not another director being approved by the Board.
A copy of the Articles is available on request from the registered The Board may decline to register a transfer of any share which office of the Company.
The Articles may be amended by is not a fully paid share.
In addition, registration of a transfer of special resolution of the shareholders.
an uncertificated share may be refused in the circumstances set out in the Uncertificated Securities regulations and where Directors indemnities and insurance cover the number of joint holders exceeds four.
On their appointment new directors are granted an indemnity by the Company, to the extent permitted by law, in respect of Political donations any third party liabilities which they may incur as a result of their During the period, the Company did not make any donations to service on the Board.
The Company arranges directors and any political party or other political organisation and did not officers liability insurance to cover certain liabilities and defence incur any political expenditure within the meanings of Sections costs which the Company indemnity does not meet.
Neither 362 to 379 of the Companies Act 2006. the indemnity nor the insurance provides any protection in the event of a director being found to have acted fraudulently or By order of the Board dishonestly in respect of the Company.
Rachel Rowson Company Secretary 1 March 2012
