Man Group plc Report and accounts 38 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 2 Investor solutions Investor requirements vary significantly In December 2011, 43% of our funds under management were generated from products and solutions less than three years across investor types, geography and old, compared to 27% ex GLG in March 2011.
In the rapidly regulatory jurisdiction.
With a well evolving markets in which we operate, a constant flow of new ideas and the capability to bring them to scale is critical to established network of offices in key the sustainability of our business model.
locations and developed regulatory relationships in all of the markets in This page features a selection of the investor solutions we brought to market in 2011 to add to the broad range we which we operate, Man has a powerful already provide.
level of insight into investor preferences Innovative investment strategies as well as regulatory requirements.
The breadth of our investment strategies and strength of our structuring capabilities mean that we have the resources and experience necessary to support a wide range of investor solutions.
Going in to 2011, we identified market opportunity and investor demand for systematic quantitative strategies not covered by our existing range.
We brought together quantitative expertise from AHL, GLG and Man Multi-Manager as well as research from the Oxford-Man Institute of Quantitative Finance to form Man Systematic Strategies MSS.
MSS is currently marketing two successful strategies a broker based long only equity strategy which draws on the analysis and evaluation of the most compelling broker ideas and TailProtect, an actively managed, long only volatility fund which aims to provide investors with affordable, optimised tail protection.
Two further strategies are due for launch a fixed income strategy that uses trend identification and mean reversion and capitalises on price inefficiencies and a long only commodity strategy that uses a trend following, fundamentals and roll-yield based investment approach.
Funds under management in MSS $1bn Taking TailProtect as an example, interest amongst institutional investors in hedging against tail risk has increased markedly in recently years.
Extreme market events, which conventional statistical models predict should happen perhaps once in a lifetime, are happening with higher frequency.
In an extreme To find out more about investor solutions visit: market environment, most portfolio investments typically www.
com Man Group plc Report and accounts 39 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 become highly correlated, and it is during such periods that tail Man was the first manager to offer this product, and to take on protection becomes essential.
As demonstrated in the following the operational complexity of providing daily liquidity in the chart, TailProtect performs strongly during periods of severe Tokyo time zone.
It is based on an eight year relationship with market crisis and therefore has significant potential to provide an Nomura a leading distribution franchise and relies on investment portfolio with downside protection.
A relatively small intensive co-operation between both parties.
The Man team in allocation to TailProtect can result in a significant improvement to Japan was responsible for an extensive programme of investor a portfolios overall risk return profile.
TailProtect also strongly seminars and study sessions pre and post launch, and Nomura controls the carry, or running cost, during quiet periods.
It uses a provides robust daily operational support, currency number of sophisticated models, and draws on work from the transactions and the administration of dividend payments.
Oxford Man Institute of Quantitative Finance.
Performance during crisis periods % 100 Simulation Real 75 50 25 Australian platform market 0 The platform market is a significant investment conduit in -25 Asian LTCM TMT SubprimeLehman Greek Eurozone Australia which gives primarily private clients access to crisis Russian crisis crisis default bond sovereign sophisticated investment offerings.
Over A$400 billion of crisis crisis crisis investments are held through platforms and gross inflows in HFRI Fund Weighted Compostite Index S&P 500 TailProtect 2011 exceeded A$100 billion.
Innovative formats To be widely included on platforms, an investment needs to In 2011, an important investor trend was demand for near term be structured as an onshore fund and offer daily pricing and liquidity.
We saw this in onshore markets like Japan, where daily liquidity.
Investments that are approved for inclusion in model liquidity is a pre-requisite, in the continued popularity of UCITS portfolios on platforms can expect to receive regular inflows.
formats, on investor platforms in territories as geographically diverse as the United States and Australia.
Providing frequent Mans first platform fund, Man AHL Alpha AUD, has been in liquidity has the obvious downside of creating greater turnover in the market for over two years.
The fund is now approved by our investor base, but these are deep markets where the ability 14 platforms, including four of the five largest.
AHL is now to deliver alternative return streams in formats that look and feel the lead provider of managed futures on two of the three like mainstream investments is a competitive advantage.
largest distributors in Australia, including model portfolio representation.
Man AHL Alpha AUD has now been joined Nomura Global Trend by three funds based on GLGs macro and emerging Nomura Global Trend was Mans biggest launch of 2011 and markets strategies.
raised $2.5 billion in the Japanese retail market.
The product targets the $760 billion Japanese onshore mutual fund market, The presence already achieved with AHL, combined with high and is an AHL-based product offering daily liquidity, exposure to levels of interest in GLG, positions Man Australia well to capture high yielding currencies and the potential for monthly dividends substantial allocations from the platform market.
all features with specific appeal in this target market.
