Man Group plc Report and accounts 30 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 A sustainable business model 1 Mans business model begins and ends with investment performance, and the ability of Investment management our investment managers to deliver strong Mans investment managers have expertise long-term performance for our investors in a diverse range of investment strategies, across a broad spectrum of alternative which offer investment returns matched to investment strategies.
Our expertise in investor appetite for risk and reward.
investment management, combined with local client and regulatory knowledge, AHL is a systematic, trend-following managed futures manager with a 25 year performance longstanding relationships and operational track record.
scale enables us to build investor solutions for private investors and institutions, worldwide.
GLG has expertise across a wide range of This optimises the flow of new money into our discretionary investment strategies including funds.
Our marketing, sales and client support equity long short and long only, credit and convertibles, emerging markets, macro and deliver highly professional client service to special situations.
investors and local partners, maximising inflows and minimising outflows.
Investment Man Multi-Manager provides actively performance and fund flows drive the managed, thematic fund of funds offerings economics of our business.
and manages our guaranteed product range.
Our extensive managed accounts platform offers institutional investors Surrounding our investment management, control, transparency and sophisticated investor solutions and client engagement risk management.
activities is a strong framework of risk management, people management, FUM by manager governance and community engagement which ensures the sustainability of our business model.
Man Multi-Manager 11.2 To find out more about our business model go online.
com s n o i t u l o s r o t s e v n I 3.. 2 C l R i i e s k n t m a e n n a g g e a Man Group plc Report and accounts 31 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 Investor solutions Investor priorities and regulatory 2 regimes vary significantly between jurisdictions, meaning that investor solutions need to be carefully tailored to the needs of local markets.
Man is able to offer a wide range of investment strategies and formats to meet these needs, in easy to access onshore formats approved by local regulators such as UCITS, or on an offshore international basis.
Our structuring capabilities mean that we can provide capital guarantees and principal protection, and we offer additional transparency to institutional investors through managed accounts.
Having the scale and expertise to be able to package investment returns appropriately to meet investor and regulatory requirements is a fund investors key source of competitive advantage.
Long only 18% Client engagement 3 Man has a geographically diverse investor base.
We FUM by geography distribute to private investors through a network of over 4,000 intermediaries, and manage our institutional relationships directly.
We have offices in 15 countries to serve our investors in local language and local time zone.
1 2 3 4 Client service is an essential part of our growth strategy.
Europe 53% We focus equally on expanding our investor base and 2.
Asia Pacific 27% serving existing investors.
Americas 10% distribution network, long established local relationships 4.
Middle East and Africa 10% and high quality technology enabled investor reporting gives us competitive advantage.
