Man Group plc Report and accounts 40 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 Global distribution Man operates two distinct distribution models, marketing to 3 private investors via third party intermediaries and directly to institutions.
Our intermediary network covers a wide range of the largest global and strategic regional financial institutions as Client engagement well as smaller intermediaries and offers us scale, flexibility and efficiency in the distribution of our products.
Building and maintaining relationships Our regional offices are predominantly staffed by local people such that investors and distributors can interact with specialists with existing and potential investors who speak their language and understand the culture and and distributors goes hand in hand with particular nuances of doing business in that region.
providing responsive and open investor Europe and Middle East Asia Pacific America service.
We have made significant Sales Offices London Tokyo New York progress in 2011 on both of these Pfffikon Hong Kong Chicago aspects of client engagement by Rotterdam Singapore Toronto Milan Sydney Montevideo achieving record sales and by improving Guernsey Miami Luxembourg the scaleability and efficiency of our Dubai investor servicing platform.
Dedicated sales & marketing staff 170 100 60 Intermediary relationships 1,800 1,600 750 Investor base Balanced Mix of private Balanced mix of private investors and mix of private investors and institutions investors and institutions with a skew institutions towards private investors FUM at 31 Dec 2011 $36.6bn $15.7bn $6.1bn Sales and redemptions trends Sales Following the GLG acquisition, the Board set challenging sales targets for 2011.
These sales targets were achieved with our distribution network delivering sales of $16.7 billion for the nine month period and $22.2 billion for calendar 2011.
Group sales 9M period 2011 $16.7bn Calendar 2011: $22.2bn In the nine months to December 2011 we saw the majority of investor demand coming from onshore liquid strategies with open-ended sales accounting for almost two-thirds of total sales in the nine month period.
This was boosted by two large scale Japanese launches a $2.5 billion onshore AHL product with Nomura and a $1.0 billion GLG emerging market currency overlay with Nikko.
The success of both launches was due to the knowledge and expertise of our local team and their partners, and their appreciation of the structural importance To read more about client engagement visit: to the Japanese markets of daily liquidity, currency and yield.
com We continue to see the importance of Asia for the future Man Group plc Report and accounts 41 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 which $8.1 billion is in the Man Multi-Manager.
Man recognises development of Man and have taken steps to establish that investors want to know exactly what they are investing in, a presence in China to take advantage of the growing what the liquidity is and most importantly, that their assets are investment management market there.
We were one of the first managers to appreciate this, entering the MAC space in 1998 and have now launched Institutional sales included $1.6 billion of funding from the over 300 MACs across all styles.
In response to demand USS and BVK mandates with $0.9 billion still to fund.
With for top-quality reporting and investment insight, we initiated institutional investors now estimated to account for nearly two a project in 2010 to provide greater, but appropriate, thirds of hedge fund industry assets, we continued to develop transparency to investors, with an approach that would also our institutional capabilities in markets as geographically satisfy the managers on the platform.
The project has been a diverse as Australia and the United States, strengthening our success and over $2 billion of client assets are now monitored coverage of the highly influential global and US institutional via the platform with clients providing positive feedback on the consultants with new senior hires in London and New York.
delivery and quality of the solution.
In Australia, where there are over $1.3 trillion of institutional assets, we saw our first GLG allocations from institutions, From a private investor perspective we continue to see supplementing allocations to AHL and Nephila, the reinsurance increasing investor demand for transparent, regulated, onshore risk investment manager, in which Man has a 25% stake.
In the product formats which in many cases can be valued and United States, we surpassed the billion dollar annual asset transacted in a similar fashion to more traditional investments raising mark for the first time in 2011, including a new mandate such as mutual funds.
The range of liquid alternative investment from a Fortune 50 US allocator and substantial fresh allocations return streams we have built at Man allows us to offer more from existing investors into Ore Hill.
Asset raising in the US will liquidity than many other alternative investment managers.
remain a long term project for us and we are some way off a Man now has a total of $8.5 billion under management in level of asset raising commensurate with our presence in other UCITS formats.
However, we have worked through our enlarged product range to create a suite of US institutional tailored For existing investors the timeliness and accuracy of products and now have over 10 strategies rated favourably performance information is essential to maintain investor by eight tier one consulting firms, that in aggregate influence confidence in their investment decision.
This is particularly $12 trillion in assets.
important in turbulent markets when regular and timely reporting is essential to ensure that investors have the most up Redemptions to date information on their portfolios to allow them to make Redemptions totalled $18.2 billion for the nine month period.
informed decisions and valid choices between alternative strategies.
During the year we made a decision to outsource Redemptions in the quarter to 30 June 2011 were consistent our e-commerce activities to a provider with specialised with historical levels at $5.3 billion.
Extreme volatility over the capability.
This will help to support enhanced reporting and will summer months severely tested investor appetite for risk and enable us to expand the e-application platform to support saw Man record redemptions of $7.3 billion in the second open-ended products.
There was a significant acceleration in outflows towards the end of the quarter, specifically in GLG alternatives We have taken further steps during the year to enhance client and long only styles, as European retail investors in particular service and operational efficiencies by signing an agreement sought liquidity from the large proportion of our funds offering for Citi to perform global shareholder and transfer agency short notice periods.
In the third quarter redemptions trended services for AHL and Man Multi-Manager private investor back to historical levels at $5.6 billion.
The agreement has been designed to maintain and enhance our reputation for strong client service and is a big Asset retention is a key measure of our success in delivering step towards securing fully independent fund administration investment performance, quality investor service and sales across the whole firm.
Citi is investing heavily in new technology coverage.
While clearly we had some exposure to retail capital as part of the mandate.
The bank has the global reach to flight in Europe in particular in September our redemption rates service our sales force, intermediaries and investors.
This have now trended back in line with the industry average.
has already proved beneficial in launching the AHL Remimbi share class where Citis global footprint and banking Key service initiatives capabilities were invaluable in ensuring the product Our business is about identifying the right solution for each could be supported operationally.
market and client segment so as to meet their relevant needs in an effective manner.
We have a global client service platform that provides us with competitive advantage.
As the requirements of our investors From an institutional perspective, continuing insistence on and local regulators evolve we have global partners who position-level transparency, particularly since the financial provide us with scale and continued investment to enhance crisis, has brought about strong investor interest for managed the client service for our investors.
accounts MACs and we now have $17.8 billion in MACs of
