Man Group plc Report and accounts 18 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 While many substantial sectors North American stocks, oil, Marketplace gold and the Euro and Japanese yen versus the US dollar all closed 2011 within 510% of their end 2010 levels, the intra year picture was much more turbulent.
Japans devastating and competitive earthquake, margin hikes on commodities, the US debt downgrade, interventions by the Japanese and Swiss central landscape banks and Eurozone developments such as the Greek call for a referendum all triggered sharp spikes in volatility.
Hedge funds in aggregate gave back around half of their 2010 Calendar year 2011 was a very testing gains, closing the year down around 5%, some 30 bps ahead performance year across asset classes.
of world stocks but with less than half the volatility.
Performance across and within styles was mixed, with a 9% differential between the best and worst performing style indices Investors were faced with two central challenges.
and considerably greater disparity between individual Firstly, the need to generate investment yield managers.
Both discretionary and systematic hedge fund against a backdrop of low interest rates and rising styles often struggled in trading conditions characterised by inflation in order to satisfy long term liabilities.
reduced liquidity, increased correlation and sharp reversals.
The cost of protecting against elevated levels of potential Secondly, the challenge of staying invested in downside risk.
Managers that successfully combined a broadly markets which were extremely volatile, prone to negative outlook, portfolio protection against extreme moves reversal and highly sensitised to political outcomes.
and active profit taking were generally the best performers.
Positive long term industry momentum For the third consecutive year, hedge fund industry assets closed the year up, finishing 2011 at $2.01 trillion, with positive net flows of around $70 billion.
In style terms, macro and relative value accounted for the vast majority of flows as investors reduced long exposure to equity markets and sought to position for macro volatility.
Institutional investors, which are now estimated to account for nearly two thirds of industry assets, were the core drivers of flows.
Pension plans, insurance companies, endowments and other institutions are looking at longer term performance measures, such as for the decade to the end of Relative hedge fund performance over the decade 2011, and then back at their annualised return requirements to end 2011 of between 5 and 8%.
They see that it is hedge funds, rather Annualised Annualised than equities or bonds, that are delivering against this return return volatility expectation, with volatility levels significantly below equities.
World stocks 1.9 % 15.3 % World bonds 4.7 % 3.0 % Hedge Fund Weighted Composite Index 5.9 % 6.5 % Industry assets rebuild through a combination of performance and flows US$ trillion 1 January 2002 to 31 December 2011 2007 2011 2.2 2000 $2.01 1800 2.0 $1.92 $1.87 1600 1.8 1400 1.6 $1.60 1200 $1.41 1.4 1000 1.2 800 1.0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 600 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 Source: HFR Index value USD Man Group plc Report and accounts 19 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 Looking at longer term institutional Investors are looking for managers with investor return expectations, it is hedge high quality international legal and funds rather than equities or bonds compliance experience and expertise.
Emmanuel Roman Stephen Ross Chief Operating Officer General Counsel Capital continues to concentrate with scale players Managing through uncertainty Over 70% of net inflows into the hedge fund industry in 2011 Many hedge fund styles have made a positive start to 2012, went to firms managing over $5 billion in assets, with this benefiting from improved liquidity and the opportunity to exploit proportion rising to close to 100% in the fourth quarter.
trade ideas based on sector and individual security analysis rather than correlated macro moves.
However, the outlook In a highly competitive landscape marked by increasing investor remains uncertain.
Forthcoming major elections in four out of expectations and management firm operating costs, flows five permanent UN security council members, with German concentrated with substantial established managers with elections to follow in 2013, are contributing to a heightened long track records of strong performance and client service.
sense of political contingency in markets.
Niche managers and start-ups with compelling evidence of investment talent also continued to generate interest and Against this backdrop, private investors, in particular in Europe, flows, albeit in smaller scale.
remain extremely tactical in outlook, although a more sustained period of positive performance and a clearer route map for In the absence of demonstrable added value through manager resolution in Europe could rapidly strengthen appetite for risk.
selection or managed account infrastructure, fund of funds There are opportunities in these environments for investment lost ground, recording an aggregate net outflow of around managers to create investment products which offer some $8 billion in 2011. combination of near term liquidity, yield, downside protection, regulated formats and access to strategies with a more versatile From regulatory frameworks to rules and nimble approach to generating return and managing risk Legislators around the world have begun to put in place new than conventional long only equity and bond investments.
regulatory frameworks in response to events in the financial markets, including the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Institutional investor participation in the hedge fund industry, Directive in Europe and the Dodd-Frank Act in the US.
Work has based on a longer term assessment of liability management been underway for some time now on establishing the detailed and risk adjusted returns, looks set to deepen.
To retain and rules needed to implement these frameworks and this will win new assets from these investors, managers are being held continue through 2012.
We will see the implementation of the first to an increasingly stringent interpretation of what institutional wave of new regulation in some areas for example, clearing of quality should mean.
Performance, as ever, is a focus, but OTC derivatives, as well as debate and negotiation around other correlation, diversification, risk management, operational proposals such as the review of MiFID in Europe, and the excellence, legal and regulatory expertise and excellent client possible implementation of any financial transaction tax.
Crafting service are vital too.
Delivering this complete package requires workable rules is a challenging process, given the broad breadth and depth of resources, experience and developed constituency of stakeholders, the need to balance differing policy counterparty relationships and flows are reflecting investors goals, and the sophistication and global reach of the underlying recognition of this.
Despite these challenges, genuine progress has been made.
Operating conditions for hedge fund firms remain tough into 2012, with performance under the microscope after mixed Strong and transparent corporate governance will also continue returns across strategies in 2011.
In a testing environment, the to be a focus for investors, shareholders and regulators.
opportunities and rewards for firms which can deliver the dual Managers able to demonstrate deep, long-standing regulatory combination of fund and firm excellence should be substantial.
experience and a commitment to providing  legal and compliance support will continue to benefit from competitive advantage.
To watch an interview with Luke Ellis, Head of Man Multi-Manager, on market trends.
