Man Group plc Report and accounts 20 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 Strategy and objectives What is our core purpose?
To create and preserve investor wealth through long term, differentiated investment returns and our unique business model.
PG 30 What is our overriding goal?
What progress have we made towards this goal?
To be the leading alternative investment manager, globally.
Despite difficult trading conditions in the nine months to 31 December 2011, we have made substantial progress strategically.
Integration of GLG to broaden the range of alternative investment styles we offer to investors Continued development of AHL, GLG and Man Multi-Manager to generate investment performance Successful launch of innovative new products e. g. Nomura Global Trend in Japan Focused expansion worldwide, with the build out of investment management in Asia and our sales presence in the US.
Is the market backdrop supportive?
Third Our analysis of key market drivers supports our growth consecutive aspirations.
The hedge fund industry continues to grow.
year of hedge $2.01trn Alternative investments are the only asset class to consistently meet the return requirements of institutional investors.
Capital fund sector Assets under management December 2011 continues to concentrate with scale players.
Man is therefore growth well positioned to win market share as investor sentiment improves in our core markets, and we expand our global reach.
PG 18 Institutional investors account 5-8% for nearly 2 3 of Annualised return requirement industry assets Capital continues to concentrate 70% with scale of new net flows into firms managing over $5 billion players Man Group plc Report and accounts 21 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 What is our corporate strategy?
How will we put our strategy into action?
To deliver strong long-term investment Our corporate strategy remains consistent.
The action we take to implement it varies performance from year to year.
In 2012, we have three key priorities across our business.
across a unique range of alternative investment strategies and formats to a growing global investor base with a strong framework of people Investment performance management, governance, risk Meeting client needs management, innovation and Efficiency capital allocation.
These three priorities pervade this report, and drive activity across the firm.
The quest for investment performance unites all of our investment managers and is evident in innovations such as Man Systematic Strategies MSS.
Our focus on meeting client needs spans the firm, from investment management, sales, and client reporting to operations.
In the course of this year, we will take the action required to deliver $75 million of cost savings over the next two years to improve operational efficiency.
What is Mans attitude to risk?
Mans approach to risk management is to establish risk appetite, identify and evaluate principal risks and respond appropriately.
PG 24 Current assessment of principal risks to our business Fund underperformance Counterparty Operational Discretionary risk risk risk trading risk Reputation Key person Regulatory Distribution legal risk risk risk risk What are our Key Performance Indicators?
Success in achieving our three priorities will be measured over time by improvements in our six key performance indicators.
PG 22 Fund Growth in Growth in gross Growth in net Growth in earnings Return on outperformance funds under revenues management per share shareholders vs benchmarks management fee income equity What is our ambition for the future?
To earn a place in every investors portfolio.
