party 52 Markets and risks Annual report & accounts 2011 Our markets, products and brands Market snapshot Spotlight on: Online poker is the third largest segment of the online gaming market.
Excluding the US, the global online casino market was Poker estimated to be worth 2.9bn of GGY in 2011, up 1.9% on 2010.
It is forecast to reach 3.6bn by 2015, implying a compound Key brand: 5 annual growth rate of 5.7%.
PartyPoker The online poker market has experienced two major shocks Other brands: over the past decade.
The first was when the US enacted the bwin UIGEA that prompted many of the worlds largest poker GD Poker operators to withdraw from the US market.
The second was inApril 2011 when the founders of three online operators Bet type: PokerStars, Full Tilt and Absolute Poker Ultimate Bet, were Peer-to-peer indicted by the US Department of Justice and their dotcom Key offer: domains seized by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
Texas Holdem is the most popular variant, played in both Whilstthe legal proceedings against these individuals as well cash game and tournament formats.
In cash games, players as related civil actions against the companies concerned have directly bet their own money against each other while in not yet run their course, the short-term impact prompted the tournament play, chips are used as a virtual currency, with collapse of Full Tilt and Absolute Poker Ultimate Bet that had aknockout format adopted where the winner is the player insufficient funds to repay their players.
who ultimately wins all of the allotted chips While our flagship brand, PartyPoker was able to pick up Variations: approximately 15% of Full Tilts active non-US player base, Other formats include Omaha and 7 Card Stud in both byfar the greatest beneficiary was PokerStars that has standard and Hi Lo versions consolidated its position as the worlds largest poker operator in the dotcom market.
PartyPoker remains the How we make money: 6 second largest poker network.
The Group does not act as principal but acts as the facilitator of games and in cash games takes a small The regulation of certain markets has resulted in the commission on theamount wagered on each hand referred fragmentation of the global poker player liquidity pool.
Intournaments the operator charges an entry fee Inaddition to the large dotcom liquidity pool, there is also a pool of ring-fenced player liquidity in France and a separate Example revenue model Total pool in Italy i. e. Players in France cannot play against players in other countries.
Denmark isa recent exception to this Amount wagered 1,000 trend, its players being allowed toplay against international Typical Gross win margin 2% players in the dotcom liquiditypool.
Gross revenue 20 Less bonus costs 18% While the total online poker market is expected to grow over Net gaming revenue 16 the next few years, given PokerStars size and player liquidity, they will remain a very strong competitor.
However, an opening of the US online poker market could alter that course as it is not expected that PokerStars or other companies that continued to operate inthe US post-UIGEA would be eligible to participate.
Success factors In addition to excellent software and safe and secure payments, having sufficient player liquidity is a prerequisite for success in online poker.
It means that players can quickly find atable to play at the stakes they want.
Being able to offer attractive tournaments and promotions are alsoimportant for success.
5 Source: H2 Gambling Capital, February 2012 6 Source: PokerScout.
com Eurobet Sisal Snai bwin.
party 53 Overview 02 Annual report & accounts 2011 Strategy 20 Review of 2011 32 Markets and risks 47 Responsibility and relationships 58 Governance 70 Financial statements 103 Poker liquidity dotcom market Our offer Following the shutdown of Full Tilt in 2011, the Group is now the clear number two operator in the dotcom marketplace Average daily players 8,000 40,000 interms of average daily player numbers, through our 4 PartyPoker brand see chart opposite.
This position will be 6,000 30,000 bolstered further in2012, when we complete the migration ofbwin Poker customers onto the PartyPoker network.
While PartyPoker is our global poker brand, we will continue 0 0 to operate bwinPoker due to both the strength of the bwin brand and also the importance of cross-selling poker to iPoker Ongame bwins sports betting customers.
In France and Italy we FullTilt RH scale PokerStars RH scale operate dot.
In France a large part PartyPoker of our liquidity is driven through our strategic alliance with Source: PokerScout.
com PMU, the French horseracing giant.
In Italy our largest brand is GDPoker, part of the Gioco Digitale brand acquired by bwin in Italian market share 2010.
The Groups combined market share across all platforms in Italy is shown in the table opposite.
Based on turnover World Poker Tour 25% The World Poker Tour or WPT, while not included in our 20% pokersegment from a financial reporting perspective, is animportant part of our overall poker offer.
WPT was a major 15% force behind the explosive growth in the early years of online 10% poker, breaking new ground by televising high stakes 0 tournaments that proved to be a hugely popular format.
5% 5% Televised coverage of poker games has soared since the WPT 0 enabled viewers to see each players cards during a game, 10% enhancing the broadcasting appeal of the game.
15% Since its acquisition by the Group in late 2009, WPT has Source: AAMS expanded its reach outside the US, hosting 22 main tour 20% casino events in 2011 2010: 17 in addition to ten new smaller 25% events in the US 2010: 2.
Now into its tenth season, WPT Based on turnover programming is broadcast in over 150 countries and the number of entrants who played in a WPT Main Tour event Italian market share increased by 33% from 2010 to 2011.
Raising the stakes Mobile We have approximately 15% From a relatively low base, our mobile poker offer grew of the French poker market significantly in the past year, gross gaming revenue was up across all networks by410% following the successful introduction of dedicated iPhone and Android apps.
Whilst our mobile poker offer is mainly on bwinPoker, we plan to launch apps under the PartyPoker brand in 2012 aswell as develop an HTML5-based product that works across multiple devices, channels and brands.
Additionally our poker app is currently being optimised for tablet devices and a product launch is expected in the first half of 2012.
7 Pro forma Continuing operations excluding unallocated corporate Jan 11 Apr 11 Jul 11 Oct 11 Jan 12 PokerStars Lottomatica bwin.
