party 28 Strategy Annual report & accounts 2011 Extend into new areas of digital entertainment At the time of the Merger we recognised the opportunity to extend our assets and skills into new areas of digital entertainment, in particular social gaming.
We also identified 4 amajor opportunity to exploit our existing products and brands through mobile, touch and video.
As a result, the Board has added anew Mobile element to the strategy, one that is The mobile channel is not new to focused on extending our reach into bwin.
party having launched our first these new and exciting markets.
However, Social gaming the advent of smartphone and tablet technology in conjunction with Social gaming is a rapidly growing increasing connection speeds has market and shares many characteristics revolutionised the mobile gaming with our core business including the proposition.
A fast-growing part of our need to develop high quality online business, mobile gross gaming revenue games, manage large numbers of increased by 104% year-on-year to simultaneous players with the support 25.3m 2010: 12.4m and we expect of fully-integrated business intelligence further strong growth in2012.
and analytics, provide a payments Poker platform as well as sophisticated online 2011 achievements We launched our Aces marketing through a range of channels.
Hangout game on Google We established a dedicated resource However, we recognise that it is also very in March 2012 within the Group to manage all of our different in terms of what drives customer development and investment in each behaviour and how revenue isgenerated.
Called Mobile, Having researched the business case Touch, Video, we continued to expand thoroughly and balanced this against our mobile offer with the launch of other opportunities, the Board has multiple apps on both Android and formally adopted this addition to the iOSplatforms our products are now strategy and we have established a available in app stores in 18 countries stand-alone and dedicated vehicle and there were over 31,000 downloads topursue social gaming opportunities of our bwin sports betting iPhone app that sits outside our core real money in January 2012.
On the social gaming gaming activities.
Recognising the front we launched a beta version of a different skills required we have new poker concept called Aces Hangout recruited a knowledgeable and on Google that has a social webcam experienced management team that platform connecting each of the will be supported by its own software participating players.
development resource that will develop a range of social games for launch in2012.
party 29 Overview 02 Annual report & accounts 2011 Strategy 20 Review of 2011 32 Markets and risks 47 Responsibility and relationships 58 Governance 70 Financial statements 103 Total mobile GGR Measures of success Established a dedicated internal m resource for Mobile, Touch and Video 25 Strong growth in gross gaming 20 revenue derived from mobile 15 up104% 10 Our gaming apps are now available in18 countries 5 0 Launch of Android app for bwinPoker 0 5 in France 10 Launch of Aces Hangout, a social 15 online poker game 20 Established a dedicated vehicle to execute our social gaming strategy 25 m Total mobile GGR In mobile we trust We will launch a dedicated Plans for 2012 coaching app in support During 2012 we will establish a ofoursponsorship of proprietary social game technology Euroleague Basketball platform and launch online and smartphone applications in several ofthe Groups core product verticals, aswell as an independent social game destination website.
The first social gaming product to launch will be a poker-based product followed by a casino and sportsbook application bythe end of 2012.
In Mobile, we will launch a new PartyPoker mobile app and plan to launch HTML5 mobile versions of our key gaming sites.
As we complete elements of our integration plans in 2012, we will be able to redeploy even more resources into extending our business into these exciting new business areas.
