party 26 Strategy Annual report & accounts 2011 Secure long-term strategic alliances We continue to leverage our own assets andthe assets of others through a series of long-term strategic relationships that include B2B relationships, sports sponsorships and 3 industry affiliations.
Our bwin brand is synonymous with which covers poker and casino games, sports, supported by our long-term is designed to augment our B2C offering marketing relationships with some of as well as generate additional revenue.
the worlds most recognised brands We also announced similar arrangements such as Real Madrid and MotoGP.
with MGM and Boyd Gaming two of the Oursports sponsorship strategy largest and most respected casino remains focused on European football, operators in the US, inanticipation of motorcycle racing and basketball where either state or federal legislation, the we sponsor Euroleague Basketball and objective again being to support our the industry association, FIBA.
planned B2C franchise should regulations allow.
2011 achievements During the year we extended our Preparing for the launch of our sponsorship with FIBA and Euroleague B2Bservice for Danske Licens Spil in Basketball until 2014, MotoGP until Denmark on 1 January 2012 was a major 2013and also began a multi-year project in 2011.
Similar to our deals with sponsorship of the Pro Padel Tour.
PMU and ACF in France, the agreement, Competitive edge We again sponsored the famous Hahnenkamm downhill ski race in Austria in 2011 bwin.
party 27 Overview 02 Annual report & accounts 2011 Strategy 20 Review of 2011 32 Markets and risks 47 Responsibility and relationships 58 Governance 70 Financial statements 103 Measures of success Strategic agreements with MGM andBoyd Successful launch of poker and casino for Danske Licens Spil in Denmark Improved B2B integration technology makes it easier to launch services for our customers Consolidation of position in French poker with strong growth by PMU Plans for 2012 We are focused on delivering excellent service and product to our existing B2B customers.
We also continue to explore regulated and to-be regulated markets for meaningful partners that can make a difference to our performance and or deliver a strategic benefit that we cannot achieve alone.
Playing partners We have secured strategic relationships with some ofthe worlds leading gamingcompanies
